March 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Couple lands at KIA with iPhones worth Rs 2.8 crore; held||BENGALURU: In the biggest bust of cellphone smuggling so far at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), a couple with 206 iPhones worth a whopping Rs 2.8 crore in their baggage has landed in the custody of Bangalore Customs sleuths. The accused, who are of Indian origin with the US passports, arrived in Air France AF 194 at the airport in the wee hours of Saturday. An MUV and 37 bankcards have also been seized from them. Sources said officials found something amiss about the baggage of the 49-year-old man and his 38-year-old wife and a detailed examination revealed numerous small black boxes. They contained 206 sealed iPhone 12 Pro and Pro Max cellphones worth Rs 2,74,19,400 in the Indian market, sources added. The couple had left for France from Mumbai on February 13, 2021 and came to Bengaluru with large quantities of smuggled iPhones. Officials suspect they were acting at the behest of an international smuggling racket with strong links in Bengaluru and the phones were for illegal sale here. Probe revealed the couple had a Maruti Ertiga MUV meant for transportation of the smuggled items. They were also in possession of 37 credit and debit cards of various banks. On Sunday, they were produced before a magistrate which remanded them in judicial custody till March 12. Bengaluru: In the biggest bust of cellphone smuggling so far at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), a couple with 206 iPhones worth a whopping Rs 2.8 crore in their baggage has landed in the custody of Bangalore Customs sleuths. The accused, who are of Indian origin with the US passports, arrived in Air France AF 194 at the airport in the wee hours of Saturday. An MUV and 37 bankcards have also been seized from them. Sources said officials found something amiss about the baggage of the 49-year-old man and his 38-year-old wife and a detailed examination revealed numerous small black boxes. They contained 206 sealed iPhone 12 Pro and Pro Max cellphones worth Rs 2,74,19,400 in the Indian market, sources added. The couple had left for France from Mumbai on February 13, 2021 and came to Bengaluru with large quantities of smuggled iPhones. Officials suspect they were acting at the behest of an international smuggling racket with strong links in Bengaluru and the phones were for illegal sale here. Probe revealed the couple had a Maruti Ertiga MUV meant for transportation of the smuggled items. They were also in possession of 37 credit and debit cards of various banks. On Sunday, they were produced before a magistrate which remanded them in judicial custody till March 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/couple-lands-at-kia-with-iphones-worth-2-8cr-held/articleshow/81261883.cms||Petlee Peter
March 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man makes suicide statement in FB video, hangs himself||BENGALURU: A 28-year-old man went missing on Friday evening soon after posting a video on his Facebook wall about his decision to kill himself. He was found hanging from a tree in an open space near Koshys College, Chagalahatti village, northeast of Bengaluru, on Saturday morning. Manjunath R, a resident of Byrati Bande and owner of a mobile shop at HBR Layout, in the video clip claimed that his friends Pavan B and Pooja were responsible for him taking the extreme step. His mother Kuppanna rushed to Kothanur police and filed a missing person’s case. Police along with Manjunath’s friends and relatives searched for him the whole night. Police learnt about his location at Chagalahatti village and rushed there by 10am on Saturday. He was found hanging. Jurisdictional Bagalur police were informed about the incident. A case of abetment to suicide was booked against his friends Pavan, Pooja and Murali based on a complaint filed by Kuppamma. Police said Kuppamma alleged Manjunath and Pavan had opened a mobile shop and her son invested Rs 18 lakh in the business. The duo closed the shop due to loss and Pavan agreed to return Rs 11 lakh of Manjunath’s investment. “My son asked Pavan to return Rs 11 lakh and later told me he was harassing him over that. On Friday, I came to know about my son’s video on Facebook,” Kuppamma alleged in the complaint. Police said Manjunath had to pay money to others, including mobile phone suppliers. “He used to threaten them that he would commit suicide if they demanded money. We are investigating the case from all angles,” an officer said. ‘Friends cheated me of Rs 11 lakh’ “My name is Manjunath. Hennur Cross resident Pavan B had taken Rs 11 lakh from me and has cheated me. He harassed me for more than one and a half months. He threatened me that he would kill me. He abused me in filthy language for asking for my money. He and Pooja cheated me. Pavan B is the only reason for me taking the extreme step. It will be proved if anyone checks my call list,” Manjunath said in the one-minute video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-makes-suicide-statement-in-fb-video-hangs-himself/articleshow/81261887.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||Months after starting construction, contractor for Zojila in Jammu and Kashmir seeks alternate alignment for tunnel||NEW DELHI: Barely months after starting the construction of Zojila tunnel in Jammu and Kashmir, the contractor has sought alternate alignment for the tunnel. It has cited difficulties in the construction on the approved alignment of the tunnel and that the new alignment will reduce the tunnel length by 1.2 km. Sources said three months back, Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Ltd had sent a letter to the project manager of National Highway and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (NHIDCL) seeking the change in alignment. It said the location of the west portal (mouth of the tunnel) near Baltal area lies in avalanche zone and debris flow. TOI has learnt that the construction major has mentioned that the burden in the initial length of the tunnel comprises boulders, cobbles, pebbles of different rock types like quartzite, limestone with clay and slip up to a depth of 100 metres. "This will make the tunnelling very difficult and time consuming. The portal layout also criss-crosses the river many times and is aligned under the river for long lengths which is likely to encounter severe problems of heavy seepages in the tunnel," the letter said. The company has claimed the change in alignment will reduce the tunnel length by 1.2 km and will help avoid criss-crossing of the river and also reduce the length of approach road by nearly 800 metres. Sources in the NHIDCL said giving in-principle approval for new alignment is not an issue, if it doesn’t increase the cost of the project. "Since the contractor has claimed that the tunnel will be shorter, ideally we should spend less," said an official. The Hyderabad-based construction company had bagged the project quoting a price of Rs 4,509 crore in August last year. The 14.2 km-long tunnel which will ensure all year connectivity between Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, had been stalled for almost six years due to several reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/months-after-starting-construction-contractor-for-zojila-in-jammu-and-kashmir-seeks-alternate-alignment-for-tunnel/articleshow/81262130.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 1, 2021||India||Sign up from 9am today for vaccine at 136 private, 56 government hospitals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: India is set to enter the second phase of Covid-19 vaccinations on Monday, when registrations will open at 9am for senior citizens (60 years and above) and those aged 45 to 60 years with comorbidities. The expansion of the vaccine drive aims to cover a total of 30 crore “priority” population at a crucial juncture when several states are witnessing an upswing in cases. For getting the shot, eligible people will have to register on the COWIN 2.0 portal (www.cowin.gov.in) or through other IT applications. There are more than 21 lakh senior citizens in Delhi, apart from those aged 45 and above suffering from one of 20 specified comorbidities. These beneficiaries can choose a vaccination centre at one of the 136 designated private hospitals, where they can get the vaccine at a cost of Rs 250 per dose, including Rs 150 as cost of the vaccine and up to Rs 100 as operational charges. They also have the option of getting a shot free of cost at 56 government hospitals. Vaccinations will be done six days a week at these centres and the details are available at the website of the Delhi government’s health department — www.dshm.delhi.gov.in. So far, around 1.42 crore doses of the vaccines have been administered among health and frontline workers across the country since the launch of the first phase on January 16. These include around 3.7 lakh beneficiaries in Delhi. The senior citizen beneficiaries in Delhi include 12.2 lakh people in 60-69 age group, 6.7 lakh people in the 70-79 age group and more than 2.3 lakh beneficiaries who are aged 80 years or above, according to the latest electoral rolls. The option of self-registration, along with a large number of session sites, and the fear of another surge in infections, are all expected to result in people being more willing to take the shots now than they would have been a few weeks ago. Besides, many Cabinet ministers, chief ministers and PM Narendra Modi himself are likely to take the vaccine during this phase, which is expected to give a boost to the drive. All beneficiaries are advised to carry their Aadhar card, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) or the photo ID card specified at the time of registration, when they visit a centre for vaccination. Those in the 45-59-year age group will also have to carry a certificate of co-morbidity signed by a registered medical practitioner. The list of 20 specified comorbidities is available at www.dshm.delhi.gov.in. “Apart from self-registration, district authorities will also help beneficiaries, particularly senior citizens who might not be tech-savvy enough to complete the registration process. Apart from mobilising health workers to reach out to such beneficiaries, district authorities are also roping in RWAs to inform people and create awareness,” said a senior Delhi government official. Across the country, around 10,000 private hospitals under Ayushman Bharat PMJAY and 687 private hospitals under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) will be utilised for vaccinations. Besides, state governments can utilise private hospitals empanelled under state health insurance schemes and other programmes. Apart from this, vaccination will also happen at 10,000 government hospitals. Many of the large hospitals will hold multiple sessions for vaccination. There will be only one live appointment for a beneficiary at any point of time for each dose. Individuals will be able to register on the COWIN portal through mobile numbers. With one mobile number, a person can register as many as four beneficiaries. However, all those registered on one mobile number will have nothing in common except the mobile number. The ID card number for each such beneficiary must be different. Appointments for any date for a Covid vaccination centre (CVC) will be closed at 3 pm on that day for which the slots were opened. For example, for March 1, the slots will be open from 9am till 3pm on the same day and the appointments can be booked any time before that, depending on availability of slots. However, on March 1, appointments can also be booked for any future date for which vaccination slots are available. A slot for the second dose will also be booked at the same CVC after 28 days have lapsed from the day of the first dose. However, beneficiaries can make changes or cancel their appointments till the vaccination is done. The beneficiary will have the option to change the slot for the second dose from the 29th day to the 42nd day of the first dose. If a beneficiary cancels a first-dose appointment, then appointment of both doses will be cancelled, health ministry said in a guidance note. The specific vaccine to be given will not be disclosed at the time of appointment, even though a particular CVC will stock only one type of vaccine. So far, India has granted emergency use authorization to two vaccines – Oxford University and AstraZeneca developed Covishield, manufactured here by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. As in the first round of vaccination when Covid vaccines were administered free of cost to health and frontline workers, the Centre will procure all the vaccines and supply them to the states and UTs who in turn will disburse them further to government and private CVCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sign-up-from-9am-today-for-vaccine-at-136-private-56-government-hospitals-in-delhi/articleshow/81263972.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 1, 2021||Goa||Mumbai seal top spot, qualify for AFC Champions League||They had to wait till the end, but Mumbai City FC reclaimed the top spot in the Indian Super League (ISL) that guarantees them a place in next season’s AFC Champions League, the premier club competition in Asia. At the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Sunday, Mumbai did everything right for a crucial 2-0 victory over ATK Mohun Bagan to clinch the league winner’s shield. Mumbai had started the season with a flourish but lost their hold after some below par performances midway into the league. But against ATKMB, they fought as a team. It was a must-win game for second-placed Mumbai, while their opponents needed only a draw. At the end of the league stage, the teams were tied on 40 points. Mumbai, however, emerged champions, having enjoyed a superior head-to-head record. They defeated ATKMB in both games. The semifinals will be an exciting affair, particularly for Mumbai coach Sergio Lobera. His current team has been drawn to play FC Goa in the semifinals, starting Friday, after his former team – who he also guided to the top of the table last season – edged out Hyderabad FC to finish fourth with a goalless draw at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. Lobera was controversially sacked last season by Goa with three games remaining in the league stage, even as they became the first Indian club to earn a berth in Asia’s top club competition. ATK Mohun Bagan will take on Khalid Jamil’s NorthEast United FC in the other semifinal, the first leg of which will be played on Saturday. Centre-back Mourtada Fall gave Mumbai the lead in the seventh minute while Bartholomew Ogbeche’s 39th minute header put them in a strong position before the break. Mumbai’s defence were well organised to keep league top scorer Roy Krishna, David Williams and Marcelinho at bay for the remainder of the match. Mumbai set the pace early and made the opening goal look so easy. After Raynier won a free-kick on the left, Ahmed Jahouh’s well-measured ball sailed over Tiri and found Fall at the far post. The Senegalese centre-back, with an eye for goals, headed past goalkeeper Arindam Bhattacharya. Just when ATKMB looked to be gathering momentum, they suffered a blow in defence as injured captain Sandesh Jhingan had to be substituted in the 19th minute. Then there was another setback. It happened in the 39th minute as a clumsy foul by Primal Kotal on Jahouh on the edge of the box proved costly. This time Hernan Santana stepped up and his free-kick came off the crossbar, only for Ogbeche, who was the fastest to react, to head home. ATKMB coach Antonio Habas responded with a change in formation. He introduced Edu Garcia in midfield and Salam Ranjan Singh in defence after the change of ends as Lenny Rodrigues and Tiri were sacrificed. But it was Prabir Das who came closest with his powerful right-footer hitting the goalpost. Mumbai custodian Amrinder Singh then denied a powerful effort from Williams. Mumbai knew a two-goal advantage was good enough and defended in numbers. Even striker Adam Le Fondre dropped deep to help his defence as the league’s star-studded side did exactly what was expected of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mumbai-seal-top-spot-qualify-for-afc-champions-league/articleshow/81264137.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
March 1, 2021||India||‘Obesity should have been on comorbidity list’||NEW DELHI: Surprised that obesity has failed to make it to the list of 20 comorbidities that would determine the eligibility for Covid-19 vaccination for those between 45-59 years, experts say it should have been included as it was one of the common underlying conditions found in hospitalised patients. Overall, the categories of underlying conditions for vaccination released by the Union health ministry on Saturday has divided the medical community with some calling it exhaustive, while others have found it too restrictive. Doctors also pointed out that diabetes and hypertension have been clubbed with other ailments or tied to complications, or duration for which a person has been on medication. One of the criteria reads ‘having diabetes for more than 10 years or with complications and hypertension on treatment’. “Diabetics have to be on medication for more than 10 years and if they have hypertension as well, they will qualify,” said physician Dr Gautam Bhansali. Bariatric surgeon Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, who had created the city’s first jumbo centre at NSCI Worli, said dropping obesity from the list was a “glaring exception”. “World over, it has been considered a risk factor. In Mumbai too, we found obese patients had a 60% higher chance of complications and an over 30% higher risk of dying from the infection,” he said, adding those with a BMI of over 40 should have been taken into consideration. “Just as diabetes and hypertension have been clubbed with other ailments, they could have added obesity too to the list,” he said. Diabetologist Dr Rajiv Kovil said metabolic issues in the 135 million obese people in India drives the epidemic of diabetes and heart diseases. “Obesity should have been included,” he added. In the US, BMI-based vaccine eligibility has been a topic of discussion since several states listed it as a criterion for getting priority vaccination based on the Centre for Disease Control’s recommendation to include the obese and morbidly obese. Dr Lakdawala said statistics show that 80% of diabetics would also be obese. A senior doctor from BYL Nair Hospital said at least 35% of their ICU patients had a higher body weight. “Their lungs were compressed and putting them on a ventilator did pose an additional challenge,” the doctor added. The list of 20 comorbidities includes heart failure with hospitalisation in the past one year, post-heart transplant, coronary heart disease with a history of bypass, chronic kidney disease, liver and stem cell transplant recipient or on waitlist, among others. The list also includes those with severe respiratory disease, blood cancers, solid cancers diagnosed on or after July 1, 2020 or people currently on any cancer therapy. A medical practitioner would have to certify a person as eligible for vaccination based on his/her previous medical reports. Apart from obesity, another point of contention has been the inclusion criteria for diabetics, which states they should have been on treatment for more than 10 years or have complications. The criterion for BP patients is ‘pulmonary artery hypertension and hypertension/diabetes (for more than 10 years or with complications) and hypertension on treatment’. According to Dr Naveen Thacker, a former civil society representative on the Global Vaccine Alliance (Gavi) board, people with diabetes and hypertension should have been included irrespective of the duration they have been on medication. “Obesity was found to be a big factor for severe disease, even in younger people. The inclusion for diabetes and hypertension is extremely restrictive. Wonder what data was relied upon to exclude obesity or to make these expectations?” he said. A total of 70% of Covid victims in Mumbai had a comorbidity with diabetes and hypertension being the predominant ones. Dr Thacker also said since certification is a must for those in the 45-59 age category, a price should be fixed on how much doctors can charge for it. A senior BMC official admitted they are yet to think of “prescription misuse”. Infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal, however, found the list exhaustive. “Perhaps calculating BMI could have been a challenge at the community level, but as vaccination becomes more flexible, we may see a modification,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/obesity-should-have-been-on-comorbidity-list/articleshow/81264366.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 1, 2021||India||PM Modi to meet all 27 heads of EU governments in informal summit in May||NEW DELHI: As India and Europe prepare to meet this summer for a special informal summit, both sides are converging on key outcomes. On May 8, India, led by PM Narendra Modi, will hold a summit meeting with all 27 heads of government of the European Union in the Portuguese city of Porto. The summit will be followed by a bilateral meeting between Modi and Portuguese PM Antonio Costa, as well as a business round-table between Indian and European industry. European sources said Europe and India are now converging on their national and continental priorities. “We have five priorities. All these are priorities for India,” a source said. They described these as green transition, digital transition, social transition, resilience and “openness”, a reaffirmation of a multipolar world. “Europe believes there should be a multipolar Asia because India’s role in Asia is just as important as the relationship between Europe and Asia,” an EU official said. An early February ‘17+1’ summit between China and Eastern European countries saw an unprecedented six dropouts — Bulgaria, Romania, Slovenia and the three Baltic states — raising eyebrows among China watchers in Europe and Asia. Last week, Valdis Dombrovskis, European Commission executive vice-president responsible for trade, said, “We recently had a high-level economic dialogue between the EU and India and we are also exploring options on what can be done in the area of trade, keeping in mind the EU-India summit.” The new trade strategy of the EU also refers to a partnership with India as one of the aims. Portugal took over the presidency of the EU in January. Interestingly, the first India-EU summit in 2000 was also under a Portuguese presidency, officials said. Europe has to approve its own climate law, with the aim of becoming the first carbon-neutral continent by 2050. Digital transition, they said, is self-explanatory. Social transition has become important in the aftermath of the pandemic, which will include steps to protect citizens from the effects of the pandemic. “We will have a social summit simultaneously on the day of the India summit,” a source said. Economic resilience is crucial, as economies splutter after the pandemic. But the European side is looking at more than economic resilience as part of its priorities. A reaffirmation of “common values” will be on the cards — “democracy, rule of law and respect for minorities”. The last priority they list is “openness” — which is interpreted as being as much about pushing back against protectionism as it is about reiterating the importance of a multipolar world. India is one of the big votaries of a multipolar world. From the Indian perspective, the summit will give it an opportunity to showcase its commitment to climate, connectivity and trade and investment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-meet-all-27-heads-of-eu-governments-in-informal-summit-in-may/articleshow/81264454.cms||Indrani Bagchi
March 1, 2021||India||Most Gulmarg hotels booked till mid-April||NEW DELHI: As the mercury shoots up in the plains, tourists with a passion for skiing are thronging a snowed-out Gulmarg. Most hotels in this picturesque Kashmir town are fully booked through March and some even till mid-April with many well-heeled domestic tourists, who used to flock to foreign ski havens for their annual winter break in pre-Covid times, discovering Gulmarg as a refreshing alternative closer home. Not only skiing enthusiasts — mostly from Delhi and Mumbai — Gulmarg is also attracting less-adventurous folks bored of being largely confined to their homes for a year. “The peaceful atmosphere in J&K over the last couple of years and the mandatory Covid testing at airports has made tourism here a safe and secure alternative to flying abroad,” says Vinit Chhabra, general manager of The Khyber Himalayan Resort and Spa in Gulmarg. As many as 29 hotels and resorts in Gulmarg, according to a list accessed by TOI, are fully sold out for most of March, while some have 100% bookings till mid-April. The Khyber is fully booked till March end, The Rosewood Hotel till April 10, The Vintage till April 13 and JKTDC Huts through most of March. “The early snowfall in November this year brought in skiing enthusiast and tourists here. Of course, the continuing curbs on international flights have given a boost to tourism in Gulmarg," Chhabra says. “People who always had J&K on their bucket list are now coming here, having been presented with an opportunity. Also, mandatory Covid testing (at airports/railway stations/inter-state border) gives a psychological assurance that no visitor infected with Covid will make it to tourist spots inside the state,” he added. Most hotel and resort managers TOI spoke to were upbeat about the positive impact on the regular tourist season in Kashmir, which starts in May, with Pahalgam, Srinagar, Sonmarg likely to witness good arrivals. “For the locals, a good tourist season means better earnings and more job opportunities,” said Eijaz Bhat, manager at Jammu & Kashmir Tourism Development Corporation (JKTDC) Huts in Gulmarg. Bhat attributed the full bookings in Gulmarg to the conscious push given by the Centre as well as J&K government under LG Manoj Sinha, to revival of tourism in the Valley. For instance, Khelo India event was held in the ski resort last week, with the Prime Minister inaugurating it. He added that JKDTC has offered 50% discount on its hotel fares through the Union Territory. According to Farooq Ahmad of The Rosewood hotel at Gulmarg, tourists from all income groups are making a beeline for Gulmarg. “The excitement of witnessing a snowfall, a first for many, is the main attraction,” he said. “Even for those interested in skiing, Gulmarg is a far cheaper alternative to foreign resorts,” added Bhat. Of course, the celebrity arrivals in Gulmarg have helped. Bollywood actors Vidya Balan and Arbaaz Khan recently took vacations in Gulmarg. Chhabra of The Khyber disclosed that he recently had to deny a room reservation to actress Sara Ali Khan as the hotel was fully booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/most-gulmarg-hotels-booked-till-mid-april/articleshow/81264486.cms||Bharti Jain
March 1, 2021||India||Cleric pats Left to spite Congress, reveals rift in Bengal alliance||KOLKATA: A semblance of friction within the Left Front-Congress-Indian Secular Front (ISF) poll alliance in Bengal played out in the open on Sunday when Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui pledged his support to Left candidates across the state, but stopped short of doing the same for Congress. The message from the ISF patron at the alliance’s first rally at Kolkata’s Brigade Parade Grounds was that his party would strictly act on a quid pro quo basis. “We want bhagidari in electoral politics. I would like to thank the Left Front for sacrificing their own seats to give us 30,” Siddiqui said at the rally. His remarks are being seen as part of a strategy to pressure Congress to yield some ground in seat-sharing with ISF before talks between them begin on Monday. “Modi and Didi are the same. They might put up a mock fight, but they are friends. They are using religion to divert attention from the core issues. If there is a hung assembly, TMC will join hands with BJP to form a government,” Siddiqui alleged. PCC chief Adhir Chowdhury termed the alliance against TMC and BJP the “rainbow for a new change”. He said the poll battle wasn’t just about two parties. “Those who had thrown up the Modi-Mamata binary in Bengal should rethink after Sunday’s rally. In future, there will not be any BJP or TMC; only the grand alliance will remain”. Meanwhile, Bihar opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav arrived in Kolkata on Sunday, but skipped the Left-Congress rally. He is likely to call on CM Mamata Banerjee at her home on Monday. The RJD leader’s arrival has led to speculations whether the party will continue its alliance with Left Front in West Bengal and take on TMC and BJP. A section of Left and Congress supporters kept their fingers crossed over how the “poll gamble” with the ISF would play out among the other communities, when Bengal has been witnessing polarisation among voters. The ISF may give a boost to the Left vote-share in south Bengal by breaking the TMC monopoly. But Left leaders are not very sure what impact it would have in urban constituencies with refugee presence and also in the 45 assembly seats along the India-Bangladesh border. The Left brass tried to take religion and language polarisation out of the poll agenda. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury pointed to the continuing farm protests. “If farmers can put up such a gallant fight, we too can,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cleric-pats-left-to-spite-congress-reveals-rift-in-bengal-alliance/articleshow/81264541.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 1, 2021||India||Rahul vacationing when fisheries ministry was formed: Amit Shah||KARAIKAL/VILLUPURAM: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday attacked Congress and DMK on the issue of corruption while addressing BJP’s rallies in Puducherry and Tamil Nadu and alleged that former Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy gave “cut money” to the “Gandhi family” from Rs 15,000 crore funds that were granted to the Union territory by the Centre over the years. Addressing a meeting in Karaikal in Puducherry, he alleged that Congress promoted only corruption. At another meeting in Villupuram in Tamil Nadu, he came down heavily on Congress and DMK, accusing the two parties of “indulging in a scam of over Rs 12 lakh crore” when they were in power at the Centre. “We can see 2G, 3G and 4G in Tamil Nadu. 2G is two generations of Maran (former Union ministers) family, 3G is three generations of Karunanidhi (late Tamil Nadu CM) family, 4G is four generations of Gandhi family,” Shah said. Shah said the DMK-Congress alliance believed in dynasty politics. “On one side there is the NDA that protects India. On the other side, you have DMK and Congress that are only worried about their families, steeped in corruption, and indulge in politics of divide and rule,” he said. “Sonia ji is worried about making Rahul PM. Stalin (DMK chief) is worried about making Udhayanidhi CM. They are not worried about the country,” he charged. Training his guns on Rahul Gandhi, who is campaigning in Tamil Nadu, for questioning the Centre for not establishing a separate ministry for fisheries, Shah said the Modi government had indeed set up the ministry in 2019. “Rahul bhaiya ... you were on vacation, you are not aware,” he said. (With agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-vacationing-when-fisheries-ministry-was-formed-amit-shah/articleshow/81264557.cms||Bosco Dominique
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Community vaccination at 15 government hospitals from today||KOLKATA: Fifteen government hospitals will be launching the Covid-19 vaccination under Co-WIN 2.0 from Monday. The hospitals have been asked to target 50 recipients on Day 1 of community inoculation drive where the recipients will include those above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 with co-morbid conditions. “We have been asked to mobilise 50 recipients on Monday. We expect this community vaccination to begin around 12 noon once the Co-WIN 2.0 is formally launched,” said a source at ID Hospital Beliaghata. In addition to five medical colleges — IPGMER, Medical College Hospital Kolkata, NRS, RG Kar and Calcutta National Medical College — the rest are ID Hospital Beliaghata, MR Bangur Hospital, Vidyasagar State General Hospital, Garden Reach State General Hospital, ESI Hospital Maniktala, Lady Dufferin Victoria Hospital, BC Roy Hospital, Sambhunath Pandit Hospital, Chittaranjan Seva Sadan and School of Tropical Medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/community-vaccination-at-15-govt-hosps-from-today/articleshow/81262982.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Allahabad||300 people above 60 years of age to be vaccinated at three sites in city||Prayagraj: As many as 300 people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age with co-morbidities will be vaccinated at three vaccination sites including two government and one private vaccination site on Monday. The vaccine will be given free of cost at two government facilities including MLN Medical college and TB Sapru \ Beli hospital while beneficiaries have to pay Rs 250 per dose at a private vaccination site. Under the second phase of vaccination, district health authorities have chalked out an elaborate plan to administer covid 19 vaccines to people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age with co-morbidities in the city. Nodal Officer and Additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai told TOI, “Hundreds of each beneficiary will be vaccinated at all three vaccination sites”. He added, “After identifying three sites for vaccination to people of age above 60 years, the department has also delivered the SMS to beneficiaries for the Monday vaccination plan. Moreover, the full-flagged exercise to vaccinate all people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age with co-morbidities would start from March 5. For that, the department is trying to find out more sites \ locations for vaccination. Dr Sahai, meanwhile, said those who will be given vaccinate shot at a private vaccination centre will have to pay Rs 250 per dose. The union health minister has recently announced to start the second phase of coronavirus vaccination from March 1 with the claim that in the second phase, people over 60 years of age and those above the age of 45 years with co-morbidities will be given the Covid-19 vaccine free-of-cost at 10,000 government hospitals. Meanwhile, candidates can also get the vaccine shot from over 20,000 private inoculation centres across the country. Meanwhile, Dr Sahai claimed that the department has managed to control the surge of the Covid-19 cases in Sangam city with the help of intensive contact tracing ( ICT) exercise. He added that last week had reported a surge in the cases of coronavirus infection in the city particularly when a total of 12 staffers of two educational institutes were tested positive for infection. He, however, said that there was no need to panic and things are under control. Health department officials have, however, appealed to the masses to follow the Covid-19 protocol which will help to check the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/300-people-above-60-years-of-age-to-be-vaccinated-at-three-sites-in-city/articleshow/81260954.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Patna||LIC officer, trader killed in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF : An LIC officer and a trader were killed in two separate incidents in Nalanda district. An LJP leader has been accused of killing LIC’s senior development officer Praveen Krishna at Jheeng Nagar under Biharsharif Town police station area on Sunday. Around 20-25 miscreants armed with bamboo sticks, iron rods and other sharp-edged weapons attacked Praveen and his two brothers Captain Sujit Krishna and Sudarshan Krishna when they were overseeing the construction of a boundary wall on their land. Sujit and Sudarshan, who were taken to Biharsharif sadar hospital for treatment, accused LJP leader Chhote Lal Yadav of killing Praveen and injuring them. Sudarshan said they were constructing a boundary wall on their plot of land after an order from the Patna high court. Biharsharif Town police SHO Deepak Kumar said the matter was being investigated and anyone found involved in the crime would be arrested soon. In the second incident, a hardware dealer was shot dead at Chero village under Sarmera police station area on Sunday. According to police sources, the deceased Rajiv Ranjan Sinha was at his shop when armed bike-borne miscreants shot him and escaped. They said the injured businessman was taken to Sheikhpura sadar hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lic-officer-trader-killed-in-nalanda/articleshow/81261048.cms||Farrukh Nadim
March 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Farmers demand permanent solution to jumbo menace||Visakhapatnam: Farmers in Komarada mandal in Vizianagaram district staged a protest with the support of locals and activists, demanding officials arrive at a permanent solution to the elephant menace in the region. A herd of wild elephants has destroyed standing crops, motor pump sets and scaring locals in parts of Komarada mandal, farmers said. The elephants entered Kallikota, Duggigunapuramand and a few other villages and damaged tomato, paddy, banana and horticulture crops and pump sets in the farm fields. The compensation from the government is not enough to offset their losses, farmers said. Though wild elephants have been creating havoc in the tribal pockets of Vizianagaram district and have killed over six persons in the district alone in the past few years, there is a lack of coordination among various departments and political leaders and there is no solution to mitigate the menace, said K Samba Murthy, an activist. While officials of the forest department have been making efforts to drive away the herds of wild elephants to the forest, they are not getting adequate support from other departments or the government, farmers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/farmers-demand-permanent-solution-to-jumbo-menace/articleshow/81261023.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Patna||Cricket tourney begins||PATNA: Two separate interschool cricket matches for staff were held on Saturday as part of 7th Seraphim Roumaldo Memorial Cricket tournament. Don Bosco Academy and St Paul’s High School won the two matches on the inaugural day. The matches were held at Don Bosco Academy’s OGC cricket field. The first match was between DAV-BSEB and St. Paul’s. While DAV made 59 runs in 16 overs, St Paul’s chased the target of 60 runs by losing just four wickets. Sanjeet Kumar was the man of the match. In another match between Don Bosco Academy and Friends Club, Don Bosco made 156 runs for the loss of five wickets. Friends Club was bundled out for just 78 runs. Saurav Kumar of Don Boaco, who scored 78 runs, was adjudged the man of the match. Don Bosco Academy vice-principal Eric Rozario said such matches were giving a breakaway to school staff from the monotonous routine of online and offline classes. “Matches will be held on different days in the run up to the final,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cricket-tourney-begins/articleshow/81261240.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Patna||NOU to start new courses||PATNA: Nalanda Open University (NOU) will start new courses in English, Maithili and Bhojpuri at undergraduate and postgraduate level from the next academic session from July this year. The NOU has taken this decision to fulfil the needs of a large number of aspirants who have been making inquiries for a long time, NOU registrar Prof P K Verma said. According to Prof Verma, the NOU has worked out details of these courses, which include syllabus and study programme. In addition to English, Maithili and Bhojpuri languages have been included keeping in view demands at the state level competitive examinations also. Besides, English has its own importance and recognition at the global level in any field of competitive examinations, he said. NOU is the second largest open university in the country after Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) having about 1.25 lakh students on the roll. It has 220 study centres in the state only to cater to the needs of desirous students, he said, adding NOU, which is functioning from its rented building in Patna, is likely to get its own campus in Nalanda soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nou-to-start-new-courses/articleshow/81261244.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||‘Session is short only to avoid discussions’||Mumbai: Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis has slammed the MVA government for the short budget session, saying it was trying to avoid discussions on various urgent issues. “The government is trying to run away and hence it has formulated this strategy. After we walked out of the Business Advisory Committee meeting they sent us a copy of the minutes of the meeting wherein it is informed there will be no calling attention motion, no 30-minute discussions. For a show of strength there is no Covid-19 pandemic, but for Shiv Jayanti celebrations and conducting the budget session it raises the pandemic bogey,” he said at a press conference at the Garware Club on Sunday. He said the government is under tremendous financial stress and is yet to compensate farmers for the loss of cotton and soybean. “The loan waiver is incomplete, compensation is still awaited and the government has launched a recovery campaign for electricity bills. Around 3.5 lakh electricity connections have been cut and 75 lakh consumers have been asked to pay for electricity they have not consumed during the lockdown,” he said. Calling it “Mughal rule”, he said electricity bills are being forcibly recovered. Meanwhile BJP MLAs have now demanded the arrest of Shiv Sena MLA Sanjay Rathod who resigned on Sunday afternoon. BJP MLA from Kandivali (E) Atul Bhatkalkar said Rathod's resignation was too little too late and said he must be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/session-is-short-only-to-avoid-discussions/articleshow/81264115.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Business||Automatics find more buyers in used car market||CHENNAI: More than a third of all used cars sold were those with automatic transmission, according to a report by online car marketplace Droom. It said the adoption of automatic transmission has more than doubled from 17% in 2016 to 37% in 2020, higher than the new car market, where it is 20%. The survey report used a sample size of 1.1 billion visitors, 20,000 automobile dealers and 3.2 lakh vehicle sales. “In the pre-owned market, the price difference between manual and automatic transmission is not as big as in new vehicles. Hence people have a higher preference for automatic transmission from the point of value and sheer convenience. The demand in the mid and high segment is more for automatic, whereas in the lower segment there is an equal preference for manual,” said Droom founder-CEO Sandeep Aggarwal. The demand for automatic is split 50:50 between metro and non-metro markets. Cities like Jaipur, Indore, Coimbatore, Mangalore and Ahmedabad and Warangal are big automatic transmission markets alongside Delhi-NCR, Chennai, Bengaluru, Pune, Mumbai and Hyderabad. “The demand is across metros as well as tier-1 and -2 cities, and is pronounced in sedans in the lakh price range. For SUVs though, demand remains strong in manual transmission, largely due to limited availability of automatic transmission vehicles available for exchange or sale by customers,” said Ashutosh Pandey, CEO, Mahindra First Choice Wheels, which has seen 25% of its sales go to automatic cars. The price differential between new and old automatic models is 30-40%, depending on age of the vehicle. Already online used car retailers are betting big on this segment. “We buy 10% automatic cars and this has grown year-on-year. In the coming years, we expect a double-digit growth from automatic used cars,” said Kunal Mundra, CEO (cars India) at Cars24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/automatics-find-more-buyers-in-used-car-mkt/articleshow/81263349.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Metro stations renamed on New Garia-airport corridor||KOLKATA: The state has renamed two Metro stations on the New Garia-airport route that goes through Sector V. The station that was named Nicco Park earlier will now be called Nalban and the station just before entering New Town from Sector V, opposite Webel and Technopolis building, will now be called Nabadiganta. The renaming of the Nalban and Nabadiganta stations is in continuation of renaming the nine stations of the New Garia-airport route that was started in January. Officials said that a lot of changes and development have been happening in both Sector V and New Town since the Metro constructions began. “The provisional names were given by the Railways after the nearest landmark or place. But with the development of the townships, these names were not matching the place,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-stations-renamed-on-new-garia-airport-corridor/articleshow/81262954.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Abducted 2-year-old rescued by Guntur police||VIJAYAWADA: Guntur police solved a kidnapping case within 48 hours and rescued a two-year-old boy. The incident had taken place at Namburu under Pedakakani mandal in Guntur district on February 24. Police investigation revealed the kidnappers had brokered a deal for Rs 2 lakh with a couple looking to adopt a male child. According to Guntur urban SP, RN Ammi Reddy, the kidnappers have been identified as Anisetti Suvarna (24), Anisetti Durga Prasad (36), A Srinivasa Rao (38), V Chandrika (34), P Sagar (37), D Venu (30) and Varma. All the accused, except Varma, have been arrested and Rs 1.2 lakh recovered. Ammi Reddy said that Suvarna befriended one Chandrika around three years ago at a hospital. Chandrika told Suvarna that she knew a couple looking to adopt a male child and were ready to pay up to Rs 2 lakh. Suvana and her husband Durga Rao agreed to the deal and took Rs 20,000 as an advance from Venu, who is a relative of the couple. Later, they started looking for a potential seller of a child, but could not find anyone in Vijayawada. That was when the accused decided to abduct a male child. They hired a car and drove around Guntur town before spotting two-year-old boy Jeeva at Namburu, who was playing in front of his house. They abducted the boy, took him to Routulapudi and sold him off to Venu. Upon receiving a complaint from Jeeva’s parents, Pedakakani inspector U Shobhan Babu launched an investigation. They tracked down the car and traced the boy at Bangaraiahpet in East Godavari district. After rescuing the boy, police launched a search for the kidnappers and arrested them at Vambe Colony in Vijayawada on Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/abducted-2-yr-old-rescued-by-police/articleshow/81261004.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar government has failed to contain crime: Chirag Paswan||PATNA: The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Sunday exhorted the workers of the party to strengthen the organisation at the grass roots level in the state. Addressing the MPs, former MPs, former MLAs, members of the parliamentary board and senior functionaries of the party in the state capital on Sunday, Chirag asked them to be prepared to meet any eventuality. It was Chirag’s first interaction with the senior leaders of the party after a massive debacle in the state assembly election in which it finished with only one seat in the 243-member assembly. However it's sole MLA Raj Kumar Singh was conspicuous by his absence at the meeting chaired by the national president. He also claimed that the Nitish Kumar government would collapse very soon. “The way the government is functioning these days, it's fall is imminent in the near future,” the Jamui MP said. Assailing the state government for its failure to contain crime and corruption, the LJP chief alleged that Nitish Kumar was more concerned about his ‘chair’ than the people's problems. Without taking the name of the JD(U), Chirag said those who lost the election due to the LJP would return to his fold for electoral alliance. He, however, said that the LJP was not at all worried about the electoral ties with the political combination. “Hame chinta karne ki koi jarurat nahi hai (We don't need to be worried),” he asserted. He, however, preferred to keep silent on the party’s relationship with the BJP, which had recently invited him to the NDA constituents in New Delhi ahead of the budget session of the Parliament. Referring to the prohibition in the state, he alleged that youths were now turning into bootleggers due to lack of job opportunities. The issue of migration is not on the priority of the government, he added. Responding to a query, Chirag said his party would contest the upcoming West Bengal assembly elections. “The West Bengal unit of the party has sent its recommendation for contesting the election to the central leadership of the party, which will take a final decision.” he said. At the meeting, Chirag turned emotional while making referrences to his father and founder of the LJP late Ram Vilas Paswan. “He left me and the family when I was fighting the most crucial 'war' in my political career,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-has-failed-to-contain-crime-chirag/articleshow/81261125.cms||Ramashankar
March 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Duo held in Krishna district for robbery case in Telangana||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district police on Sunday arrested two persons involved in a robbery case reported at Wyra in Khammam district, Telangana. The robbery was reported on Friday at Dwaraka Nagar in Wyra. Telangana police had alerted border police stations in Andhra Pradesh. On Sunday, Nandigama police while conducting vehicle checks at Jonnalagadda checkpost, noticed two persons—Dinesh Singh and Insaf Mohammad—moving suspiciously in an autorickshaw. When the police approached to check the vehicle, the two tried to flee the scene with a bag. Police gave chase and caught the duo. Upon checking the bag, police found Rs 40 lakh cash, gold and silver articles and tools used to break an iron safe. Nandigama DSP K Reddy said Dinesh and Insaf had gone to the house of one Dayaram, who runs an electrical appliances business, under the guise of purchasing material from him. The accused had already carried out a recce and went to the house when Dayaram was alone at home on Friday night. When Dayaram questioned why they had come to the house instead of his shop, the duo attacked him with rods and robbed the house. They broke into an iron safe and decamped with money, gold and silver articles. Wyra police launched an investigation and requested Andhra Pradesh police for cooperation. Dinesh and Insaf have been identified as natives of Barmer district in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/duo-held-in-krishna-for-robbery-case-in-t/articleshow/81261015.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 1, 2021||Business||MG Motor hit by surge in freight rates||CHENNAI: Carmaker MG Motor India is feeling the pinch of a sharp rise in sea freight rates, which have made its imported kits and components costlier. President & MD Rajeev Chaba said that the freight rate for a 40ft container has risen from $300 before the pandemic to $3,000 now. “It is a sharp increase which has impacted all auto companies because almost everybody imports some parts or the other,” said Chaba. This has also coincided with a 10-12% increase in domestic truck rental rates due to the increase in fuel prices. Freight comprises 2-2.5% of the overall cost of a passenger vehicle. Due to the pandemic, shipping lines have cut back on the number of ships, which in turn has affected the freight rates. As for domestic truck rentals, currently the company is negotiating with transporters to factor in the sharp increase in fuel prices. “Domestic freight rates are up at least 10-12% because of the increase in fuel prices,” said Chaba.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mg-motor-hit-by-surge-in-freight-rates/articleshow/81263317.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
March 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar unit of Congress plays down G-23 meet||PATNA: State Congress leaders on Sunday said the meeting of some dissenting senior party leaders in Jammu would have no impact on the Bihar unit of the party. The Congress had fared poorly in the recently concluded assembly elections in the state and several party workers had shown resentment after the declaration of poll results. A faction of G-23 leaders, including former leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad, former Union ministers Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma, Manish Tiwari and former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda had attended a function of an NGO named Gandhi Global Family and used the stage to express their discontent with the party leadership. Senior leaders from the dais said the Grand Old Party has weakened and needed strengthening. This G-23 leaders had written to party’s interim chief Sonia Gandhi in August last year, seeking overhauling in the leadership. Rajya Sabha members from Bihar and party’s state campaign committee chairperson Akhilesh Prasad Singh were among the signatories of the letter. Without commenting on Saturday’s G-23 meeting, state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said everyone should have faith in the party’s leadership. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the Bihar unit wants to see Rahul Gandhi as president of the party. “Our priority should be on assembly elections in five states. This is what rank and file expects from senior leaders of the party,” Mishra said. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said the senior leaders who had met in Jammu were party’s gem and all of them had held high position. “From being Rajya Sabha member to holding Union minister’s post, they had been given high stature. Some had been CMs too. If anyone has any issue with the party, it should be discussed internally and not from the public platform,” Rathorre said. However, another senior leader, who did not want to be named, said if any experienced leader leaves the party, the consequences will be faced by other state units of Congress. “They all are very senior leaders and if they leave, it will have serious impact on the state units of the party.” State minister Ahok Choudhary, who was Congress’s state president before joining JD(U), said, “If senior leader like Ghulam Nabi Azad is raising a question, one should accept that there is something wrong in the party. He has spent so much time in the party and is known for his devotion.” Choudhary said after 1977, the Congress started behaving in an autocratic way and democratic norms were ignored within the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-unit-of-congress-plays-down-g-23-meet/articleshow/81261088.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 1, 2021||Patna||Kidnapping case: Man held with live-in partner in Bihar||PATNA: The Vaishali police have arrested a 22-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman, who were in a live-in relationship, in connection with the kidnapping of a three-year-old boy. The two – Nitesh Kumar and Noori Kumari – were arrested from Gandhi Chowk under the Town police station area in Hajipur. SHO of Town police station Subodh Kumar said Nitesh has admitted that he had kidnapped the child from Jadua Bazaar on October 20 last year in order to fulfil the desire of his live-in partner after she expressed her wish to become a mother. “The two will be taken on remand after court order. Noori has three minor sons. She had separated from her husband. Nitesh is an autorickshaw driver. Both came in contact more than a year back and started living at a rented accommodation in Hajipur,” he said. The SHO added that the rescued child was handed over to his parents, who hail from Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kidnapping-case-man-held-with-live-in-partner/articleshow/81261218.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Khela Hobe-Jai Shri Ram battle reaches sweet shops||KOLKATA: From microphones and social networking sites, the ‘Khela Hobe’ craze has reached the shelves of your favourite sweet shops, with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ close on its heels. Sweet shop owners say that no matter who wins the political battle, they are ready with their sweet revenge. There is a huge craze for the ‘Khela Hobe’ sweets already, but the fans of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ sandesh are not sitting idle either. Either way, those with a sweet tooth have started revving up the demand in all shops selling these novelty items, much to the delight of the sweet makers. They said that the demand for the ‘vote sweets’ has picked up and a clear divide in preference can be seen in different pockets of the city. While it is ‘Khela Hobe’ all the way in South Kolkata, in parts of North Kolkata, ‘Jai Shri Ram’ is a close second, though it is a clear first among buyers in Salt Lake and New Town. “‘Khela Hobe’ is such a catchy slogan and tune that we brought it to our shelves just to add some spice to our mundane lives. And it kicked up a storm,” said Amitabha Dey of the 175-year-old Rishra sweet shop Felu Modak. The sandesh is a bestseller and people from the city are ordering in bulk. Nalinchandra Das, another heritage sweet shop, has been a traditional ‘vote mishti’ maker that has experimented with both ‘Khela Hobe’ and ‘Jai Shri Ram’ sweets in cake-type sandesh and in traditional sandesh. “I was just testing the market, but I am really surprised at the demand. The ‘Khela Hobe’ sweets have added some variety because earlier we would stick to the grass-flower symbol and would emboss it on the sweet. For the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ sandesh, we are using food colour to make them attractive and the clientele is slightly different,” said owner Tapan Das. The shop has seen a surge in demand for ‘Khela Hobe’ sweets at its Rashbehari, Shyampukur and Manicktala outlets, while at the New Town and Salt Lake outlets, the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ sandesh is leading. This was echoed by Sudip Mullick of Balaram Mullick. Shops are being stocked according to the demand. “We don’t know if the divide has got anything to do with people’s political leanings, but a divide does exist. Perhaps it is a taste divide,” Mullick said. The sweet maker has been making ‘vote sweets’ for many years now and said that while earlier the demand for such sweets usually picked up after the election results were announced, these days, gifting of ‘vote sweets’ starts quite early in the day. “We get bulk orders for our ‘vote sweets’ and we are planning a lot of new items this time that will interest even the common buyer. After all, whether we say it or not, each of us is a political animal,” Mullick said. There are some people who have bought both ‘Khela Hobe’ and ‘Jai Shri Ram’ sweets, just for fun. Retired banker Malabika Chatterjee is one of them. “I love sweets and am always trying to have anything that is new. I am loving this sweet war, because only sweets win in the end,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/khela-hobe-jai-shri-ram-battle-reaches-sweet-shops/articleshow/81262919.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 1, 2021||Patna||Daily Covid cases drop to 25 in Bihar||PATNA: After several months, the state did not record any Covid casualty on Sunday. At 25, the state also recorded lowest number of daily Covid cases on Sunday. The trend shows that new cases started dipping in February. A slight increase, however, was recorded on February 21 and February 22 when 94 and 84 cases new cases were recorded, respectively. On February 2, 118 people had tested positive, the maximum in the month so far. A health department official said the situation in Bihar was under control unlike some other states which are witnessing increase in new cases and infection rate. As per the State Health Society, Bihar’s tally has now increased to 2,62,534. However, with 2,60,594 recoveries, there are 397 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/daily-covid-cases-drop-to-25-in-bihar/articleshow/81261256.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Business||RIL ups stake in US pod taxi tech co to 55%||Mumbai: Reliance Industries (RIL) has increased its stake in Delaware, US-incorporated technology company skyTran to 54.5% from 26.3%. It paid $26.8 million for the additional 28.2% share purchase. The shareholding change in skyTran comes 10 months after RIL increased its stake in the tech company to 26.3% from 17.4%. RIL, the $87-billion conglomerate controlled by India’s wealthiest man Mukesh Ambani, first acquired a stake in skyTran in 2018, when it had picked up 12.7%. The skyTran investment is routed through Reliance Strategic Business Ventures, a 100% arm of RIL. skyTran develops mobility solutions, including pod taxi technology. Pod taxi is a driverless transit system that runs through magnetic levitation. In 2017, India had cleared a proposal to test pod taxis and skyTran was one of the companies selected by the government. RIL had said earlier that its investment in skyTran was made to foster a partnership in India. It will work closely with skyTran to develop pilot implementations and eventually launch them at scale. On Sunday, Ambani, in a press statement, said that they were excited by skyTran’s ability to provide a highly efficient and economical ‘Transportation-As-A- Service’ platform for India and the rest of the world. “We firmly believe that a non-polluting, high-speed personal rapid transportation system will help facilitate environmental sustainability through efficient use of alternative energy and make an impactful reduction in air and noise pollution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-ups-stake-in-us-pod-taxi-tech-co-to-55/articleshow/81262705.cms||Reeba Zachariah
March 1, 2021||Business||IDBI ties up with LIC arm for credit card||Mumbai: IDBI Bank will soon launch a co-branded card with LIC — its largest shareholder. The bank will be partnering LIC Cards Services, which is a 100% subsidiary of the state-owned life insurance giant. The move to launch a co-branded credit card is part of the strategy to work on synergies between the two organisations after LIC acquired a majority stake in the bank in January 2019. “We have tied up with LIC Cards and will be launching co-branded credit cards soon. The card will be issued by IDBI and marketed by LIC Cards and sold to LIC customers and LIC agents. This will be a product with distinct privileges for cardholders,” said Jorty Chacko, executive director, IDBI Bank, who is in charge of retail assets. He also leads the team working on developing synergies between IDBI Bank and LIC. “After the stake acquisition, we identified more than 100 synergies and started working on that. Two years down the line, we have crossed 90% of the synergy lines. Both organisations have derived considerable benefits,” said Chacko. According to Chacko, IDBI Bank has already collected Rs 700 crore premium for LIC, which is a major share in the corporation’s bancassurance business. The bank in turn gets a significant amount of current and savings account business from LIC through its agents and employees. “We have got a good share of current and savings account business from LIC. We also developed a system wherein LIC policyholders can remit their premium from IDBI Bank branches. We are looking at providing ATMs in their premises,” he said. LIC has come out with an end-to-end digital platform ‘Ananda (Atma Nirbhar Agents New business Digital Application)’ which enables end-to-end digital issuance of policies. We are now looking at integrating that with our platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/idbi-ties-up-with-lic-arm-for-credit-card/articleshow/81262649.cms||Mayur Shetty
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||UPPCL’s OTS scheme for tubewell consumers||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) on Sunday announced the one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for domestic and private tubewell consumers. The scheme, announced by energy minister Shrikant Sharma citing problems faced by consumers in the wake of pandemic, will continue till March 31. Sharma said the scheme entails waiver of surcharge on arrears which will have to be paid by the end of the month to avoid any action by authorities. The scheme will be applicable in both urban as well as rural areas. “All the distribution companies have been asked to provide consumers their electricity bill on a timely basis. The payment is being received from consumers online to ensure transparency,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uppcls-ots-scheme-for-tubewell-consumers/articleshow/81264114.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Patna||Hooch claims two more lives in Muz, 2 arrested||PATNA: Close on the heels of five hooch deaths in the district hardly ten days back, two more people died in Muzaffarpur after consuming spurious liquor on Friday. At least 12 persons have died from hooch poisoning at four separate places in the ‘dry’ state within a month. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant on Sunday admitted that the two deaths at village Vishanpur Giddha under Maniyari police station area in the district were related to hooch poisoning. Their bodies were cremated even before the matter came to light before police, he said. “Police got the information about the deaths on Saturday after which two liquor smugglers were arrested from the village. Two persons, including one Manoj Rai, are in coma and undergoing treatment at SKMCH. An FIR has been lodged against two persons. It was Manoj who had prepared the hooch and also consumed it with others,” the SSP said. The deceased were identified as Guddu Kumar (33) and Chotu Kumar (25). “The chowkidar of Vishanpur Giddha was suspended on Saturday. No action has been taken against Maniyari SHO yet,” the SSP said, adding two persons, namely Mithun Kumar and Manoj’s relative Savitri Devi, were arrested. This is the second hooch tragedy in Muzaffarpur in less than ten days. Three persons died on February 17 and two more the next day at Dargah village under Katra police station area. On February 5, two persons had died and one fell ill after consuming poisonous hooch at Kurhasan village under Town police station area of Kaimur. SHO Ramanand Mandal on Sunday said one person was named accused in the FIR while two more names surfaced in the course of investigation. “The named accused are in jail while police have attached the property of the two other on court orders. They are still evading arrest,” he added. On February 17, three persons from Gumla, who worked at a brick kiln in Majhaulia village under Vijaypur police station area of Gopalganj, had died from hooch poisoning. Two others of the same village had turned partially blind due to hooch consumption on February 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hooch-claims-two-more-lives-in-muz-2-arrested/articleshow/81261079.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 1, 2021||Patna||‘Extortion calls to defame me’||PATNA: The adage — ‘as you sow, so shall you reap’ — applies to controversial RJD MLA Ritlal Ray, whose name once spelt terror in Danapur, Khagaul and Bihta areas in Patna district. Ritlal (49), the RJD legislator from Danapur, told the media that some people were demanding extortions in his name. He also played an audio, which went viral on social media, demanding Rs15 lakh as extortion in the name of ‘vidhayak ji’. “People are being threatened with dire consequences for not following diktats,” Ritlal said and added that he would seek guidance from the assembly Speaker before lodging a formal police complaint on the issue. The former Kothwa panchayat mukhiya enjoyed such a clout that he was earlier elected to the legislative council from jail as an independent candidate. He is facing charges of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, criminal intimidation and possession of illegal weapons. Ritlal had hit the headlines when a hand grenade was recovered from his ancestral home at Kothwa near Danapur a few years ago. Apparently conscious about his image as an ‘honourable’ MLA, Ritlal said he has asked the people not to get scared and immediately contact him if any extortion demand is made to them. The RJD leader revealed that six-eight people were involved in the extortion racket and they demand between Rs2 lakh and Rs15 lakh. Ritlal was earlier accused of running an extortion racket from jail, a charge he later denied after his release on bail ahead of the state assembly polls in November last year. In fact, allegations were levelled against him that he used to manage the railway tenders under Danapur division of East Central Railway from the jail. “Now, the extortionists are giving sleepless nights to the man once touted as a ‘terror of Danapur’,” said a senior police officer said, who had earlier served as ASP of Danapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/extortion-calls-to-defame-me/articleshow/81261208.cms||Ramashankar
March 1, 2021||Patna||Saran DIG to policemen: Serve people with a smile||CHHAPRA: DIG of Saran Range Manu Maharaaj on Saturday motivated the policemen to serve and solve the problems of people with a smile. Speaking as the chief guest on the occasion of closing ceremony of Bihar Police Week, he also made an appeal to the people to keep confidence in the police. “When you take one step, the police will automatically take 10 steps,” he assured the people. Debate, traffic awareness and road safety programmes, sports and several other activities were organized throughout the week to strengthen the police–public relationship. Different competitions were organized in schools from block to district headquarters level. About 300 persons and best performers in different competitions were rewarded by the DIG. Saran SP Santosh Kumar welcomed the guests and underlined the concept of ‘samvedi police-sashakta samaj’ (sensibility among the policemen makes society strong) and stressed the necessity of continuing regular communication with the public. Kumar also stressed the need of transparency, corruption free and unbiased attitude as important tools for better policing. “We should not forget that the policemen are service providers and not the Master,” he said. Saran DDC Amit Kumar represented the function as acting DM and Sonepur DSP Anjani Kumar Singh proposed a vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/saran-dig-to-policemen-serve-people-with-a-smile/articleshow/81261105.cms||H K Verma
March 1, 2021||Rajkot||5-yr-old killed in fight between parents, kin||Rajkot: A five-year-old boy paid with his life in a monetary dispute between his parents and a relative which turned violent in a village of Porbandar district. The boy, Hikesh Mavda, suffered severe internal injury after being hit on the head by the accused Sonu Baria, a relative of his father Ramesh. Ramesh and his wife Ramtu had gone to Barkharla village to take wages for farm labour from Sonu who had called them for the work around a fortnight ago. Sonu is the brother-in-law (sister's husband) of Ramesh's wife. Both families are natives of Dhar district in Madhya Pradesh and they have been living in Porbandar district for the last three years, police said. On Saturday, Ramesh, Ramtu and Hikesh, who live in Singda village, went to Sonu's house asking for Rs 800 that he owed them for farm labour. However, Sonu refused to give them money and this resulted in heated arguments. However, Sonu suddenly picked up a washing bat and flew into a hitting spree. In the melee, Hikesh was also hit on the head. The couple then left from there, but Hikesh fainted on the way. He was taken to Porbandar Civil Hospital where he died during treatment, said cops. Police have detained Sonu and he will be arrested after the Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-yr-old-killed-in-fight-between-parents-kin/articleshow/81260798.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||ID Hosp principal discharged||Kolkata: Principal, ID Hospital, Anima Haldar — who was in hospital after falling unwell hours after the second dose of Covishield — has been discharged. Haldar said she was doing fine but will be resting for a few weeks. The state AEFI committee has concluded that AEFI had no connections with the vaccine. “I have general weakness and minor problems, like back pain and balancing issues. But I am confident these will go away gradually. I would like to go back to work soon, but till then I have decided to get files that need my signature home so they are not pending,” Haldar told TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/id-hosp-principal-discharged/articleshow/81263004.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Private hospitals to start new phase of vaccination drive on Tuesday||KOLKATA: Private hospitals will flag off a new phase of inoculation for those above 45 with co-morbidites and the 60-plus age group on Tuesday with a cap of five vials or 50 doses per day per hospital. They have been asked to set up separate sites for Covaxin and Covishield, though only the latter will be administered in the initial stages. A set of FAQs issued by the health ministry on Sunday mentioned that applicants could not choose between the two. Till last Friday, hospitals in Bengal had been administering only Covishield. Since the Co-Win 2.0 app is expected to go live on Sunday midnight, registration can begin on Monday. Private hospitals can’t begin the new phase before Tuesday and only those who register by 3pm will be eligible for a shot the next day. Hospitals can charge Rs 250 for each vaccine, including a user charge of Rs 100, from the recipients. This was decided at a webinar between state health officials and private hospitals on Sunday evening. It was preceded by an online meet between the Union health department, state private hospital representatives and state health officials. Each hospital must collect vials from the civic boroughs supplying it for the earlier sessions. Each vial will cost a private hospital Rs 1,500 and they can apply for a maximum of 5,000 doses. Each hospital must also register afresh for the new phase and make advance payment. It was also announced at the meeting — headed by state urban development joint secretary Joly Choudhury — once recipients fill up basic details, those between 45 and 59 must upload a co-morbidity certificate from a registered doctor. All applicants must choose a site and time slot, after which, the application will show in the hospital’s Co-Win module. “Depending on our infrastructure, we will decide how many we can inoculate in a day,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh.  “The instruction is to avoid a mix up of recipients and administering staff of the two vaccines. We will start with one site for each,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. “We are looking at extension of infrastructure since the exercise will continue for at least a year,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-to-start-new-phase-of-vax-drive-on-tue/articleshow/81262887.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
March 1, 2021||Patna||Man kills 10-year-old boy on suspicion of cellphone theft in Bihar||PATNA: A man killed a 10-year-old boy at Bakar Bijalpur village under the Town police station area in Supaul on suspicion that the minor had stolen his recently purchased smartphone worth around Rs 12,000. The victim was identified as Dilkhush Kumar. The boy had gone missing on Friday. After extensive search by family members, his body was recovered from a canal on the outskirts of the village on Saturday. Three people – prime accused Raben Choudhary (28), his brother Dharmendra Kumar (19) and their mother Meena Devi (50) – were arrested by police late on Saturday night for their alleged involvement in the murder. Supaul Sadar SDPO Kumar Indra Prakash on Sunday said Raben’s smartphone had gone missing three to four days back. “He suspected that it was Dilkhush who had stolen his phone and killed him. He later dug up a pit and hid the body the whole night. On Saturday morning, Raben and other family members carried the body to a canal and dumped it there,” the SDPO added. The SDPO said Raben’s brother-in-law Raj Kumar Choudhary is still evading arrest. “He had helped Raben and others in hiding and dumping the body,” he said. Meanwhile, SHO of Town police station Dinanath Mandal said Raben earlier used to work as a daily wager in Delhi and had returned to the village following Covid-induced lockdown last year. He said Dilkhush’s grandfather Parmeshwari Choudhary (60) has lodged an FIR against Raben and three others in connection with the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-10-yr-old-boy-on-suspicion-of-cellphone-theft/articleshow/81261028.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 1, 2021||Patna||All MLAs & MLCs of Bihar Legislative Assembly to be vaccinated from Monday||PATNA: All the MLAs, MLCs, officials and staff of Bihar legislative assembly and council will be immunized against Covid-19 in the new legislature building from Monday. “Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha took the initiative since the budget session is long. It has necessitated security against the coronavirus pandemic. Moreover, the coronavirus pandemic has surfaced again. Therefore, all precautions have to be taken,” a state assembly secretariat official said. “All arrangements will be made by the office of the Patna civil surgeon. The MLAs and MLCs, as well as the officials and staff of the two Houses have also been informed about it,” he said. When contacted, Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari said three rooms in the new legislature building have already been acquired for the purpose. “The immunization will begin on Monday. It will continue till all the MLAs, MLCs and officials and staff of the two Houses are immunized,” she said. A medical team comprising doctors, two immunization officers and nurses has been constituted. As Dr Vibha said, the medical team will first examine the person to be given the vaccine dose. “The person immunized will remain under observation for 30 minutes,” she added. “At the new legislature building, there will be no crowd of people. Guards are there. They will also provide assistance in guiding the person to the rooms where immunization has to be done,” Dr Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-mlas-mlcs-to-be-vaccinated-from-today/articleshow/81261269.cms||Abhay Singh
March 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Price surge takes premium beer brands out of consumers’ reach||Vijayawada: While premium brands of beer may now be available in bars, the prices at which they are being sold have put a dent in consumers’ wallets. With limited supply from the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited (APBCL), bar owners are selling these brands at a premium. In the absence of a price cap, Budweiser and Carlsberg, for instance, are being sold at anywhere between Rs 300 and Rs 500. The new excise policy that came into force 15 months ago had disrupted supply with various well-known brands of liquor and beer disappearing from bars and liquor outlets. APBCL has recently made these brands available, but only in limited quantity. With summer nearing, demand for premium brands has surged. Bar owners, too, have cashed in on the demand to make a quick profit and increased prices. Though consumers are at the receiving end of price rise, bar owners said they are unhappy with the situation despite making solid profits. A bar owner TOI spoke to said on condition of anonymity that APBCL is placing restrictions on stock intake “APBCL is giving us premium beer brands only if we buy more quantities of beer brands that are not much sought after. The difference in quantity between premium brands and lesser-known brands is huge, making our job difficult,” the bar owner said, adding, “As of now we are getting two cases of premium beer brands only if we buy 20 cases of lesser-known brands.” Explaining how bar owners are ending up with unsold stock, he said, “Premium brands are sold out in within hours while other brands remain unsold he said. As no one want to lose their customers, we have to buy more quantities of lesser-known beer just get more quantities of premium brands. In the process we are ending up accumulating beer brands that have lower demand. It is the same when it comes to liquor brands.” APBCL recently made premium beer and liquor brands available in limited quantity. In the absence of a price cap, bar owners are selling these brands at a higher price||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/price-surge-takes-premium-beer-brands-out-of-consumers-reach/articleshow/81261036.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 1, 2021||Patna||Villagers lynch man on suspicion of theft||PATNA: A mob of around 100 villagers allegedly lynched a man on suspicion of theft and thrashed one of his associates at Lodipur Lakhraj village under the Mahnar police station area in Vaishali district in the wee hours of Sunday. SHO of Mahnar police station-cum-DSP (probationer) Sushil Kumar said the victim was identified as Vijay Sah (22). The injured man, on the other hand, was identified as Roshan Kumar (20). The two were natives of Lodipur Bheed village under the Patori police station area in Samastipur. Kumar said the incident took place around 2.30am when the duo and two others had reached the village in a car. “Villager Rambalak Pandit has lodged an FIR, alleging that he woke up hearing noise and found that two people were stealing sound boxes and amplifiers of an orchestra party. According to the FIR, villagers gathered at the spot and started beating two of the four people. The two others had managed to flee,” the SHO said. “While Vijay had died by the time police reached the village, Roshan was rescued. The car in which the four suspected thieves had reached the village was seized. Vijay’s wife has lodged a counter FIR against Pandit, his two sons and 100 other unidentified villagers, accusing them of killing her husband,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/villagers-lynch-man-on-suspicion-of-theft/articleshow/81261037.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 1, 2021||Varanasi||Dynasty politics driving all parties,in contrast, BJP is a family: Nadda||Varanasi: Bharatiya Janata Party president J P Nadda took a jibe at the Opposition saying all parties, including Congress, are restricted to dynasty politics, while in sharp contrast, BJP is a family. “The national parties have become regional parties. All political parties, including Congress, are restricted to just dynasty politics. BJP is the only party which is a family. All those who have got the opportunity to be part of BJP are fortunate,” Nadda said after inaugurating the new Kashi regional unit office at Rohania on the outskirts of Varanasi on Sunday. Nadda also inaugurated Prayagraj city unit office virtually. Nadda said all the schemes of Modi government on health, energy, sanitation are aimed at benefiting the last man of the society and to empower citizens. Referring to the schemes launched for farmers, he said, “Previous governments only did lip service but, Modi government initiated all possible measures for the benefit of farmers.” Nadda praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath for ensuring best implementation of Modi government schemes in UP and measures initiated by him for promoting local products with the one district, one product initiative. Praising PM for tackling Covid-19 pandemic effectively Nadda said, “Covid-19 was new for entire world. Despite having best health facilities, even US and European countries failed to save their people, while Modi government not only saved lives, but also worked to become self-reliant by developing its health network.” PM Modi’s decisions kept the mortality rate low and ensured free food grain to 80 crore population from March to November, he added. “After becoming PM, Modi ji had expressed wish to see BJP office in each district of the country to ensure party expansion,” Nadda added. Former BJP chief Amit Shah started working on setting up over 700 party offices in the country. “Party offices are like temples where workers learn how power can be used as a medium to improve the country by ensuring development for all. There were 51 offices in UP till 2019, and now offices in Kashi and Prayagraj have also been inaugurated. Remaining offices in UP will be completed by October-end,” said Nadda. The new Kashi unit office has e-library and video conferencing hall. BJP had started from a two-room office, and kept growing amid all adversities and today it has become the largest family of workers, said Nadda. UP BJP president Swatantrata Dev Singh, Union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey, deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, senior leaders Radhey Mohan Singh, Sunil Bansal also shared the dais with Nadda. Earlier, after landing at LBSI airport, Nadda was welcomed by CM Yogi and UP BJP president. Nadda held a series of meetings with public representatives from 14 districts of Kashi regional unit and cadres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dynasty-politics-driving-all-partiesin-contrast-bjp-is-a-family-nadda/articleshow/81261475.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
March 1, 2021||Patna||Railways to increase train speed limit on Patna-Gaya section||PATNA: With the completion of track renewal work on different sections of Danapur division under the East Central Railway (ECR), railways is likely to increase speed limit of passenger trains from 100km/hr to 110km/hr on the Patna-Gaya section from next month. Increase in the speed limit will thus further reduce journey hours at least by 15 to 20 minutes between Patna Junction and Gaya Junction. According to Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar, railways has replaced old tracks with new ones of 60kg weight to strengthen the track capacity. Railways has also removed all encroachments and illegal crossings located on the PG section and increased line capacity too, he said. According to sources, there are about 30 big and small stations on this route. Of late, the footfall of passengers has gone high as majority of people commute daily from Gaya to attend their office or workplace in Patna. Railways is running several pairs of MEMUs on this route to cater to the needs of people, sources said. Railways is gearing up to run semi-high-speed trains on the New Delhi-Kanpur-Prayagraj-Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Jn- Patna-Jhajha route. Speed limit on this particular route has been increased to 130km/hour. “It was a rare occasion for Danapur division when it bagged shield from ECR GM this year for timely completion of track renewal work as well as better maintenance of tracks in the division, the DRM said. In the current budget, Danapur division is to get allocations for various projects to give impetus to the development plans. The division, which has the maximum number of big and small bridges, has worked out plans to strengthen safety measures on bridges. The new rail bridge over the Ganga near Mokama will streamline traffic linking north and central Bihar directly through rail communications, the DRM said. The division is anxiously waiting for a nod to build a state-of-the-art terminal at Hardinge Park land. Railways has worked out plan to build MEMU terminal on the pattern of Mumbai Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminal. The proposed terminal will decongest huge traffic load at Patna Junction in the years to come. Under the proposed plan, railways intends to build terminal-cum-shopping complex at the Hardinge Park land, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-to-increase-train-speed-limit-on-patna-gaya-section/articleshow/81261245.cms||Kumod Verma
March 1, 2021||Patna||RJD stakes claim on 16 Assam assembly seats||PATNA: Bihar’s main opposition party RJD,, which has already announced to contest assembly polls in Assam in alliance with the like-minded parties, on Sunday staked its claim on 16 seats which have sizeable number of Hindi and Bhojpuri speaking population. “In Assam, we have identified 16 assembly constituencies which have more than 50,000 Hindi and Bhojpuri speaking voters. Most of the people in these constituencies have roots in Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. If RJD is allowed to field its candidates on such seats with the like-minded parties, the opposition alliance can give a tough contest to BJP and its allies in Assam polls,” RJD’s national general secretary Shyam Rajak told TOI over phone. “For RJD, the number of seats hardly matters. Our main aim is to defeat the BJP-led alliance in the northeast state,” he also said. Contacted over phone, RJD’s Assam state president Shonarul Shah Mustafa said his party has staked its claim over Tinsukia, Doomdooma, Dibrugarh, Barsala, Bilasipara East, Abhaypuri North, Chenga, Batadroba, Guwahati West, Lahorighat, Jonai, Patharkandi, Katigarah, Haliakandi, Tezpur and Biswanath seats. Mustafa said RJD and Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) have agreed to contest the Assam polls in alliance. “We are now holding talks with Congress to form a bigger alliance of opposition parties in Assam,” he said. Mustafa also said the AIUDF has agreed to spare 11 of the 16 assembly seats on which the RJD has staked its claim. “These 11 seats are currently held by either BJP and its allies or the Congress. The AIUDF has no sitting MLA in these 11 constituencies. Hence, Ajmal has agreed to leave these seats for RJD. But, three of the 11 seats were won by Congress in the 2016 assembly polls. Congress may not agree to leave their three seats. If Congress does not agree, RJD will leave those seats for the sitting members and opt for other seats,” Mustafa told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-stakes-claim-on-16-assam-assembly-seats/articleshow/81261113.cms||Madan Kumar
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tax waiver applicants who failed to pay get till March 31||KOLKATA: The city’s property tax payers who had applied for a special 100% interest waiver scheme, but could not clear their dues by the February 28 deadline, now have time till March 31. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) set the new deadline only for those who have applied for the waiver scheme but failed to make payments citing several handicaps. “Last week, we decided to extend the deadline for the special scheme to enable a section of applicants who could not make payments for several reasons. But under no circumstances will we invite fresh applications from the defaulters to avail of the special scheme after expiry of deadline,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the KMC Board of Administrators. However, a KMC revenue department official conceded that the deadline was extended after a mad rush of applicants trying to make payments in the past two days. The civic official said the KMC had mopped up Rs 450 crore from the special waiver scheme till Sunday. In fact, the civic authorities had kept all treasury counters open for the past four days, including Sunday, extending the business hours till 6pm to handle the rush of property tax payers who had applied for the waiver scheme. “Our officials and employees in the assessment and treasury departments have toiled hard to serve the applicants under the special waiver scheme,” said a KMC assessment department official. Now that the last date for application is over, the KMC assessment department officials are planning a special drive against a section of major and habitual defaulters who have not responded to the civic body’s special interest waiver scheme. “We have prepared a preliminary list of major defaulters who have not applied for the waiver scheme and will send notices to clear their dues within a specified time, failing which, we will be compelled to take legal action,” Ghosh said. According to sources in the KMC revenue department, the assessment department inspectors have helped prepare the defaulters’ list from at least five south Kolkata wards. These defaulters owe the civic body over Rs 100 crore. “We have shown enough patience to a section of major defaulters who have, time and again, failed to take advantage of our waiver schemes. Now we need to bring them under a strict legal procedure to realize our dues. We may need to even attach properties of the major defaulters if they fail to clear outstanding property tax” said a senior official of the KMC revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tax-waiver-applicants-who-failed-to-pay-get-till-mar-31/articleshow/81262945.cms||Saikat Ray
March 1, 2021||Business||Missed year’s target? A good quarter may help||MUMBAI: Companies are likely to junk strict annual targets this appraisal season and may favour a more dynamic approach, giving managers the freedom to revisit goals periodically as businesses and the economy recover from the impact of Covid. Many companies had to adjust business targets to account for an unusual year. While performance appraisals will remain transparent and largely target-oriented, what’s changed this year — other than the process going virtual — is that it has become more flexible and personal development-oriented. At Marico, the annual performance management cycle has been restructured across all geographies to ensure members are able to map the right targets. “This has ensured a fair and transparent approach in aligning member contributions with desired organisation outcomes,” said Marico CHRO Amit Prakash. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance has formalised appraisals with quarterly evaluations and incentives. With this, 95% of the company is on quarterly/monthly plans. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance CHRO Vikramjeet Singh said, “This has helped align business strategy with goals on a continuous basis. As the market dynamics change, we are able to replicate that into quarterly goals. For employees, they get a very sharp sense of direction and feedback.” While in 2020 targets were revisited midway due to the pandemic, this year they have been set as projected in most of the organisations across sectors, said HR society SHRM India associate director (advisory services) Dedeepya Ajith John. “However, some organisations have the provision to revisit goals from time to time, depending on how the business is moving, instead of just sticking to one for the entire year. This is the shift from annual goals to that of agile goals,” she said. Performance management at Marico has been adapted to provide a strong response to uncertainties witnessed in the current context and allow for the best possible business delivery. “This has been done through simplification of key business metrics and aligned reward strategies, which are driven by the front-end functions. The targets and metrics were recalibrated and shared on a monthly and quarterly basis to drive focus on the most critical agenda, on the basis of the changing economic scenario and dynamic needs of the business,” said Prakash. According to Singh, the policy change at Bajaj Allianz General Insurance promotes a ‘do more, earn more’ philosophy and entails a metrics-oriented assessment of key performance indicators for individuals. “Managers are able to observe positive behaviour from employees, as the new structure empowers them and provides clarity of earning potential based on the level of performance,” Singh added. As challenges in the business environment grew, KPMG India came up with innovative ways of working responsibly and harmoniously with one another. KPMG India partner and head (people, performance & culture) Sunit Sinha said, “Like always, the review process allows the performance manager and the team member to discuss one’s evaluation against base expectations and stretched goals, performance assessment and development planning, except that it would be a virtual connect for many of our people rather than in-person.” At KPMG, there are two aspects to the process. One is the ‘what’ (metrics, goals, etc), and the second is the ‘how’ (behaviour and mindsets). On behavioural aspects, since 2019-20, employees have been evaluated on the basis of ‘everyone a leader’ mindset to summarise their contributions and list not just their achievements but also how the individual achieved their goals. Given that many organisations plan to have work-from-home this year as well, the major changes in the process are the evaluation parameters and appraisal outlook, where organisations are more outcome-focused than the number of working hours clocked in. “Additional competencies are being focused on for evaluation, which are more relevant in a post–Covid workplace, such as adaptability and flexibility, self-reliance, resilience, creativity, change management and versatility,” said SHRM’s John. In 2021, teams are expected to be more agile and seamlessly working across time zones with different cultures. “This calls for organisations to resort to more frequent feedback discussions to get a sense of their achievements as well as hold transparent developmental conversations and to hear out the concerns/stress that the team members may be facing through the virtual mode of working,” said John. What this means is further digitisation. Digital mediums, AI and ML are used to provide frequent and data-driven feedback to ensure the entire performance appraisal system is more robust and bias-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/missed-years-target-a-good-qtr-may-help/articleshow/81262590.cms||Namrata Singh
March 1, 2021||Patna||Universities in Bihar yet to follow UGC directive on cybercrime||PATNA: Even as the UGC has directed the universities and colleges to take necessary steps for creating awareness among students and faculty members about cyber security and cybercrime, very few institutions in the state have come forward to take the initiative so far. In a letter written recently to the vice-chancellors and college principals, the UGC had pleaded for popularizing the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in their institutions. The I4C scheme focuses on strengthening the capability of prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of cybercrimes in a coordinated and comprehensive manner. It is actively involved in developing a robust ecosystem for securing the cyberspace, giving due emphasis on capacity building and public awareness. Further, the UGC had pointed out that the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal, which provides a centralized mechanism of complaint reporting by citizens relating to cybercrimes, has been operationalized by the MHA in August 2019. There is a special focus in the portal on cybercrimes against women and children and it allows the decentralized dealing of each complaint by the law enforcement agencies. Universities and colleges were also directed to organize regular competitions, hackathons, workshops and seminars on cyber security and cybercrimes at regular intervals. Patna University computer centre chief K P Singh feigned ignorance about the UGC’s letter and observed that the state higher education council may issue necessary guidelines on this issue on the basis of UGC’s directive. He, however, admitted that in the present age of digital technology and internet, the academics must be made aware of the cybercrimes. Patna Law College principal Md Shariff said the LLB students are taught cyber laws in detail in the paper on information technology. But, it would be much better if students of even general courses are made aware of various cybercrimes. He would ensure that seminars and workshops on cyber security and cybercrimes are held regularly in the college, he added. Chanakya National Law University’s senior faculty S P Singh pointed out that details of cybercrimes and cyber security have already been provided in the syllabi of both the LLB and LLM courses of the university. An additional portion of forensic science has also been introduced in the curriculum this year, he added. It may be mentioned here that the Union ministry of education is set to prepare a ‘handbook on cyber hygiene’ and design a common ‘cyber safe’ curriculum with emphasis on hands-on training at graduate and postgraduate level in all streams. This curriculum is likely to be adopted in all the institutions of higher education with a view to creating a cyber safe environment in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/universities-in-state-yet-to-follow-ugc-directive-on-cybercrime/articleshow/81261230.cms||B K Mishra
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||In poll season, citizens’ groups raise voice on social issues||Kolkata: As the state gears up for assembly polls, citizens’ platforms have taken it upon themselves to raise issues affecting people. These groups are organizing street corners, meetings, conventions in different pockets of the city as well as in villages to create awareness on farm laws, NRC and CAA, the labour code and rights to health and education. Political parties on both sides of the divide welcomed the initiative. Trinamool’s Bratya Basu said, “These campaigns by citizen groups to create awareness are important not just for poll rhetoric but for the larger political, social and cultural environment of Bengal.” According to BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta, it is difficult to quantify the effect that these campaigns will have on ballot boxes but certainly they will have a role in creating a larger climate of opinion. One such platform against Fascist RSS-BJP, consisting of progressive minded citizens, are using #NoVoteToBJP as their main slogan and have already distributed more than one lakh posters where the demands of the people and why they will not vote for BJP are jotted down. The other platform is ‘Say No to Fascist BJP’ that is working in villages of Coochbihar, Alipurduar, Murshidabad. Kasturi Basu explains that it was the need of the hour to create a space that represents the voices of citizens. “We are not endorsing any political party but rejecting one party, which is BJP. Busting the ‘lies’ of BJP and citing records of other states, where the saffron party is in power, and especially Assam NRC, we are spreading the message that BJP should not be a choice for the people to vote in Bengal polls”, added Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-poll-season-citizens-groups-raise-voice-on-social-issues/articleshow/81261914.cms||Dipawali Mitra
March 1, 2021||Bareilly||Hit by bike, seven-year-old boy dies on way to hospital||Pilibhit: A seven-year-old boy of Mainakot village under Madhotanda police station died after being hit by a speeding motorcycle on Madhotanda-Khatema road on Sunday afternoon. The boy was shifted to a community health centre where doctors proclaimed him dead upon arrival. Locals got hold of the pillion rider and handed him over to police, while the rider fled the spot with the bike. The body was sent for autopsy. SHO Ram Sevak said the motorcyclist was coming from Khatema (Uttarakhand) side when the accident took place. An FIR would be registered as soon as a written complaint was filed, added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hit-by-bike-seven-year-old-boy-dies-on-way-to-hospital/articleshow/81259978.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Two held with tiger hide in Champawat||Pithoragarh: Two persons were held with tiger hide by Champawat police on Sunday. The accused were allegedly going towards a plain district to sell it. The accused were caught when the police searched their vehicle. The accused were identified as 24-year-old Basant Bhatt and 30-year-old Mahendra Singh. “The victim tiger was seven-year-old and 1.7 metre long. The accused told the police that they found the body of the tiger in the forest of Duery village,” Lokeshwar Singh, SP Champawat, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-held-with-tiger-hide-in-champawat/articleshow/81260994.cms||Prem Punetha
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Drive on 3rd leg: All set for the shot at normalcy||Ahmedabad: The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination will start in the state along with other parts of the country as approximately 55 lakh people in Gujarat will be covered under the phase. According to experts associated with the process, over 10,000 are likely to get the first shot of the vaccine on Monday. The third phase of vaccination will cover population above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with identified co-morbidities by the Union government. Experts said that high number of vaccination will drastically reduce new infections and mortality in the state. Dr Nayan Jani, state immunization officer, said that all the preparations and dry runs for the updated CoWIN software has been conducted in the past two days with satisfactory result. “In the initial days, each session will have about 100 to 120 beneficiaries. The number of vaccination centres would be increased after the initial run till March 6,” he said. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani on Sunday said that the state will have 2,195 government hospitals and health centres along with 536 private hospitals engaged in the inoculation process. “About 30,000 doctors, nurses and paramedical staff are associated with the drive,” said Rupani, adding that the vaccination is safe and all should take it to save themselves from the pandemic. On Monday, several prominent citizens are likely to get the first shot of the vaccine, said city-based doctors. Senior IAS and IPS officers including district collector and city police commissioner would also take the second shot of the vaccine. “All eyes are on how the CoWIN software, which has so far remained a bit shaky in performance, would function. Earlier, the number of beneficiaries was relatively small – so far 8.2 lakh have got the first shot of vaccine and 1.65 lakh the second – whereas the third phase will cover about 8.5% of the state’s population,” said a city-based medical expert. “The registration will open from Monday morning for the beneficiaries. Walk-ins are a welcome step for those who are not very technology-savvy,” he added. Meanwhile, the city’s micro-containment list increased to 28 with two more areas being added. The new areas micro contained were from the North West and South West Zone of the city. The two areas included eight houses situated on the eighth and ninth floor of Block-B in Binori Gracia and 12 houses on eighth to tenth floor of Block-B in Seventh Paradise in Gota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drive-on-3rd-leg-all-set-for-the-shot-at-normalcy/articleshow/81264158.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Allahabad||MLA supporters assault toll plaza employees||Prayagraj: After a video wherein, the gunners and supporters of a ruling party (Apna Dal) MLA were allegedly seen assaulting toll plaza employees on Prayargaj- Pratapgarh border went viral on social media, district police authorities have stated investigations into the thrashing episode. SP (Trans-Ganga) Dhawal Jaiswal told TOI that police have been making investigations into the incident. He further added that statements of toll plaza have been recorded and police have been verifying the facts as well as series of incidents. He also claimed that police have also been scanning the CCTV footage regarding the incident. Reports reaching here said that the security staff and supporters of sitting Apna Dal MLA, RK Verma had allegedly assaulted the toll plaza staff at Ramphalnari toll plaza on Pratapgarh -Prayagraj border on Saturday evening when the toll plaza employees asked to show pass. Toll plaza employees claimed that vehicle of the MLA had an old pass and when they asked about the new pass, the gunners and supporters of the MLA became agitated and started assaulting them. The chaos maintained about half an hour at the toll plaza, reports added. Toll plaza employees claimed that they have submitted an application to the police station concerned wherein the supporters of the MLA have too complained against the toll plaza employees for misbehavior and rough attitude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mla-supporters-assault-toll-plaza-employees/articleshow/81260965.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||People in BJP put country on sale: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: On the eve of the budget session of the legislature, CM Uddhav Thackeray said the BJP will go down in history as the party with the “people who put the country on sale”. Referring to opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis calling the MVA government “helpless” and one that will be noted in history, Thackeray said: “They (BJP) come to power (at the Centre) by lying to people and putting the country on sale.” He said petrol prices had crossed the “century” mark. He said the Centre had an outstanding of over Rs 34,000 crore payable to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/people-in-bjp-put-country-on-sale-uddhav/articleshow/81264123.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||DA case: ED questions CAs of companies run by Gayatri Prajapati, son||LUCKNOW: Continuing its probe into disproportionate assets of former minister Gayatri Prajapati, the Enforcement Directorate has questioned three chartered accountants of companies belonging to Prajapati and his elder son Anurag Prajapati. The ED officials privy to the probe disclosed that the statements of the CAs were recorded and relevant documents like income tax returns and balance sheets of six companies were also checked. It would be matched with the records of the companies traced by the agency, they added. Officials said the need for questioning of three CAs arose after Prajapati failed to provide details of his movable and immovable assets and shifted the onus on his CAs. The agency also wanted to gather information about more than 100 registries of different properties worth around Rs 32 crore in Lucknow, Kanpur, Amethi and Sitapur which were found during searches at seven places last year. The source of money for the purchase of these properties is not known yet. The agency officials had also found allotment letters of four villas in Mumbai, valued Rs 2.5 crore each, belonging to family members of Prajapati. The driver, peon, cook and a manager of Prajapati and his company were also summoned for recording their statements on the sale deeds of over 85 benami properties that were recovered during searches in Sitapur, Kanpur and Lucknow in December last year. Giving details of interrogation with Prajapati last week, an ED official said the ex-minister was asked about the villas in Mumbai and his bank accounts where many suspicious transactions were noticed. Prajapati, however, did not cooperate in the probe with ED. Pajapati is currently lodged in Lucknow jail in connection with a gang rape case in 2017 while his other son, Anil Prajapati, is also in jail in a case of fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/da-case-ed-questions-cas-of-cos-run-by-prajapati-son/articleshow/81264125.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Bareilly||Two co-accused in Budaun anganwadi rape-murder case get bail||BAREILLY: Two co-accused in the Budaun anganwadi worker rape and murder case were recently released from jail on bail. They have been chargesheeted for concealing evidence in the case. Counsel for Vedram and Jasveer had contended that they had tried to help what they believed to be an “accident victim in getting treatment and should not be made an accused in the case”. Both were granted bail upon furnishing a bond of Rs 25,000 each. Speaking with TOI on Sunday, one of the accused, Vedram, 45, said, “I received a call from ‘Babaji’ (main accused Satyanarayan) asking me to come immediately to the temple. Upon reaching there, I saw a woman from my village. She was severely injured and crying for help. So I rushed to inform her elderly mother but she was helpless. Then, I called Jasveer, an SUV driver, for help.” The victim had come to the village to visit her mother and later, gone to the temple. Vedram claimed they and Satyanarayan took the woman to a hospital in Chandausi. He alleged, “The doctor refused to admit her after learning that no family member had accompanied her. We approached other doctors but none was willing to treat her. Thereafter, we dropped her at her house. We are illiterate and didn’t know that we should have contacted the police.” In the police chargesheet, Satyanarayan was charged with rape and murder while Vedram and Jasveer were charged under IPC section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence). “Since section 201 is bailable, non-cognizable and non-compoundable, bail was granted by court,” said a police officer. Expressing disappointment over this development, the victim’s son-in-law told TOI, “Police had assured us that strict action would be taken against all the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-co-accused-in-budaun-anganwadi-rape-murder-case-get-bail/articleshow/81259990.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||BPA develops pandemic protocols||Ahmedabad: Those who are visually impaired are in a perilous position when it comes to remaining safe in the Covid-19 pandemic. When the government and experts advise people not to touch any surfaces unnecessarily, they have to rely heavily on their tactile senses to discern surroundings. So how to reduce the chances of infection for this population? City-based Blind People’s Association (BPA) has developed protocols for Covid &Mobility of Blind under the aegis of The International Council for Education of People with Visual Impairment (ICEVI) West Asia region. The protocols were recently presented to the members. Bhushan Punani, executive secretary of BPA and president of ICEVI West Asia, said that the protocols insist on regular sanitization and use of easily available material to ensure safety of both the persons with visual impairment and those who help them. “For example, we use rubber-band to ensure that the guiding person doesn’t come in direct contact with a cane user – what one needs to do is, make a simple loop of the band at the end of the cane and use it to hold and guide the cane. It would not only ensure help, but also social distancing,” he said. Likewise, persons with visual impairment are trained for human guide technique where a person can provide verbal cues for navigation from behind the cane user without touching him or her. Nandini Rawal, director of BPA, said that such techniques, along with use of hand gloves and sanitizing canes regularly, will also reduce stigma among the general population that sometimes prevents them from helping visually impaired persons in activities such as crossing the street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bpa-develops-pandemic-protocols/articleshow/81264130.cms||Parth Shastri
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||NID backs traditional toy clusters||Ahmedabad: The National Institute of Design (NID) has participated in a major way in the ongoing India Toy Fair (ITF) 2021 with exhibition and interactive sessions. In a conversation with TOI, NID director Praveen Nahar and senior faculty members talked about the current toy market in India and the way forward. “The NID exhibition (in ITF) focuses on the overarching theme of play, learn and design. India has the largest population of children in the world, and good play material can make a significant difference in enriching their childhood,” said Nahar. “Need of the hour is well-designed indigenous toys for children’s development need.” The NID exhibition has a mix of toys, games, activity kits and outdoor play equipment. “There are projects done with Chennapatna (in Karnataka), Idar (Gujarat), Batto Bai, Indore and Jhabua (Madhya Pradesh) clusters among others that work with leather, turned wood toys, etc. They are part of the exhibition,” said Gayatri Menon, senior faculty at NID. “There are also projects done with materials such as bamboo, coconut fiber and screw pine.” How would the new policy of supporting home-grown toy industry impact the sector? “The policy would surely give a boost to the industry and also revive traditional toys sector,” said Nahar. “We urgently need to address challenges of setting up ecosystem for production, improving quality, bringing design innovation and engaging diverse expertise. Toy innovation centres should also be set up.” Menon added that a lot of toy craft clusters are facing difficulties in survival. A policy can give required motivation, but need would be on design, production process, packaging and retailing. Several individual toy makers were part of the Design Clinic Scheme for MSMEs at NID. The experts also pointed that overall ecosystem which might not change overnight. A faculty pointed out that merchandising is a big concept globally that is fuelled by games, movies, TV shows, books, etc. The country needs to look for home-grown toy icons, they added. “But we also need to think in terms of special needs, inclusive play, use of craft and sustainable materials,” said a faculty member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nid-backs-traditional-toy-clusters/articleshow/81264153.cms||Parth Shastri
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||IKDRC to give jabs to kidney patients||Ahmedabad: The IKDRC on the Civil Hospital campus will commence Covid-19 vaccination of transplant and dialysis patients from March 1. “We have asked the post-transplant patients and those undergoing dialysis to visit room number 507 inside the IKDRC premises from March 1 onwards to receive the Covid-19 vaccine,” said an official. The beneficiaries, above 45 years of age, have been advised to bring along proof of identity for confirmation of age to receive the shots, they added. The officials pointed out that due to the immuno-compromised nature of the patients, they are more at risk of the viral infection and thus they should get vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ikdrc-to-give-jabs-to-kidney-patients/articleshow/81264154.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||K T Rama Rao, Mohd Azharuddin decry Hyderabad missing out on IPL 2021 action||HYDERABAD: Sunday turned out to be a big disappointment for cricket fans of the city with news filtering in that Hyderabad is not on the list of venues hosting the Indian Premier League (IPL) matches this year. Though the BCCI is yet to formally announce the list of venues for this season, it would be unfair if Hyderabad is not considered since the fans have been looking forward to the matches especially after a year of fighting lockdown and pandemic-related issues. Taking up the issue with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), TRS working president and municipal minister K T Rama Rao, on Sunday appealed for the city to be included as one of the venues. “Open appeal to @BCCI and @IPL office bearers to include Hyderabad as one of the venues for upcoming IPL season. Our effective COVID containment measures are reflected in our low number of cases among all metro cities in India and we assure you of all support from the government,’’ he tweeted. Former Indian captain and HCA president Mohd Azharuddin too said the city was capable of hosting IPL matches as per the norms. “I strongly support the appeal by @KTRTRS. Hyderabad is absolutely capable in handling and conducting IPL as per BCCI’s directives and preparing a bio-secure bubble,” he tweeted. Sources close to Azharuddin said he has taken up the matter with BCCI secretary Jay Shah and president Sourav Ganguly. “All efforts are being made to ensure that Hyderabad is included among the list of IPL venues,” a source said. If, however, Hyderabad loses out, it will not be the first time. In 2013, the Champions League T20 matches were scrapped due to security reasons. Interestingly, TRS MLA Danam Nagender from Khairatabad had recently threatened to obstruct IPL matches in the city because SRH had failed to do ‘justice’ to Telangana cricketers in the player auction. “The city has produced players like ML Jaisimha, Shivlal Yadav, Arshad Ayub, Venkatapathi Raju, Mohammed Azharuddin, VVS Laxman. How could such a city miss out on IPL matches?” said Anil Swaroop Mishra, former national TT player.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-azhar-decry-hyd-missing-out-on-ipl-21-action/articleshow/81263339.cms||Solomon S Kumar
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Patient No. 1 Recalls Fear & Loathing, Looks At Silver Lining||New Delhi: Rohit Dutta would have perhaps preferred not being famous in this manner, but the businessman from east Delhi was thrust with the unwanted recognition as the first person in Delhi to test positive for Covid-19 on March 2 last year. A year later, the genial 46-year-old recalls the trauma with a sort of equanimity, though the fact that he was up against something that no doctor or hospital knew how to treat or manage is something he will always shudder about. “There were no medicines, not even WHO guidelines about the infection,” Dutta told TOI. He said he didn’t suffer severe symptoms, but the fear of the unknown weighed heavily on his mind. “I was also worried about my family. What if they had contracted the infection from me?” Dutta remembered. The businessman had gone to Italy, a country later ravaged by the coronavirus, with two relatives and returned to the city on February 25. The same day, he developed a fever for which he took medicines prescribed by a local doctor. “The fever reduced briefly only to return again. This prompted me to visit Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital on March 29. Tests confirmed I had Covid and I was immediately shifted to an isolation room in Safdarjung Hospital,” Dutta said. Safdarjung hospital had created isolation rooms in anticipation of an emerging health crisis due to the largely unresearched infection. Dutta stayed in quarantine for two weeks, but his plight seemed lesser because of the hospital staff. As he recalled, “Honestly, with no vaccine, no medicine, it was only willpower that the doctors passed on to me. But this helped me cope with the fear and anxiety.” Dutta was greatly reassured when one of the doctors promised him he would be out in a few days. Since he had been told that Vitamin C was beneficial for such an infection, Dutta asked for orange juice. To his pleasant surprise, and infinite gratitude, the unnamed doctor later came to him with two 500ml packets of orange juice that he had bought for the city’s first Covid patient. “In this age when nobody is ready to give you water, the doctor himself bought orange juice for me. And at a time when nobody wanted to come near you. The doctors were like gods.” While none in Dutta’s immediate family — his wife, children and elderly mother — were affected by the virus, several members of his in-law’s family in Agra were infected. The Duttas bore the brunt of misinformation in the initial days. “No one was willing to visit my house. People even told the fruit or vegetable vendors not to come to my house,” he shrugged. “The news channels were full of stories about the places I apparently visited after my return to India, some of which were wrong. It was reported that I celebrated my son’s birthday with dozens of people in attendance, when it was actually a small event with close family friends.” Such was the stigma of Covid at the time that several patients placed in isolation following Covid symptoms killed themselves before the test results had even come out. One suicide took place in Safdarjung Hospital, where Dutta was admitted. “It happened on the same day as my discharge after testing negative twice for the infection. I was crestfallen to learn of that,” said the Covid survivor. A year ago, there were no WHO guidelines on treating people like Dutta. Today, there is the vaccine. With a slight smile playing on his lips, the city’s first Covid patient said, “Now that a vaccine is available, everyone who is eligible should take it. I am looking forward to getting the shot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/patient-no-1-recalls-fear-loathing-looks-at-silver-lining/articleshow/81281952.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 1, 2021||Varanasi||UP all set to put complete check on communicable diseases: Yogi||Times News Network Varanasi: UP has witnessed a 75% decline in the communicable diseases and a decrease in mortality rate to 95% in past four years, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath while launching the month-long statewide drive to combat communicable diseases. The drive commencing from Monday will continue till March 31. Kicking off the drive at a function hosted by the health department at community health centre in Cholapur here on Sunday, Yogi said that at a time when Covid-19 menace is at its lowest stage in UP and vaccination facility against it is to become available even in private hospitals, the state is all set to put a complete check on communicable diseases. Preparations to combat the communicable diseases are starting right now to check the diseases during summer and monsoon seasons. “We are stepping ahead to end the menace of Japanese Encephalitis, which had its adverse impacts mainly in Gorakhpur, Devipatan and Saharnpur divisions. As no serious attention was paid on it in past, thousands used to get infected while mortality also remained very high,” said Yogi mentioning how the special vaccination drive and inter-departmental coordination helped in putting an effective check on it. To make the best health facilitie available to people at their doorsteps the state government had started series of Aarogya Mela in 2020, he said adding that although the series had to be stopped due to Covid-19 menace only after holding 5-6 fairs benefitting around 30 lakh people. The Aarogya Melas have been restarted now at a grand scale. Yogi praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for early introduction of vaccines against Covid-19 in the country and also for his vision that led to construction of clean toilets, availability of clean potable water and sanitation works. “The viral diseases are mainly caused by open defecation, impure potable water and unhygienic conditions. We are grateful for the PM for tackling all these issues on priority,” said Yogi. CM also highlighted the facilities being made available in Aarogya Melas, programmes and schems of family welfare, Ayushman Bharat, Mission Indradhanush, Khushahal Parivar Divas, Matritva Vandana and others. He also appreciated the role of social and voluntary organisations for cooperating various initiatives of the state government. Earlier, the CM flagged off mobile clinics, anti-larval and fogging teams, which will operate till March 31. Many beneficiaries including Mira, Sangeeta, Anuj, Sunil and Jaiprakash received golden cards from the CM. He also visited the wards and took stock of the health condition of the patients admitted there including Ruma and Manorama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-all-set-to-put-complete-check-on-communicable-diseases-yogi/articleshow/81261515.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Fishing trip ends in tragedy, three friends die in car crash||HYDERABAD: A fishing trip ended in a tragedy after a car crashed into a container truck on the National Highway-44 at Shadnagar on Sunday. Three youngsters died and their friend suffered severe injuries in the accident. The deceased were identified as Syed Obaid, 21, Jeeshan, 22, and Adnan, 22, all three students from Malakpet. Their friend Haris suffered severe injuries. The youngsters were on their way to Jurala project in Jogulamba-Gadwal district for fishing. “Near Anu’s junction on the outskirts of Shadnagar, there is a curve on the National Highway-44. Obaid, who was driving the car, failed to negotiate the left curve due to speeding. The swift car (AP13AG 0986) overshot the median and crashed into the middle of a container truck coming from the opposite direction,” Shadnagar in-charge inspector MGS Rama Krishna said. While Obaid and Jeeshan died on the spot with severe injuries, Adnan succumbed en route to hospital. “Haris suffered multiple injuries and his condition is critical,” the inspector said. Container truck (GJ 01 DY 4056) driver Manoj Kumarm of Dholpur in Rajasthan, which was transporting car spare parts from Chennai to Hyderabad, lodged a complaint with the police stating that his truck also suffered damage in the road accident. A case was registered under Sections 304-A and 337 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The bodies were handed over to the family members of the victims after post-mortem examination at a local government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fishing-trip-ends-in-tragedy-3-friends-die-in-car-crash/articleshow/81263345.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kanpur||Tanya Verma wins online int’l chess championship||Times News Network Kanpur: Tanya Verma once again won the open girls event of the online international chess championship organised by Osho International chess club Gwalior on February 27. Shreya Saxena, another chess player of the city emerged as runners-up in this group. Ananya Srivastava, another city girl stood at fourth-place, said hony secretary Kanpur Chess Association Dilip Srivastava adding that Minakshi Paliwal of Kidwai Nagar area was adjudged as the best women player. In Veteran category Moizuddin and Santosh Srivastava won the second and third place, respectively. As many as 93 players took part in the event played in nine-rounds. Earlier Shreya Saxena held fifth place in the championship held on February 23, 2021.Moizuddin had emerged as champion in that event and Santosh Srivastava stood at second place. Taekwondo: Nitin Tiwari and Lavanya Singh won a gold and silver medal, respectively in the International Taekwondo championship which ended at Pokhara Nepal on Sunday. Nitin, in the under 54 kgs group, defeated Nepal players in the final and Lavanya outplayed Bhutan player for silver in the under 52 kg girls group. Kanpur Taekwondo Association will felicitate the two players and coach Dharmesh Kumar. Deepak Chaurasia and Pradeep Singh Chauhan president and secretary and other office-bearers of the district association have greeted them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/tanya-verma-wins-online-intl-chess-championship/articleshow/81261631.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||HC junks 2 Maharashtra panels set up for Lonar development||NAGPUR: In a setback to Maharashtra government, Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Anil Kilor at the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court disapproved two committees set up to monitor world-famous Lonar crater. The two committees were set up by the state tourism and cultural affairs ministry after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Lonar on February 5. An eight-member committee to monitor development action plan was set up under state’s chief secretary, while another 10-member committee was headed by Amravati divisional commissioner. However, both the committees were devoid of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) officials, who are directly involved in the monitoring of the crater, which is now part of the Lonar wildlife sanctuary. Though PCCF has been included in the 10-member committee, there is no presence of any expert geologist or Melghat field director in the panel. During the hearing of a PIL filed by Kirti Nipankar and others on Lonar, the high court had on February 25 found that the GRs constituting the aforesaid committees have been hurriedly issued. One committee was set up on February 8 and another on February 24. “The committees had been constituted just in about 16 days. The speed with which this has been done could have been appreciated if the court was also taken into confidence. That apart, considering the importance of the role of forest department in preservation, conservation, and development of Lonar lake, we are of the view that field director having charge of Lonar sanctuary and one superior officer from the Geological Survey of India (GSI) would have to be made member-secretary and member of the committees that would now be newly-constituted or reconstituted,” said the HC. “The committees constituted in their present form, tenor and character are unacceptable and something comprehensive and concrete is required to be done as suggested above, for which purpose we grant liberty to the state government to submit to this court a fresh proposal. If any proposal is to be submitted before this court, it shall take into account specific directions issued by this court from time to time over all the years,” said the HC. The GRs indicate that even today the issue about preservation, conservation and development of Lonar crater is being treated as an issue primarily of tourism, the court observed. “We are constrained to say that such an approach is not conducive to preservation and conservation of this site, which has been declared as ecologically fragile site under Ramsar Convention of 1971. The first and foremost need is to protect, preserve and conserve and then would come development and tourism as complementary and boost to the first need,” said the judges. It is for these reasons that a new approach consistent with and suitable to the need of the basic and essential issue involved here is adopted by the state government and “we find it to be lacking in the GRs. The GRs primarily deal with the issue of tourism and tourism as we understand these days is mostly about consumerism and materialism. This would lead to exploitation of land and natural resources. Such tourism has to be avoided and the kind of tourism to be promoted should be least invasive, environment-friendly and yet most refreshing, and also uniquely recreational,” said the court. The next hearing is slated for March 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-junks-2-maha-panels-set-up-for-lonar-development/articleshow/81263341.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Dynasty politics driving all parties, in contrast, BJP is a family: J P Nadda||VARANASI: Bharatiya Janata Party president J P Nadda took a jibe at the Opposition saying all parties, including Congress, are restricted to dynasty politics, while in sharp contrast, BJP is a family. “The national parties have become regional parties. All political parties, including Congress, are restricted to just dynasty politics. BJP is the only party which is a family. All those who have got the opportunity to be part of BJP are fortunate,” Nadda said after inaugurating the new Kashi regional unit office at Rohania on the outskirts of Varanasi on Sunday. Nadda also inaugurated Prayagraj city unit office virtually. Nadda said all the schemes of Modi government on health, energy, sanitation are aimed at benefiting the last man of the society and to empower citizens. Referring to the schemes launched for farmers, he said, “Previous governments did lip service but, Modi government initiated all possible measures for the benefit of farmers.” Nadda praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath for ensuring best implementation of Modi government schemes in UP and measures initiated by him for promoting local products with the one district, one product initiative. Praising PM for tackling Covid-19 pandemic effectively Nadda said, “Covid-19 was new for entire world. Despite having best health facilities, even US and European countries failed to save their people, while Modi government not only saved lives, but also worked to become self-reliant by developing its health network.” PM Modi’s decisions kept the mortality rate low and ensured free food grain to 80 crore population from March to November, he added. “After becoming PM, Modi ji had expressed wish to see BJP office in each district of the country to ensure party expansion,” Nadda added. Former BJP chief Amit Shah started working on setting up over 700 party offices in the country. “Party offices are like temples where workers learn how power can be used as a medium to improve the country by ensuring development for all. There were 51 offices in UP till 2019, and now offices in Kashi and Prayagraj have also been inaugurated. Remaining offices in UP will be completed by October-end,” said Nadda. The new Kashi unit office has e-library and video conferencing hall. BJP had started from a two-room office, and kept growing amid all adversities and today it has become the largest family of workers, said Nadda. UP BJP president Swatantrata Dev Singh, Union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey, deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, senior leaders Radhey Mohan Singh, Sunil Bansal also shared the dais with Nadda. Earlier, after landing at LBSI airport, Nadda was welcomed by CM Yogi and UP BJP president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dynasty-politics-driving-all-partiesin-contrast-bjp-is-a-family-nadda/articleshow/81264133.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man strangles wife, thinks she’s fainted, leaves body with 7-year-old son at home||A 28-year-old man was arrested a day after he allegedly strangled his wife to death at their Andheri home and left for work presuming she was unconscious. The couple’s seven-year-old son was home with the body for most part of the day. Police said the accused, Narayan Chaudhary, suspected his wife Kavita’s fidelity and the couple had frequent fights. On Friday morning, after one such fight, Narayan strangled Kavita in a fit of rage, ignored her as she fell limply, and left for work. Later in the day, his son called him at the stationery store where he is employed, and said Kavita wasn’t waking up. Narayan came home and rushed Kavita to hospital where doctors pronounced her dead. The post-mortem examination confirmed she had been strangled to death. “After questioning the husband, we took him into custody on Saturday under IPC Section 302 for murder,” said an MIDC police officer. Kavita’s sister, Laxmi Kanojia, filed the complaint against him. Narayan and Kavita had a love marriage nine years ago. They lived in a chawl near Andheri (E) Pump House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-strangles-wife-thinks-shes-fainted-leaves-body-with-7-yr-old-son-at-home/articleshow/81264167.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kanpur||Man booked for rape of fashion designer by faking his identity on Facebook||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: A man has been booked by the city police for the alleged rape of a 21-year-old fashion designer after faking his identity on social media. The accused had allegedly lured the victim into a relationship by faking his identity on Facebook, police said. The accused Arif, a native of Lalganj, Rae Bareli, had got in touch with the woman, a fashion designer, a few months ago through Facebook and had promised to arrange a job for her, police said. The woman, in a written complaint lodged on Saturday, said the accused had lured her into a relationship by concealing his religious identity and telling her that he lived in Lucknow. She also accused him of coercing her into a sexual relationship. On knowing to know the real identity of the accused Arif somehow, the woman confronted him in the month of January, but he threatened her of dire consequences. “We have booked the man under sections 376 and 506 of IPC and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act and the SC/ST Act,” SP (West) Anil Kumar said and added, investigations are continuing in this regard and raids are underway to arrest the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-booked-for-rape-of-fashion-designer-by-faking-his-identity-on-facebook/articleshow/81261587.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||5-year-old boy gets new lease of life||Hyderabad: Doctors at a private hospital in the city saved a five-year boy’s life, on Sunday. The boy was suffering from a severe variety of thalassemia by performing a bone marrow transplant. The boy, who is from Hyderabad, was suffering from abdomen distention with pain, constipation from the age of nine months. The boy’s parents had a consanguineous marriage and they are having a mild variety of thalassemia. While he was taken up for bone marrow transplant on December 2, he developed a lot of complications during surgery. “After almost 3 months of observation, the boy is now completely healthy. Bone marrow transplantation is the only treatment for these types of problems,” said Dr Narendar Kumar Thota. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-year-old-boy-gets-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/81263342.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Man robbed of Rs 1L||A Kharghar man was robbed of gold worth Rs 1 lakh on Saturday. The accused posed as cops and tricked the victim to keep his gold in a paper. Using sleight of hand, they stole the gold. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-robbed-of-rs-1l/articleshow/81263386.cms||George Mendonca
March 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar to bear cost of vaccination jabs at private hospitals||PATNA: The state government has decided to bear the cost of Covid-19 vaccination at private hospitals. Vaccination for senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities will begin across the country on Monday. A day before, the central government had put a cap of Rs 250 on each dose of vaccine at private hospitals. However, going by its pre-poll promise of free Covid vaccination, the NDA government in the state has decided to bear the cost of vaccine to be incurred by private hospitals. A health department official said the decision to make vaccination free at private hospitals was taken at meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday. Registration for the new phase of vaccination will begin at 10am on Monday. It could be done in three ways – self online registration, on-spot registration and cohort registration in which Asha workers, Anganwadi workers and local representatives will be roped in to mobilise large number of people. It is expected that nearly 70% of vaccination in this phase will be done through cohort registration and mobilisation. Initially, vaccination will be done at 750 centres in Bihar, including 50 private hospitals. The number of session sites will gradually be increased. In Patna, 12 private health centres have been chosen for vaccination. The state government has already made it clear that people will not be given option to choose between two available Covid vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin. “It will depend on the availability of vaccines at a particular centre. During online registration, people can only select the centre and time slot,” the health department official added. Cellphone number and an identity card recognised by the government are must for registration. Those having comorbidities will have to produce a certificate from a registered doctor during vaccination. CM to be inoculated today Chief minister Nitish Kumar will take his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna on Monday. State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said apart from CM, other dignitaries will also take the jab on the first day to motivate others to join the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-to-bear-cost-of-vax-jabs-at-pvt-hospitals-in-bihar/articleshow/81261980.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 1, 2021||Varanasi||Lion, lioness from Etawah reach Gorakhpur Zoo||Gorakhpur: A pair of Asiatic lions, named Pataudi and Maryam, reached Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan Gorakhpur zoo from Etawah on Sunday. “Many wild animals including leopard, hippopotamus, deer, jackal and python have already arrived and a pair of lions named Pataudi and Maryam reached today morning,” said zoo director Dr H Raja Mohan. The lion and lioness entered enclosures under tight safety and security in the presence of Rajkiya Nirman Nigam project manager D B Singh and zoo director Dr H Raja Mohan. “The lions will be kept in quarantine as per the guidelines we follow. So far, 54 wild animals have reached here. The construction work in the zoo, which is named after martyr Ashfaqullah Khan, has been completed,” the director added. The date of inauguration of the zoo has to be decided by the government but, there are chances of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath doing the honours in March, he added. During his recent visit to Gorakhpur, CM Yogi had announced that seaplanes will be soon operated in Ramgarh Lake near the zoo and an international water sports complex is also being constructed there. The zoo also has an indoor butterfly park and a serpentarium, while a zebra from Israel is also due to arrive. It also has a 40-seater 7D theatre and a toy train will be run in it on a PPP model. Heritage foundation’s Narendra Kumar Mishra said the Gorakhpur zoo has a huge wetland of 30 acres where various species of local and migratory birds can be seen. It is certain that in the coming days it will draw tourists in big numbers which will benefit the entire Purvanchal area, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lion-lioness-from-etawah-reach-gorakhpur-zoo/articleshow/81261486.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: A year of tears, trials, triumph||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported the first case of Covid-19 on March 2 after an east Delhi businessman who had returned from Italy a week earlier tested positive. Within days, more people who had travelled to countries struggling with the outbreak proved positive for Covid too, leading to a health and social crisis. The scare wasn’t unfounded. Little was known of the novel coronavirus, so no treatment was available for the disease. To reduce the risk of infection, healthcare workers had to use personal protective equipment (PPE) when attending to Covid patients, a precaution hitherto limited to rare cases of highly infectious diseases. Covid took Delhi by storm. After the detection of the first case on March 2, within a month, the number had risen to 293. A nationwide lockdown was implemented from March 25 to prevent the spread of infection. In Delhi, all schools, colleges and restaurants had been ordered to shut down on March 22 itself. Despite this, the cases continued to increase and by May 2, the viral infection had claimed 64 lives in the capital and left 4,122 others infected. The spread was facilitated by a few super-spreader events, one being a religious gathering in Nizamuddin where hundreds tested positive for the infection. A cancer hospital run by Delhi government in Shahdara had to be shut down when several healthcare workers and their contacts became infected. “Delhi’s response to Covid was initially good, but the administration failed to ramp up the infrastructure and by June, the cases were at a crisis level,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS. “However, the state then managed the situation well in coordination with the central government.” The pandemic first hit a peak in May, and then again in September and November. In June, more than 50% of beds reserved for Covid patients in the government-run hospitals went vacant even as people struggled to find a bed in private hospitals. Even public figures, including some ministers of the central and the state governments who tested positive for Covid, chose to seek treatment in private hospitals. The Supreme Court questioned Delhi government’s claims about its preparedness to fight the pandemic, pointing out how there were a low number of daily tests, improper treatment of Covid patients, undignified handling of dead patients’ bodies and denial of salaries to doctors. It was then that Delhi took the lead in making home isolation possible for asymptomatic Covid-positive people and those with mild symptoms, ensuring that they were cared for in their homes or through tele-consultations. Despite this, the latest data shows that 10,911 people lost their lives to the infection in the city. The first plasma bank in the country for managing Covid also began in Delhi in July. With no treatment available for the coronavirus infection, doctors wanted to use plasma extracted from the recovered patient as a possible therapy. “A recent study published in New England Journal of Medicine shows that the therapy indeed benefits Covid-19 patients,” said Dr S K Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which runs that plasma bank. He disclosed that more than 5,000 people received plasma from the bank. Today, Delhi’s Covid tally stands at 6.39 lakh, sixth highest in India after Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The situation now appears to be under control, but experts say it is important to adhere to preventive measures and speed up the vaccination programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-year-of-tears-trials-triumph/articleshow/81282095.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest department comes up with ‘animal deterrent spray’ to tackle increasing bear attacks in state||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand forest department has come up with a spray to curb bear attacks amid rising cases in the hill state. Close to 20 spray bottles of the liquid have so far been purchased and will be distributed among the frontline staff of the Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary and Badrinath forest division. On a pilot basis, the project has been started in Rudraprayag and Chamoli forest divisions, as bear attacks have increased in these two hill districts over the years. The spray contains chemicals that irritate the eyes, ears and skin of the animal, giving a person a chance to flee. “The spray creates a wide cloud that acts as a barrier … if the animal enters the barrier, the active ingredient capsaicin (a component found in chili pepper) irritates the animal, temporarily distracting it from its pursuit,” reads a user manual of the spray, a copy of which is with the TOI. Notably, in a 2019 order, the Uttarakhand HC had put a ban on using chili or crackers to keep elephants at bay. Usage of chili to keep away animals has been stopped since in the hill state. However, officials of the forest department have assured that the liquid is safe, for both humans and animals. Chief wildlife warden JS Suhag told TOI, “This is an internationally-approved spray, which is already being used for self defence against animals by the monitoring and patrolling staff of forest departments in Russia and America. While it’s certainly not the primary method to tackle human-bear conflicts, it can be used as a last resort. It is a safe spray and will not cause any damage to either animals or humans.” Bear attacks are the most gruesome of wild animal attacks and require expensive treatment. As most hill districts of the state don’t have adequate health infrastructure, a majority of the cases are referred to other states for tertiary treatment. As reported by TOI, warmer weather due to climate change has been impacting the hibernation pattern of bears. As a result, bears have been venturing out for food even in winter months of December and January, when they would usually sleep, triggering increased bear attacks. In 2018, 54 bear attacks were recorded, of whom two persons were killed. In 2019, there were 76 attacks and four deaths. Last year, there were 86 bear attacks and three deaths - one each in Badrinath forest division, Pauri Forest Division and Narendra Nagar forest division. The most cases of bear attacks that year were reported from Badrinath forest division (18), followed by Pauri Garhwal (17), Terai East (11), Uttarkashi forest division (9), Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary (8) and Nanda Devi National Park (5).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-forest-department-comes-up-with-animal-deterrent-spray-to-tackle-increasing-bear-attacks-in-state/articleshow/81261027.cms||Shivani Azad
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vehicle fumes spread indoors, pollute air in homes||Ahmedabad: Indoor air pollution is impacted by factors like heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) use, ambient light , ambient pollution, construction materials and even the layout of furniture, claims the study by Cept university experts who had analysed indoor air pollution of 50 odd municipal schools in the city. The study specifically drew attention to the presence of formaldehyde and volatile organic compounds in classrooms that may be of particular harm to students. In another study, it is claimed that children have greater susceptibility than adults to some environmental pollutants including formaldehyde because they breathe higher volumes of air relative to their body weights and have actively growing tissues and organs. “Acute exposure to formaldehyde can result in irritation of the throat, nose, eyes, and skin,” claims the study In 2017, the Indian Institute for Tropical Meterology (IITM) has claimed in its Ahmedabad report that exposures to indoor air pollution stems from incomplete combustion of fuels by vehicles, and are substantial in the city. “This complicates health issues ,” claims that IITM study. “The magnitude of indoor PM2.5 health effects is well-established, there are fewer studies on the specific sources and chemical and biological properties of PM2.5 which are most hazardous and how the composition of indoor air pollution compares to ambient pollution,’ claims the IITM study The report further added, “Current evidence indicates that about a quarter of ambient air pollution in Ahmedabad may stem from combustion of vehicle fuels. Therefore, intervention efforts to mitigate ambient air pollution should consider the potential for environmental and health gains from promoting cleaner fuels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vehicle-fumes-spread-indoors-pollute-air-in-homes/articleshow/81264163.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Rescue teams facing problems in clearing muck from slush-choked tunnel, 72 bodies recovered till date||Dehradun: The rescue teams engaged in clearing muck from the slush-choked tunnel of NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydro-power project are facing problems due to constant seepage of water in the tunnel. According to Swati Bhadoriya, Chamoli district magistrate, “The water is continuously seeping into the tunnel, which is creating problems for the teams working there to clear the muck. This is despite over half a dozen water pumping machines having been pressed into service.” Sources in the rescue teams told TOI that water from the Dhauliganga river is also entering the tunnel as after the February 7 flash-floods, the river bed and the tunnel bed are at the same elevation. The rescue personnel used excavators to divert the course of river flow to ensure that the muck-removing work is not hampered. After 22 days of continuous operation, multi-agency teams have managed to clear the slush and debris till 180 metres in the main tunnel, according to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC). As on date, the search and rescue teams have recovered 72 bodies from the disaster-hit areas of the Chamoli district while 133 people are still reported to be missing. Out of the total bodies recovered, 14 have been found from the main tunnel where over 30 workers were initially believed to be trapped. On the other hand, the ITBP and SDRF personnel have managed to reduce the water level of the artificial lake at Murenda by five feet by removing obstacles like trunks of the trees and big boulders, ITBP spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rescue-teams-facing-problems-in-clearing-muck-from-slush-choked-tunnel-72-bodies-recovered-till-date/articleshow/81261032.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||12th edition of Club Run held||Hyderabad: More than 600 people participated in the physical run of the 12th edition of the Club Run 2021, with 600 people participating in it as a half marathon. The virtual 10K saw around 200 runners and there were 100 runners 5k category from across the globe. The race was flagged off by Dr B Janardhan Reddy, along with Nityananda Reddy, chairman, Gaudium Group. The run was hosted by The Gaudium Sportopia, in association with Hyderabad Runners. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12th-edition-of-club-run-held/articleshow/81263363.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Bareilly||Chased & hounded, UP’s interfaith couple apply for marriage under the special law, told to wait||BAREILLY: Over three months after a Muslim man, 27, had “eloped” with a girl from a different faith to get married and was put behind the bars and over a month after he stepped out on bail, the interfaith couple in UP’s Bareilly sought permission from an SDM to get married, only to be told that they have to wait for another month for police clearance. The couple was also carrying an Allahabad high court order giving them freedom to get married and an exemption from notice period under special circumstances by the marriage officer. They had eloped on October 17. A few days later, scores of members of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) held a protest and vandalised Bareilly’s Quila police station alleging inaction on ‘love jihad'. The couple was later “recovered” from Rajasthan’s Ajmer. The man was booked for allegedly forging the girl’s Aadhaar card to get a room in a hotel. He feared that the girl’s real identity may invite trouble there also. He was arrested and sent to jail and came out on bail in January this year. SDM of Sadar area, Vishu Raja, said, “The law favours the couple, but they would have to wait for a police report to ensure there is no law and order issue.” The couple had come with their friends who agreed to sign as witnesses on Saturday. The girl’s family is still against the marriage. SDM told TOI, “The couple represented themselves personally as well as through their legal counsels for the application of marriage under the special act. They produced an Allahabad high court order which stated that days of notice period can be exempted under special circumstances by the marriage officer. The judgement favours them. However, we are seeking a report on 12 points to ensure that neither of the person is already married, their actual place of residence, possibility of law and order issue etc. Police report is crucial here as well. This proceeding may take less than 30 days to complete (we are expecting it to complete within a week or two) and the permission would be granted to the couple for marriage. “I spoke with the couple separately. The girl said that she is willing to marry and she is not intending to convert her religion,” he added When contacted, Bareilly’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “Police don’t have any objection if an adult couple is planning to marry. We may provide them security in case they are threatened by their family or relatives. Already two couples have been provided security by police in Bareilly.” In January, the Allahabad high court had held that requirement of publication of notice of intended marriage under Section 6 and inviting/entertaining objections under Section 6 and inviting/entertaining objections under Section 7 of the Special Marriage Act is not mandatory. Justice Vivek Chaudhary had observed that making such publication mandatory would invade the fundamental rights of liberty and privacy. The couple couldn’t be contacted over the phone despite several attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/chased-hounded-ups-interfaith-couple-apply-for-marriage-under-the-special-law-told-to-wait/articleshow/81260487.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 1, 2021||Kanpur||14-year-old boy missing since Saturday found murdered in fodder dump||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: A 14-year-old boy, who had been missing since Saturday afternoon, was found murdered in fodder dump in the fields in Thatia police station area of Kannauj district on Sunday morning. Police suspect that he was beaten to death. Himanshu, son of Dashrath Gautam, a poultry farm employee, who had been missing from his Jalalpur Kumharanpurwa home in Thatia police area since Saturday afternoon, was found murdered on Sunday, police said. Police registered a case against unidentified men and started investigations in the case. Himanshu had gone to attend ‘Bhagwat Katha’ recital in the neighbouring Jodhpur village around 1pm on Saturday, but did not return home till late night, said the boy’s father Dashrath “When he did not reach home, I asked neighbours and villagers about him. We all launched a search for him but could not trace him in spite of our best efforts. Later, I approached local police. They asked for a photograph of the boy and some documents, which I provided to them,” he said. On Sunday, Himanshu's body was found lying in a pool of blood in a fodder dump in the fields of local villager Naresh Prajapati. Senior police officials rushed to the spot along with a dog squad for investigation. Police then converted the FIR into a murder case under section 302 of IPC. Inspector Thatia Raj Kumar Singh said the autopsy report revealed that the cause of death was injuries inflicted by ‘lathis’ and sticks. “On the complaint of the victim’s father, we have detained two locals and their questioning is underway,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/14-year-old-boy-missing-since-saturday-found-murdered-in-fodder-dump/articleshow/81261593.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||BSc student harassed, molested||Ahmedabad: A 19-year-old woman from Vadaj, a student of BSc third semester, on Saturday filed a complaint against a man who had first harassed her by showing obscene gestures and by holding her hand on Thursday and when she objected to it, he barged into her house on Saturday evening and molested her. The woman stated in her FIR with Vadaj police that when she was eating ‘pakodi’ with her friend on Thursday afternoon, the accused, Rajesh Tapodhan, 30, a resident of MP Chawl in Vadaj, approached her and held her hand. She tried to pull her hands from his grip, but he kept pressing her hand and made obscene gestures towards her. After that, he went from there and began making obscene gestures towards her again. To this, she told him to go away from there and not to stare at her. Tapodhan, though, went away from there but threatened the woman with dire consequences. On Saturday evening, when the woman was working inside her house, Tapodhan barged into her house and began molesting her. She began screaming seeking help after which her neighbours rushed there but the accused managed to flee from there. The woman called up police control room and filed a complaint of molestation against her. She also stated in her FIR that Tapodhan is habitual offender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bsc-student-harassed-molested/articleshow/81264173.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kanpur||Vijay Hazare trophy: Shivam claims six wicket for 22 runs, pushed UP to win by six wickets against Odisha||Done/ALVI Pic of Shivam Sharma Times News Network Kanpur: Right arm off break bowler Shivam Sharma once again played havoc by claiming six wickets for just 22 runs and pushed UP to register 6 wickets comfortable victory against Odisha in their last league match of group C in Vijay Hazare trophy held at Alur cricket stadium Bengaluru on Sunday. With this win UP completed its pool programme with 4 victories out of 5 ties and collected 16 points. It had lost against Kerala by 3 wickets in their second match. For UP, right arm spinner Shivam Sharma emerged as the most successful bowler claiming 18 wickets for 210 runs in five matches. Odisha batsmen caught a web of spinning deliveries of Shivam and presented him their wickets. His best performance was against Bihar in which he had bagged 7 wickets for 31 runs. Odisha, batting first, could collect 148 runs in 40.1 overs and UP scored 150 runs for the loss of 4 wickets. Medium pacer Aaquib Khan gave UP an early breakthrough by claiming Sandeep (3) when Odisha was invited to bat. Captain Shantanu and Rakesh made an abortive attempt to stitch the damage. Shivam Sharma claimed Shantanu’s wicket for 24 and broke their partnership. Wickets thereafter fell at regular intervals. Rakesh contributed 46 runs before being declared run out. He had hit five boundaries and a six. Subhranshu Senapati batting with grit returned unbeaten with 49 runs in 68 balls. No other batsman could face the UP bowler with confidence and fell prey to them so cheaply. Abhishek Goswami and Karan Sharma gave a moderate start to UP as both scored 25 runs each. Priyam who had scored a ton in the previous match could score 17 runs in 11 balls. His prize wicket took Rajesh Mohanty who held a return catch gleefully. Sameer Chaudhary (9 no)and Upendra (32) thereafter made the target an easy affair and added 56 runs for the fourth wicket. Sameer thereafter in the company of Aksh Deep Nath completed the victory. Gyanendra Pandey, coach of UP team, said that shivam had bowled very well and restricted Odisha on a low score. Brief score: Odisha- 148 ( Shantanu Mishra 24, Rakesh Patanaik 46, Subhranshu Senapati 49no, Aaquib Khan 1 for 33, Shivam Mavi 1 for 25, Shivam Sharma 6 for 22) UP- 150 for 4 (Abhishek Goswami 25, Karan Sharma 25, Priyam Garg 17, Sameer Chaudhary 29no , Upendra Yadav 32, Aksh Deep Nath 16no, Rajesh Mohanty 2 for 37.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vijay-hazare-trophy-shivam-claims-six-wicket-for-22-runs-pushed-up-to-win-by-six-wickets-against-odisha/articleshow/81261606.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Fintech, medtech, edutech likely sunrise sectors for 2021’||Ahmedabad: The year 2020 was a year of status quo for many entrepreneurs – both budding and established – but the early signs of 2021 are positive, said experts at Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII) during the Fourteenth Biennial Conference on Entrepreneurship that got concluded on February 27. The event also witnessed launch of the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) report for2019-20. Dr Sunil Shukla, director general of EDII, said that the pandemic caused a major upheaval for businesses and the impact would be seen in 2021. “But it was also the time of resilience, learning and pivoting for many startups. Based on the trends we see on the ground, fintech, medicaltech, education tech might be the sunrise sectors for this year,” he said,adding that both technology-heavy and innovation-driven startups are finding their feet again. The observations from the ground for the ongoing GEM survey for2020-21 revealed that two out of three households under survey reported strong decrease in household income. “There is also a significant decrease in entrepreneurial intentions and expectations to start a venture. The results are stark given that 2019-20 recorded an upward momentum,” said Dr Amit Kumar Dwivedi, a faculty member at EDII and core group member for GEM survey. The team members also pointed out that while almost all the sectors have been affected, the pandemic has hit the women-led ventures and those by the disadvantaged communities harder. On the brighter side, the officials said that with availability of vaccine and reduction in cases across the country, the consumer demand and production activity has reported upward trend in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fintech-medtech-edutech-likely-sunrise-sectors-for-2021/articleshow/81264208.cms||Parth Shastri
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Dog injured in hit and run, FIR filed by woman owner||Ahmedabad: Bopal police on Saturday filled a complaint against an unknown car driver who hit and severely injured a pet dog in Shilaj on February 20 and fled from the scene, states an FIR filed on Saturday. Usually, people do not file police complaints in such cases where animals suffer injuries in accidents. This was a rare case where the dog’s owner, a woman, came forward and filed a complaint. Abha Jagota, 35, resident of Avnish Heights near Shilaj Circle on SP Road, who works at a leading corporate firm, stated in her FIR that her pet dog had been taken for a walk on the service road near Shilaj Circle by its caretaker on February 20. At around 10pm, a security guard of Jagota’s residential society called her up and informed that her pet dog had met an accident. She rushed outside and found her dog was injured. Jagota took the dog to a veterinary hospital in Thaltej where it was diagnosed with fracture in its right paw. On inquiring with the caretaker, Jagota came to know that a man driving a hatchback had hit the dog and then stopped for some time. He’d looked back, saw the injured dog and then fled from there. She gave the vehicle number to Bopal police who have begun an investigation into the case. On Jagota’s complaint, Bopal police registered a complaint under charges of IPC Sections 279 (rash driving) and 428 (mischief by killing or maiming animal) and for negligent driving under the Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dog-injured-in-hit-and-run-fir-filed-by-woman-owner/articleshow/81264174.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Pithoragarh’s Sweta Verma selected to Indian women’s cricket team||Dehradun: After Ekta Bisht and Mansi Joshi, Sweta Verma, a 24-year-old wicketkeeper-batsman from Pithoragarh’s Thal, has now been selected for the Indian women’s cricket team. She will feature in the squad for the upcoming ODI series against South Africa which starts from March 7 in Lucknow. Coming from a humble background, she lost her father in her teenage. Verma’s mother is an Anganwadi worker. She was coached by Liyakat Ali Khan in Almora. “We took care of her finances as back then, it was her mother who was the sole breadwinner of her family. We spotted her talent in wicket-keeping as she was quick. After coaching her in Almora, we later shifted her to Kashipur for advance coaching, especially in wicket-keeping,” said Khan. The Almora-based professional coach told TOI that she had to relocate to Uttar Pradesh in order to pursue a career in cricket since Uttarakhand didn’t have a BCCI-affiliated state cricket association back then. “She has been playing for the UP domestic side for five years now. In 2018, Uttarakhand started participating in the BCCI domestic tournaments but we decided to let her stay in UP since the UPCA had supported her a lot. Also, relocating her at that time would have been a bad decision career-wise,” said Khan. The wicket-keeper-batsman will be looking forward to getting into the playing XI of the Indian side during the ODI bilateral home series against South Africa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pithoragarhs-sweta-verma-selected-to-indian-womens-cricket-team/articleshow/81261046.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 1, 2021||Madurai||Wearing specs will not make one unfit for post: Madras HC||MADURAI: Madras high court has observed that a person wearing spectacles cannot be deemed unfit for a post when there is no specific visual standards mentioned in the recruitment notification. Dismissing an appeal by the state, the court upheld a single judge’s order directing to appoint a candidate for the post of sub-inspector of police (fingerprint). S Durga Devi had cleared the written examination for the post followed by physical measurement endurance test and viva voce. Though she was selected provisionally, she was found unsuitable for the post at the examination done by the medical board consisting of an eye specialist. The test was done in tune with the GO passed by the home department in 2000 fixing the visual standards for testing a candidate without wearing glasses. After making her undergo the test thrice, her candidature was rejected. Durga challenged it before the HC Madurai bench and the single judge held that the notification does not specify the visual standards and that it is not as if the work cannot be done by wearing glasses. The state challenged the order through the present appeal. Agreeing with the single judge, a division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that it is clear that Durga can perform the work by wearing glasses and her candidature cannot be rejected by making her undergo a test without wearing glasses. The judges observed that the classification sought to be made is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. It is an indirect way of fixing qualification on the sole premise that a candidate wearing glasses cannot be considered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wearing-specs-will-not-make-one-unfit-for-post-says-hc/articleshow/81263395.cms||Kaushik Kannan
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Treating Covid-19: Indian doctors led from front when world was shooting in dark||NEW DELHI: India led from the front in experimenting with various drugs to prevent and treat Covid-19 even as the world debated over their potential. Steroids, for example, were used to treat mild to severe infections much before the recovery trial conducted in the UK showed that it may help save lives, said AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria. Anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine was used widely for prophylaxis, much before a push for the drug from the then US president Donald Trump made headlines. The drug was later discouraged from usage as a multi-country trial ruled out any significant benefit in saving lives or reducing the severity of Covid-19 symptoms. Read AlsoGolden generation sees silver lining in Covid vaccineElderly people and their family members came out in large numbers to get the vaccine shot on the first day. Lack of initial streamlining of the process led to some hiccups and there were heated exchanges at several places though the nodal medical officers assured that the overall process willTreatment for Covid-19 involves three key components, including drugs to reduce the viral load, steroids to suppress a cytokine storm and medicines to prevent clotting of blood. Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max Healthcare, said a number of drugs used for other illnesses, in addition to hydroxychloroquine, were tried for treating Covid-19 patients because there was no known cure. “Convalescent plasma therapy was used extensively in Delhi. Though there is no unanimity on its efficacy yet, we have observed positive outcomes in many patients who were administered the therapy,” he added. Read AlsoPM Modi takes the shot, gives vaccine process a booster doseThe PM, who is 70, was administered Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This decision too seemed deliberate as it is seen as a vote of confidence in the vaccine that has been criticised by some experts forDr Sarman Singh, director of AIIMS Bhopal, said even they conducted trials to assess the safety and efficacy of some repurposed drugs like mycobacterium W, an anti-leprosy drug, in treating Covid-19 patients. Remdesivir, which was originally developed to treat Ebola, was approved as an experimental therapy for Covid-19 by Indian Council of Medical Research. “We are using remdesivir to treat patients,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital. Dexamethasone, a corticosteroid used in a wide range of conditions for its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects, was tested in hospitalised patients with Covid-19 in the UK national clinical trial recovery and was found to have benefits for critically ill patients. It is used widely in India to treat Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine at Max Saket, said, “Initially, hydroxychloroquine was proposed as a candidate drug for treatment and prophylaxis, along with azithromycin, an antibiotic, and antiretroviral drugs like ritonavir and lopinavir. Later, it was replaced by antiviral drugs like favipiravir, which is recommended for mild disease, and remdesivir, for moderate to severe disease. Another important drug introduced mid-way to treat moderate to severe disease was dexamethasone.” He added that the treatment protocol for the viral infection was still evolving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/treating-covid-19-indian-docs-led-from-front-when-world-was-shooting-in-dark/articleshow/81282239.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: At least one private hospital to hold vax camp in each district||LUCKNOW: The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive for people above 60 years and those aged 45 and above and have comorbidities will begin from Monday. It would be a soft launch of the drive that would be carried out in all the districts. Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the department has directed all districts to organise vaccination in at least a private hospital and a government hospital. He said that the vaccination would be carried out in medical college as well if the district has one. Prasad said that the limit of 100 shots in each session has also been done away with. “It may vary from district to district and from hospital to hospital,” he said, while talking to TOI. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination anytime and anywhere using the Cowin 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu, the government said in a statement. Officials said that there would be only one live appointment for a beneficiary at any point of time for each dose. Officials said that the drive to vaccinate the population above 60 years would be carried out after assessing the success of the soft launch. The slot for the second dose will be booked at the same Covid vaccination Centre on the 29th day of the date of appointment for the 1st dose. If a beneficiary cancels the appointment of the first dose then the appointment of both doses will stand cancelled. The Union health ministry has already specified 20 comorbidities among people aged between 45 and 59 years who will get the vaccine – hospitalisation last one year due to heart attack, moderate or severe valvular heart disease, coronary artery disease, CT/ MRI-documented stroke, diabetes of over 10 years or with complications, hypertension, end-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis, diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after 2000 or currently on any cancer therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/at-least-1-pvt-hosp-to-hold-vax-camp-in-each-dist/articleshow/81264176.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||City sweats at 35.7C||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad city on Sunday recorded day temperature of 35.7 degrees celsius, 2.8 degrees higher than the normal. The night temperature was recorded at 20 degrees, 3.6 degrees higher than the normal. The India Meteorological Department, Gujarat, said in its forecast that a fall in minimum temperature is expected by 2-4 degrees during the next two to three days. After this, a gradual rise is likely over the region. Over the past two to three days, the mercury has been steadily rising with people feeling hot under the collar. Locals have also started getting their ACs serviced in preparation of an early onset of summer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-sweats-at-35-7c/articleshow/81264182.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Madurai||TN must unite to defeat AIADMK-BJP front: Brinda||Madurai: It is time for the people of Tamil Nadu to unite to save the state by defeating the BJP-AIADMK alliance, said CPM politburo member Brinda Karat. Speaking at the CPM campaign at Palayamkottai in Tirunelveli on Sunday, she said that the people of Tamil Nadu have been facing numerous problems and they had already decided to defeat the AIADMK-BJP alliance in the coming elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that the BJP and the AIADMK would function like double engines, but they had experienced a lot due to these two engines, especially during the lockdown. Workers in the 100-day work scheme were not paid properly. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is not speaking about people’s problems. He had locked his mouth because he needed the support of Modi and home minister Amit Shah to come back to power. The uncontrolled price hike of fuel was affecting the common man. They are cheating people and over-taxing them. That is why we call them a pickpocket government, she said. Unemployment is increasing in Tamil Nadu, and there are two lakh vacancies in various sectors, but the governments are handing over the public sector firms to the private players. The Centre is trying to bring about the ‘one party, one language and one culture’ rule across the country and trying to destroy the social fabric of the state. CPM district secretary K G Baskaran also attended. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-must-unite-to-defeat-aiadmk-bjp-front-brinda/articleshow/81263413.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Toilet linked biogas plant a hit||After the spread of Covid-19 and the subsequent economic slowdown, NITI Aayog was actively looking for replicable models to change the eco-system of rural areas of the country. As an effort in this direction, the nodal agency decided to address the issue of faecal sludge management (FSM) and also ensure reuse of nutrients from faecal matter. After studying the research done in the area, the Aayog recommended the FINISH Society’s Toilet Linked Biogas Plant (TLBG) model from Walsad in Gujarat to various CSR arms of companies. This would reduce dependence on fossil fuel and also provide manure for kitchen gardens. As part of this initiative, ITC Mission Sunehra Kal (MSK) along with technical expertise provided by FINISH Society adopted the Kailwari block of Baran district of Rajasthan, 200 km from Jhalawar. DN Singh from Uttarakhand, a consultant who specializes in constructing these cost-effective biogas plants, was roped in to help motivate people for the operation and maintenance of TLBG. He also provided technical manpower for the construction work. The construction cost was borne by Mission Sunehra Kal. People’s responses: Bahari Lal, former Sarpanch of the Balda gram panchayat, who agreed to instal the biogas plant in his house, says: “We earlier did not have any knowledge about gobar gas. We did not have any information about how it is made and used. The biogas does not have any foul smell and the faecal slurry is removed. The food cooked on it is tasty. The flow out from human excreta is used as compost in farming.” The four other families, too, are very pleased with the outcome, even though in the beginning the thought of using faecal matter as fuel to cook food in the kitchen was simply unthinkable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toilet-linked-biogas-plant-a-hit/articleshow/81264181.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 175 new cases in last 24 hrs, positivity rate rises to 0.44%||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 175 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, while the positivity rate rose to 0.44% against 0.34% recorded on Sunday, stated the data shared by Delhi health department. Another fatality pushed the death toll to 10,911, the authorities said, adding that infection tally currently stood at 6,39,464. As many as 39,733 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, including 28,048 RT-PCR and 11,685 rapid antigen tests. The active cases rose to 1,404 from 1,335 the previous day, said the health bulletin. The number of people under home isolation rose to 739 from 691 on Sunday, it said, adding that over 6.27 lakh people have recovered. From February 24-26, daily cases count stood at 200-mark or beyond.  “The increase in positivity rate is a matter of concern. People are moving freely, and in many cases without following Covid-appropriate behaviour. This can lead to rise in cases,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital, adding that the role of mutation in the virus that causes Covid-19 needs to be examined too. The emergence of Covid-19 caused by newer strains of the virus is a major concern, doctors said, adding that, Delhi needed to be on high alert to detect new clusters of Covid-19 and to carry out tests to rule out any such possibility. The emergence of newer strains of virus isn’t uncommon, the experts said. However, it is important to map such instances to detect significant changes, which might affect the transmissibility or virulence of the disease, they added There are a total of 5,721 beds designated for Covid-19 patients in the national capital. Of them, 489 are occupied and 5,232 vacant, the data showed. The occupancy of ICU beds with and without ventilator support is 12% and 9%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/175-new-cases-in-last-24-hrs-positivity-rate-rises-to-0-44/articleshow/81282387.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Varanasi||PM cites Kashi’s Sanskrit cricketcommentary in his Mann Ki Baat||Varanasi: The Sanskrit commentary during a cricket tournament played recently in Varanasi caught the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who mentioned it in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme on Sunday and even played a sound clip of the commentary. “I have a thought: why not have good commentaries of different sports and, especially Indian sports, in more and more languages, we must think about encouraging it. I would urge the sports ministry and private institutional partners to think about this,” said the PM, further informing the listeners across the country that a cricket tournament is held among Sanskrit colleges in Varanasi. The Sanskrit colleges include Shastrarth College, Swami Vedanti Ved Vidyapeeth, Sri Brahma Veda Vidyalaya and International Chandramouli Charitable Trust and hence the commentary during the matches of this cricket tournament is also done in Sanskrit. Besides, the players and commentators wear the traditional attire of dhoti and kurta. “If you want energy, excitement, suspense all at once, then you should listen to sports commentary,” he said adding that long before the advent of TV, sports commentary was the medium through which people kept updates and felt the thrill of sports like cricket and hockey. The commentary for tennis and football matches is also very well presented. “We have seen that games which have good and vibrant commentaries gain popularity very fast. Here too, we have many Indian sports, where commentary culture has not started yet due to which they are in a state of near extinction,” Modi said. The city witnessed the annual ‘Dand-Kanduk Kridayam’ (cricket) on the sports ground of Sampurnanand Sanskrit University on Thursday 18 to mark the 77th foundation day of Shastrarth Mahavidyalaya. All the students playing the match wore dhoti-kurta and sported a ‘tripund’ on the foreheads, as were the ‘Nirnayakah’ (umpires). The running commentary in Sanskrit captivated people passing by and the crowds swelled in no time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-cites-kashis-sanskrit-cricketcommentary-in-his-mann-ki-baat/articleshow/81261571.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Space missions involve all fields’||Ahmedabad: It’s not just the knowledge of one field that makes India’s space missions successful, it’s the amalgamation of almost all the fields, said Dr Anil Bharadwaj, director of Physical Research Laboratory (PRL) during his speech on National Science Day organized by GUJCOST. “Space science needs persons from every discipline such as physics, chemistry, metallurgy, mechanical, aerospace, electrical and so on. In Gaganyaan mission, we would require space medical specialists and geo-specialists, too,” he said on Sunday. Nilesh Desai, director of SAC-ISRO, said JPL of the US is collaborating with ISRO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/space-missions-involve-all-fields/articleshow/81264183.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Madurai||Plea against ECI guideline dismissed||Madurai: The Madras high court dismissed the plea challenging the guidelines sent by Election Commission of India (ECI) with regard to transfer of officials for election duty from home districts to other districts during the forthcoming assembly elections. The court was hearing the petition filed by M Muthukumar, a sub-inspector of police from Sivaganga district, who challenged the ECI guidelines. The petitioner stated that in 2019, ECI in its guidelines issued to other states, stated that such transfers can be made from one sub-division to another within the districts. He sought to follow the guidelines issued in 2019. Justice M S Ramesh observed that in order to ensure that there is a free and fair election, the ECI has followed a consistent policy, to the effect that the officers directly connected with the conduct of the elections are not posted in their home districts or places where they have served for a considerably long period. Such a decision also seems to be rational. The judge observed that ECI has been conferred with powers to pass such guidelines in order to ensure a fair election and it would be their prerogative to impose such guidelines. The judge said that just because the ECI had a different set of guidelines in the earlier elections, the petitioner may not have any legal right to seek similar guidelines for the ensuing election also. Hence, the judge dismissed the petition on the ground that in the absence of any legal grounds, no interference is required to the ECI guidelines.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-eci-guideline-dismissed/articleshow/81263396.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Family, Jagraon residents bid tearful adieu to martyr||Jagraon: Family members, relatives and friends of Naib Subedar Parwinder Singh (42) from 22 Punjab, who laid down his life in high altitude Batalik sector (Ladakh) along the Line of Control, bid him a tearful adieu as his mortal remains reached his home and he was cremated with full military honours here on Sunday. His 73-year-old father Amar Singh said of his three sons, Parwinder had joined the Army in December 1997 and he was proud of him. His elder son Gurmeet Singh is a shopkeeper and youngest Vikram Singh works in Dubai. Gurmeet, who is physically challenged, said his younger brother had come home in August last year to drop his family as his unit had moved from Meerut to Ladakh. He added that on February 24 at 8.30pm, he had talked to his wife and son and told them that he was fine. “On February 25 at 8am, I got a call from his unit that he has been seriously injured after his foot slipped on a glacier and he fell in an about 15-foot-deep gorge. His body was flown from Leh and reached Panipat on Sunday and was brought home by road. He was to retire in a couple of years,” said Gurmeet. Their mother Rajinder Kaur had died on August 13, 2015.Gurmeet said his nephews, Jaspreet Singh (11) and Simarjit Singh (13), studied in classes V and VII, respectively, in a private school. Residents of Gandhi Nagar Mohalla were proud of the martyr. “We want the government to build a sarai (rest house) in his memory. That will be a befitting tribute to his services to the nation,” said area resident Surjeet Singh. In-laws of the deceased said the martyr’s wife should get a job and compensation as she had no other means to sustain herself and her children. “My brother-in-law, sister Kulwinder Kaur and their two children lived separately in a room and kitchen provided by the family. Since her brothers-in-law are well-settled, she should get the ex gratia and job announced by the chief minister,” said Sukhdev Singh, brother-in-law of the martyr and resident of Zira. He added that his sister has studied up to Class IX. Placards and posters with pictures of the martyr were put up at Kamal Chowk and at the entry of the street where he lived. Rs 50L ex gratia Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had on Saturday announced ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh and a government job for a family member of Naib Subedar Parwinder Singh. Extending his sympathies to the family, the CM, in a press statement, had said the state government would provide all possible help and support to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/family-jagraon-residents-bid-tearful-adieu-to-martyr/articleshow/81261076.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 1, 2021||Agra||Rising temperatures may affect wheat crop in Agra||AGRA: Above normal temperatures in the district is worrying agriculture department officials here. They fear that wheat yield will be affected as high temperatures cause the grain to shrink. On Sunday, Agra district experienced a maximum temperature of 32.7 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 16.8 degrees, both five notches above normal. Wheat is a major crop in Agra district. This season, wheat was sown across 1.32 lakh hectares in the district. Maximum temperature in Agra region is likely to experience 38 degrees Celsius in the coming days, according to meteorological department officials. Fearing early onset of summer, they said usually temperatures rise above 30 degrees in the second half of March. They predicted further increase in temperatures over the next four days. Agra district agriculture officer Rampravesh Verma said, “A rise in temperature is not good for wheat crop as it may have an impact on the yield, especially on the late sown crop. The farmers who had sown wheat in the last week of November or in the first week of December must go for light irrigation. Farmers are advised to keep monitoring their fields and report if they detect yellow rust in the crop.” Yellow rust is a fungal disease which manifests as powdery yellow stripes on leaves. These stripes hinder photosynthesis, causing the grain shrivel and stop the growth of the plant. Meanwhile, the air quality (AQI) index in Agra was recorded at 234, or “poor” category, by the Central Pollution Control Board. Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rising-temperatures-may-affect-wheat-crop-in-agra/articleshow/81260498.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Fake ration cards: Duped over Rs 10 crore during lockdown, allege locals in Kichha||NAINITAL: Locals of Udham Singh Nagar’s Kichha area alleged that they have been duped of over Rs 10 crore during the Covid lockdown from March-end to October through fake ration cards. More than 1,000 fake ration cards allegedly existed in Kichha and under the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana', foodgrains worth over Rs 5.7 crore were distributed on these cards. Coupled with the usual allocation, the fraud was over Rs 10 crore. The locals approached the Uttarakhand high court (HC) which on Friday issued notices to the Centre and state government along with the district magistrate, district supply officer and the PDS shop owners directing them to reply in four weeks. According to one of the petitioners, Nikhlesh Gharami, the ration card fraud has been going on for years. Some locals even claimed the fraud has now run into over Rs 100 crore across US Nagar. “Records suggest that since 2017-18 the number of ration cards in all the divisions like Khatima, Jaspur, Bajpur and others either went down or remained the same. However, in Kichha, 735 new cards have come up under the National Food Security Act and 295 under the Antyodaya Yojana,” said Devesh Upreti, counsel for Gharami in the HC. Gharami had also written to the district's chief development officer (CDO) last year after which a three-member committee was formed to probe the matter. According to the probe report, a copy of which is available with TOI, when the panel asked the PDS dealers to turn up with documents, they were informed through a letter that all the papers were lost. “The team was informed that on November 11, 2020, they were travelling on a motorcycle carrying all the relevant documents. On the way at night the bag fell and could not be found even after looking for it,” the report read. Gharami and others have accused the district supply officer – the officer charged with ensuring supply of food grains to PDS shop – of collusion in the fraud. The CDO-constituted panel said that it could not investigate his role since he did not turn up for questioning and through a letter blamed the junior officers in his department. “The panel stated that it cannot deny that a fraud has been committed and since a senior official is involved, a thorough probe should be conducted in the case,” Upreti added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fake-ration-cards-duped-over-rs-10cr-during-lockdown-allege-locals-in-kichha/articleshow/81260500.cms||Prashant Jha
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Winter gone, Mumbai gets hot; high temperature to stay, says Met||MUMBAI: Sweltering heat was felt in the city on Sunday, the last day of February, as winter ended officially. It was a hot Sunday as maximum temperature soared to 36.3 degrees Celsius — almost a four degrees above what it was a day earlier when maximum temperature was 32.6 degrees. The Met has forecast a rise in temperature due to ‘hot and dry north westerly winds’. On February 22 too, the city reported maximum temperatures of 36.3 degree Celsius. Sunday’s maximum temperature equalled the season’s highest maximum temperature as recorded on February 2. The Indian Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory’s, representative of Mumbai, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees while its Colaba observatory recorded maximum temperatures of 32.8 degrees. A day earlier, maximum temperature recorded at Colaba observatory was 31 degrees while at Santacruz it was 32.6. The relative humidity recorded at Colaba and Santacruz observatories was 66% and 36% respectively. The IMD has forecast that the high temperature will stay continue on Monday too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/winter-gone-city-gets-hot-high-temp-to-stay-says-met/articleshow/81264253.cms||Richa Pinto
March 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Man found murdered in Sahnewal||Ludhiana: An unidentified man was found murdered in an abandoned factory in Jugiyana village of Sahnewal on Sunday afternoon.Some children, who were playing there, raised the alarm on noticing the body.Sahnewal SHO sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said, “Prima facie it seems the assailants strangulated the victim as a piece of cloth was tied around his neck. They then hit his face with stones to conceal his identity. We have not found any ID proof or cellphone of the victim.”“The body has started decomposing. It seems the man was murdered two days ago,” said another cop.The body has been sent to civil hospital. A murder case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-found-murdered-in-sahnewal/articleshow/81261080.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Agra||Man killed for not returning Rs 50||AGRA: A 30-year-old man was murdered by his friend for not returning Rs 50 borrowed by him, Firozabad police said. The accused was arrested and sent to jail on Sunday. Vijaypal, resident of Baroli village under Khairgarh police station, was murdered on February 22 by his 40-year-old friend Brahmanand. According to police, Vijaypal and Brahmanand were neighbours and friends. Both of them used to work as construction labourers. The incident occurred on the February 22 evening when the duo was consuming alcohol and a fight broke out between them over Rs 50. Brahmanand confessed to have strangled his friend. Additional superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar said, “A police team was searching for Brahmanand for Vijaypal’s murder. Following a tip-off, he was arrested from Pratappura crossing. During initial interrogation, Brahmanand said that he had fight over Rs 50 which Vijaypal had borrowed from him. He died of strangulation. We suspect that someone else was also involved in the murder. The matter is being investigated in detail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-killed-for-not-returning-rs-50/articleshow/81260502.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: How first locality with Covid seal fought off the unknown||NEW DELHI: Fazil Khan's life turned upside down soon after his mother returned home to Dilshad Garden from the Umrah pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia on March 10 last year. Eight days later, she tested positive for Covid-19 and things fell apart not only for the family but also their neighbourhood. Four blocks in the east Delhi locality became the first to be declared a coronavirus containment zone in Delhi. It was a time of uncertainty and the sheer lack of information about Covid soured things for the Khans. Fazil never got infected, but as he recalled, “If I came out of the house even to the balcony, neighbours admonished me. They dissuaded our friends from assisting us. Things weren’t helped by the Nizamuddin Markaz incident and our family faced a lot of resentment.” A year later, sitting at the L Block park at Dilshad Garden, Fazil, there with friends Chirag Patel, Mihir Patel and Sachin Shukla, sounded relieved. “Things have gotten better for us now and we friends meet here every day,” he reported. Life came to a halt in J&K, L and H blocks of Dilshad Garden on March 26, 2020, after Fazil’s mother and a few others returned positive results in the Covid tests. “Things became tough for everyone. Nobody even spoke to each other because of the fear of the coronavirus and its impact,” disclosed milk booth operator Jawaharlal. “In those early days of the pandemic, nobody knew what a containment zone was.” Residents Seema Chandra, resident of J&K Block, said “We didn’t know what containment meant until we saw police stopping people from stepping out of the area.” Her daily routine changed immediately. “The thing I missed the most was my evening stroll in the park. I began walking on my terrace, all the time hoping things would get better,” she said. Fazil’s friends, Ayush Jain and Sharad Kanojia, remembered the isolation when they had to rely on laptops and Wi-Fi for everything. “But some people started delivering cigarettes to us in a clandestine manner,” Jain smiled. There was violation of the containment rules in this manner. A group of elderly residents spoke about how they had to do their bit to make the residents realise the importance of community quarantine. DK Bhandari, president of J&K Block RWA, said, “It was difficult initially to manage people. We stood on the lanes to ensure no nuisance was created. We also took the help of our sub-divisional magistrate Pankaj Bhatnagar and assisted the cops.” Bhandari’s friend, Neel Kamal Khanna, nearly 70 years old, said they could not meet other people and spent time with their families. “A few of us also contracted the virus, but we managed to beat it,” he said. The elderly residents of the area, chastened by the containment experience, are eager to be vaccinated. “I have decided to register myself for the vaccine shot and I hope I get it soon,” said Bhandari. For residents of another neighbourhood that faced an early containment, it was like “freedom stolen from us”. A year later, people at Old Seemapuri's H Block in northeast Delhi still shudder at what they had go through. Rita, a 40-year-old Asha worker, regularly walked to the dispensary there even during the lockdown. Whenever she got the opportunity, she said she “instructed the people to be cautious”. “But many refused to believe things could get tough until we were trapped in a containment zone,” said Rita. “Then we realised how difficult even the most basic activities could become. Now again after a year, people are less careful about following Covid rules. But many do dread the possibility of a rerun of those days after hearing of news of cases rising in other states.” There were repercussions of Old Seelampur’s containment for Rajesh Kumar, 50, even after it was lifted. The driver for a local tour and travel company wasn’t allowed to join work after the lockdown was relaxed for having lived in a containment zone. “They said there was no job for me. This after waiting for months hoping to return to work and earn some money. The lockdown had forced my family to queue up at the government school to get their daily meals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-first-locality-with-covid-seal-fought-off-the-unknown/articleshow/81282470.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
March 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid rages on: At 438, dist weekly case count surpasses previous tally||Ludhiana: Covid-19 cases reported in the district in the past week were the highest since the third week of December 2020. With the disease spreading its tentacles, the active cases have crossed the 500-mark after many months. The health department data shows that between February 21 and 27, as many as 438 new cases were reported, which were 106 (31.9%) more as compared with the preceding week. From December 13 to 19 last year the figure was 467, which declined thereafter to less than 300 and has been on the rise in the recent times. An analysis of the data since July 6 last year shows that after reaching the highest value of 2,802 cases between September 13 and 19, the number witnessed a fall to 523 between October 11 and 17 and 325 from October 25 to 31 last year. There was an increase to 439 between November 1 and 7 and 610 between November 8 and 14 before reaching 696 from November 22 to 28 last year. After that, new cases continued to decrease and the figure dropped to the lowest value of 196 between January 10 and 16 before rising again to 287 during January 31 to February 6; 332 from February 14 to February 20 and then to the current value.In the weekly case count, Ludhiana (438) is at the second spot in the state. SBS Nagar tops the list with 543 cases and Jalandhar is third (388). Barnala has the lowest number of four cases.Meanwhile, Ludhiana has the third highest number of active cases (553 till Saturday evening) in the state. SBS Nagar again tops the list with 709 active cases and SAS Nagar is second with 556. At seven, Mansa’s figure is the lowest.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “The number of daily cases has increased, but the rise is by 10-12 cases. The government has issued guidelines that will be enforced to check the increase in cases. Residents must follow the protocols to keep the disease at bay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-rages-on-at-438-dist-weekly-case-count-surpasses-previous-tally/articleshow/81261086.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 1, 2021||Goa||Karnataka names official for joint Kalasa team||KERI: Karnataka has appointed a superintending engineer to represent the state on the three-member committee that will be carrying out joint inspection of the Kalasa project at Kankumbi. The Supreme Court had recently directed formation of the three-member joint monitoring panel consisting of superintending engineers nominated by Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra respectively, in the Mhadei water diversion matter. Krishnoji Rao, the superintending engineer of Malaprabha left bank canal circle Navilutheertha, Belagavi, has been nominated by Karnataka. The state has requested Goa and Maharashtra governments to nominate their representatives to the joint monitoring team immediately. Dyamannanavar R B, the superintending engineer of Hidkal, has been nominated as the nodal officer to coordinate the team’s visit and to provide the required logistic support. Rakesh Singh, the additional chief engineer of Karnataka’s WRD, in his letter dated February 26, 2021, has written to the principal secretary of WRD, Maharashtra, and the secretary for WRD, Goa suggesting that the team take up the visit in the first or second week of March. The nominated officers of Goa and Karnataka have been advised to contact the nodal officer for further action. On February 22, 2021, as per the contempt petition filed by the state of Goa, the Supreme Court gave directives to constitute the Joint Monitoring Team consisting the Superintending Engineers of Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka to inspect the alleged violations carried out by Karnataka of diverting the natural flow of the Kalasa nalla into the Malaprabha river. The team has been asked to submit the report of their findings within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karnataka-names-official-for-joint-kalasa-team/articleshow/81263500.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
March 1, 2021||Ludhiana||2 cops contract Covid after receiving first jab||Ludhiana: In the past four days, four cops have tested positive for Covid-19. Of these, two had received the first jab against Covid-19 this month.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “The department is conducting regular drives to test all cops after every two months. A few days ago, the entire force of Ludhiana commissionerate was tested at a special camp in police lines. Reports of some cops have come positive. This, however, has no link with the vaccination, as the first dose will not give immunity. Early detection and testing is the key to stop the virus spread.”The TOI spoke to the two cops, who had received the first vaccine dose and have now contracted the virus.ASI Joginder Singh, 46, who is posted in PCR, said he tested positive 20 days after receiving the shot against novel coronavirus. “I was vaccinated on February 6. Since then, I had been reporting to work regularly and had no symptoms. As the Ludhiana Police is getting all cops tested, I gave my sample on February 24. Two days later, my report came positive. I am asymptomatic and in home isolation. I do not know how I contracted the virus.” ASI Gagandeep Singh, 49, who is posted at the police lines, was vaccinated on February 15. “For the next few days, I was fine. On February 21, I had fever that continued for two days. I told my seniors about it and was tested on February 24. My report has came positive. I have no major symptoms, except for headache. I am in home isolation.” Senior medical officer Dr Hatinder Kaur, Covid-19 nodal officer at Ludhiana civil hospital, said, “Ninety-five per cent of those vaccinated have not contracted the virus. However, five per cent are those who have got the virus by not taking enough precautions. People should know that there is no significance of only the first dose. They will develop immunity two weeks after getting the second jab. They should take precautions after the first jab.” 66.3% cops vaccinated so far The second phase of the vaccination drive started in the city on February 3. The Ludhiana Police force comprises 4,413 personnel. According to the officials, so far, 2,927 cops have received the shot, which is 66.3% of the total force. They include cops of all ranks. At present, the health workers are getting the second jab, 28 days after the first shot. Cops will start receiving the second dose after March 3. Agarwal said, “In 25 days, about 3,000 cops were vaccinated. The process is going on. A few personnel—like women cops who are pregnant or are new mothers, cops with medical issues or those getting treatments for health issues —are exempted. We expect 80% of the force will be vaccinated. Cops get two days leave after receiving the vaccine and are monitored by experts.” Challan drives Agarwal said in view of the spike in cases, police have been directed to strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines. Regular drives are being conducted to challan the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-cops-contract-covid-after-receiving-first-jab/articleshow/81261083.cms||Payal Dhawan
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||No passport: US citizen of Pak origin out on bail arrested from Noida||PITHORAGARH: A police team from Champawat arrested an American citizen of Pakistani origin from Noida after the district court issued a warrant against her as she had failed to produce a passport before the authorities when she tried to enter India in March 2019. The woman was later sent to jail by court. Farida Malik was staying in Sector 18 of Noida in Uttar Pradesh, and a police team was sent to arrest her and she was produced in court on Saturday. The court then sent her to jail, said police. Farida Malik (53) was on her way to Delhi from Nepal by bus through the Banbasa immigration point, where she was arrested on March 12, 2019, because she did not have her passport in her possession. She then told the authorities that she had left passport behind in Nepal, following which the police registered a case against her under Section 3 of the Passport Act and Section 14 of the Foreigners Act 1946, said Champawat superintendent of police Lokeswar Singh. Chief judicial magistrate of Champawat found her guilty and sentenced her to four years in jail and also slapped a fine of Rs 20,000 on her on March 5, 2020, the SP said. The woman was lodged in Almora jail, and later on March 24, 2020, the Uttarakhand high court granted her bail on the condition that she would appear on subsequent dates of hearing. She had appeared before the district court on May 28, 2020, but failed to appear on February 22 this year. The court then upheld the punishment and canceled her bail bonds and issued an order for her arrest, said SP Lokswar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-passport-us-citizen-of-pak-origin-out-on-bail-arrested-from-noida/articleshow/81260512.cms||Prem Punetha
March 1, 2021||Surat||Surat city adds 61 new cases, third phase of vaccination to begin today||Surat: Even as the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) ois set to begin third phase of vaccination against Covid-19 from Monday, the city is witnessing a gradual surge in fresh cases.Like elsewhere in the country, SMC will start vaccination for people above 60 years and those over 45 years with comorbidities at government as well as private hospitals in Surat city.The vaccination will be free of cost at government health centres while people will have to pay Rs 250 at private hospitals."The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination will begin from Monday. I appeal people to get themselves vaccinated to keep the city safe,” said municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani.On the other hand, the city reported 70 fresh Covid-19 cases. City's Athwa zone continued to report highest number of cases with 25 followed by 20 in Rander zone.Surat city is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases for the past few days and the civic body has urged people to stay safe and follow Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-city-adds-61-new-cases-third-phase-of-vaccination-to-begin-today/articleshow/81262138.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Boy killed over friendship with girl in Karnataka's Kalaburagi||KALABURAGI: A 14-year-old boy, who was allegedly friendly with a girl from another community and missing for five days, was murdered and his body stuffed into a sack was thrown into Bhima river in Kalaburagi district late last week. After villagers of Naribol in Jewargi taluk spotted the sack floating in the river, police rushed to the spot and pulled it out on Saturday afternoon only to find a decomposed body. Police identified the body with help of his family members. The boy’s nose and genitals were chopped off before he was murdered, police sources said. Girl’s mother had opposed friendshipPkarjun olice said Kolli Mahesh , a Class Malli 9 stu- - dent at a government school and from Naribol, was said to be close to a 14-year-old girl from a neighbouring colony in the village for a few months. Her mother had opposed their friendship, especially after he gifted her a phone and the duo would talk frequently. According to police, the girl’s mother advised the boy to not visit their area and leave the girl alone, but he reportedly ignored the warning. At that time, she mother sought the help of a relative to warn the boy. Police said the girl’s uncle whisked the boy away from his village on Monday on the pretext of talking to him. When the boy did not return home, his father, a farmer, and others launched a hunt. After police recovered the body from the river about 1km from the boy’s residence on Saturday, the family was informed. The girl’s uncle and two of his accomplices have been taken into custody. Kalaburagi SP Simi Mariam George said they were looking into all angles. The boy’s father, Mallikarjun Kolli, said his son was allegedly forced to drink and smoke ganja, and the assailants murdered him when he was in drunken stupor. “Instead of killing my son, they should have spoken to me if he was not on the right path,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/boy-killed-over-friendship-with-girl-in-kburagi/articleshow/81264608.cms||Mouneshwar Sonnad
March 1, 2021||Bengaluru||63% of Karnataka govt school toilets not fit for use: Survey||BENGALURU: Over 63% of toilets in government schools across the state are unfit for use, according to a survey by the department of public instruction and conducted last year after the pandemic outbreak. The sad state has only raised the spectre of open defecation even as the Covid-19 outbreak underlined the importance of hygiene. Officials and teachers say the closure of schools during the pandemic has worsened the situation. The long closure has hastened the descent of toilets in many schools into decrepitude. Primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar said the RDPR department has offered to build good toilets in government schools using the MNREGA funds. Commissioner of Public Instruction V Anbu Kumar said: “We’ll share the data with district officers to improve toilets.” Will increase funds for infra: MinisterWe proposed a new programme, ‘Swaccha Shouchalaya-Utthama Shaale’ (clean toilet-best school), for government schools in the next budget. This will include increasing funds for infrastructure and maintenance of toilets. There is a plan to entrust maintainence to local bodies. I’m optimistic the chief minister will consider this proposal,” minister Suresh Kumar said. According to Archana, an activist working with different NGOs with regard to school toilet facilities for several years, the government schools in Raichur, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru North, Mandya, Hubballi and Bagalkot have the worst toilets. Bengaluru South government schools have relatively better facilities because of involvement of the donors, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/63-of-ktaka-govtschool-toilets-notfit-for-use-survey/articleshow/81264612.cms||Kiran Parashar
March 1, 2021||Madurai||AIADMK irked as BJP begins poll work in seats before finalisation||Madurai: The BJP has started election work in some of the most preferred constituencies of the AIADMK, causing distress to AIADMK cadres in the southern districts.BJP state president L Murugan inaugurated an office of the party in the Madurai South constituency two days ago, and there are posters, which claim BJP’s victory projecting state women’s wing president A R Mahalakshmi as the candidate. Mahalakshmi lost the seat to AIADMK’s S S Saravanan in the last assembly election.Similarly, in Karaikudi in Sivaganga district, the BJP has put up posters and banners as if the constituency has been allotted to them. It is said that AIADMK Sivaganga district secretary P R Senthil Nathan is keen on contesting from the seat. Though he had submitted his application to contest from Sivaganga constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, it was allocated to BJP’s H Raja. Now, that the BJP is painting the town with its symbol has caused concern among the supporters of Senthilnathan and the AIADMK.Meanwhile, BJP’s joint in-charge for TN elections P Sudhakar Reddy, who addressed party cadres in Rajapalayam on Saturday, hinted that actress Gowthami would contest from Rajapalayam. However, the actress who addressed another meeting in Srivilliputtur after offering worship at the Andal temple said that it was not yet decided. On painting Rajapalayam town with the party symbols and colours, she said that they had done so on the behest of the party high command. Sudhakar Reddy’s visit to Rajapalayam after the announcement of the election is stated to be a confirmation that the party would contest from the seat, sources said.Sources in the IT wing of the AIADMK said that it was the right of anybody to stake claim, but the AIADMK would not concede more than one of the ten assembly constituencies to the BJP. “They are seeking Madurai South for Mahalakshmi, because it is a sourashtra community-dominated area, but she will have a very tough fight,” they said.Cadres said that Madurai was AIADMK’s fortress and that the party should keep all ten seats as Amma had proved that she could win the majority by going alone. Except for Madurai East and South, the BJP does not stand a chance in any other constituency, as the rest are the strongholds of the AIADMK, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-irked-as-bjp-begins-poll-work-in-seats-before-finalisation/articleshow/81263482.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Vaccination of age-appropriate group to begin in Vidarbha today||NAGPUR: Covid-19 vaccination of citizens aged above 60, or those above 45 with any 20 specified comorbidities, will commence in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Monday. In Nagpur, the Covid vaccination at private hospitals will begin only on Tuesday or later, said NMC officials. Sources from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI around 5 lakh people are likely to be eligible in categories announced by the government for the inoculation. The government has also allowed on-spot inoculation for healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) who did not register in phase-I. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI, “Vaccination of age-appropriate group has been facilitated free of cost at 11 centres: 2 each in GMCH, IGGMCH, and NMC’s Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, and one each at Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya, Isolation Hospital, AIIMS, ESIS Hospital and Daga hospital. Eligible people can get the jab directly by visiting the centres or after registering on Co-WIN 2.0 app.” NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said, “Priority will be given to pre-registered beneficiaries at centres, as they will select timing and centre during registration. Also, it takes some time for on-spot registration.” The government has also finalized 30 private hospitals empanelled under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) for vaccination programme, with 19 of them in the city and 11 in rural areas. Radhakrishnan said vaccination will begin at these hospitals only from Tuesday or later. “Training of staff at these hospitals has been started. Inspection will be done followed by supply of doses. Vaccination will be payable at these hospitals,” he said. Director Dr Shishir Shrivastava of Kunal Hospital, which is one of 30 empanelled hospitals, said, “We are ready to serve the people. All arrangements have been completed. We will start vaccination centre immediately after NMC orders.” There is no clarity from the government whether other private hospitals can also register for vaccination drive. Vice-president of Maharashtra Medical Council Dr Vinky Rughwani said, “All paediatric hospitals have ready-made arrangements for vaccination as they have immunized children for years. Therefore, government should also facilitate vaccination at these private hospitals.” Radhakrishnan added, “First dose and second dose of HCW and first dose of FLW will continue simultaneously at existing centres. Some HCW and FLW have applied for registration after beginning of vaccination. But we could not register them as government stopped fresh registration in Co-WIN 1.0. Now, government said non-registered HCW and FLW can visit any centre and get the jab by showing valid I-card.” The civic chief said target is to inoculate 50 persons per centre for age-appropriate group on first day. “Covishield will be administered at nine centres and Covaxin at two centres of GMCH,” he said. The government has made provisions for pickup of individuals or groups from home or particular area, and facilitate inoculation at vaccination centres. The NMC said it will take time for these arrangements to be made. The government is also yet to clarify if vaccination of bedridden people will be done at home. Also, there is no clarity on whether residents of other districts and states staying in city on tour or at homes of relatives can take vaccine here. Some districts of the region are likely to begin vaccination of age-appropriate group from centres already continued in phase-I and phase-II. Some districts like Chandrapur are all set to kick-off inoculation at CGHS and PMJAY empanelled hospitals, where beneficiaries will have to pay Rs250 per dose. This would be the first time the government permitted on-spot registration and vaccination. In case of HCW and FLW, pre-registration was mandatory. All districts will begin vaccination of age-appropriate groups with doses received for first and second dose of HCW and FLW. The government is likely to send doses for age-appropriate people on Wednesday or later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccination-of-age-appropriate-group-to-begin-in-vid-today/articleshow/81262956.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Govt land will be allotted for approach roads of pvt colonies||Jaipur: Government land falling on private colonies can be allotted to developers for building approach roads. The decision was taken by the urban development and housing (UDH) department and a notification has been issued for the same. The land will be allotted to private colonisers either on district lease committee rates or reserve price. An official said , “It would be mandatory for the developers to utilise the land only for developing the approach road. Directions have been issued to all the local bodies in this regard.” There are many strip of land owned by the government and civic bodies in urban areas. Also many parcels of land are earmarked as plantation corridors. These land cannot be utilised by government agencies. “The applicant has to publish an advertisement in the newspaper inviting objections and suggestions within 15 days. The land will be allotted only for the approach road and the title would remain with government agencies and the allotted cannot receive any future compensation on the land,” said an official. Meanwhile, the department has postponed it plan to organise Prashasan Shehron Ke Sang Abhiyaan. To earn revenue and strengthen the financial condition of local bodies, the Congress government had announced to organise camps under the Prashasan Shehron Ke Sang Abhiyaan in February. A source said, “ The camps are likely to be organised in October after the bypolls in the state are over. The department has done its preparations and committee constituted to identify the problems of plot owners has also been incorporated the list in the agenda of the camp.” During the camps, residents can apply for procuring lease deed of plots, name transfer, regularization of colony, sub-division and related works. “Relaxations that will be provided during the camp will be decided in the state cabinet meeting,” added an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-land-will-be-allotted-for-approach-roads-of-pvt-colonies/articleshow/81262142.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||National Science Day: Padma Shri-awardee scientist addresses students at Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology||Dehradun: On the occasion of National Science Day on Sunday (February 28), Padma Shri awardee Krishnaswamy VijayRaghavan, principle scientific advisor, Government of India, addressed students and scientists of the Wadia Institute of Himalyan Geology (WIHG). Speaking on the occasion, Raghavan emphasised on the role of geosciences in a technology driven world. He also elaborated on how the rise of the Himalayas shaped human civilization globally. “In times when the risk of Himalayas-bound natural disasters are increasing, the role of WIHG is of prime importance and the nation has a lot to gain from the vast expertise of the institute,” said Raghavan, who is also a renowned biotechnologist. He also pointed out how the first bomb explosion hurled the anthropocene era and how the discovery of ammonia by Haber and Bosch in 1909 changed the world’s agricultural yields. “India should also develop bilingual science-based learning opportunities and increase the usage of Artificial Intelligence in analysing data,” he further said. Kalachand Sain, WIHG director, said that the National Science Day marks the anniversary of the discovery of the Raman Effect that was made on February 28, 1928, by Nobel Laureate Sir CV Raman. “A large number of scientists, students gathered physically and also via online platforms to commemorate the event at WIHG. All Covid-19 norms were strictly followed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/national-science-day-padma-shri-awardee-scientist-addresses-students-at-wadia-institute-of-himalayan-geology/articleshow/81261119.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 1, 2021||Madurai||Madurai city police seek shift of airport control from rural||Madurai: The Madurai city police unit has sent a proposal to the state government to bring Madurai airport under its control to ensure smooth policing. The airport, located close to the city boundary, is under the jurisdiction of Perungudi station in Madurai rural police.Movement of VIPs through Madurai airport has been on the rise as it is well connected with various cities. Although the airport comes under rural police limits, the city police have to cover most of the roads for bandobast during VIP movements as they come under city limits.With limited strength, Madurai rural police finds it difficult to cover major events in the city. Compared to Madurai city which has a strength 3,000 personnel, rural police have only 1,600 personnel, which is comparatively lesser than neighbouring districts such as Theni and Virudhunagar.A senior police official from the city police said, “A proposal to bring the airport under the city police limits has been sent. Policing will be smooth if it is brought under the city police limits, especially during VIP movements. While airports in other cities including Trichy and Coimbatore are under the respective city police limits, Madurai is an exception.” Another official said that delimitation should be done to sort out anomalies of areas coming under Karuppayurani and Silaiman station limits, which come under rural police limits. “The Viraganoor junction comes under Silaiman police limits, but we have stationed traffic officials since either side of the ring road connected with the junction comes under the city police. Similarly, the limits of Karuppayurani station need to be defined in such a way that locals will not be confused in approaching the appropriate station,” he said.He added that since AIIMS is coming up at Thoppur, the area will see growth in a short span of time. “It would be better if a facility like AIIMS is brought under the city police as it will ensure better service.”Police stations such as Koodalpudur, Avaniyapuram, Thiruparankundram and Thirunagar were brought under the city from rural police limits in 2015, when the city police limits were made coterminous with the expanded corporation limits. The crime rate in the newly added station limits has slowly come down and people are getting better service, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-city-police-seek-shift-of-airport-control-from-rural/articleshow/81263490.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ludhiana||2 drug smugglers held with Rs 10 crore heroin||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana unit of Special Task Force (STF) arrested two drug smugglers after 2.17kg heroin, worth Rs 10.05 crore in international market, was recovered from them here on Sunday.Kamaljit Singh, 32, a resident of Kabir Nagar, Daba, who is bike spare parts manufacturer, and Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, 42, a truck driver of Amar Nagar, were nabbed at a checkpost close to vegetable market near Jalandhar Bypass on a tip-off. The kingpin of the gang, Rajveer Singh Gill of Amar Nagar, is yet to be arrested.STF inspector Harbans Singh said, “The accused were commuting in a truck owned by Bhupinder. During checking, 2.17kg heroin was found hidden in a cavity made inside the truck. The accused confessed to have procured the heroin from near the border area in Amritsar.” Rajveer is the kingpin of the gang. The trio has been into drug trade for the past three years. Rajveer used to fix procurement deals and sold the heroin. Kamaljit and Bhupinder would bring the contraband and hand it over to Rajveer, he added“Kapurthala police had arrested Rajveer in June 2020 with 1kg heroin. He was lodged in Kapurthala jail and came out on bail about one-and-a-half months ago. After coming out, he again started smuggling drugs with the help of Kamaljit and Bhupinder. The police have also booked Rajveer in this case and are trying to trace him,” the inspector said. The STF is probing if the accused have links with cross-border smugglers. “Besides, we have information that they have links with some smugglers lodged in jail. We are looking into it. Rajveer has three cases of drug smuggling against him and the record of the other two is being checked. A fresh FIR has been lodged against the trio,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-drug-smugglers-held-with-rs-10-crore-heroin/articleshow/81261111.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Madurai||‘Rescued snakes must be documented’||Madurai: A lot needs to be done during rescue of snakes as it is not just capturing and relocation and those involved in the process should also learn the importance of documenting the captured reptile, said M Rameshwaran, founder of Oorvanapalli. He was speaking at the international workshop on snake bite and snake conservation in Madurai on Sunday. “Many people have now come into the snake rescue forum and are ready to rush to a place when needed, but there was much to be done than just capturing a snake.” “When a snake is caught it is important that the rescuer knows something about the snake that he captures, like taxonomy, name, and other aspects related to it like its habits and habitat,” he said. Dr A S Dodd, CEO of Grace Kennett hospital, highlighted the importance of identifying the nature of the bite and that only 50% of the bites caused by snakes have envenomations and require immediate treatment. He also explained how a person would react to venom entering his system - like dilation of pupils, sudden swelling, vomiting etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rescued-snakes-must-be-documented/articleshow/81263494.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Builders to face action for flouting parking rules||JAIPUR: The civic agencies are planning to take action against the developers who have violated parking laws and constructed shops or flats in the approved areas. After receiving many complaints from residents, the proposal was discussed and approved in the recent Traffic Control Board (TCB) meeting and decision was taken to carry a joint drive to remove illegal construction from the parking areas of apartments. An official said, “Majority of the commercial and residential buildings constructed in the past did not adhered to the maps approved by the building planning committee. If a developer does not leave parking space, people are forced to keep their vehicles outside leading to congestion. Soon a joint operation will be carried out by the Jaipur Development Authority and Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). Sources said, similar decision was taken in previous TCB meetings. However, the civic bodies never acted on the proposal. In 2020, the JDA decide to the approved layout plans on its website for public so that developers who have violated parking laws in the last five years can be traced. But, nothing has been done so far. An official said, “We take timely action on complaints and demolish encroachments in parking areas of buildings.” The decision was also taken to remove encroachment from the footpaths. A recent JDA survey revealed over 72% of the roads in the city don’t have footpaths, while the 77% existing are pedestrian-unfriendly. This emerged from a recent study on conditions of footpaths in Jaipur carried out by the JDA before preparing the traffic, transportation and infrastructure master-plan. An official said, “A massive drive will be carried out as number of vehicles in the city have increased manifold, there is no room for pedestrians in Jaipur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/builders-to-face-action-for-flouting-parking-rules/articleshow/81262151.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||DTC approves bids for procuring 300 AC electric buses||New Delhi: Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) on Monday approved the bids for the procurement of 300 AC low-floor electric buses, which will start arriving from October this year. “Along with private vehicles, we are also committed to switch public transport to electric. Delhi will defeat pollution with the joint efforts of the people & the government. Our EV Policy will set a precedent for the world,” CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. The decision was taken in the corporation’s board meeting held on Monday under the chairmanship of Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot. “This decision comes a few months into Delhi government successfully launching the Delhi EV Policy, under the leadership of our CM Arvind Kejriwal and the ongoing full-fledged awareness campaign, Switch Delhi, encouraging Delhiites to shift to EV,” Gahlot later said. “This year will see a thousand new buses being added in DTC and close to 600 new electric buses inducted under the Cluster scheme too. With the arrival of these 300 electric buses, Delhi will take its first huge leap to its dream of a fully electric public transport in the city,” the minister said. Earlier, DTC had floated open tender for the procurement of 300 low-floor 12-meter full electric AC buses in December 2020. Prior to this, two tenders were short-closed owing to various reasons, a statement from the government said. These 300 electric buses, after approval by the Cabinet, will start arriving in October 2021 and the entire induction will be completed by February 2022, it said. DTC has already issued Letter of Award in respect of 1000 low-floor AC buses (BS-VI compliant) and the buses will start arriving in May 2021 and the entire fleet of 1,000 CNG buses is likely to be inducted by September 2021. With the induction of these 1,000 CNG buses and 300 electric buses, DTC will achieve a total fleet strength of 5,060.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dtc-approves-bids-for-procuring-300-ac-electric-buses/articleshow/81282585.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Naresh Tikait, Charuni sons address rally||RANJITPUR (YAMUNANAGAR): With senior leaders of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) busy addressing back-to-back panchayats in other states, sons of farm unionists Naresh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni took the protest stage in Yamunanagar district on Sunday along with youth farm activist Navdeep Singh, who has been hailed by protesters as a hero of the ‘Dilli Chalo’ movement When farmers from Punjab were entering Haryana on November 27, Navdeep had made way for the protesters by climbing atop a water cannon, stopping it and then jumping back on to a tractor-trolley. Gaurav Tikait, son of Uttar Pradesh farm leader Naresh Tikait; Harshpal Singh Charuni, son of Charuni; and Navdeep addressed a panchayat under the banner of ‘Sanyukta Kisan Majdoor Morcha’ at new grain market in Ranjitpur village of Bilaspur sub-division in Yamunanagar. The trio said farmers will not return home until the Centre’s laws are repealed and a law is made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP). Thousands of farmers attended the panchayat at Ranjitpur. Atul Kumar Anjan, who was a member of National Commission on Farmers (famously known as Swaminathan commission), also addressed the rally. Gaurav said, “The central government is not serious. It has not done anything that has been demanded by farmers, but it is making policies arbitrarily. In the movement, you will have to keep an eye on the power of the country along with your farm; this fight is between the sannyasi (monk) and the satyanashi (destructive) government. Farmers will not return to their homes until the black laws are repealed and a law to guarantee MSP is made by the government.” Gaurav paid tribute to farmers who died in the agitation. “We will have to keep their sacrifices in mind,” he said. Harshpal said, “This struggle is of farmers, labourers and of every section, who are connected to the country’s soil. We have to take care that this movement continues until the laws are repealed. Due to anti-people policies of the present government, every section of society is worried, and farmers and labourers will have to give a befitting reply to the conspiracies being done against them in the coming elections.” Navdeep of Jalbera in Ambala addressed the gathering in Puadhi Punjabi (dialect spoken between Satluj and Ghaggar areas in Punjab and Haryana, including Chandigarh). “We want to ask PM Modi where are the two crore jobs which were promised by him before coming to power? Today, a large number of government sector organisations have been privatised. Youth will give a befitting reply in the coming days,” he said. BKU (Tikait) Haryana state president Rattan Mann said, “All farmers should obey the instructions given by SKM. No call has been given to destroy crops; therefore, farmers should not mow down crops with tractors. There should be a kheti hartal (farming strike) in the entire country.” The panchayat was organised by Matlub Saravan, Noor Mohammad, Jora Singh, Hoshiar Singh, Sultan Singh, Mehtab and Sanju Gundiana district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Charuni), and leaders of BKU (Tikait).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tikait-charuni-sons-address-rally/articleshow/81263493.cms||JK Singh
March 1, 2021||Madurai||Who's Modi? We have sent even the British packing: Rahul||Tirunelveli: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday sought to draw inspiration from the independence struggle in the party’s battle against the BJP-led dispensation saying they had sent a bigger enemy like the British packing.“We are fighting a formidable enemy that is dominating money in the country and crushing opponents. But we have done this before. We have defeated a much bigger enemy than this. Seventy years ago, the British were much more powerful than how Narendra Modi will ever be. Who is he when compared to the British Empire,” Rahul said addressing academicians in Tirunelveli.Later, responding to a question from reporters whether his ideas would materialise, Rahul said, “People of the country sent the British back. The same way we will send (them) back to Nagpur (RSS headquarters)… We will do it without any hatred, anger and violence. They can do whatever on us. Abuse, kick and spit on our face. We will not do it back,” he said.The former Congress president said he wouldn’t have come here and spoken to them if he thought change is impossible. “I am trying to put across that you (people) are powerful and valuable in the equation. We have to dream big. May be everything will not be a reality, but 60 to 80% will be,” he added. Stating that education, agriculture and healthcare are not financial commodities like how the Union government views them, he said India is heading for a situation wherein nothing is available without money. “There is a place for business but business cannot dominate education and health care as the poor won’t have access to it. Private players are welcome but a large part of them should be free, high quality and easily accessible,” he said. Centralising too much power at Centre will damage the education system, he said and stressed on decentralising it to make it accessible to all.Need leaders like KamarajTerming Kamaraj as a successful leader as he listened to the grievances of the people, Rahul said that Tamil Nadu needs such leadership. He was a very humble leader who understood the feelings of the people. To win over Tamils, the CM should bow in front of Tamils and not to Modi, he added. “If you want Tamil Nadu to vote for you, you should listen to Tamil Nadu and not dictate terms to Tamils as you do to the CM,” he told the PM. He concluded his second day’s campaign at Tenkasi new bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/whos-modi-we-have-sent-even-the-british-packing-rahul/articleshow/81263510.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Madurai||Now, MP sends back culture ministry’s letter in Hindi||Madurai: The Madurai MP Su Venkatesan sent back a letter he had received from the Ministry of culture as the letter was in Hindi. The letter was sent to him seeking recommendations for the Gandhi Peace Prize. In a letter to the minister of state, Ministry of culture, Prahlad Singh Patel, dated February 27, Venkatesan stated that he could not understand the contents of the letter and from the form attached with the letter, which was in English, he understood that he was asked to send recommendations for the Gandhi Peace Prize. He stated he had already protested several times earlier for sending communication in Hindi from various ministries. He had also approached the Madras high court once and the Union government had expressed regret in the court while assuring that all future communications would be in English. “At least officials of the culture Ministry should have had the sensitivity on the issue keeping in mind the multicultural and multilingual heritage of this great nation. I doubt whether this kind of approach is deliberate on the part of Centre to implement their project of imposing Sanskrit and Hindi on the people of non-Hindi speaking states of India particularly Tamil Nadu,” he said. He said that they would not get tired and fight such attempts to weaken their resolve to keep their identity and culture. He stated that he requested the minister to advise his officials not to resort to such measures in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/now-mp-sends-back-culture-ministrys-letter-in-hindi/articleshow/81263505.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Rajkot||‘I for Ink’ before ‘I do’: Brides prefer voting before wedding||RAJKOT: The polling booth in Gadhkada village in Savarkundla taluka of Amreli district turned into an impromptu wedding venue early on Sunday morning when a wedding brigade dressed to the hilt descended to join the festival of democracy first before getting involved in ritualistic matrimonial delights. Mohsin Khokhar, a resident of Gadhkada village, was scheduled to reach Jasdan town, some 125 km away from his village at 9 am on Sunday for his nikah. However, the groom preferred to be true to his citizenship right first and reached the polling booth with his baraatis in tow to cast his vote before tying the knot. “I decided to use my right to vote which comes once in a five year and I played my role as a responsible citizen. I delayed my nikah because voting, for me, is more crucial and the wedding. Our union is predestined — it will happen and an hour or two won’t matter,” Khokhar said. “Polling booth in fact converted into a marriage place when the groom and his relatives lined up to cast their vote in Gadhkada village. Mohsin’s act was inspiring,” his friend Satish Mehta, who came to attend the event told TOI. Ankita Gandhi, who lives in Padra town of Vadodara district, also cast her vote with her parents and brother on her wedding day. Gandhi, in a yellow dress, reached the voting centre minutes before her 'haldi' ceremony was to begin. "Voting is every citizen's duty. If I could spare time from an important ceremony of my marriage for voting, then even others can," Gandhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/i-for-ink-before-i-do-brides-prefer-voting-before-wedding/articleshow/81260809.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan increases vigil along inter-state borders||JAISALMER: After Maharashtra and Kerala have started reporting a spurt in cases, the state government increased vigil on its borders. People coming from Maharashtra and Kerala are being given entry only after check-up. At various sub-divisions in Jalore, people coming from these two states by buses and other vehicles are being tested and then given entry. In Barmer district, too, two check-posts have been set up where passengers are not carrying RT-PCR negative reports then they are being tested and being ordered to remain in home quarantine. Jalore collector Himanshu Gupta said many preventive steps have been taken after increase in cases in Maharashtra and Kerala and vigil is being kept on buses and vehicles. If passengers do not have negative reports, then they are being tested. Apart from this, watch is being kept on buses coming from other states. Barmer CMHO Dr B L Vishnoi said following the orders issued by district collector on February 27, medical teams have been formed at Kathadi and Gandhav villages for sampling of passengers coming from Maharashtra and Kerala. These posts have started functioning from Sunday. He said four medical personnel under Dr Mukesh Kumar have been deployed at Kathadi and similarly four medical personnel under Dr Teekmaram at Gandhav village. After taking complete information about the passengers and after medical check-up, they are given entry where the administration will send them to their place where they will be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extra-vigil-along-inter-state-borders/articleshow/81262167.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Vadodara||Tribal districts join poll dance, clock huge turnout||Vadodara: Voters — young and old, fit and disabled — participated with fervour in the festival of democracy as the elections to district and taluka panchayats and municipalities capped the local body elections 2021 in the state. Tribal-dominated districts of Narmada and Dang were the torchbearers of voters awareness by over 70% voting in all three civic bodies. In fact, Narmada district registered its highest voter turnout. Voters in rural Gujarat beat their urban counterparts on Sunday as they lined up at polling booths in large numbers to take part in the festival of democracy. Unlike the lacklustre voting in the municipal corporation polls, the excitement in rural pockets of seven districts of central Gujarat was palpable right from the beginning on Sunday. By Sunday evening, an estimated 68.73 % voters had already exercised their voting right for the 34 seats of Vadodara district panchayat in Vadodara. The final figure was expected to remain same as last time – nearly 72 %. The average voting in eight taluka panchayats of Vadodara district was nearly 68.58 %. The three nagarpalikas – Padra, Dabhoi and Savli - nearly 69.10 %, 64.33 % and 66.79 % voting turnout. The turnout of these polls too was expected to rise with the final tally. The election process passed away peacefully even as there were reports of three ballot units and one control unit being replaced by the election officials during the day. Elsewhere in Central Gujarat, there were certain pockets where voters did boycott the polls but excitement was evident across the region. At Borsad town of Anand district, three generations of advocate Kaushik Solanki’s family went to cast their vote together. “It is a democratic festival and we are happy that all of us are together,” said Solanki, who along with his wife, son, daughter and granddaughter exercised their voting right. The polls for 42 seats of Anand district panchayat witnessed nearly 61.53 % voting whereas that of 196 seats of eight taluka panchayats witnessed nearly 62.88 % voting .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tribal-districts-join-poll-dance-clock-huge-turnout/articleshow/81261109.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Info commission slaps fine of Rs 25k each on 2 officers||Jaipur: The state information commission has imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 each on two officers in different cases for failing to provide information to citizens despite its instructions. State information commissioner Laxman Singh Rathore has recommended departmental action against an officer in a case related to Bikaner Nagar Nigam. The commission ordered imposition of fine on the officer after Anwar Hussain of Bikaner complained that he was not given the desired information by Bikaner Municipal Corporation commissioner despite its order, an official statement read. “On March 8, 2019, the commission had ordered the then commissioner of the corporation to provide information on the appeal of Hussain. But even after such a long time, information was not provided to him. Information commissioner Rathore took it seriously and expressed his displeasure,” it stated. “During the hearing, the commission sought to know from the representative of the commissioner the reason for the delay. But he could not give any satisfactory answer. On this, Rathore imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on the officer. The Commission has ordered the officer to provide information in 21 days,” it further stated. Rathore also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on the executive engineer of Jodhpur Discom in another case. Purushottam Sharma from Jaipur had complained that despite the commission’s order, the officer did not provide information . “The commission sought an explanation from the Jodhpur discom official the reason for the delay. But they could not give any proper answer. On this, the commission expressed anger and ordered imposition of the fine,” it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/info-commission-slaps-fine-of-rs-25k-each-on-2-officers/articleshow/81262163.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Man wanted for ferrying elephants to Kerala nabbed||NAVI MUMBAI: The crime branch team from Navi Mumbai has helped the Kerala forest department arrest a man wanted in five cases of illegal dealings of transporting captive elephants to Kerala. The crime branch team traced the accused, V Shaji (55), to Koparkhairane where he was hiding at his brother-in-law’s home and arrested him on February 24. A Mallapuram resident, Shaji used to ferry elephants illegally from other states to Kerala for supplying them in local ceremonies. “Five FIRs were registered against Shaji who was absconding since October last year,” said Yogesh Warkad, regional deputy director of the wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB). A joint team of WCCB and crime branch cops arrested Shaji and produced him before the Vashi JMFC court. The WCCB officers obtained his transit remand on February 26 and took him back to their state where he was remanded to 14 days of judicial custody till March 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/cops-nab-man-wanted-in-illegal-elephant-trade-in-kkhairane/articleshow/81264315.cms||George Mendonca
March 1, 2021||Goa||File case against Pernem road contractor: AAP||PANAJI: Following judicial magistrate first class’ order directing Pernem police to register an FIR against the contractor constructing the NH66 in Pernem taluka, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded that the case be immediately registered. AAP functionary Prasad Shahapurkar said they will give the police one week’s time to act on the court direction failing which they will move a contempt petition against the police. Shahapurkar said that on July 12, 2020, between 3am and 4am, part of the NH66, along with a retaining wall was washed away in Poroskodem village of Pernem taluka. “This washing away of the road and retaining wall was not only a loss to the national exchequer but was also an act of criminal negligence because if it had to happen during the daytime it could have caused loss of life,” he said. The villagers, he said, had complained to Pernem police on July 23, 2020, against the contractor. However, as the police were not acting on their complaint, they contacted the DySP and SP but got no response from them too. “Realising that the police were not willing to take action against the contractor, they approached the JMFC seeking a direction to the Pernem police,” said Shahapurkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-file-case-against-pernem-road-contractor/articleshow/81263524.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Tourism dept woos Bengal tourists using back-to-the-roots theme||Jaipur: Rajasthan tourism department is wooing tourists from West Bengal by not only focusing on a back-to-the-roots theme, but also livening up the historical connections. Senior officials of the department, who are in Kolkata to participate in the Travel and Tourism Fair (TTF), said that West Bengal is a huge source market for the state. “Opportunities for trade and commerce might have fuelled the migration of Rajasthani people to West Bengal since pre-Independent days. But they are fond of their state and want to come back as tourists to have taste of their forefather’s land and its culture,” said Alok Gupta, principal secretary, department of tourism. But Gupta said in general, people from West Bengal, who love to travel, reserve a special appreciation for Rajasthan. “They love to visit Jaisalmer fort where Satyajit Ray made the movie Sonar Kella, Mount Abu and other places.With the waning of the pandemic and ongoing vaccination programme, we expect the tourist movement to pick up pace,” Gupta added. Rajasthan tourism department is participating in the TTF as a partner state and was awarded the safest destination for tourist at the event. TTF is a major physical event happening for the first time after the outbreak of the pandemic last year. The state is holding a roadshow on the sidelines of the fairto promote the state among the state. For the first time, a delegation from the forest department lend by DFOs is also attending the event promote wildlife tourismin Rajasthan. “Besides the best of the attractions of the state, we are alsoshowcasing the lesser-known new destinations. There is already a good level of awareness about Rajasthan in West Bengal, but we need to ensure that Rajasthan remains in their mindscape so that the product recall is quicker,” said an official over phone from Kolkata. In March and April, the tourism department is participatingin three-four travel marts. In the absence of foreign tourists, the state is focussing on domestic travelers. While some states have started standalone roadshows, Rajasthan will take a call after assessing the market sentiment in these travelfairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-dept-woos-bengal-tourists-using-back-to-the-roots-theme/articleshow/81262184.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Madurai||Rahul gets up close with life||Tenkasi: Rahul Gandhi took time off to get up close with people and have a feel of life during his hectic campaign. From lending a close ear to the GST woes of lime exporters to asking a tender coconut seller to repeat his ‘feat’ of splitting open the nut in one shot, the Congress leader was his usual self. He listened in detail the nitty gritty of lime production in Puliyangudi, the reason for its price decline and how traders have to shell out Rs 28 lakh (28%) GST to export lime worth Rs 1 crore. He also listened to neera tapping, watched ice apple being collected from palm trees and enquired about the family of the coconut seller Shanmugam at Alangulam on the Tirunelveli - Tenkasi road. After biting a piece of tavun (edible portion of sprouted palm seed) at a shop, he bought a few paying Rs 500 to the vendor. At Tenkasi, he got carried away by the taste of tea at a shop and quipped ‘Romba Nalla Tea’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rahul-gets-up-close-with-life/articleshow/81263521.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Meerut||BKU representative quits UP panel on agriculture, says it didn’t meet since formation 3 yrs ago||Muzaffarnagar: A representative of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has quit a commission formed by the Uttar Pradesh government in 2017 to address problems faced by the farmers, alleging that it didn’t meet even once since its formation.BKU’s media in-charge Dharmendra Malik has sent his resignation letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath.“Krishak Samriddhi Ayog’ Uttar Pradesh (Farmers’ Prosperity Commission) was formed in 2017 to address farmers’ issues. But since then, no meeting has been held. The purpose for which the panel was formed has not been fulfilled,” Malik said.The letter read, “Respected Yogi ji, I am sending you the resignation from the post of member of the commission with thanks that it was formed on November 10, 2017 under your chairmanship for the interests of farmers. I was nominated as a non-government member and a representative of the farmers’ organization in the commission. The purpose of this panel was to listen to the problems of farmers and to solve them. It is a matter of great sadness that even after almost three-and-a-half year, not a single meeting of the commission has been organized.”Malik claimed that the panel also did not send any suggestion to the Centre on the three agriculture laws.“Today, there is a deadlock between the government and the farmers regarding the recently-introduced agricultural laws across the country. Farmers spent the last three months on roads in freezing cold, but the government could not find any solution. Even on such a serious subject, no suggestion was sent to the Centre by the panel. It also did not seek the opinion of the farmers of the state through dialogue. The commission has not been able to fulfill the purpose for which it was formed,” Malik said in the letter.Later, Malik told TOI, “We (BKU) always fight for the interest of the farmers and cannot compromise on it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bku-representative-quits-up-panel-on-agriculture-says-it-didnt-meet-since-formation-3-yrs-ago/articleshow/81259594.cms||Mohd Dilshad
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||10-day virtual Jaipur lit fest concludes||Jaipur: The 10-day Jaipur Literature Festival, which started on February 19 and concluded on Sunday, received an overwhelming response. The prestigious event was held online this year because of Covid. “The festival was a success as there were over 300 speakers. It was different from the usual,” said an organiser. The organisers claimed that the festival’s digital attendance was much more than previous years’ footfall. Some highlights of the festival included a session by Glasgow-born author Douglas Stuart, whose 2020 Booker Prize-winning debut novel Shuggie Bain evokes the essence of addiction, parenthood, courage and love. Celebrated American linguist, philosopher, cognitive scientist, historian, social critic and political activist Noam Chomsky talked about his latest book, Requiem for the American Dream: The 10 Principles of Concentration of Wealth & Power.’ Covering the ongoing pandemic, doctors and co-authors Randeep Guleria, Chandrakant Lahariya and Gagandeep Kang discussed their new project. During the Festival, award-winning Irish writer Colm Tóibín spoke about his writing process. Marina Wheeler, a Queen’s counsel in England, discussed India-Pakistan partition while author and historian Camilla Townsend’s Cundill History Prize-winning Fifth Sun: A New History of the Aztecs brought to light a complex and riveting history of the Aztecs based entirely on direct translations of the annals written in the neglected Nahuatl language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-day-virtual-jaipur-lit-fest-concludes/articleshow/81262180.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan plans to vaccinate 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily||JAIPUR: The state government has set up 1,001 vaccination sites in government hospitals and 88 in private hospitals to inoculate people above 60 years of age and those above 45 with specified comorbid conditions. The state government plans to vaccinate 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily starting Monday. Since the CoWin App was under upgradation for the last two days, beneficiaries are expected to reach the vaccination sites with age proof and those above 45 years with specified comorbid conditions will be required to produce a certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner along with age proof to get the jab. To ramp up the vaccination capacity, the health department has created 1,001 sites at government hospitals and 88 in private hospitals. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the cost of vaccine at private hospitals is Rs 150 and service charge is Rs 100 per dose. The health department conducted a video conferencing on Sunday to review the preparations for the new phase of the drive. Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said directions have been issued to take help of sub-divisional magistrates, sarpanchs, teachers, ration dealers to encourage people to get the vaccine. The health department has made arrangements to make the Covid-19 vaccination more easy by giving choice to the beneficiaries. “A beneficiary can opt for the hospital of his choice and fix date and time in advance for getting the vaccination done while registering online,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization). He said, “A beneficiary can go directly to the nearest vaccination centre with age proof and he can get registered there and get vaccinated.” The health department distributed 5,40,000 doses to different districts to start the new phase of vaccination. The health department officials said the speed of the vaccination drive depends on the availability of vaccines, which will be made by the Centre. In Jaipur too, health department has completed the preperations. “We have already imparted training to the vaccinators. Our sites are ready. In Jaipur, beneficiaries have sufficient options to choose between the vaccination sites as we have a long list of government sites and sufficient number of sites at private hospitals,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). Rajasthan tops the states in vaccinating highest percentage of eligible healthcare and frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-plans-to-vaccinate-1-5l-beneficiaries-daily/articleshow/81265097.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan plans to vaccinate 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily||JAIPUR: The state government has set up 1,001 vaccination sites in government hospitals and 88 in private hospitals to inoculate people above 60 years of age and those above 45 with specified comorbid conditions. The state government plans to vaccinate 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily starting Monday. Since the CoWin App was under upgradation for the last two days, beneficiaries are expected to reach the vaccination sites with age proof and those above 45 years with specified comorbid conditions will be required to produce a certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner along with age proof to get the jab. To ramp up the vaccination capacity, the health department has created 1,001 sites at government hospitals and 88 in private hospitals. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the cost of vaccine at private hospitals is Rs 150 and service charge is Rs 100 per dose. The health department conducted a video conferencing on Sunday to review the preparations for the new phase of the drive. Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said directions have been issued to take help of sub-divisional magistrates, sarpanchs, teachers, ration dealers to encourage people to get the vaccine. The health department has made arrangements to make the Covid-19 vaccination more easy by giving choice to the beneficiaries. “A beneficiary can opt for the hospital of his choice and fix date and time in advance for getting the vaccination done while registering online,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization). He said, “A beneficiary can go directly to the nearest vaccination centre with age proof and he can get registered there and get vaccinated.” The health department distributed 5,40,000 doses to different districts to start the new phase of vaccination. The health department officials said the speed of the vaccination drive depends on the availability of vaccines, which will be made by the Centre. In Jaipur too, health department has completed the preperations. “We have already imparted training to the vaccinators. Our sites are ready. In Jaipur, beneficiaries have sufficient options to choose between the vaccination sites as we have a long list of government sites and sufficient number of sites at private hospitals,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). Rajasthan tops the states in vaccinating highest percentage of eligible healthcare and frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-plans-to-vaccinate-1-5l-beneficiaries-daily/articleshow/81262189.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||State records 793 cases in Feb last week, 156 on Sunday||Jaipur: After some states started witnessing a spike in Covid cases, Rajasthan too is now showing the same trend. The last week of February saw the highest number of case in Rajasthan compared to the first three weeks. On Sunday, the state reported the biggest single-day spike in 34 days with 156 cases being reported. As many as 793 persons tested positive in the last week in comparison to 620 cases in penultimate week of February. While cases have increased, the state has issued directions for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts, said a health department official. Except Churu district, all the districts have active cases. A week ago, there were four districts which had nil active cases. But in the last week of February, the state reported increased number of infections. With 156 new cases reported on Sunday, the overall tally reached 3,20,336. The state’s death toll stands at 2,787. In Dungarpur, 23 persons were found infected. “Cases have been reported from Sagwada area of Dungarpur. Majority of them of them belong to the same group of people. We have collected the samples of contact persons, which have been sent for test,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, chief medical health officer (Dungarpur). While cases have been increasing in some parts of the country, the Centre has been engaging with the states exhibiting higher caseload of active cases and which have reported a surge in cases including Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, MP, Gujarat, Punjab, J&K and West Bengal. Since Rajasthan is close to Gujarat, MP and Punjab and lot many people travel from one state to another, the risk of spread of the virus enhances in the state. The health authorities have advised officials across the state not to lower their guard and enforce Covid SoPs and deal firmly with violations while focusing on effective surveillance strategies in respect to potential super spreading events. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (26), Dungarpur (23), Kota (23), Jodhpur(18), Udaipur (14), Rajsamand (9), Ajmer (8), Banswara (5), Hanumangarh (5),Barmer (4), Chittorgarh (3), Jhunjhunu (3), Sikar (2), Alwar (2), Bhilwara (2),Nagaur (2), Bharatpur (1), Dholpur (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jalore (1), Jhalawar(1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Pali (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-records-793-cases-in-feb-last-week-156-on-sunday/articleshow/81262187.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Madurai||Students experiment with science on Madurai streets||Madurai: As part of National Science Day, around 45 students from Class I to VIII put up a display of science experiments and demonstrations with their parents on the streets of Karuppapillai Enthal in Madurai on Sunday.National Science Day is celebrated in India annually on February 28 to mark the discovery of Raman effect by Indian physicist C V Raman on February 28, 1928. The ‘Veedhithorum Ariviyal Kankatchi’ or ‘Street Science Exhibition’ was inaugurated by Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan, who interacted with the students and encouraged their interest in scientific research. The students presented experiments and demonstrations using materials from home incorporating use of science and scientific laws in daily life. From making models of vehicles run using renewable energy like air to explaining simple laws of physics with household articles, the exhibition aimed to explain science in a fun and practical manner. All India People Science Network general secretary P Rajamanickam and Tamil Nadu Science Forum district president M Rajesh distributed certificates and prizes. Students from Dr T Thirugnanam group of schools and several other schools took part in the exhibition. The initiative was organised for school students by Dr T Thirugnanam group of schools, led by V Surendran Babu, president of the educational institutions. “With schools shut amid the pandemic, this science exhibition is engaging for students. Often parents don’t realise the potentials of their children. Such activities give children confidence and parents can also hone their children’s skills based on their field of interest,” said K Saravanan, headmaster, Dr T Thirugnanam Primary School. Similar exhibitions are now planned to be held next in Melamadai and Chinthamani, Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-experiment-with-science-on-madurai-streets/articleshow/81263536.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Bizman crashes car into median||Hyderabad: A car crashed into the median between the metro rail pylons at Chaderghat on Sunday. According to the police, a luxury car driven by a businessman—Amin—went out of control when he suddenly applied brakes and crashed into the median. “No one suffered injuries and we have removed the damaged car,” Chaderghat inspector P Sateesh said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-crashes-car-into-median/articleshow/81263535.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Religion no bar at Khatkar toll plaza||JIND: Farmers on Sunday observed a ‘Sarv Dharma Sammelan’ (congregation of all religions) at Khatkar toll plaza in Jind district to send out the message that people from all faiths were together in the fight against the Centre’s three agro-market laws which have sparked widespread protests. Thousands of farmers took part in the congregation. Protesters said BJP had damaged the state’s social fabric and that of the nation as well during its six years of rule. “BJP did nothing, but playing politics of divide and rule,” said one of the speakers. Nawab Ali, one of the protestors at toll plaza, said, “Muslims are equally dedicated to the nation and always contributed to nation building, but BJP pushed the community back just to rule over people. But this fight to repeal the farm laws pertains to every section of society. If farmers are prosperous, the nation and every section of society would be happy automatically. We will support farmers until laws are repealed,” he added. sGurudev Singh, a Sikh from Durana village in Jind district, said they organised the congregation, so that the BJP government could come to know that all religions and communities were standing by it firmly. “A peaceful and disciplined movement is being defamed by the government. But, today, they will get the message as thousands of people from different communities gathered to show their solidarity,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/religion-no-bar-at-khatkar-toll-plaza/articleshow/81263523.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||NE riots: HC slams vigilance inquiry report into info leak||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Monday voiced its disapproval with Delhi Police’s vigilance inquiry report, which examined the allegation if any statement was leaked of a student arrested for his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots last year. The court said the inquiry was worse than an ordinary probe in a petty theft case and asked the special commissioner of police (Vigilance) to be present in the virtual proceedings on March 5. The case related to leaking of the alleged confessional statement of Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha. Justice Mukta Gupta was informed by police that it had sent the complete case file to Delhi government and Union home ministry. The court pointed out that, “These are senior IAS officers. Where did you do the inquiry, who did you inquire? Where were the files sent? Who took them to Delhi government and MHA, and who brought them back? There is nothing in the report. It is completely silent. These are not documents lying on the road.” The court had earlier directed police to file a report on vigilance inquiry on leakage of confessional statement of the accused. During the hearing, it said if the vigilance inquiry was unable to find out what happened, harsher orders would be passed. Advocate Amit Mahajan, representing Delhi Police, said police were equally aggrieved by the leakage, which was undesirable. To this, the court said it was not just undesirable, it was prejudicial to the accused, and these things need to be controlled for fairness to him and purity of the investigation. Advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, appearing for Tanha, said the objective of the broadcast by a private news channel was to malign Tanha, which is why the vigilance probe needs to be conducted in an unbiased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-hc-slams-vigilance-inquiry-report-into-info-leak/articleshow/81282649.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD ex-servicemen wing members to return medals||BATHINDA: Nearly 30 members of the Shiromani Akali Dal ex-servicemen wing have announced that they will return their service longevity medals (not gallantry or given for meritorious services) in support of the farmers’ struggle. On Sunday, ex-servicemen members of SAD announced that they would send the ceremonial medals given to them as per the number of years spent in defence services, to the President by post on Monday. The medals are given to men on completion of a particular number of years in any force. The announcement was made after a meeting of SAD ex-servicemen wing held under the leadership of ex-servicemen wing state president Gurjinder Singh Sidhu at a gurdwara in Barnala on Sunday. Sidhu said, “We had asked the central government to repeal farm laws, failing which we would return our medals. As the government has given no heed to our demand and to the demand of farmers, we have decided to return our service medals on Monday by post.” He also said that a call has been given to all members of the SAD ex-servicemen wing to return medals from various places across Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-ex-servicemen-wing-members-to-return-medals/articleshow/81263525.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ludhiana||SAD ex-servicemen wing members to return medals||BATHINDA: Nearly 30 members of the Shiromani Akali Dal ex-servicemen wing have announced that they will return their service longevity medals (not gallantry or given for meritorious services) in support of the farmers’ struggle. On Sunday, ex-servicemen members of SAD announced that they would send the ceremonial medals given to them as per the number of years spent in defence services, to the President by post on Monday. The medals are given to men on completion of a particular number of years in any force. The announcement was made after a meeting of SAD ex-servicemen wing held under the leadership of ex-servicemen wing state president Gurjinder Singh Sidhu at a gurdwara in Barnala on Sunday. Sidhu said, “We had asked the central government to repeal farm laws, failing which we would return our medals. As the government has given no heed to our demand and to the demand of farmers, we have decided to return our service medals on Monday by post.” He also said that a call has been given to all members of the SAD ex-servicemen wing to return medals from various places across Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-ex-servicemen-wing-members-to-return-medals/articleshow/81267803.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Gurnam Singh Charuni meets Kundli activists||CHANDIGARH: Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Sunday asked protesting farmers to devise a mechanism for harvesting season to ensure everything went smoothly. Charuni, who spent a day with protesting farmers on the Singhu-Kundli border between Delhi and Haryana, requested them to mobilise support in villages. He also made another appeal to protesting farmers to not damage their crops. According information, Charuni spent the day with farmers and interacted with them on issues like how to take the the agitation forward and the strategy to be followed for harvesting season. “We have specifically asked those back in the village to take special care of the crop of those who are camping at agitation sites of Singhu and Tikri. Those in villages should give top priority in helping kin to complete harvesting as well as other issues,’’ said Balkar Singh, an associate of Charuni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/charuni-meets-kundli-activists/articleshow/81263530.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Will make announcement on vacant Cabinet positions during Gairsain assembly session: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||ALMORA: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday said that he will make announcement regarding the three cabinet positions — lying vacant for a long time now — during the upcoming state assembly session in Gairsain. The CM made the remark on Sunday in a public meeting at Sheetla Pushkar Maidan in Dwarahat before leaving for Gairsain. During the meeting, CM Rawat also elaborated on the development work undertaken during his term in office. Talking to media persons, the CM said that he reached the Kumaon hills by road to gauge the issues in the area. He assured the locals that there will be no shortage of funds for the development of the area. He also said that the process of recruitment of 765 doctors and 2,500 nurses is underway to improve the health infrastructure of the state. As for education, he added that 500 schools have been connected with virtual classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-make-announcement-on-vacant-cabinet-positions-during-gairsain-assembly-session-cm/articleshow/81261133.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan plans to vaccinate 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily||JAIPUR: The state government has set up 1,001 vaccination sites in government hospitals and 88 in private hospitals to inoculate people above 60 years of age and those above 45 with specified comorbid conditions. The state government plans to vaccinate 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily starting Monday. Since the CoWin App was under upgradation for the last two days, beneficiaries are expected to reach the vaccination sites with age proof and those above 45 years with specified comorbid conditions will be required to produce a certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner along with age proof to get the jab. To ramp up the vaccination capacity, the health department has created 1,001 sites at government hospitals and 88 in private hospitals. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the cost of vaccine at private hospitals is Rs 150 and service charge is Rs 100 per dose. The health department conducted a video conferencing on Sunday to review the preparations for the new phase of the drive. Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said directions have been issued to take help of sub-divisional magistrates, sarpanchs, teachers, ration dealers to encourage people to get the vaccine. The health department has made arrangements to make the Covid-19 vaccination more easy by giving choice to the beneficiaries. “A beneficiary can opt for the hospital of his choice and fix date and time in advance for getting the vaccination done while registering online,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization). He said, “A beneficiary can go directly to the nearest vaccination centre with age proof and he can get registered there and get vaccinated.” The health department distributed 5,40,000 doses to different districts to start the new phase of vaccination. The health department officials said the speed of the vaccination drive depends on the availability of vaccines, which will be made by the Centre. In Jaipur too, health department has completed the preperations. “We have already imparted training to the vaccinators. Our sites are ready. In Jaipur, beneficiaries have sufficient options to choose between the vaccination sites as we have a long list of government sites and sufficient number of sites at private hospitals,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). Rajasthan tops the states in vaccinating highest percentage of eligible healthcare and frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-plans-to-vaccinate-1-5l-beneficiaries-daily/articleshow/81265096.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan plans to vaccinate 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily||JAIPUR: The state government has set up 1,001 vaccination sites in government hospitals and 88 in private hospitals to inoculate people above 60 years of age and those above 45 with specified comorbid conditions. The state government plans to vaccinate 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily starting Monday. Since the CoWin App was under upgradation for the last two days, beneficiaries are expected to reach the vaccination sites with age proof and those above 45 years with specified comorbid conditions will be required to produce a certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner along with age proof to get the jab. To ramp up the vaccination capacity, the health department has created 1,001 sites at government hospitals and 88 in private hospitals. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the cost of vaccine at private hospitals is Rs 150 and service charge is Rs 100 per dose. The health department conducted a video conferencing on Sunday to review the preparations for the new phase of the drive. Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said directions have been issued to take help of sub-divisional magistrates, sarpanchs, teachers, ration dealers to encourage people to get the vaccine. The health department has made arrangements to make the Covid-19 vaccination more easy by giving choice to the beneficiaries. “A beneficiary can opt for the hospital of his choice and fix date and time in advance for getting the vaccination done while registering online,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization). He said, “A beneficiary can go directly to the nearest vaccination centre with age proof and he can get registered there and get vaccinated.” The health department distributed 5,40,000 doses to different districts to start the new phase of vaccination. The health department officials said the speed of the vaccination drive depends on the availability of vaccines, which will be made by the Centre. In Jaipur too, health department has completed the preperations. “We have already imparted training to the vaccinators. Our sites are ready. In Jaipur, beneficiaries have sufficient options to choose between the vaccination sites as we have a long list of government sites and sufficient number of sites at private hospitals,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). Rajasthan tops the states in vaccinating highest percentage of eligible healthcare and frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-plans-to-vaccinate-1-5l-beneficiaries-daily/articleshow/81265095.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Youngster misbehaves with woman, tied up and thrashed in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old man was tied up and beaten with sticks by the family members of a house wife for trespassing into their house and misbehaving with her at Kushaiguda. After the video of the incident went viral on social media, police registered two separate cases against the driver and the woman’s family members. At 9.30pm on Saturday, the accused—S Linga Swamy, a car driver from Sathyanarayana Colony in Rampally—scaled the compound wall of the 21-year-old victim’s house at a colony in Cherlapally and misbehaved with her. “Swamy was under the influence of alcohol. He used objectionable language against the woman and also misbehaved with her. After the victim raised an alarm, neighbours and her family members caught him,” Kushaiguda SI B Srinivas said. The victim’s husband informed her brother about the incident and the latter reached the spot along with two of his friends. “Family members of the woman tied up Swamy legs. While two of them held him at a fast food centre, others hit him on his limbs with sticks,” the SI said. The video of youngster being assaulted went viral on social media. Subsequently, the harassed woman lodged a complaint with the police against Swamy and a case was registered against him under sections 448, 354 and 509 of the IPC. Based on the counter complaint lodged by Swamy’s mother against the woman’s family members, a case was registered against four men under sections 342 and 324 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youngster-misbehaves-with-woman-tied-up-and-thrashed/articleshow/81263527.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Madurai||Duo held for conducting rooster fight||Madurai: The Madurai district police arrested two persons for conducting a rooster fight without permission in Melur on Saturday. The accused, identified as R Praveen,30, and M Ajithkumar,20, from Gandhi Nagar, conducted a rooster fight at Millate at Sathiya Nagar. On being alerted, a police team led by sub-inspector Balakrishnan from the Melur police station reached the spot and caught the duo and seized the two roosters. A few members of the audience fled the spot. A case was then registered against the accused under the public gambling act. It was the second incident reported in the last week, after five persons were arrested by the Palamedu police for organizing rooster fight four days ago. With stringent measures being taken against those gambling with cards, rooster fight gambling is gaining traction. Rooster fights can be conducted only after getting proper permission, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/duo-held-for-conducting-rooster-fight/articleshow/81263526.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Meerut||Illicit liquor worth Rs 6.5 lakh seized, 2 held in Shamli||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In a joint operation, Meerut unit of the special task force (STF) and Shamli police seized a consignment of illicit liquor worth Rs 6.5 lakh and arrested two people. Two of their accomplices managed to flee. The consignment of illicit liquor had been brought from Haryana. It was seized following a raid at Sanpala village in Shamli’s Jhinjhana area. The arrested duo, Mohit and Shalabh, are residents of Shamli. They said they planned to sell the liquor during the upcoming gram panchayat election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/illicit-liquor-worth-rs-6-5l-seized-2-held-in-shamli/articleshow/81259606.cms||Mohd Dilshad
March 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: LGS rank holders call off stir after meeting with minister||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Rank holders on the PSC’s last grade servant (LGS) list, who have been protesting for the last 33 days before the Secretariat, have decided to end their agitation. The decision was taken after Sunday’s meeting with law minister A K Balan, here, who assured them that their main demands would be met. “The minister took a favourable approach to our demands. In earlier discussions, we had demanded the appointment of candidates on our list as night watchmen or higher secondary office assistants or to temporary posts that are active for more than six months. We also put forward other demands such as timely promotions and reporting of vacancies to PSC. The government has, subject to the permission of the Election Commission, agreed to reduce the shift of night watchmen to eight hours and then initiate appointments to the vacancies thus arising from our rank list,” P Riju, one of the leaders of the agitating rank holders, said after the meeting. “The minister assured us that fresh vacancies will be reported to PSC at the earliest,” he said. However, those on the civil police officer (CPO) rank list decided to continue with their stir. Despite positive feelers from the meeting with Balan, they have demanded a written assurance from the government before calling off their agitation. The government had earlier deputed additional chief secretary (home) T K Jose and ADGP (headquarters) Manoj Abraham to hold talks with protesters. Though the government earlier maintained that demands of rank holders are not permissible under existing rules and regulations, its U-turn is seen as part of an effort to leave no stone unturned to ensure maximum support for the LDF before the assembly election. Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said talks held with rank holders is only a government ploy to save face. He wondered why the government that has turned down the concerns raised by protesters, till now, suddenly realized that their demands are genuine. As the election has been declared, the government will not be able to do anything for rank holders, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lgs-rank-holders-call-off-stir-after-meeting-with-minister/articleshow/81261140.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Amritsar||SAD ex-servicemen wing members to return medals||BATHINDA: Nearly 30 members of the Shiromani Akali Dal ex-servicemen wing have announced that they will return their service longevity medals (not gallantry or given for meritorious services) in support of the farmers’ struggle. On Sunday, ex-servicemen members of SAD announced that they would send the ceremonial medals given to them as per the number of years spent in defence services, to the President by post on Monday. The medals are given to men on completion of a particular number of years in any force. The announcement was made after a meeting of SAD ex-servicemen wing held under the leadership of ex-servicemen wing state president Gurjinder Singh Sidhu at a gurdwara in Barnala on Sunday. Sidhu said, “We had asked the central government to repeal farm laws, failing which we would return our medals. As the government has given no heed to our demand and to the demand of farmers, we have decided to return our service medals on Monday by post.” He also said that a call has been given to all members of the SAD ex-servicemen wing to return medals from various places across Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sad-ex-servicemen-wing-members-to-return-medals/articleshow/81267804.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||Sancoale panchayat stops water pipeline work||Vasco: Sancoale sarpanch Ramakant Borkar stopped the laying of a water pipeline at MES College road in Zuarinagar stating that the PWD had not taken permission from the panchayat to carry out the work. Sources said that locals residing in the vicinity of the area where the pipeline work was being laid, informed the sarpanch about the work. Borkar, along with few panch members, reached the site and stoppedthe work. “The contractor has not taken permission from the panchayat,” Borkar said, adding, “We receive so many complaints of water scarcity almost everyday. The PWD should first resolve the problem of the locals.” The work for new pipeline was being carried out for mega projects behind the MES College. “Hundreds of flats have no PWD water connection. Panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho has called a meeting to discuss the same,” he said. “There is a separate road planned for the colonies of that project. Instead of laying pipelines from that road the PWD has chosen the road of MES College,” Borkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sancoale-panchayat-stops-water-pipeline-work/articleshow/81263563.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Bareilly||Boy, 16, rapes four-year-old neighbour in Pilibhit, detained & sent to juvenile home||Pilibhit: A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 16-year-old neighbour — a student of Class VIII — in a village under Bilsanda police station circle on Saturday evening. The minor accused was detained by police on Sunday morning. The girl was playing along with other children outside her house when the accused lured her away on the pretext of giving some eatables, said police, adding that the accused took her to a nearby dilapidated house and raped her. Suffering from excessive pain and bleeding, said police, the girl somehow returned home and narrated her ordeal to her parents. Police said an FIR was registered and the girl was admitted to the district women hospital. Asked about the girl’s condition, chief medical superintendent of the district women hospital Dr Anita Chaurasia said the girl had excessive bleeding and rupture in her private parts when she was admitted to the hospital. Her condition was stable on Sunday morning, added Dr Chaurasia. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav, meanwhile, inspected the spot and assured the girl’s family of all possible help. According to SHO Birja Ram, Both families are immediate neighbours and have small holdings of agricultural land and they also work as part-time labourers. The accused was booked under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the Pocso Act, said the SHO, adding that they produced the accused before the juvenile justice board at the district headquarters and then he was sent to Kishor Sadan (a juvenile home for boys) in Bareilly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/boy-16-rapes-four-year-old-neighbour-in-pilibhit-detained-sent-to-juvenile-home/articleshow/81259619.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||V P Joy takes over as new chief secretary||Thiruvananthapuram: Newly-appointed chief secretary V P Joy assumed office on Sunday. The senior IAS officer took over from his predecessor Vishwas Mehta, who retired from the service on the same day. Joy will be 47th chief secretary of the state. He will be the head of state’s bureaucracy till June 30, 2020. The 1987-batch IAS officer had recently returned to the state after his central deputation and joined as officer on special duty. At the Centre, immediately prior to returning to the state, he was holding the charge of secretary of coordination and security in the cabinet secretariat. A native of Kinginimattam in Ernakulam, Joy served as a scientist at Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre in Thiruvananthapuram from 1985 till 1987. Beginning his career in administration as sub-collector of Palakkad, Joy has also served as the director of collegiate education and the registrar of cooperative societies. He has served in several capacities including district collector of Ernakulam, DPI, secretary of agriculture, transport commissioner, chairman of Kerala state electricity board, principal secretary (finance) and in transport, labour, housing and taxes departments. In the Centre, he has held positions such as director in the ministry of petroleum and natural gas, joint secretary in the ministry of power, joint secretary in the cabinet secretariat, central provident fund commissioner and CEO of employees’ provident fund organisation, director general of hydrocarbons in the ministry of petroleum and natural gas and chairman of national authority of chemical weapons convention. In addition to being an administrator, Joy has penned numerous poems and two novels in Malayalam, three English books and four works of translations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/v-p-joy-takes-over-as-new-chief-secretary/articleshow/81261151.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||UP man dupes Hyderabad woman, arrested||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad commissionerate’s cyber crime police have arrested a fraudster from Uttar Pradesh for duping a city-based woman for Rs 10.7 lakh with a false promise to marry her. The accused Mohammed Hasib, is a member of fraudsters gang operating from Bareilly in Uttar Prdesh. “The gang members place advertisements on matrimonial websites with false details to woo victims,” cyber crimes ACP KVM Prasad said. The accused posted his profile as a Canada based working professional with photos of a good-looking man. The victim, who is from Hyderabad, expressed her interest in the fraudster’s profile and contacted him in October 2020. Posing as a Canada-based doctor, the accused spoke to the victim and agreed to marry her. A few months ago, the fraudster told the victim that he had sent her Rs 1 crore worth gold and diamond jewellery through a parcel service. Subsequently, another gang member contacted the victim posing as a Customs department employee at Delhi airport and asked her to pay Rs 10.7 lakh as duty and other fees to release the parcel from Canada. After the victim transferred the amount to the bank account mentioned by the fraudsters, there was no further communication from them, following which the victim lodged a police complaint. Police arrested Mohammed Hasib from Bareilly and brought him to the city on a transit warrant on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/up-man-dupes-city-woman-arrested/articleshow/81263537.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||R-Day violence: Man granted bail||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to a man in a case related to the violence on Republic Day during farmers’ tractor parade, saying no specific role has been assigned to him. The court said the accused was not alleged to have attempted to kill or hurt the police personnel deployed. Ashish Kumar was granted relief on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 15,000 with one surety of like amount. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/r-day-violence-man-granted-bail/articleshow/81282675.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Message links Jaish-ul-Hind to Mukesh Ambani scare, denial follows||MUMBAI: Three days after an explosive-laden vehicle was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's bungalow on Carmichael Road, a message purportedly from the Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced on Sunday taking responsibility for the action and demanding transfer of funds from the Ambani family into their bitcoin account. However, late in the evening, a denial was issued in the name of the same group denying their role in the case. The earlier message said, “We are the same “Akhlaq” you killed. We are people you massacred in the Delhi pogrom…” Akhlaq was apparently a reference to Mohammaed Akhlaq who was killed by a mob in Dadra in 2015 over the issue of cow slaughter. The denial said, “By this poster we want to clear that ‘Jaish UI Hind’ has no relation with the incident… The alleged telegram account and poster has no link with Jaish UI Hind, We condemn Indian intelligence agencies for morphing and making fake poster… We are fighting for shariyah not for money, we are fighting against secular democracy not Ambani.” Both messages were transmitted through the Telegram app. The name, ‘Jaish-ul-Hind’, first surfaced following a blast near the Israel embassy in New Delhi in January this year. A message claiming responsibility was circulated on Telegram even then. A Maharashtra anti-terror squad (ATS) officer said that was the first time they heard the name of the outfit. Reacting to the latest claim, deputy commissioner of police (PRO) S Chaitanya said, “No comments. Mumbai Police is investigating all angles.” Police said if there was any truth in it, there was a strong possibility of the National Investigation Agency taking over the probe. “We suspect that such claims are an afterthought. Terror organisations usually take responsibility for the attack in 24 hrs,” an official said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai crime branch is still trying to trace the Innova which was seen accompanying the vehicle carrying the gelatin sticks. Its location was the Kalyan-Bhiwandi Road. Crime branch units have fanned out and are questioning petrol pump owners, scanning CCTV footage of toll nakas to identify the drivers of the two vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/message-links-jaish-ul-hind-to-ambani-scare-denial-follows/articleshow/81264334.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||176 new cases in Telangana on Sunday||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded 176 new cases of Covid-19 and one death. With this, the total count of cases in the state has touched 2,98,807, while the death toll now stands at 1,634. So far, a total of 2,95,222 patients in the state have recovered from coronavirus, while there are 1,951 active cases in the state. The case fatality rate (CFR) is stable at 0.54% while the recovery rate is 98.8%. This is against the country average CFR of 1.4% and country average recovery rate of 97.1% . On both the counts, Telangana is currently scoring better than most other parts of the country. On Sunday, a total of 40,985 samples were tested. Telangana has now completed conducting 87 lakh tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/176-new-cases-in-state-on-sunday/articleshow/81263538.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||One-day free health camp||Hyderabad: Minister for animal husbandry, Talasani Srinivasa Yadav inaugurated a one day free specialty health camp, in the city on Sunday. In the camp, doctors provided free general consultation, cardiology consultation along with diagnostics test for blood pressure, sugar check and ECG. Aster Prime Hospitals, Ameerpet conducted the camp. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-day-free-health-camp/articleshow/81263543.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Western Naval Command gets new chief||Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar took over as Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C) of the Western Naval Command on Sunday. He succeeded Vice Admiral Ajit Kumar who retired upon superannuation on Sunday after a career spanning 40 years. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/western-naval-command-gets-new-chief/articleshow/81263559.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cop alert on online KYC fraud after 52 complaints||KOLKATA: Cops have made a special animated video to warn netizens of the dangers of sharing personal data over phone and falling into the trap of KYC fraud. The video has gone viral on social media within hours of its launch as the Kolkata Police’s Facebook page saw 1,300 shares of the video in less than a day, along with hundreds of retweets from its Twitter page. While cops are visiting various housing complexes of the city every weekend to sensitize people about cyber security, launching the video was another attempt by Kolkata Police to send out the message among people that online security is as important as physical security. The move came after 52 complaints of KYC fraud were lodged with the police in the past one month, said an officer of Lalbazar. The video that spans around two and a half minutes features Bollywood actor Rahul Roy as the main protagonist who is tricked into sharing his OTP and banking details while being in a hurry to go out to buy medicines. “The idea is to make people aware that banking fraud usually happens when someone is in a hurry. The video informs people that sharing OTP or PIN is not required to receive money. It also highlights the need to cross check before downloading any application. We feel that the video will help us connect with a larger audience to thwart KYC fraud,” said the officer. Cops said the door-to-door campaigns at each police station will also continue, along with the online campaign. On Saturday, cops registered an FIR where the victim, Subrata Chakraborty (58), a resident of Garfa, lost Rs 2 lakh in KYC fraud. He alleged that the accused posed as the employee of a mobile service provider and duped him of the money by tricking him into downloading two apps, ‘Quick Support’ and ‘SMS to Phone’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-alert-on-online-kyc-fraud-after-52-complaints/articleshow/81262216.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana ready for Covid vaccine drive||HYDERABAD: The state is ready for Covid vaccine drive for general public in Hyderabad. For this, Hyderabad district administration and district medical and health department have identified a total of 24 hospitals, including 12 government hospitals and 12 private hospitals to kick start drive for Covid-19 vaccination in the city. Hyderabad collector, Sweta Mohanty, who reviewed arrangements on Sunday, said that vaccine doses will be given to people with age 60 years and above. “The vaccine dose will be given free of cost in the identified government hospitals. Whereas in the private hospitals, Rs 250, including Rs 100 for vaccine and another Rs 150 for service charges, will be collected per head. The registration for vaccination can be done through either online or at the vaccination centres on the spot,” said the collector. Four people can register on one mobile number to get Covid-19 vaccine doses, but they must have proof of documents, issued by either the state or the Central government, the collector added. List of hospitals in HyderabadABC Hospitals, Hyderabad Apollo Hospitals Enterprises Limited, Hyderabad CARE Hospitals (Visakha Hospitals and Diagnostics Ltd), Hyderabad Gayatri Vidya Parishad Institute of Health Care and Medical Technology, Hyderabad HCG Pinnacle Cancer Centre, Hyderabad Indus Hospitals (a unit of Vasugan Medical Specialities Pvt., Ltd), Hyderabad "Mahatma Gandhi Cancer & Research Institute (a unit of Vizag Hospital &  Cancer Research Centre Private Limited), Hyderabad Mycure Hospitals Unit-1 (a unit of Sahrudaya Health Care Pvt. Ltd), Hyderabad Mycure Hospitals Unit-2 (a unit of Sahrudaya Health Care Pvt. Ltd), Hyderabad Pinnacle Hospitals Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad Q1 Hospitals (a unit of Q1 Bone & Joint Hospital), Hyderabad Seven Hills Hospital (a unit of Seven Hills Healthcare Pvt., Ltd.,) Hyderabad STAR Pinnacle Heart Centre Pvt Ltd., Hyderabad Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Hyderabad Lalitha Superspeciality Hospital Private Limited, Hyderabad Omega Hospitals, Hyderabad Aayush NRI LEPL Health Care (P) Ltd, Hyderabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-ready-for-covid-vaccine-drive/articleshow/81263546.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Saffron swing in places where caste conflict raged||Ahmedabad: Two municipalities — Una in Saurashtra and Kadi in North Gujarat — witnessed caste-based violence and protests during the infamous Dalit flogging incident in 2016 and the Patidar reservation stir of 2015. While the BJP was at the receiving end of caste-based ire in both instances, the saffron party has swept both Una and Kadi municipalities uncontested in the 2021 local body polls polling for which took place on Sunday. With no opposing candidate, the BJP won these two local bodies sans any competition. At Thangadh, which had witnessed caste-based protests after Dalit youths were killed in police firing in 2012, the BJP won 35% of seats uncontested. A similar situation exists in the Shera and Dhrangadhara municipalities and the Botad district panchayat as well. In the 20-member Botad district panchayat, the BJP now needs just four seats to come to power, as it has won seven of the 20 seats uncontested. Overall in the state, the BJP has won 228 seats uncontested — 92 in municipalities, 111 in taluka panchayats and 25 in district panchayats — while the Congress has just won seven seats — two in municipalities and five in district panchayats. Top BJP leaders in the state said that after the Patidar reservation stir, the party has focused in a big way on strengthening its base in Patidar hotbeds which include Unjha, Visnagar, Kadi, Una, Amreli, Rajkot and South Gujarat. Karsanbhai Solanki, BJP MLA from Kadi, said “The BJP has been winning Kadi municipality for 25 years, and Congress candidates found themselves too weak against BJP candidates, conceding defeat even before votes were polled and withdrew their nominations.” He added the BJP had no role in Congress candidates withdrawing before the polls. Gujarat Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said the BJP used unfair means to come to power in local bodies which it feared to lose. “In Una and Thangadh, the stakes of illegal mining and trade are very high. The local BJP leaders used all means to come to power in some of the cases,” he said. However, Congress leaders also admitted that infighting within the Congress has only helped the BJP. “In the Kadi municipality case, observers have given a report to the high command on infighting within the party, but the party has taken no action,” a leader said. Una MLA Punja Vansh said, “The BJP pressurised our candidates and got their forms withdrawn as the stakes are very high in Una nagarpalika.” In the Patidar-dominated Unjha municipality, the BJP had not fielded any candidate on its party symbol in 2015, while the Congress fielded just five candidates. In 2021, the BJP fielded its candidates in all wards, while the Congress did not field any candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saffron-swing-in-places-where-caste-conflict-raged/articleshow/81263555.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Man injured after peak-hour road rage at Ruby crossing||Kolkata: A Baruipur resident was seriously injured in a case of road rage at the Ruby crossing on Saturday morning amid peak-hour traffic. The cops have registered a case against unidentified persons and are using CCTV footage to identify the accused. “The case was recorded on the basis of a letter of complaint by Alekhya Mondal (26), a resident of Karmakarpara Road in Baruipur, against unknown driver of a vehicle. According to the complainant, it was around 9.10am when the accused drove his vehicle in a rash and negligent manner endangering the human life and safety to others and hit the complainant’s vehicle damaging it near the Ruby crossing,” said an officer. Mondal came out of his car after parking it on the Kasba connector and decided to ask the accused driver why he had not tried to apply brakes. “When the complainant went to talk with the accused driver, the latter allegedly stepped on the accelerator and hit the complainant with his car. He allegedly claimed that he did it deliberately to teach Mondal a lesson. As a result, the complainant sustained injuries and cops removed him to Ruby General Hospital,” said an officer. “The car has been identified and an arrest will follow soon. A case under IPC sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief) has been registered at the Kasba PS,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-injured-after-peak-hour-road-rage-at-ruby-crossing/articleshow/81262237.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 1, 2021||Kochi||Anniversary of Velur protest to be observed tomorrow||Thrissur: The 65th anniversary of the historic ‘Maru Marakkal Samaram’ (protest over right to cover breasts), held at Manimalarkavu Temple near Velur, will be observed on Tuesday. The agitation held in 1956 was in protest against a custom that prevented women belonging to the Nair community from covering their breasts while taking part in certain rituals during the annual temple festival. Interestingly, it was a group of lower caste women, who were not even allowed to take part in the temple rituals that led the march to the temple with the support of the then undivided Communist Party. “I was among the 25 women who reached the temple wearing blouses. We stood in line near the women from the Nair community who had come to the festival without covering their breasts. There were about 40 of them and some of them started feeling embarrassed seeing us wearing blouses. I was about 17 years when I participated in the agitation,” said 83-year old Meenakshi Vellarottil, who is one of the few surviving women who participated in the agitation. “I was studying in Class IX when I took part in the protest. A large number of women were feeling humiliated and upset about the fact that they were not allowed to cover their breasts. Several elderly women and minors like us participated in the agitation,” said 84-year old Cheeru Kunnath, another woman who took part in the struggle. K S Shankaran, a Communist party worker who took part in the protest, said the agitation ended without much violence. The temple authorities agreed to allow the lower caste women to perform the rituals, besides ending the practice of not allowing the women who take part in the rituals to cover their breasts. Historian T Thulasidharan Asari said the erstwhile princely state of Travancore had witnessed a series of agitations for the women’s right to cover their breasts, from 1830s to 1850s. The issue was resolved finally with the royal declaration in 1859 which granted women the right to cover their breasts. But the practice continued in several pockets in Malabar region even in the 1950s. The Purogamana Kalasahithya Sangam, a pro-CPM cultural outfit, has organised a programme to celebrate the protest’s anniversary. However, the organisation is also facing criticisms for not raising its voice over the LDF government’s decision to withdraw cases registered against Sabarimala protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/anniversary-of-velur-protest-to-be-observed-tomorrow/articleshow/81261207.cms||T Ramavarman
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Finally, Aliya Beyt gets a polling booth||AHMEDABAD: The Election Commission of India (ECI) for the first time set up a polling booth for the 204 voters of Aliya Beyt in Bharuch. The booth was set up in a tin-shaded school on the beyt, which has a population of around 600. In the past elections, the beyt residents had to take a boat ride to Kaladra village to exercise their franchise. In the 2019 general elections, the administration had provided bus facility to the voters to bring them to the booths. There are 105 male and 99 female voters on the beyt. The beyt is a part of the Kaladra gram panchayat. The polling officers, who had come to set up the booth, were treated with the traditional dishes of the community. According to collector M Modia, a proposal was moved to the State Election Commission (SEC) to set up a booth on the beyt which was accepted. After the approval from the SEC, a booth for taluka and district panchayat elections was set up. Mohammed Jat, a resident of the area, said, “We have been staying on the beyt since long. Even before Independence, our forefathers were residing here. The tribe here is Kutchi Muslim community. There is a kutcha road and a tent school here, and this is all we got in the name of government facilities.” An another resident Salim Jat said that the village has no drinking water facility. “We have to to drive for 20km to bring drinking water,” he added. The community is mainly into cattle rearing. The residents feel neglected by the government agencies. Some even treat them as encroachers. “We have been staying here for over a century now, how can we be called encroachers on the forest land,” said Salim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/finally-aliya-beyt-gets-a-polling-booth/articleshow/81263575.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Two years after Bombay HC order, state yet to conduct nursing council elections||MUMBAI: Two years after Bombay high court’s ruling directed the state to “expeditiously” conduct elections of the Maharashtra Nursing Council (NMC), nothing has moved. The Council continues to run under the administration of a state government appointee. Elections to the MNC were last held in 2008, and the tenure of the office bearers ended in December 2013. Section 40(3) of the Maharashtra Nurses Act, 1966, states that in the event of non-constitution of the Council after expiry of the term of its members, the government is empowered to appoint an administrator or board of administrators for not more two years in the aggregate. “Despite the court direction asking the Maharashtra government to appoint a returning officer and conduct elections, the state has not acted. Many other elections are taking place via postal ballot and this too can be conducted in a similar fashion,” said former president Ramling Mali. The petitioners had submitted that the state may not hold the elections in reasonable time and would continue to administer the Council and thereby undermine the very object and purpose of the act and democratic spirit of the Council’s constitution. Earlier in 2003 too, the state had not conducted the elections in time. The electorate comprises all registered nurses, which are about 1.5 lakh in the state. Currently, the NMC is administered by the head of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research, Dr T P Lahane. Besides, with the National Nursing and MidWifery Commission taking shape, nursing college principals said that it was important to have a democratic elected body that would ensure fair implementation of the various provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-years-after-hc-order-state-yet-to-conduct-nursing-council-elections/articleshow/81263596.cms||Hemali Chhapia
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Engineer found hanging||Kolkata: A 23-year-old youth, a BTech engineer, reportedly ended his life at his house in Garfa on Saturday evening as he had to take up a low-end job due to the crisis created during the pandemic and lockdown. The victim, Shaswata Roy, a resident of East End Park, worked with the logistics team of an American e-commerce giant. “In his suicide note, Roy described himself as a loser and said that he had been suffering from depression,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. According to the police, the youth went to his room and locked its door from inside. His family members broke open the door and found that he was hanging with a napkin from a ceiling fan. He was rushed to SSKM Hospital where he was declared brought dead. Prima facie, cops suspect that the youth took the extreme step to kill himself for his inability to find a better job. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/engineer-found-hanging/articleshow/81262266.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 1, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Auto, taxi fare hike in Maharashtra: Waiting charge rises significantly||MUMBAI: As the minimum fares for autorickshaws and taxis will be hiked by Rs 3 from today, you will also pay more for traffic snarls or waiting at the signals. The waiting charges for autorickshaw will go up from Rs 1.20 per minute to Rs 1.42 per minute, a senior official said on Sunday. Similarly, waiting at signal can push your Kaali-Peeli taxi charges to Rs 1.70 per minutes from the existing Rs 1.50 per minute. There is a hike of around 13% in waiting charges for cabs and 18% hike in charges for autorickshaws as the new fares kick in. “These charges are significant as in Mumbai, there are traffic jams and signals where one has to wait for two to three minutes,” an official said. While the meters of 4.6 lakh autos and 60,000 taxis will be recalibrated in phases across Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai till May end, drivers can charge you fares based on tariff cards till their e-meters are upgraded. The tariff card can be seen on the transport department website, an official said, adding that the department had also circulated bar codes using which one could download the tariff on mobile. The minimum fare for Cool Cab will be Rs 33.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/auto-taxi-fare-hike-waiting-charge-rises-significantly/articleshow/81264961.cms||Somit Sen
March 1, 2021||Thane||Auto, taxi fare hike in Maharashtra: Waiting charge rises significantly||MUMBAI: As the minimum fares for autorickshaws and taxis will be hiked by Rs 3 from today, you will also pay more for traffic snarls or waiting at the signals. The waiting charges for autorickshaw will go up from Rs 1.20 per minute to Rs 1.42 per minute, a senior official said on Sunday. Similarly, waiting at signal can push your Kaali-Peeli taxi charges to Rs 1.70 per minutes from the existing Rs 1.50 per minute. There is a hike of around 13% in waiting charges for cabs and 18% hike in charges for autorickshaws as the new fares kick in. “These charges are significant as in Mumbai, there are traffic jams and signals where one has to wait for two to three minutes,” an official said. While the meters of 4.6 lakh autos and 60,000 taxis will be recalibrated in phases across Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai till May end, drivers can charge you fares based on tariff cards till their e-meters are upgraded. The tariff card can be seen on the transport department website, an official said, adding that the department had also circulated bar codes using which one could download the tariff on mobile. The minimum fare for Cool Cab will be Rs 33.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/auto-taxi-fare-hike-waiting-charge-rises-significantly/articleshow/81264960.cms||Somit Sen
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Auto, taxi fare hike in Maharashtra: Waiting charge rises significantly||MUMBAI: As the minimum fares for autorickshaws and taxis will be hiked by Rs 3 from today, you will also pay more for traffic snarls or waiting at the signals. The waiting charges for autorickshaw will go up from Rs 1.20 per minute to Rs 1.42 per minute, a senior official said on Sunday. Similarly, waiting at signal can push your Kaali-Peeli taxi charges to Rs 1.70 per minutes from the existing Rs 1.50 per minute. There is a hike of around 13% in waiting charges for cabs and 18% hike in charges for autorickshaws as the new fares kick in. “These charges are significant as in Mumbai, there are traffic jams and signals where one has to wait for two to three minutes,” an official said. While the meters of 4.6 lakh autos and 60,000 taxis will be recalibrated in phases across Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai till May end, drivers can charge you fares based on tariff cards till their e-meters are upgraded. The tariff card can be seen on the transport department website, an official said, adding that the department had also circulated bar codes using which one could download the tariff on mobile. The minimum fare for Cool Cab will be Rs 33.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/auto-taxi-fare-hike-waiting-charge-rises-significantly/articleshow/81264359.cms||Somit Sen
March 1, 2021||India||Domain of cheats: Cybersquatters using Covid to spread infodemic||MUMBAI: A vaccine for Covid is out now. But sadly, there seems to be no cure yet for the misinformation being spread around the disease. And the ‘infodemic’ of coronavirus misinformation, which is rampant on social media, seems to be finding new avenues to spread. Registration of domain names (representing corporate identity/brand on the internet) have been witnessing a surge, and are increasingly being used to spread misinformation, and engage in illegal and fraudulent activities. Strangely so, the surge in Covid cases seems to have fuelled the trend, with a spike witnessed in cybersquatting cases. Cybersquatters are using terms like Covid-19, corona, drugs and vaccine within the disputed domain name for spreading widespread rumours, false information and misinformed campaigns, a World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) official told TOI. Simply put, cybersquatting is the abusive registration of trademarks as domain names, where an individual or company attempts to usurp online the reputation of an established brand. In 2020, WIPO handled 4,204 cybersquatting cases — a nearly 14% increase over 2019. Examples include gilead-covid-19.com, plaquenilcanada24.com, dettolclean.com, cloroxvpn.com, dishoom.delivery, sanoficovid19vaccine.com, business-facebook-covid19.com, plaquenil400.com, brusselsmsf.org, sanofivaccincovid19.fr, allianzbills.com, belfius-quarantaine.com, clorox.life, and hmrc-refund-covid19.com. WIPO Arbitration and Mediation Center director Erik Wilbers said, “Among the many manifestations of cybersquatting is the abusive registration of internet domain names designed to capitalise on public health crises. Like earlier outbreaks such as bird flu and swine flu, the current Covid crisis attracts numerous infringing domain names registered to attract web traffic by combining pandemic-related terms with well-known trademarks.” Recent cases where India is in the domain name include ford-india.com, gilead-india.com, volvoindiabus.com, amgenindia.com, montblancindia.com, sanofyindia.com, dettolindia.com, and indiabetway.com. Experts believe there is a surge in recent times due to a significant increase of digital technologies, and consequently an increased need of internet domain names. Covid has triggered the trend, since most people are working from home. “Working from home has increased the business of e-commerce websites, given that most people have begun shopping from home as well, getting all required information/support at the click of a button. In the present scenario, given the effects of the pandemic, the most prone are social media and pharma sectors. With widespread rumours, false information, misinformed campaigns, encouraging use of non-prescribed drugs, etc, being channelised through domains similar to popular websites such as Google (coronavirusgoogle.com), Facebook (facebookcovid19.com) have caused a significant impact. While these companies have managed to tackle these issues by opting for the Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy, it is likely that similar issues will continue to occur and it is important that companies are always proactive in their approach to protect their brands and related domain names,” J Sagar Associates partner Tony Verghese said. In India, there are no specific laws on cybersquatting. The principal safeguard for companies is ensuring the appropriate registration of their trademark/s. KPMG India partner & head (cyber security) Atul Gupta said, “Organisations spend significant time, resources and energy on establishing trust, which includes brand, reputation and goodwill (that is, digital trust on web channels) and need to be extremely considerate of domain names (including lookalikes on the internet) to ensure that there is no impact on the digital trust. Cybersquatters are also using similar domain names to inflict significant damage, also called ‘typosquatting’, which includes making a small change in the original domain name and normally not easy to detect. ” Regular monitoring and enforcement of any infringements, defensive measures such as blocking services, and issuing cease-and-desist notices proactively are some of the other safeguards that could be adopted by companies, Verghese added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/domain-of-cheats-cybersquatters-using-covid-to-spread-infodemic/articleshow/81264726.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
March 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid crisis is far from over: Expert||Thiruvananthapuram: Covid-19 crisis is far from over and allowing a third wave by lowering our guard is fraught with grave consequences, said director general of council of scientific and industrial research (CSIR) Shekhar C Mande. He was speaking on ‘India’s response to Covid-19 from S&T perspective’ as part of virtual National Science Day lectures organised by Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here on Sunday. He said continued collaboration across institutions was necessary to come out of the current situation as well as to ward off catastrophic situations arising from climate change and over dependence on fossil fuels which had the potential to wipe out the entire humanity. “India is nowhere near achieving herd immunity and such people should continue to wear masks and maintain social distancing and hand hygiene to stay away from getting infected by the virus. A third wave will precipitate a far more dangerous situation than the challenge the country had faced so far,” he said. The prevalence of Covid cases had come down not because of herd immunity, but because of other reasons, including wearing of masks and people remaining outdoors during the winter. The fact that the virus remained suspended in the air in closed areas and it lost its potency in open areas helped a great deal in controlling the spread during the winter, he said. Precisely for the same reason, the disease went out of control in the West where people remained indoors during winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-crisis-is-far-from-over-expert/articleshow/81263602.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: ‘Till now we haven’t got any case infected with new strain’||LUDIANA: As the number of cases in Ludhiana district has been witnessing an increase recently, health department is facing a challenge in containing the growing cases. Also another challenge is the vaccination of 45 lakh people from Ludhiana. Civil surgeon of the district, Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed about the current Covid scenario and the vaccination process. What is the present Covid scenario in Ludhiana?Overall, cases have increased in the state and in few other states as well cases have witnessed a rise. In Punjab, in Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, cases have witnessed rise. This is the reason that government has decided to launch Cowin 2 App and to start vaccination of people above 60 years and of people above 45 to 59 with co-morbidities. Cases have increased. Do you feel it indicates second wave has arrived in Ludhiana?We cannot say anything like that at the moment. But we want to say cases haven’t increased that much — we are getting around 50 cases a day, which is an increase of 10-12 cases. Government has started taking strict measures and has already taken some steps as well. We hope it will be controlled. There was this information by AIIMS director about new strain arriving in Punjab? Is there any such indication in Ludhiana district?No, till now we haven’t got any case infected with new strain. Genome sampling of UK returnees was negative for such strain. We are getting genome sampling of suspected cases done reports of which are awaited. It will be clear when we get reports of such samples. New deaths are being reported, what’s the reason for such rise?In Ludhiana, case fatality rate (CFR) is around the same and is around 3.5% whereas for India it is less. The main reasons for that is that in Ludhiana there are big hospitals that get more patients from outside. Then in the district patients come to us in advanced stages so there are fatalities. We request the people to get themselves tested immediately after appearance of symptoms so that they can be treated early. Cases are coming from schools daily. What are you doing to check such cases?We have already started sampling in schools and have made schedule for that. We are holding meeting with education officers and will tell them about precautions to be taken by them and by the students. We hope that it will be controlled. Vaccination is not showing good response in the district. Why do you think that is happening?I can say it is improving and those who have not got it done are now contacting us to get themselves vaccinated. Once the Cowin-2 app starts they can get themselves vaccinated. Three slots have been made available. One is mobile slot wherein people can get vaccination done after seeking appoint through online registration. Second is reserved slot wherein those who are to get second shot will be vaccinated (healthcare workers and frontline workers). Third will be open slot wherein we will register people, provide them date, time and vaccination site where they will be vaccinated. When will the registration start?It will start from Monday but vaccination for two groups, including above 60 and between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension will start from March 15. They can get registration done now. It will start for such persons as number of beneficiaries will increase for that so more hospitals will be involved. As private hospitals are involved in the process so they will need to be trained. Private hospitals, which are already involved, they will carry the process but new ones will have to be trained. Empanelled hospital that have people covered under various insurance schemes, will have to be involved in the process. What will a common person (above 45 years) have to give to prove that he has co-morbidity?They will have to give certificate from the doctor they are getting treatment from. Doctor who is treating such person will not give such certificate if a person doesn’t have co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension. There are rumours surrounding the vaccination process. What you have to say on that?Yes, rumours like a person will get impotent were there initially, but there is a lot of awareness among people now. This is the reason that the number is increasing every passing day. We want to assure people that it is safe vaccine and they should get themselves vaccinated. What is your message for people?I want to request people to follow Covid-19 norms and wear masks, maintain social distancing, avoid crowded places, maintain hand hygiene. Also, they should go out only if necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/till-now-we-havent-got-any-case-infected-with-new-strain/articleshow/81263603.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Alleging ‘betrayal’ by govt, docs to observe protest day||Thiruvananthapuram: The government medical college hospital doctors and health services doctors have alleged that the state government has betrayed them by not rectifying the anomalies in the pay revision. Even though the government had promised to fulfil their demands to end their strike, it is yet to keep its word. The Kerala Government Medical College Teachers Association (KGMCTA) and Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) have alleged that the government had neglected their demands when the anomalies were rectified in all other categories. To protest against the government, KGMOA will observe a protest day on Monday and KGMCTA will observe betrayal day on March 3 across the state. “The health and finance ministers had a discussion with us and they had assured us on clearing the arrears mounted while implementing the pay revision with retrospective effect from January 1, 2016. The government had agreed to clear the arrears from July1, 2017. But the government betrayed us by not providing this. We had called off the strike believing the words of the ministers,” said KGMCTA state president Dr S Binoy. “The KGMCTA strike had not affected the patient care in the hospitals during the pandemic time. However, we were forced to call for an indefinite strike since the government had rectified the anomalies in the pay revision in all other departments. The government gave us an assurance that it will be rectified following which we had called off the agitation. But now the government has betrayed us,” said KGMCTA state secretary Dr Nirmal Bhaskar. Similarly, KGMOA alleged that the pay revision had cut down the salary scale of the doctors in the health service and there has been repeated requests before the government to rectify this. “Even the promotional avenues of the doctors have been amended by the pay commission. However, the government ignored all our demands,” said KGMOA state president Dr G S Vijayakrishnan. The association has decided to launch a non-cooperation strike by boycotting all the works outside the hospitals from March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/alleging-betrayal-by-govt-docs-to-observe-protest-day/articleshow/81261226.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Bareilly||PTR gets equipment, kits to conduct rescue ops||Pilibhit: In view of the growing incidents of tigers straying into agricultural fields, Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) authorities have been provided with equipment and kits for conducting rescue operations to avert man-big cat conflict. The move is significant in view of the fact that at least 10% of the tigers are presently straying into rural areas due to various reasons, including space crunch in the reserve. PTR has 65 tigers, according to the last census. Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR, said five smart sticks had been provided for the staff on patrol duty. “From now on, forest patrol staff will be equipped with a smart stick that is equipped with a powerful stun gun to protect themselves from wild animals in case of a face-off. A small electric shock from the stick is enough to momentarily confuse the animal, giving time to the personnel to escape. The shock will not cause any permanent damage to the wildlife.” The stick also comprises a spot light, throbbing light and pathway light with adjustable focus to facilitate night patrolling. Its other features include rechargeable batteries, a USB phone charging port and a panic button that triggers a loud hooter to scare away animals. “We have received one double barrel tranquilizing gun to load two darts at a time to hit alternatively as per the need. A pair of DJI Mavic drone cameras to assist the field teams in tracking a wild animal lurking even in a sugarcane field,” Khandelwal said. In addition, a pair of tents each with a capacity to accommodate eight people will enable staff to stay the night at sites frequented by wild animals that stray out of the forest, he added. Like Kanha tiger reserve at Madhya Pradesh, PTR will now have two rescue vehicles, including a giant one equipped with an automatic cage loader, a veterinarian chamber, portable oxygen cylinder and other wildlife rescue material. The second vehicle is fitted with a powerful camera at its rear side to display the pictures in the driver’s cabin, Khandelwal said. One motor boat will be deployed on the 22-km stretch of the Sharda Sagar dam area and one rafting boat will be used for rescue work in river Sharda and its feeder canals, the deputy director said. A 100 khukries (a kind of machete) to remove dense shrubs during patrolling, five snake rescue kits with tongs, hooks, hand-protecting gloves and long boots will be distributed among the patrol teams, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-gets-equipment-kits-to-conduct-rescue-ops/articleshow/81259648.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: District records 160 new cases, lowest number in seven months||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The district recorded the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in seven months on Sunday. As many as 160 people were confirmed with Covid-19 on Sunday. Whether this is due to low testing rates or not is unclear since district information office doesn’t provide data on daily number of tests in the district. Previously, 167 cases were confirmed on July 24, 2020 and 70 cases were confirmed on July 30, 2020. Since then, cases have often recorded an upward spike in the district. This is the second time in February that daily cases came down below 200 in the district. As many as 199 cases were recorded on February 22. A total of 314 people recovered from Covid-19 on Sunday. As many as 2,925 people are under treatment for Covid-19 in the district. Till Sunday, 85 Covid-19 deaths were confirmed in February. As many as 110 people were infected through local transmission on Sunday of which four are healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-records-160-new-cases-lowest-number-in-seven-months/articleshow/81263611.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Surat||Jharkhand cyber fraud gang nabbed||Surat: Police arrested a gang of six from Sachin GIDC area on Sunday, who are involved in cyber frauds. The accused gang is from Jharkhand and came to the city in a car. Police suspect that they were preparing to commit some crime but got caught. Police arrested Safar Ansari, Mohammad Mehtab Ansari, Abdul Gafar Ansari, Abdul Safiq Ansari, Sirajuddin Ansari and Akbar Ansari of Jharkhand. Police seized a car, Rs 42,490 cash, four mobile phones and 36 mobile sim-cards from the accused. Preliminary investigation by police revealed that the accused are involved in a multiple debit card frauds in Gujarat, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. “The value of the majority of debit card frauds is around Rs 5,000 but the gang is involved in multiple frauds. We are investigating why had they come to the city,” said a police officer. The accused have been booked at Multai Police Station of Baitul district and Kotwali Mandsaur Police Station in Madhya Pradesh. Investigation by Sachin GIDC police revealed that the accused have transferred money from victims of Anand town and Navapura in Vadodara in Gujarat. They have duped victims from Mandavari Police Station area in Dausa district and Sabharlake police station area near Jaipur. The accused gang had duped victims from Vangaon in Palghar, Maharashtra. “The accused used to make random calls on mobile numbers and threatened the victims claiming that they are bank officials. They collected details of the debit card from the victim and used the same to transfer money to different mobile wallets,” said an officer in Sachin police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jharkhand-cyber-fraud-gang-nabbed/articleshow/81262272.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Thane||70-year-old found murdered hours after last call to daughter in Kalyan||KALYAN: An elderly woman from Kalyan was found murdered inside her apartment late on Saturday. The body of Hansa Thakkar (70) was found with the throat slit. The police said they are yet to establish the motive for the senior citizen’s murder. While no valuables have been found missing, neighbours had not heard any commotion, said the police. Last week, a 77-year-old woman was found murdered at her Worli home. Valuables were stolen and her domestic help was missing. The Kalyan resident, a widow, lived alone on the ground floor of Jhunjharrao Apartment in Bazarpeth area. Her two daughters are married and live in other localities in Kalyan. The body was discovered around 10 pm when Thakkar’s daughter, Heta Majethia, visited her mother’s flat after failing to get a response to her calls. This has led the police to conclude that the murder took place after 4 pm that day — the time Thakkarlast spoken to Heta. A police officer said that the daughters were in constant touch with their mother. After Heta’s last call that evening, she tried calling her mother a little before dinner time, like she usually did, but failed to get any response. So, Heta and her husband Tushar later went over to Thakkar’s home. “When they opened the door, they found Thakkar lying in the house, blood splattered around,” said an officer. She was taken to a hospital where she was declared ‘brought dead’. Things around the house did not seem to be in disarray, the police said, adding that no valuables have been found missing. A neighbour who lives on the first floor said that she had not heard any commotion or any indication of violence. The police quoted other neighbours as having reiterated the same. “It seems someone known to the woman is involved,” said an officer. Thakkar hardly mixed in the neighbourhood. Teams from Thane police have been formed to probe the case, said senior inspector of Bazarpeth police station, Yashwant Chavan. The police have started scanning CCTV footage for clues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/70-year-old-found-murdered-hours-after-last-call-to-daughter/articleshow/81264369.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 1, 2021||Goa||Goa: Municipal polls verdict likely today||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa is likely to give its judgement on Monday on multiple petitions challenging reservations and delimitations carried out for municipalities for the elections scheduled on March 20. “The municipality election case is fixed on Monday for judgement,” advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI on Sunday. Last week, the HC reserved the order. Pangam said that reservation of wards in Margao, Sanguem, Quepem, Mormugao and Mapusa municipalities have been challenged. He had argued in court that the elections are imminent and that the court shouldn’t interfere as this would result in delay in the civic polls. On February 22, the state election commission has stated that elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji and 11 municipal councils will take place on March 20. Over 2.5 lakh voters will help political parties gauge the ground situation ahead of next year’s assembly polls. The last local election — to the zilla panchayat —showed that rural Goa overwhelmingly supports BJP. March 20 will also see the byelection to ward IX of the Sakhali Municipal Council, 22 wards of various village panchayats, and another byelection to the Navelim ZP seat. In total, around 3.5 lakh electors —almost 25% of the state’s population — will vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/municipal-polls-verdict-likely-today/articleshow/81263617.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Saffron swing or balm for palm? Rural Gujarat seals the fate||Ahmedabad: Amid Covid-19 scare, the turnout in the elections to district and taluka panchayats and municipalities remained low compared to the 2015 civic polls on Sunday. The voting remained particularly tepid in semi-urban areas as 54.82% polling was recorded in the 81 municipalities as compared to 62.77% in the previous election. Around 63.33% voted in taluka panchayats (69.18% in 2015) and 62.34% in district panchayats (69.31% in 2015). Election officials, however, said the turnout was expected to increase after the final figure is calculated and it may be close to the 2015 number. Barring some stray incidents of violence and boycott of polls in some villages, the process was conducted peacefully. The results will be declared on March 2. After a decisive victory in the six big cities, a buoyant BJP is looking to replicate its electoral success in towns and villages of the state as well. The elections are a battle for existence for the Congress, which had made significant gains in 2015 due to an acrimonious Patidar quota stir. The party, however, witnessed its worst-ever debacle in the recently concluded elections for the six municipal corporations. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is contesting 2,090 seats in the three civic bodies and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), have spiced up the polls which have remained a two-party affair for decades. Tribal-dominated Narmada district, the home to the world's tallest statue, Statue of Unity, emerged as the torchbearer for electoral awareness clocking the highest voting (over 70%) in both district and taluka panchayats. Amit Chavda, state Congress president said, “Voting has increased everywhere despite Covid impact in rural areas and municipalities. This is a clear sign of voting against misrule of the state and central government. We are confident of winning more seats than we won in 2015.” “The voting percentage has increased considerably, which reflects anger of people against misrule of Congress in taluka and district panchayats. The Congress got decimated in municipal corporations and BJP will win over three-fourths of the seats in rural local bodies as well,” said state BJP president C R Paatil. Final vote before taking diksha Vadodara: Come March 3, this 22-year-old woman will not only give up her belongings but also her identity. But even as she was busy with all rituals and ceremonies in the run-up to becoming a Jain monk, Kanchi Shah, a commerce graduate living in Godhra, did not miss the sacrosanct right of exercising her adult franchise for the final time.On Sunday morning, Shah decked in a saree and gold jewellery, reached the polling centre near Town Police Chowki with her parents to cast her vote for the last time as a citizen. Aliya Bet gets first polling booth Ahmedabad: Sunday’s local body polls was a landmark moment for 204 residents with voting rights on Aliya bet island of Bharuch district in Gulf of Khambhat. It is for the first time that residents here are voting at their own polling booth since independence. The polling booth is also the village’s first government-funded physical infrastructure. In 2019, district administration had organized a bus to ferry voters to their neighbouring Kaladra village gram panchayat for polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saffron-swing-or-balm-for-palm-rural-gujarat-seals-the-fate/articleshow/81263616.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Chandigarh||City bicycle manufacturers discuss possibilities of tech, facilities upgrading||Ludhiana: A meeting was conducted by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) with city-based bicycle and parts manufacturers to discuss the possibilities of technological upgradation of their industry and facilities being offered. The online meeting was presided over by Vandana Kumar, joint secretary, DPIIT, who discussed the draft concept note regarding bicycle phase -II project. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) said, “United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) will contribute to enhance the global competitive position of the Indian bicycle industry by facilitating the adoption of latest technologies and global best practices, adherence to product and performance standards for bicycles and bicycle parts in India and promoting the use of bicycles as a sustainable, economical and healthy mobility option in India. FICO will aid the cause of UNIDO for the upgradation of the bicycle industry, and FICO will bear the 1% cost of the total project.” Joint secretary Kumar said, “To facilitate the manufacturers of bicycles and bicycle parts, to make them become competitive locally and internationally, in line with national regulations and standards, global best practices and market trends should be followed. The proposed outputs of are upscaling and upgrading of testing facilities to meet evolving industry’s requirements. Technical capacity building and handholding for industry units, especially SMEs, for the adoption of modern manufacturing processes. We are also planning awareness building initiatives to promote cycling. The outputs and activities of the proposed project are planned for execution over a period of three years.” Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, senior vice-president of FICO and Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO also attended the session and shared their inputs. According to Sachdeva, “The discussion was fruitful and the joint secretary of DPIIT gave us extensive time for discussions. We will make sure that Ludhiana’s cycle industry is benefited by the scheme, which is focussed on the development of bicycle and parts manufacturers and make us competitive enough to combat manufacturers of other countries at global levels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-bicycle-manufacturers-discuss-possibilities-of-tech-facilities-upgrading/articleshow/81263614.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Kozhikode||Powerful explosives use puts wildlife at risk||Kozhikode: The illegal use of powerful explosives to ward off wildlife has become the latest cause of concern for wildlife managers who are already battling the menace of snares and illegal power fences along forest fringes. The forest department had to seek the help of police bomb squad to diffuse around 97 explosives, which were recently seized from poachers after raiding a farm house under Chethalath range of South Wayanad forest division. The bomb squad diffused the locally-manufactured explosives after taking them to a forest on Thursday. Chethalath forest range officer K Hashif said while the accused said that the explosives were high intensity crackers which were meant to scare away wild elephants, they were powerful enough to cause injuries to elephants and even death of smaller wildlife. “They cannot be called crackers but are actually crude ‘mini bombs’. There could be even the possibility of poachers using the explosives to kill wildlife,” Hashif said. He added that cases have been registered against the accused under the Explosives Act for possession of explosives apart from Arms Act and Wildlife Protection Act. Chief veterinary surgeon Dr Arun Zachariah said that use of high intensity explosives to ward off wildlife was a dangerous practice which could cause serious injuries and trauma to the animals. “There have been multiple instances of wild elephants getting injured in explosive baits concealed inside food materials,” he said. The Supreme Court had in July last year issued notice to the Centre, Kerala government and 12 other states on a petition seeking to declare the practice of using explosives, etc. to ward off wild animals as unconstitutional and illegal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/powerful-explosives-use-puts-wildlife-at-risk/articleshow/81261236.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Sign up for vax at 5 civic, 3 private hospitals in Mumbai from 9am today||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: India is set to enter the second phase of Covid-19 vaccinations on Monday, when registrations will open at 9am for senior citizens (60 years and above) and those aged 45-60 years with comorbidities. The expansion of the vaccine drive aims to cover a total of 30 crore “priority” population at a crucial juncture when several states are witnessing an upswing in cases. For getting the shot, eligible people will have to register on the Co-WIN 2.0 portal (cowin.gov.in) or through other IT applications. In Mumbai, eight vaccination centres—five free municipal facilities and three private hospitals where people will have to pay Rs 250 —will roll out the drive on Monday. Officials said people will be given on-spot registration. At the state-level, the vaccination is likely to be rolled out in over 200 centres, although sessions were being created till late Sunday. On Monday, given that it’s the first day of tbe second phase with a new version of Co-WIN, vaccination will start from noon and continue till 5pm, BMC said. The city has around 10 lakh senior citizens. Officials said at least 19 more civic hospitals will be added as centres gradually. In addition, BMC has been handed a list of 53 private hospitals empanelled under CHGS and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said three of the 53 will be activated on Monday and every day more centres will be added. “We don’t know how many of them have the resources to participate. We will be checking all these facilities and gradually adding them.” The five civic hospitals that will vaccinate citizens are BKC Jumbo Hospital, Bandra; Mulund Jumbo Hospital; Nesco Jumbo Hospital, Goregaon; SevenHills Hospital in Marol; and Dahisar Jumbo Hospital. The three private centres where people can get the shot by paying Rs 250 are H J Doshi Hindu Sabha Hospital in Ghatkopar, K J Somaiya Medical College in Sion and SRCC Children's Hospital at Mahalaxmi. Recipients above 60 years will have to provide age proof while those between 45 and 59 years will have to produce certificates to show that they suffer from one of the 20 comorbidities listed by the Centre. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline workers will continue simultaneously. Monday onwards, people can log on to www.cowin.gov.in and register. Appointments for any date can be booked no later than 3pm on that day. For instance, for March 1, the slots will be open from 9am till 3pm, although appointments for any future date can be booked. A slot for the second dose will also be booked at the same Covid vaccination centre on the 29th day of the date of appointment of the first dose. If a beneficiary cancels a first-dose appointment, then appointment of both doses will be cancelled. A person can register up to four beneficiaries with one mobile number. Incidentally, many of the CGHS or PMJAY empanelled hospitals that largely function as dialysis centres or small-level hospitals were caught unaware by their inclusion in the vaccine drive. An employee from Lion Kartar Singh Hospital in Andheri (W) said they were a 20-bed hospital with six nurses and three doctors. “We can probably create a small vaccination centre, but our trustee will come and look into it on Monday,” the employee said, adding that they have an eight-bed ICU. “We were told only two days back. We don’t have much clarity on our role as of now,” he said. Another Chunabhatti hospital said they were surprised too at the inclusion as they mainly function as a dialysis centre. “Will the BMC be providing us with doctors and nurses to vaccinate?” the hospital employee asked. Parakh Hospital in Ghatkopar said they would need at least 3-5 days to prepare. List of hospitals in Mumbai:Apex Hospitals, Mumbai Apex Multispeciality Hospitals, Mumbai Ashtvinayak Hospital & Super Speciality Hospital, Mumbai Asian Institute of Medical Science, Mumbai Balaji Hospital, Mumbai Dr. R.N.Patil's Suraj Hospital, Mumbai Life Line Multi Speciality Hospital, Mumbai M/s S. S. Vaidya Health Care Pvt. Ltd, Mumbai Mallika Hospital, Mumbai MPCT Hospital, Mumbai Niramaya Hospital, Mumbai Panacea Hospital, Mumbai Pinnacle Ortho Centre, Mumbai Prachin Healthcare Multi-speciality Hospital, Mumbai Rane Hospital Pvt. Ltd, Mumbai Riddhi Vinayak, Critical Care & Cardiac Centre, Mumbai Riddhi Vinayak, Multi Speciality Hospital, Mumbai Sapana Health Care Centre, Mumbai Shantiniketan Hospital, Mumbai Shivam Hospital, Mumbai Shivam Hospital, Multi Spciality & Joint Replacement Centre, Mumbai Shree Balaji Hospital, Mumbai Shushrusha Heart Care Center & Multi Speciality Hospital, Mumbai Siddhivinayak Maternity & General Hospital, Mumbai SRCC Childrens Hospital, Mumbai Surana Hospital & Research Centre, Mumbai Surana Sethia Hospital Research Centre, Mumbai Surekha Criticare Hospital, Mumbai Swami Sarwanand Hospital, Mumbai Terna Multi Speciality Hospital and Research Centre, Mumbai Highland Super Specialty Hospital, Mumbai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sign-up-for-vax-at-5-civic-3-pvt-hosps-in-city-from-9am-today/articleshow/81264364.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Wanted criminal, who evaded police for 20 years, arrested||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The rural district police have arrested a wanted criminal who has been evading arrest for the past 20 years. Biju alias Attingal Ayyappan, 50 is the accused. Ayyappan has numerous grave criminal cases pending in his name in various police stations across the district. According to rural SP P K Madhu, the accused was caught from his current hideout at Ponkunnam in Kottayam by a special team of police from Attingal station on Sunday morning. By afternoon, he was brought to Attingal station, where his arrest was recorded. “The accused has been arrested as part of a special drive to nab wanted criminals in view of upcoming assembly election,” the SP said. Ayyappan, who originally hails from Thuckalay in Tamil Nadu, migrated to Attingal and was involved in many cases ranging from murder, attempt to murder, extortion and armed robbery. He had been evading arrest since 2001. He is the main accused in two murders reported under Kadakkavoor and Thirvallom police station limits. He has several attempt-to-murder cases pending at Kadakavoor, Chirayinkeezhu, Varkala, Medical College, Museum, Poojapura and Thiruvallom police station limits. Courts concerned have declared him wanted in connection with all these cases. Attingal station house officer inspector T Rajesh Kumar said Ayyappan used to shift his base frequently to evade arrest. Ayyappan was living in a Gulf country from 2007 to 2018, police said adding that he managed to flee the country while still being wanted by police using a passport he had secured using his old address in Thuckalay. “Even while he was away from home, he had been active as a criminal, controlling his accomplices remotely to commit crimes,” inspector Kumar said. The Attingal police have recorded his arrest in connection with an armed robbery he committed in the year 2001. The case pertains to robbing money from the manager of a finance firm by a gang led by Ayyappan. Following his arrest, officials in charge of as many as 18 other cases in which Ayyappan is an accused, have reached out to the Attingal police informing them about the cases. Ayyappan was produced before the local magistrate and remanded in judicial custody by Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/wanted-criminal-who-evaded-police-for-20-years-arrested/articleshow/81263655.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Swasthya Sathi camps closed down in Kol over poll code uncertainty||Kolkata: Swasthya Sathi camps across Kolkata, where applicants had been asked to turn up to get their photographs clicked, had been asked to close, a senior Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) official said on Sunday. The officials cited an Election Commission (EC) directive asking these camps to be closed. Swasthya Sathi is Rs 5 lakh family health insurance scheme in which everyone in Bengal can apply. KMC’s Board of Administrator (BoA) chairperson Firhad Hakim said, “I have also heard about it. This is very unfortunate. I need to understand the reason. The camps which are being asked to shut down are camps to take photographs of people who have applied for Swasthya Sathi cards.” “BJP is playing politics with people’s lives. We need to get more clarity.” Bengal chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab could not be reached for comment. EC officials said that they were examining if Swasthya Sathi camps can be conducted after the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) has been announced. Pending a final decision all such camps have been asked to temporarily close down, sources said. The issue surfaced after a camp in Garfa was asked to close in the afternoon. The KMC officials said that the slips for the photographing process were issued a week ago. A KMC staffer present in the camp said photographs were supposed to be taken for smart cards for which the beneficiaries were informed to attend the camp. But as the instruction came to close the camp, the beneficiaries were turned away. A camp in Entally was closed before; another in Patuli on Monday has been called off. Duare Sarkar camps, where 85.1 lakh such cards were issued immediately, had ended on February 8. CM Mamata Banerjee had asked the administration to issue health insurance smart cards given the ongoing pandemic. Trinamool MP Saugata Roy alleged this to be an EC “overstepping”. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said this is a poll stunt and the EC rightly closed it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/swasthya-sathi-camps-closed-down-in-kol-over-poll-code-uncertainty/articleshow/81262268.cms||Saikat Ray
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||3 companies of central forces hit city streets||Kolkata: Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) marched on city streets at several places on Sunday — 41 days before constituencies like Jadavpur, Kasba and Tollygunge go to polls on April 10 and at least two months before the rest of Kolkata votes. Experts believe the Election Commission (EC) has sent out signals that it has taken the confidence building measures among voters seriously. Kolkata Police top brass indicated that the three companies of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel will be patrolling in two shifts in the city, each lasting for four hours — between 9am and 1pm in the first half and again from 5pm to 9pm in the evening. “We might make special deployment depending on the ground situation,” said a senior police officer. On the first day, areas in central Kolkata like Jorasanko, Muchipara, Taltala and those in added areas like Pragati Maidan, Anandapur and Purba Jadavpur saw route marches by central forces. Each company will cover three divisions and all police stations will be covered in the next 72 hours. The Election Commission has already begun taking stock of pending arrest warrants across the state, including in Kolkata. CAPF will see more deployment in the over 760 sensitive polling booths of the city that were marked out. Lalbazar indicated that the patrolling will cover the entire area after at least one political party complained of not distributing CAPF at places where they are required. “It has also come to our notice that the state government has allocated CPF in various police districts in a manner that will serve the best interest of the party in power, without any regard to areas which have witnessed widespread violence. There will be no point served if CPF is made to make route marches in national and state highways and are kept away from sensitive areas…” read the letter by the BJP , recently submitted to the chief electoral officer of Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-companies-of-central-forces-hit-city-streets/articleshow/81262284.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Power surges coincide with mercury’s February charge||NEW DELHI: With this February turning out to be the warmest in 15 years, the higher than normal temperature has also led to a spike in power demand. The peak power demand of 4,486 MW this month was more than February 2020 (4,447 MW). In fact, the demand surpassed last February’s on 10 corresponding days by up to 10%. Though summer won’t arrive so soon, it is likely that the demand could surpass that of 2020 and even the record-breaking peak power demand witnessed in the summer of 2019. However, the projections for this summer were yet to be finalised, sources said. In the summer of 2019, peak power demand had reached 7,409 MW, an all-time high recorded on July 2. The Covid-19 outbreak did affect demand for power from non-residential users, but even then 6,214 MW was required amid relentless heat and humidity on June 19. Power demand has been going up since mid-2020. In fact, since August 2020, the demand has been higher on 95 corresponding days vis-a-vis the previous year. The demand was higher on 6 days in August 2020, 14 days in September, 17 days in October, 15 days in November and 10 in December. January 2021 witnessed 23 days when peak power demand was higher than the corresponding day last year. This means that between August 2020 and February 2021, demand was higher on around 43% of the corresponding days compared with the previous year. On December 1, 2020, peak power demand was 3,504 MW. Since then, demand has increased by over 50% and compared with November 1, by 67%. Winter 2020-21 saw demand crossing 4,000 MW on December 16, 2020 and 5,000 MW on January 1, 2021. Though the projections for summer are yet to be made, BSES officials say ensuring reliable supply in any season is as much the function of proper power arrangements as also accurate demand forecast and robust distribution network. Load forecasting is critical and done on various parameters, like the day-ahead in 96 time-slots, intra-day basis and medium term, which could range from a fortnight to a year. “Weather parameters like temperature, rainfall, cloud coverage, wind speed and direction and humidity play an important role in accurate demand forecast. Even holidays and random disturbances have an impact,” said an official. Watch Delhi: Power surges coincide with mercury’s February charge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/power-surges-coincide-with-mercurys-february-charge/articleshow/81262306.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Healthy move? Soon, de-identified patient data to give boost to R&D||HYDERABAD: Data is often referred to as the new oil. Satya Nadella recently underlined that data privacy is a human right. And between these two streams of thoughts, it’s the Indian healthcare sector that is trying to oil its research machinery by using the data of millions of patients to unravel the mysteries of the human body. While the potential is immense, what will be crucial is how individual health data will be de-identified in the future to not just ensure privacy of individuals but also further the cause of science. Sangita Reddy, joint MD, Apollo Hospitals, said a framework should be developed to allow de-identification of individual health data so that it can be utilised for scientific analysis. She said healthcare players have a sound understanding of the importance of patient privacy as they deal with this subject on a day-to-day basis. Milan Narendra, partner – government and public sector technology consulting, EY India, said for de-identification of health records in India, many technology solutions can be considered, such as conditional random fields or using emerging technologies such as natural language processing (NLP) and machine learning (ML) to automate the process. “Here, the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) stack can play a key role as well, along with tools such as the anonymisers and consent managers. However, the focus should be on the policies around data protection for citizens – like the HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) in the US,” he said. Akansh Khurana CEO, THB (Technology | Healthcare | Big Data Analytics), a clinical intelligence company, said de-identification and usage of data have been defined by the ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW) in their electronic health record (HER) standards. “De-identifying clinical datasets and leveraging them for research is critical to improving the healthcare of India. The challenge, however, is that much of the data is floating on paper, which means that de-identification is not necessarily technologically controlled but depends on human intervention,” he said. He added that policies should address challenges of data management in both physical and digital formats. Currently, the biggest challenge is that the existing datasets continue to reside in metro and tier-1 cities, and do not represent the entire country. The other challenge, Khurana said, is that lack of knowledge on ‘ethical’ boundaries, and existing ‘regulations’ make many healthcare providers and pharma companies err on the side of being over cautious and not using the available data to its full potential. Kaivaan Movdawalla, partner--healthcare performance improvement, EY India, said the power of data can be unleashed by digital capabilities. Citing an example of the NDHM initiative, which endeavours to create a health ID for every citizen, he said it will bring together the distributed health information that exists across the health continuum, which can be collectively a more powerful catalyst than any other in advancing healthcare in this country. Hence it is this data that will be the bedrock of the health system that will revolutionise advancement of products, techniques, diagnosis and therapies for providers, med tech and pharma players and aid public health and epidemiological planning, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/healthy-move-soon-de-identified-patient-data-to-give-boost-to-rd/articleshow/81263630.cms||Swati Rathor
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra; Covid deaths fall by 46% in a month as cases rise by 13%||MUMBAI: In a silver lining to the Covid-19 surge in the state, though cases increased by 42% from January to February, deaths declined by 31%. The corresponding figures for Mumbai are: a 13% rise in cases and a 46% fall in deaths. Mumbai saw its second lowest monthly death toll in February (127), the lowest being seven deaths in March last year when the pandemic had arrived. February’s case fatality rate (CFR) for both Mumbai (0.69%) and Maharashtra (0.89%) was less than 1%, the first time this has occurred. Despite there being only 28 days in February, Maharashtra witnessed 1.31 lakh positive cases, up from 92,177 in December and 1.03 lakh in November. In fact, post November, this was the biggest surge in cases the state had seen with districts in Vidarbha mainly driving the daily rise. Mumbai and Pune started adding to cases after February 10. As for deaths, Maharashtra saw 1,072 in February, down from 1,561 in January and 2,350 in December. This was the third lowest monthly death toll for the state -- first and second lowest being in the months of March (10) and April (449) last year. Mumbai too saw 127 deaths, down from 236 recorded in January and 365 in December. Although fewer cases were reported in January (16,310), deaths were higher compared to February when more cases (18,362) were added. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the government, maintained that despite the surge in cases, there was nothing to suggest that the case fatality rate was rising as well. “Although there could be a mutation responsible for the surge along with other factors, it doesn’t appear to be as virulent. But we have to wait and watch,” he said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday, “The Covid risk is still there and is, in fact, increasing. We are improving and upgrading the system wherever required. We are also trying to curb the second wave and cases by increasing the quantum of health services wherever cases are increasing.” He has reiterated his appeal to people to use masks, maintain social distance and wash hands. “The cases in Amaravati, Akola, Washim and Buldhana now are on the rise more than the last peak period. So even after you get a vaccine, you should use a mask for the next few months,” he said. Although in certain districts, cases were close to the September peak, February’s overall numbers were nowhere close to September (5.93 lakh cases). On Sunday, the state reported over 8,000 cases for the fifth day in a row; 8,293 cases took the tally to 21,55,070 and 62 deaths took the toll to 52,154. After a slight dip on Saturday when cases went under 1,000, Mumbai was back to reporting over 1,000 cases on Sunday; 1,051 cases took the city’s Covid tally to 3,25,917, while five deaths took the toll to 11,475. The city’s growth rate rose to 0.28% bringing down the doubling time to 245 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-deaths-fall-by-46-in-a-month-as-cases-rise-by-13/articleshow/81264391.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 1, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Woman caught with drugs worth Rs 19 lakh||SURAT: Special operation group (SOG) of city police nabbed a 28-year-old woman from Surat railway station on Sunday when she was returning from Mumbai with mephedrone worth Rs 19.79 lakh. Police recovered 197.94 gram MD from the accused that she had purchased from one Sonu in Mumbai. Police nabbed Yasminbanu alias Manna Kadarmiya Shaikh on a road near Bismillah Hotel. After frisking her police found a pouch of white powder in her undergarment under right underarm. She could not give a satisfactory reply when police questioned about the powder. During on-the-spot testing by officials of forensic science laboratory (FSL) it was confirmed that the powder is MD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-caught-with-drugs-worth-rs-19-lakh/articleshow/81262319.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Chandigarh||3 candidates elected unopposed for Lodhi Club||Ludhiana: With just a week left for the Lodhi Club elections, two candidates, both women, have been elected unopposed. Dr Mohanjit Kaur has been elected as the culture secretary while Niti Gupta has been elected on executive member’s post reserved for female candidate. And finance secretary post candidates —Vishal Garg and Munish Gupta had — have struck a compromise with each other, which has paved way for Gupta to be elected unopposed. According to the sources, a politician, who is known to both the candidates and their groups brokered the compromise. Following which Garg has withdrawn his candidature. Further, according to the terms of the compromise, in the next elections Gupta will not contest for the post and Garg will contest with Gupta’s group supporting him. Confirming about his withdrawal, Garg, said, “We have lot of common friends majority of whom advised us both to not to contest elections against each other and a joint meeting of all of us was held in which it was decided that this time Gupta should contest for the post of finance secretary. Therefore, I have decided to withdraw my candidature.” Also according to the sources, some of the members have complained against their rivals to the election committee. Sources claimed that one of the candidates has even challenged the eligibility of his rival, who is a government official, to contest the polls. The election committee is yet to take any decision. With three candidates now elected unopposed, the fight is now for seven other posts. For the post of general secretary CA Nitin Mahajan and Dr Gaurav Sachdeva are contesting , for the post of vice president Kanwaljit Singh Dang and Jogesh Gupta have filed nominations, for the post of joint secretary Dr Sarju Ralhan and Amrit Bhambri have filed nominations, for the post of mess secretary Nishit Singhania and Dr Avinash Jindal have filed nominations. For the post of sports secretary Ram Sharma and Vibhor Garg are contesting against each other and for the post of bar secretary Jagatveer Singh Bittu and Sachin Goyal are contesting and for the post of executive member C M Jindal and Rajeev Gupta are contesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-candidates-elected-unopposed-for-lodhi-club/articleshow/81263641.cms||Mohit Behl
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||70-year-old found murdered hours after last call to daughter||Kalyan: An elderly woman from Kalyan was found murdered inside her apartment late on Saturday. The body of Hansaben Thakkar (70) was found with the throat slit. The police said they are yet to establish the motive for the senior citizen’s murder. While no valuables have been found missing, neighbours did not hear any commotion, said the police. This is the second such murder of an elderly woman over the last couple of days. A widow, Thakkar lived alone on the ground floor of Jhunjharrao Apartment in Bazarpeth locality. Her two daughters are married and live in other areas of Kalyan. The body was discovered around 10 pm when Thakkar’s daughter, Heta Majethia, visited her mother’s flat as she had not responded to her calls. The murder took place sometime after 4 pm that day — the time when Thakkarlast spoken to Heta. A police officer said that the two daughters were in constant touch with their mother. After Heta’s last call that evening, she tried calling the mother a little before dinner time, as she usually did, but failed to get any response. Later, Heta and her husbandTushar went over to Thakkar’s home. “When they opened the door, they found Thakkar lying in the house, blood splattered around her,” said an officer. The police were informed and Thakkar was taken to Rukminibai Hospital where she was declared ‘brought dead’. Things around the house did not seem to be in disarray, the police said. No valuables have been found missing, said an officer, adding that Hansabenen kept her valuables with her daughters. A neighbour who lives on the first floor of Thakkar’s building said that she had not heard any commotion or got any indication of violence from the elderly woman’s house. The police quoted other neighbours as having reiterated the same. “It appears that someone known to the elderly woman is involved,” said an officer. Thakkar hardly mixed around in the neighbourhood, but shuttled between her home and the house of each of the two daughters. Teams from the Thane police have been formed to investigate the murder case, said senior inspector of Bazarpeth police station, Yashwant Chavan. The police have started scanning footage from closed-circuit television cameras around the place to look for clues. In another case, the body of a 77-year-old woman was found missing on Friday. While valuables worth Rs 5 lakh were stolen and a domestic help was missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/70-year-old-found-murdered-hours-after-last-call-to-daughter/articleshow/81260692.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Over 50 lakh elderly, people with comorbidities to get vaccine||HYDERABAD: Covid vaccination drive for the general public will have a ‘soft launch’ on Monday with the roll out in select private and government hospitals across the state. The vaccine will be given to the elderly (above 60 years) and people in the 45-59 age-group with comorbidities, both vulnerable categories. Over 50 lakh people in these categories will be covered for vaccination in the state over a period of four-and-a-half months. Though the vaccination would formally begin at 10.30 am on Monday, citizens would have to go through CoWin app for the vaccination for the initial few days. “People can register up to 3pm on Monday and get vaccinated the same day (only for Monday), director, public health, Dr G Srinivasa Rao said. The charge for a shot of the vaccine has been capped at Rs 250 at private facilities, while vaccination at government centres would continue to be free of cost. Private hospitals have an option to waive the Rs 100 service charge, while Rs 150 can be charged for the vaccine. While 91 centres would roll out the vaccination on Monday, each centre has been allowed to vaccinate up to 200 candidates to begin with, totaling 18,200 target per day. Stressing that minor reactions to vaccine like fever and pain at the site were common, director medical education Dr K Ramesh Reddy said doctors will be available to handle any minor or serious reactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-50l-elderly-people-with-comorbidities-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/81263674.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||CR trains come to a halt for over 30 minutes near Diva, commuters fume||THANE/MUMBAI: An inspection carried out by senior railway officials along the Kalyan-Mumbai segment allegedly left several commuters inconvenienced on the Thane-Kalyan stretch on Sunday afternoon. A detailed inspection was scheduled at Thane station and Parsik tunnel on the Down line, along with the fifth and sixth corridor and Diva crossing gate. Due to this, many trains were either halted or diverted on the slow track. The level-crossing gate was also kept open for 20 minutes which may have caused a delay in the train schedules and crowding on platforms, said a railway official. However, commuters had a harrowing time as they were stuck for 30 minutes to an hour. Meanwhile, CR chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said that the delay had nothing to do with the inspection. “Yes, there was an inspection on Sunday but the time when the train was stuck on the track was when the inspection team had reached Kalyan,” he said. He added that the problem was at Diva where the level crossing was initially shut to allow the maintenance trains to pass after the megablock.  When asked why the level crossing gate was open for 20 minutes, he said there was a traffic jam so they needed to be cleared the road. But this impacted the train services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cr-trains-come-to-a-halt-for-over-30-mins-near-diva-commuters-fume/articleshow/81263678.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Thane||CR trains come to a halt for over 30 minutes near Diva, commuters fume||THANE/MUMBAI: An inspection carried out by senior railway officials along the Kalyan-Mumbai segment allegedly left several commuters inconvenienced on the Thane-Kalyan stretch on Sunday afternoon. A detailed inspection was scheduled at Thane station and Parsik tunnel on the Down line, along with the fifth and sixth corridor and Diva crossing gate. Due to this, many trains were either halted or diverted on the slow track. The level-crossing gate was also kept open for 20 minutes which may have caused a delay in the train schedules and crowding on platforms, said a railway official. However, commuters had a harrowing time as they were stuck for 30 minutes to an hour. Meanwhile, CR chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said that the delay had nothing to do with the inspection. “Yes, there was an inspection on Sunday but the time when the train was stuck on the track was when the inspection team had reached Kalyan,” he said. He added that the problem was at Diva where the level crossing was initially shut to allow the maintenance trains to pass after the megablock.  When asked why the level crossing gate was open for 20 minutes, he said there was a traffic jam so they needed to be cleared the road. But this impacted the train services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/cr-trains-come-to-a-halt-for-over-30-mins-near-diva-commuters-fume/articleshow/81267389.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Budget session to commence with Governor’s address today; CM to present budget on March 4||GAIRSAIN: The 10-day budget session of Uttarakhand assembly would commence at Gairsain with Governor’s address on Monday. After a two-day discussion on Governor Baby Rani Maurya’s speech, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, who also holds the portfolio of finance ministry, would present the budget on March 4. Meanwhile, the Congress has announced that it would corner the government on the issue of unemployment and inflation. To discuss the agenda of work, the Business Advisory Committee presided over by Deputy Speaker Raghunath Singh Chauhan was held in the assembly building at Bhararisain on Sunday. Parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik, leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh, former speaker Govind Singh Kunjwal, MLA Khajan Das and secretary assembly Mukesh Singhal attended the meeting, which discussed the Governor’s speech and the proceedings of the House. Sources pointed out that the CM would present a budget — Rs 56,900 crore — in the state assembly. Notably, this would be the first budget after Gairsain being made the summer capital. After reading out the budget last year, CM Rawat had announced that Gairsain would be the summer capital of Uttarakhand. The official notification making Gairsain the summer capital was issued in June 2020 after consent from the Governor. Ministers Satpal Maharaj, Arvind Pandey, Dhan Singh Rawat, and Madan Kaushik along with several other lawmakers reached Bhararisain on Monday. Later, leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh said that the “The BJP government has failed to provide employment to people. At the same time, the price rise of essential products has shot over the roof. Be it controlling prices of petrol, diesel, LPG gas cylinder or vegetable, the government has proved to be a failure on all fronts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/budget-session-to-commence-with-governors-address-today-cm-to-present-budget-on-march-4/articleshow/81261246.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 5 surrender in murder bid case||LUDHIANA: In the murder bid case of Isa Nagri Puli, in which a brother duo of Islamgunj area was attacked by a group of miscreants, five accused have surrendered before the police on Saturday. Two of the accused, Bhupinder Singh and Heera, have already been arrested by the police in this case on February 16. The accused who have surrendered before the police are Simranjit Singh, Rajwinder Singh, Arjan Singh, Karanjit Singh and Prem Singh – all residents of Islam Ganj. The police have recovered sharp edged weapons, used in the crime, from their possession. According to police total 15 accused were involved in this case, including those who helped the main accused in escaping. Additional deputy commissioner of police-I Pragya Jain said the police were conducting continuous raids for their arrest of the accused and due to the pressure, the accused surrendered themselves. In June 2020 the both groups had a fight and attacked each other over a minor issue of parking in the locality. In that matter a cross FIR was lodged. On February 8, when complainant Pargat Singh along with his brother Indermohan Singh and a friend had gone to the district court to meet their lawyer, the accused were also present there. The accused started staring at them however he ignored and left from there to reach home. On the way the accused intercepted their way and attacked them. She added, the incident was captured in the CCTVs installed near the spot. With the help of CCTV footage and detailed investigation the police found that a total 15 persons are involved in this case, including the ones, who helped the main accused. The police will soon arrest the rest of the accused also. Further Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at police station division number 3 said that Simranjit Singh, who is the main accused, is already facing trial in three separate cases including kidnapping, assaulting a government official. Prem Singh has two cases, including assault and kidnapping lodged against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-surrender-in-murder-bid-case/articleshow/81263659.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Meerut||Shamli police recovers 52 mobiles, returns to owners||Muzaffarnagar: Shamli police on Sunday handed over 52 mobile phones that had been stolen over the past one year to their respective owners. The mobiles were recovered by the surveillance cell team. Sukirti Madav, Shamli SP, had ordered that all the stolen mobile phones be put on surveillance. The team managed to recover 52 mobile phones worth Rs 10 lakh. The team was rewarded Rs 10,000 by the SP. These were handed over to their owners by the SP at an event in Shamli. In January, the Muzaffarnagar police had handed over 44 lost or stolen smartphones worth Rs 6 lakh to their owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/shamli-police-recovers-52-mobiles-returns-to-owners/articleshow/81260700.cms||Mohd Dilshad
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Old Charminar bus stand turns dumpyard||HYDERABAD: The old Charminar bus stand has turned into a breeding ground for mosquitoes and stray animals. The place, which was a RTC bus terminal, is now being used for vehicle parking. Locals complained that there is no respite from the unhealthy environment, which causes children and elders health problems. One of the vendors told TOI that they were trying to stop people who urinate in absence of public toilets in the open space. “The place has turned into a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Many are seen urinating here, due to which the place stinks a lot. The garbage should be lifted once or twice a week. The place is not cleaned regularly,” one of the vendors, Abdul Rahman said. The bus stand, which was once a centre of activity, has now been turned into a dumping yard with the foul smell emanating from the heap of garbage. The bus stand was built in 1989 and it was pulled down with a proposal to construct a multi-level parking at the same place. When contacted, South Zone GHMC officials were unable to reply as to why the construction work of multi-parking space was being delayed. Also, commuters face much inconvenience after the demolition of the stand as they have insufficient bus shelter space in front of the old bus terminal. According to sources, lack of units in GHMC and shortage of labour add to the problem with each passing day. One of the officials told TOI that the garbage was being cleaned up regularly but the wastage from different places including Shahalibanda, Yakutpura are also dumped inside the space. “Garbage from Shahalibanda, Yakutpura, Unani Hospital are dumped here. We are regularly cleaning but the wastage piles up by the evening,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/old-charminar-bus-stand-turns-dumpyard/articleshow/81263681.cms||Omar bin Taher
March 1, 2021||Meerut||Republic Day violence planned by BJP: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||MEERUT: Addressing his first kisan mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made scathing attacks on the Centre and blamed it for orchestrating violence on Republic Day at the Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally. “The entire Red Fort incident was planned by them (BJP). Several people told me that they (protesters) were deliberately shown the wrong path as they did not know their way in Delhi. Those who hoisted flags were their (BJP) workers. Our farmers can be anything but anti-nationals,” he said in Meerut on Sunday. The Delhi CM said farmers were continuously agitating in the cold because their farms would be taken over by capitalists. “Today, farmers are being tortured all over the country,” Kejriwal claimed. Water cannons are being used against them and iron nails are studded on roads to restrict their movement, he said. Stressing that farmers are not enemies of the country, he accused the Union government of surpassing the British in oppressing people. The AAP national convener alleged that the BJP cheated the farmers after coming to power. He claimed that in its 2014 election manifesto, the BJP had said that it would implement the Swaminathan Commission report and MSP (minimum support price) at 50 per cent more than actual cost of production would be given to farmers. But upon forming the government, the party gave an affidavit to the Supreme Court saying it was not possible to increase MSP as it would distort the market, he claimed. Targeting the Uttar Pradesh government, Kejriwal said sugar mills in the state owe Rs 18,000 crore to the farmers and the Yogi Adityanath government has not been able to get the dues cleared. “Yogi ji, I just want to ask what is the reason your government has kneeled in front of sugarcane mill owners. What is the purpose of your government if you can't ensure payment to cane farmers? If AAP can fix mighty discoms in Delhi and give free electricity to people in the national capital, why cannot the UP’s BJP government take on the sugar mills?” Kejriwal said, “I want Yogi ji to name any one mandi in UP where paddy or any crop produce is bought at the MSP. They keep on lying day in day out that MSP is there and will stay.” Attacking the Centre over the farm laws, Kejriwal termed these legislations “death warrant” for farmers. “The Centre’s three farm laws are the death warrant for farmers. The government wants to take away their lands and give them to 3-4 capitalists. Farmers will become labourers in their own fields, that is why it is a do or die situation for farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/farmers-rd-violence-planned-by-bjp-says-kejriwal-at-aaps-1st-up-mahapanchayat/articleshow/81260696.cms||Piyush Rai
March 1, 2021||Goa||Saligao gram sabha heats up over tenant verification||Saligao: The Saligao gram sabha on Sunday saw heated discussions between sarpanch Lafira Gomes and villagers over the verification of migrants whose identity they said are not known in the village. The sarpanch said that the police have been informed about the issue. The proposed budget for 2021-22 was read out and villagers pointed out discrepancies, demanding to know about the inflated figures in the budget. Villagers also demanded painting of speed breakers which local officials said that PWD’s road section has been informed to take up the work. Alice D’Cruz, a resident, demanded to know the status of the cattle pound proposed in the village. Mario Corderio, a resident brought up the issue of exposed junction boxes on the street lighting poles and was informed that the junior engineer of the power department has been informed. Regarding permissions to run guesthouses, the sarpanch said that an inspection will be done to check such houses. The issue of kiosks being operated on the main road by migrants also without permissions also came up. The officials said that licences were issued for selling edibles to locals and persons from outside the village. Regarding permissions to run guesthouses, the sarpanch said that an inspection will be done to check such houses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saligao-gram-sabha-heats-up-over-tenant-verification/articleshow/81263694.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Obesity should’ve been on comorbidity list: Experts||MUMBAI: Surprised that obesity has failed to make it to the list of 20 comorbidities that would determine the eligibility for Covid-19 vaccination for those between 45-59 years, experts say it should have been included as it was one of the common underlying conditions found in hospitalised patients. Overall, the categories of underlying conditions for vaccination released by the Union health ministry on Saturday has divided the medical community with some calling it exhaustive, while others have found it too restrictive, reports Sumitra Deb Roy. Doctors also pointed out that diabetes and hypertension have been clubbed with other ailments or tied to complications, or a patient’s duration of medication. One of the criteria reads ‘having diabetes for more than 10 years or with complications and hypertension on treatment’. “Diabetics have to be on medication for more than 10 years and if they have hypertension as well, they will qualify,” said physician Dr Gautam Bhansali. Bariatric surgeon Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, who had created the city’s first jumbo centre at NSCI Worli, said dropping obesity from the list was a “glaring exception”. “World over, it has been considered a risk factor. In Mumbai too, we found obese patients had a 60% higher chance of complications and an over 30% higher risk of dying from the infection,” he said, adding those with a BMI of over 40 should have been taken into consideration. “Just as diabetes and hypertension have been clubbed with other ailments, they could have added obesity too to the list,” he said. Diabetologist Dr Rajiv Kovil said metabolic issues in the 135 million obese people in India drives the epidemic of diabetes and heart diseases. “Obesity should have been included,” he added. In the US, BMI-based vaccine eligibility has been a topic of discussion since several states listed it as a criterion for getting priority vaccination based on the Centre for Disease Control’s recommendation to include the obese and morbidly obese. Dr Lakdawala said statistics show that 80% of diabetics would also be obese. A senior doctor from BYL Nair Hospital said at least 35% of their ICU patients had a higher body weight. “Their lungs were compressed and putting them on a ventilator did pose an additional challenge,” the doctor added. The list of 20 comorbidities includes heart failure with hospitalisation in the past one year, post-heart transplant, coronary heart disease with a history of bypass, chronic kidney disease, liver and stem cell transplant recipient or on waitlist, among others. The list also includes those with severe respiratory disease, blood cancers, solid cancers diagnosed on or after July 1, 2020 or people currently on any cancer therapy. A medical practitioner would have to certify a person as eligible for vaccination based on his/her previous medical reports. Apart from obesity, another point of contention has been the inclusion criteria for diabetics, which states they should have been on treatment for more than 10 years or have complications. The criterion for BP patients is ‘pulmonary artery hypertension and hypertension/diabetes (for more than 10 years or with complications) and hypertension on treatment’. According to Dr Naveen Thacker, a former civil society representative on the Global Vaccine Alliance (Gavi) board, people with diabetes and hypertension should have been included irrespective of the duration they have been on medication. “Obesity was found to be a big factor for severe disease, even in younger people. The inclusion for diabetes and hypertension is extremely restrictive. Wonder what data was relied upon to exclude obesity or to make these expectations?” he said. A total of 70% of Covid victims in Mumbai had a comorbidity with diabetes and hypertension being the predominant ones. Dr Thacker also said since certification is a must for those in the 45-59 age category, a price should be fixed on how much doctors can charge for it. A senior BMC official admitted they are yet to think of “prescription misuse”. Infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal, however, found the list exhaustive. “Perhaps calculating BMI could have been a challenge at the community level, but as vaccination becomes more flexible, we may see a modification,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/obesity-shouldve-been-on-comorbidity-list-experts/articleshow/81264387.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 1, 2021||Meerut||Fill up your tractors with fuel: Rakesh Tikait to farmers in Shamli||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A day after participating in a mahapanchayat in Baghpat, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait reached the BKU office in Shamli and launched a scathing attack on the central government. “Corporates are running the government. Had it been vice versa, a solution would have been possible. The fact is that neither the government wants to take back farm laws nor does it want to come up with a law on MSP,” he said. On his way to Saharanpur to attend a mahapanchayat, Tikait halted and talked to reporters in Shamli. "Farmers are being conveyed to be ready to leave for Delhi once a call is made. Get your tractors filled with fuel,” he said. “Forty lakh tractors will take out rallies across the country. Once sugarcane and wheat harvest is over, farmers will reach the protest sites in larger numbers,” he said. Asked about the recent incidents where visiting BJP leaders had to face heat from villagers in western UP, Tikait said, “They can go. Who is going to stop them? But they will be questioned by the villagers and they have to answer. LPG consumers were asked to give up their subsidy and they did. Now, villagers want MPs and MLAs to give up their pensions. Will they?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fill-up-your-tractors-with-fuel-rakesh-tikait-to-farmers-in-shamli/articleshow/81260697.cms||Mohd Dilshad
March 1, 2021||Delhi||DTC tickets via QR Code: Trial enters final phase||NEW DELHI: Monday will see the beginning of the month-long final phase trials of contactless e-ticketing application ‘Chartr’ on all public transport buses in the capital. The first phase of trials for the QR code-based e-ticketing system was launched by the transport department of Delhi government in August 2020 and scaled up in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The final phase of the trial, which begins today, will encompass all the routes covered by the 2,990 Cluster Scheme buses, apart from 3,760 buses operated by Delhi Transport Corporation. A statement from the transport department stated that the trials will be conducted by a special task force constituted for this purpose by transport minister Kailash Gahlot, consisting of expert members from the state transport department, DTC, Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Limited, Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology and World Resources Institute. The mobile e-ticketing application — Chartr — has been developed with the technical support of IIIT-Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dtc-tickets-via-qr-code-trial-enters-final-phase/articleshow/81262321.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actor files complaint against motorist for drunken assault||MUMBAI: A 38-year-old Marathi film and television actor complained of being molested by an inebriated motorist after a scrap with him while driving on a Goregaon street on Friday. The motorist was arrested on charges of assault, molestation and drunk driving by the Goregaon police. The actor was out with her kids in her car on Friday evening. The accused and his family drove in from the opposite direction. Both cars were boxed in on the narrow street and couldn’t pass. “The actor and the accused had a row over who would reverse and make way for the other. When the spat escalated, the actor got off her vehicle and approached the accused who reportedly used expletives and grabbed her hand,” a police official said. The actor decided to lodge a complaint. The accused is a former BPO staff and currently in judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-files-plaint-against-motorist-for-drunken-assault/articleshow/81263698.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Meerut||Youth filming uncle testing illegal weapon in party hit by bullet, dies||Muzaffarnagar: A 19-year-old youth who was filming his uncle testing a countrymade weapon at a drinking party in New Mandi area of the district died after he was hit by a bullet fired by his uncle. The incident took place on February 24. The video has been widely shared on social media. The deceased was identified as Prince (19). The video shows his uncle, Deepak, was handed over a countrymade pistol by another person, Pankaj. Deepak can be seen loading the illegal weapon, aiming it towards the sky and pulling the trigger. The next moment the bullet hit the boy who was standing nearby filming Deepak’s act. Prince sustained a bullet injury in his chest and immediately collapsed on the spot. He was taken to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Police were informed and they rushed in and sent the body for a post-mortem. On a complaint by the deceased’s father, Ajay, police have registered a case under IPC section 302 (murder) against Deepak and Pankaj. While Pankaj has been arrested, Deepak is at large. Anil Kaparwan, SHO of New Mandi police station, said, “The investigation is on. Prima facie it looks like the accused was checking the countrymade weapon and a bullet hit the boy. But we have registered the case as the family filed a complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-filming-uncle-testing-illegal-weapon-in-party-hit-by-bullet-dies/articleshow/81260702.cms||Mohd Dilshad
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Women safer than men from Covid-19; fewer cases, deaths||Nagpur: With the pandemic close to completing one year in the district, the state public health department data underlines the fact that women are safer compared to men from novel coronavirus. Only 40% of the total cases and only 30% of the deaths were females. The district civil surgeon said the district registered 4,261 deaths between March 11, 2020, and February 19, 2021. Of these, 3,526 deceased were residents of the district, 2,763 from city and 763 from rural. Also, 735 deceased were residents of other districts of Vidarbha and adjoining states who tested positive and died in hospitals in the district. As per gender-wise data of the state’s public health department, 2,480 (70.33%) of total 3,526 fatalities of the district were men and remaining 1,046 (29.67%) were women. The district recorded 1,41,782 positive cases till now, 1,13,092 cases were from city, 27,770 from rural and 920 from other districts and adjoining states. Among these, 56,491 (39.84%) cases were from fairer sex and remaining 85,291 (60.16%) were men. TOI had on October 20, 2020 had highlighted mortality and infections were higher in males compared to females. The district had registered 2,578 deaths between March 11 and September 30 of which 791 (30.68%) deceased were women and 1,787 (69.32%) were men. Similarly, after peak, between October 1 and February 19, there were 948 fatalities in the district of which 255 (26.9%) were women and 693 (73.1%) were men. This indicates further rise in deaths among males and decline in females. When it comes to age group-wise positive cases, the ratio of men and women differs with average of cumulative cases. In age group of 0-15, the district registered 8,897 cases of which 4,819 (54.16%) were men and 4,078 (45.84%) were from fairer sex. Of 34,602 cases in age group of 16-30, 19,524 (56.43%) were men and 15,078 (43.57%) were women. In age group of 31-50 years, 34,365 (62.65%) of 54,855 were men and 20,490 (37.35%) were women. Of 43,031 cases in above 51 years, 26,342 (61.22%) were men and 16,689 (38.78%) were women. Ages of 397 cases were not known, of which 241 (60.71%) were men and 156 (39.29%) were women. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe told TOI, “There are various reasons for low case fatality rate in women. Various studies across the world reveal fewer infections, hospitalizations, and morbidity in women. Also, antibodies develop faster and higher in women. All this is because females have more CD-4 + T-cells and robust CD-8 + T-cells cytotoxic activity. Also, females have increased B-cell production of immunoglobulin compared to males. Fairer sex produces more type-I interferons, a potent viral cytokine. This advantage in women significantly goes down after menopause.” Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde and president of Nagpur Obstetric Gynaecological Society Dr Vaidehi Marathe said, “Cases are higher in men compared to women as men are more exposed to the disease, as more of them work outside. Social behaviour in fairer sex is better than men. Immunity level of women is also many a times higher than men,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/women-safer-than-men-from-covid-19-fewer-cases-deaths/articleshow/81262324.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 1, 2021||Rajkot||Nigerian held from Delhi in online cheating of over Rs 1 crore||Rajkot: Junagadh district police arrested a Nigerian from New Delhi’s Dwarka area in connection with an online cheating of Rs 1.32 crore with a Mendarda-based person.According to Junagadh police, they have arrested Prince Chukwama Hezekaiah alias George Martins alias Emmanuel Chukwuma Hezekaiah, 38, a resident of Palam Road in Dwarka of New Delhi and launched further probe. Earlier on January 13, Jivraj Pansuriya, 70, a resident of Mendarda town of Junagadh district, lodged a complaint against unidentified persons with cyber police station of Junagadh district after he was cheated of Rs 1.32 crore. According to police, Pansuriya wanted to set up a trust hospital and in this connection came into contact with Hezekaiah who promised to bring him donation from foreign countries for his proposed charitable trust. An unsuspecting Pansuriya believed in the Nigerian’s words and started sending money to him and his associates as and when asked through online transactions. Finally, when the septuagenarian realised that he was being cheated, it was already too late and he had already sent Rs 1.32 crore to the frauds. “Based on the mobile numbers and bank account numbers, we traced the accused to New Delhi's Dwarka and sent a team to nab him. We brought the accused to Junagadh and he has confessed similar crimes as well,” said a police officer. Police said that the accused also confessed to having committed three more crimes of similar nature in Gurugram, Rajasthan and Mumbai. Police prepared a list of mobile numbers and bank account numbers through which the accused gang were siphoning money from online victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nigerian-held-from-delhi-in-online-cheating-of-over-rs-1-crore/articleshow/81260822.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana urges Centre to moot ITIR-like project for Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With the Centre giving Telangana a cold shoulder on the Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) project, the state government has now requested it to consider an alternative scheme that would accelerate the pace of the state’s IT sector’s growth. In a letter to Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao said, “Since it is now amply clear that the Union government is not inclined to continue the ITIR scheme, I hereby request you to consider providing a scheme or initiative in its place to ensure that cities like Hyderabad continue to flourish and provide employment to our youngsters.” Rao said that due to the Centres’ dilly-dallying on the ITIR project, much time has been wasted and many eligible youth have been denied employment opportunities. “Lakhs of local youth have been deprived of employment due to the lackadaisical attitude of the Union government,” he wrote in the letter. He pointed out that Telangana’s IT exports in 2020-21 are expected to grow over 7% to touch Rs 1.4 lakh crore (about $19 billion) from Rs 1.28 lakh crore in 2019-20. Citing Nasscom data, he said during 2020-21, the national IT exports are slated to touch $150 billion at an estimated growth rate of about 1.9%. He also added that despite Covid, Hyderabad saw the creation of 8.7 million square feet of new office space during the year and was able to attract several marquee companies such as Amazon Web Services, Goldman Sachs and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA). He said that the Telangana government has been promoting emerging technologies like AI, data analytics, IoT and cyber security, among others. Besides, the proactive role of the state government in encouraging product development, R&D, and skill development in these areas of emerging technologies has also encouraged many global and domestic IT companies to bring their technology development centres to Hyderabad, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-urges-centre-to-moot-itir-like-project-for-hyd/articleshow/81263691.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Meerut||Police rejig in UP, Meerut & Saharanpur get new SPs||MEERUT: In a major reshuffle, at least 27 senior police officers of the rank of additional superintendent of police have been transferred in the state. Meerut’s superintendent of police (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh has been transferred to Firozabad where he will be SP (rural). Singh was transferred after two years. His counterpart in Saharanpur, Vineet Bhatnagar, has been sent to Meerut in the same capacity. Firozabad SP (rural) Rajesh Kumar has been made Saharanpur SP (city). He has served as SP (rural) in Meerut before he was replaced by IPS Avinash Pandey. Additional superintendents of police in several districts including Agra, Aligarh, Shamli, Siddharthnagar and Unnao were transferred making it the biggest reshuffle of police officers in recent times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/police-rejig-in-up-meerut-saharanpur-get-new-sps/articleshow/81260711.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||At UP mahapanchayat, Kejriwal blames BJP for R-Day violence||MEERUT/NEW DELHI: Addressing his first kisan mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made scathing attacks on the Centre and blamed it for orchestrating the violence on Republic Day at Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally. “The entire Red Fort incident was planned by them (BJP). Several people told me that they (protesters) were deliberately shown the wrong path as they did not know their way within Delhi. Those who hoisted the flags were their (BJP) workers. Our farmers can be anything but anti-nationals,” Kejriwal said. Responding to the allegations, Delhi BJP said the CM’s allegations were irresponsible and shameful. Kejriwal alleged that the farmers were continuously agitating because their farms would be taken over by capitalists. “Today, farmers are being tortured all over the country. Water cannons are being used on them and iron nails are studded on roads to restrict their movement,” he added. Stressing that the farmers were not the enemies of the country, he accused the Union government of surpassing the British in oppressing people. “The Centre sent a file to me asking that the nine big stadiums in Delhi be converted into jails for farmers. But despite all tactics, including threats, I did not let that happen. My government and party have been in the service of farmers from day one, including arranging for free Wi-Fi, toilets, food and water,” said the CM. The AAP national convener alleged that BJP cheated the farmers after coming to power. He claimed that in its 2014 election manifesto, BJP had that it would implement the Swaminathan Commission report and minimum support price at 50% more than the actual cost of production would be given to farmers. “After forming the government, BJP gave an affidavit in Supreme Court saying it was not possible to increase MSP as it would distort the market,” he added. Targeting the Uttar Pradesh government, Kejriwal said sugar mills in the state owed Rs 18,000 crore to farmers and the Yogi Adityanath government had not been able to get the dues cleared. “Yogi ji, I just want to ask what is the reason your government has kneeled in front of sugar mill owners. What is the purpose of your government if you can’t ensure payment to cane farmers? If AAP can fix the mighty discoms in Delhi and give free electricity to people, why cannot UP’s BJP government take on the sugar mills?” he asked. Kejriwal said, “I want Yogi ji to name any one mandi in UP where paddy or any crop produce is bought at MSP. They keep on lying day in day out that MSP is there and will stay.” “The Centre’s three farm laws are death warrants for farmers. The government wants to take away their land and give them to 3-4 capitalists. Farmers will become labourers in their own fields, that is why this is a do or die situation for farmers,” added the CM. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the allegations proved why Kejriwal and AAP were considered anarchic and people of Delhi and the country would never forgive him. “It is really shameful that Arvind Kejriwal, a chief minister holding a constitutional post, chose to level an irresponsible statement that the unfortunate January 26 incident at Red Fort was a planned conspiracy of the Centre,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-up-mahapanchayat-kejriwal-blames-bjp-for-r-day-violence/articleshow/81262393.cms||Piyush Rai
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||ITBP fake recruitment scam has victims from Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: The Indo-Tibetan Border Police fake recruitment scam being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has victims in Srikakulam district of Andhra too. One Polaki Tulasi, son of Polaki Mallusu from Srikakulam, paid money to scammers who issued fake ITBP recruitment letters. He was an unsuccessful aspirant. The CBI booked a case of criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery, forgery for the purpose of cheating, use of forged documents and impersonation as a public servant. ITBP Directorate received complaints from the field and as well as from the Ministry of Home Affairs regarding fake appointment letters issued to unsuccessful job aspirants regarding the recruitment of constable (pioneer) and constable (driver) for the year 2015-16. Fake appointment letters were issued to candidates from Assam, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Maharasthra, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Odisha, Chattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala. “The scammers mentioned a mobile number in fake appointment letters in the name of ITBP. They were asked to deposit money. Since the involvement of persons from different parts of the country, we have complained to the CBI,” said ITBP, in it’s complaint to the CBI, a copy of which is available with TOI. The FIR didn’t name any accused but said ‘unknown persons’. The CBI has decided to record the statements of candidates who were duped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/itbp-fake-recruitment-scam-has-victims-from-ap/articleshow/81263693.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 1, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Boost for chilli farmers as crop listed under ODOFP||AMARAVATI: In what could be a big boon to chilli cultivators from Guntur and Prakasam districts, the Centre has listed the crop under One-District-One-Focus-Product (ODOFP). The Centre has also listed turmeric under ODOFP from Guntur district giving big boost to the growers. The Centre would promote these crops under various schemes and programmes to help farmers get additional income by creating demand in market. Guntur district and parts of Prakasam are known as chilli capital of the country as the varieties produced in the district are very popular in international markets. The chlli varieties of Teja, Byadigi and Guntur sannam are fetching high returns to the growers. However, the poor farm practices adopted by majority of the farmers such as use of high quantities of pesticides and drying of stocks in open fields are often giving low prices. A few agro-exporters including ITC are providing assistance and training to the farmer in producing the quality stock to get premium price in the global market. “Chilli is cultivated in about 3 lakh acres in Guntur district and another two lakh acres in Prakasam district. The farmers are producing nearly 7 lakh metric tonnes of stock every year. However, only 10 percent of the stock is getting high price while other farmers were selling the stocks at average or below remunerative prices. Switching to the good farm practices will help the farmers gain more,” said L Kranti Sekhar, an exporter. Chilli exporters are of the view that the Centre’s decision to include chlli into ODOFP list would be a big boon to the cultivators as they would get support through different central sponsored schemes. Farmers would be given drying and picking machines, tarpaulins at highly subsidised prices while special training sessions would be organised on switching to organic farming mode to cut down use of pesticides. “Several foreign countries, particularly the EU nations, are rejecting stocks due to high pesticide residues in the stocks. Our stocks will fetch exceptional prices in the international market if farmers could produce clean and pesticide free stocks,” said a senior official of agriculture marketing department. Similar is the case of turmeric farmers in Guntur. Turmeric is cultivated in about 12,000 hectares from which farmers are producing about 5 lakh metric tonnes of stock. Duggirala near Tenali is one of the biggest turmeric market places in India where several exporters come to pick up stocks. “We will extend full support to the turmeric and chilli farmers under ODOFP scheme,” said BJP MP and chairman of chilli task force, GVL Narasimha Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/boost-for-chilli-farmers-as-crop-listed-under-odofp/articleshow/81261782.cms||Samdani MN
March 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: In poll-bound Vizianagaram, locals hope for a development boost||VIZIANAGARAM: The Fort City of Vizianagaram, which was upgraded to a municipal corporation in 2019, is struggling to provide its residents with basic infrastructure. Lack of drinking water facilities, poor roads, absence of parking lots and delays in taking up underground drainage work are likely to be major issues at the upcoming municipal elections. The city has a population of over 2.5 lakh while the corporation has 50 wards. With the first  since its transition from municipality to municipal corporation set to take place on March 10, leaders of political parties in Vizianagaram are vying for the seat of the first mayor. Despite the rich historical tradition of the city, several locations await access to basic amenities and civic infrastructure. For example, the city is dependent on only a handful water bodies for its needs. At least over 32 million litres per day (MLD) is required for the needs of residents but actual supply is below 20 MLD, said K Ravi, a resident of Vizianagaram city. “The town has been facing a water crisis during summer for the past few years and sometimes we are forced to buy water from private tankers for the needs,” he added. Adequate parking facilities, too, has become a problem with the city’s expansion, resulting in traffic during peak hours. “Considering the increasing number of vehicles, the civic body authorities need to focus on setting up some parking lots to mitigate the chaos on the roads,” said a resident, K Srinivasa Reddy. “Bad roads, pig menace, poor drainage systems are the other major problems in the town. We are hoping that the first-ever elected body of the municipal corporation will focus on civic issues to make the city beautiful,” he added. Meanwhile, the BJP-Jana Sena alliance has intensified its campaign and is jointly contesting 33 out of 50 divisions. BJP has fielded 20 candidates while Jana Sena has given tickets to ten candidates. Leaders of both parties have been highlighting civic problems, citing that the TDP which earlier held the reins of the civic body did not focus on development while the YSRC has also failed to come up with a long-term plan to develop Vizianagaram. Senior TDP leader Kandi Murali Naidu’s wife K Samantakamani has been named the mayoral candidate while former Union minister and senior TDP leader Ashok Gajapathi Raju’s daughter Aditi Gajapathi Raju, who is in charge of TDP-Vizianagaram has intensified the party’s campaign ahead of elections. The ruling YSRC is yet to announce its mayoral candidate for the elections. With the upgrade to municipal corporation, residents of the city are looking forward to development and an increase in funds for the local body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-poll-bound-vzm-locals-hope-for-a-development-boost/articleshow/81261979.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Owner cries vendetta as TMC moves to raze stall||Tirupati: TDP functionaries, led by former MLA M Sugunamma and former Tirupati Urban Development Authority (TUDA) chairman G Narasimha Yadav, on Sunday opposed the move by officials of Tirupati Municipal Corporation (TMC) to raze a tea stall near a movie theatre in Tirupati. Trouble broke out when officials of the civic body arrived at the spot with an earthmover to raze the stall. The owner of the tea stall, RP Srinivas, claimed that he did not receive a reply upon questioning officials on what grounds they wanted to raze the stall. The theatre management also questioned officials on their objections as the tea stall was within theatre premises and had requisite permissions to function. Officials refrained from the demolition and left the spot after Sugunamma and Narasimha Yadav reached the spot with their supporters. Speaking to reporters, RP Srinivas alleged he had been receiving threats forcing his wife to withdraw her nomination for the civic polls. “My wife has filed her nominations on behalf of the TDP for the 43rd division. Since then we have been receiving threatening calls and as we have not heeded them, we are bring intimidated through attempts to raze down my tea stall,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/owner-cries-vendetta-as-tmc-moves-to-raze-stall/articleshow/81261832.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Distribution of voter slips by March 5, says SEC||VIJAYAWADA: The state election commission has intensified its exercise for the upcoming municipal elections. State election commissioner (SEC) N Ramesh Kumar on Sunday conducted a virtual meeting with officials of Krishna, Guntur, and West Godavari districts and enquired about the arrangements. He directed them to implement the model code of conduct strictly. The SEC also interacted with representatives of various political parties. Addressing reporters, Ramesh Kumar said, “We are focussing on increasing polling percentages in municipal elections. Helplines have been arranged to facilitate candidates and distribution of voter slips will be completed by March 5.” The SEC said that the commission had been receiving several complaints from political parties over misuse of ward volunteers. “Ward volunteers will be kept away completely from the political process to maintain strict neutrality and shall not, either directly or indirectly, participate, aid or abet in favour of any contesting candidate or political party during the election process and influence the outcome of elections by leveraging and misusing their reach as a conduit of government benefits and schemes,” he said. The SEC warned that criminal action will be initiated against volunteers who misuse data or act in favour of political parties. He added that many candidates who had failed scrutiny were requesting for a chance to renominate. This, he said was not possible technically. “We have received reports that a few candidates were forced to withdraw their nominations. I have concern for them and a decision will be announced soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-distribution-of-voter-slips-by-march-5/articleshow/81261845.cms||Venu Lanka
March 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Campaigning goes online to draw in young voters||VIJAYAWADA: Candidates for municipal elections are using social media platforms to maximise their outreach to voters within the shortest-possible time. With several restrictions imposed on campaigns by the state election commission (SEC) as part of the model code of conduct, candidates are taking to social media to explain their manifesto to voters. Major political parties are taking the local body elections very seriously and have intensified their campaigns with ministers and legislators directly monitoring. Orders passed by the SEC restrict door-to-door campaigning to five persons, including the candidate. It has also prohibited the use of public address systems and loud speakers.  Followers of candidates are also creating messaging groups to mobilise voters from various age groups. The candidates are uploading videos of their campaigns and interviews through social media with budding influencers conducting interviews and debates with candidates across parties. “Social media is a weapon and it has reduced our campaign cost this year. We are directly interacting with voters. They are posting their problems and we are giving instant replies. We have posted videos of our division development plan. Hope it will give good results,” said YSRC candidate from Vijayawada, B Vijay Kumar. Some social media promotion companies have also taken up campaign operations for candidates through packages offered at affordable rates. Meanwhile, police are keeping a close eye on these social media campaigns and taking necessary action against hate speech and fake messages shared on political groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/campaigning-goes-online-to-draw-in-young-voters/articleshow/81261871.cms||Venu Lanka
March 1, 2021||Aurangabad||IMA stresses on 2nd jab for adequate immunity||Aurangabad: Amid reports of some healthcare and frontline workers contracting the Covid-19 infection even after taking the first dose of the vaccine, the Aurangabad chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has said that the recoveries among such patients were “smooth and uneventful”.Citing examples of its own members, the Aurangabad chapter of the IMA said that elderly doctors (aged above 60 years) have defeated the coronavirus without much trouble thanks to the first jab of the vaccine.“Around 10 IMA members, who are more than 60 years old, contracted Covid despite getting the first dose of the vaccine. Had they not taken the vaccine, their recovery could have been eventful. But all of them reported smooth recoveries,” IMA Aurangabad chapter president Dr Santosh Ranjalkar said on Sunday. Claiming the vaccine is safe and effective, he said the second dose is essential to develop the desired level of immunity against the virus.Elaborating on the importance of the second dose, Ranjalkar said: “After the first dose of the vaccine, the immune system activates two important types of blood cells — plasma B cells and T cells. The first type plays a role in making antibodies. However, these cells remain for a limited time and, therefore, the second dose is imperative.”He added, “The T cells can offer long-term immunity, but the second dose of vaccine, also known as the booster dose, is essential to have these cells in the body in adequate numbers.”With the vaccine scheduled to be rolled out for the elderly and those above 45 years with comorbidities, the IMA officials said public awareness about how the vaccine works is essential. “Even after taking the first dose or the second dose, one must follow all Covid prevention norms such as wearing masks, regular washing/sanitization of hands and maintaining physical distance,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ima-stresses-on-2nd-jab-for-adequate-immunity/articleshow/81260718.cms||Prasad Joshi
March 1, 2021||Vijayawada||CPDCL warns of strict action against those stealing power||GUNTUR: The Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) has warned that criminal cases will be booked against those resorting to power theft and unauthorised consumption under new rules of the Electricity Act, 2003. The firm said that consumers should alert field officials about damages to meters as they could be held responsible if meters were not found in proper shape during inspection. In a statement issued Sunday, CPDCL vigilance executive engineer Buddhiraju Vijayakrishna said they have imposed Rs 2.27 crore as penalties against 613 consumers in February alone. “We have inspected 3,000 metres across the district in February and slapped penalties against 613 consumers who were found violating the rules,” he said. The CPDCL official explained that the chance of electricity meters getting rusted, resulting in damage to the seal would be high in coastal areas due to the high humidity. He appealed to consumers to keep a watch on their meters and alert field officials in case of damages to avoid penalties and cases. He said they had detected 79 persons resorting to direct power theft with fines of over Rs 5 lakh imposed on them. “Similarly, 53 persons were found resorting to theft despite having a meter and prompting them (officials) to impose a penalty of Rs 20.7 lakh,” Vijayakrishna said and added that 41 consumers were found tapping power in other categories while 371 people were detected using more power than the allowed load category. “69 meters were detected with low consumption than actual reading resulting in imposition of penalty of Rs 49.3 lakh,” the executive engineer said. Vijayakrishna said that section 135 of Electricity Act, 2003 would allow imposition of penalties three times of the actual bill for a first time offence and six times on the second time offence. The executive engineer added that the Act also has provisions to arrest offenders and send them to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cpdcl-warns-of-strict-action-against-those-stealing-power/articleshow/81261919.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid+ve man in home quarantine ‘spotted at gymkhana’, FIR lodged||MUMBAI: The quarantine phase is no picnic. And the authorities are serious about it! A 52-year-old man from Chembur is learning this the hard away after a criminal offence was lodged against him on Sunday for flouting the 14-day quarantine rule after he tested positive for Covid.“People from his housing society said that he had been spotted at Chembur Gymkhana,” said Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical health officer of BMC’s M-West civic ward. Other officials said they received complaints that he had been seen moving elsewhere in the area. Officials said that the man’s daughter had tested positive after which he and his wife got tested. They too were found positive. After complaints poured in, civic staff landed up at his home. His wife told them he was in the washroom. The civic staff insisted on waiting to see him, only to learn that he was not at home. “The family members did not cooperate... So, we had to lodge an FIR,” said Dr Patil, adding that the police have warned him. The man claimed that members of his society were “falsely complaining as they nurse a grudge against him”. Last week, an offence was filed against parents of a newly wed couple and organizers of the wedding in Chembur for violating protocol regarding the number of guests.—Richa.Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covidve-man-in-home-quarantine-spotted-at-gymkhana-fir-lodged/articleshow/81264400.cms||Richa Pinto
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Unemployment rate doubled since 2014, says Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Congress has demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao release district-wise data of unemployed candidates in Telangana. The unemployment rate has doubled since 2014. As per the latest figures, 19,43,783 qualified youth had registered themselves with the Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC) alone. This does not include lakhs of people who lost their jobs during the lockdown, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N Uttam Kumar Reddy. Addressing a meeting with state heads of party’s frontal organisations on Sunday, Uttam directed them to activate the cadre at all levels in the two graduate MLC seats spread in 70-odd assembly constituencies and ensure victory of Congress candidates Ramulu Naik from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam and G Chinna Reddy from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituencies. KCR has not implemented his poll promise of giving Rs 3,016 per month unemployment allowance to jobless youth. Municipal minister K T Rama Rao should prevail upon KCR to release jobless data and guidelines to dole out the allowance, he said. BJP has no moral right to seek votes in Telangana as it had dropped the information technology investment region (ITIR) project, did not set up railway coach factory in Kazipet and steel factory in Bayyaram promised in the AP Reorganisation Act, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unemployment-rate-doubled-since-2014-uttam/articleshow/81263707.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||Army cancels recruitment exam for soldiers; three held||Pune: The Indian Army on Sunday cancelled its common entrance exam for recruitment of soldiers (general duty) following a question paper leak. In a joint operation on Saturday night, Military Intelligence (MI) unit and Pune police’s crime branch arrested two ex-servicemen and a civil defence cook for leaking a question paper. Some more arrests are expected as raids continued in three other districts, a police officer said.“We cross-checked and found that the question paper that got circulated on WhatsApp matched 100% with the original question paper. We will investigate further,” Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI. In Pune, the exam was to be held at the Bombay Engineering Group and Centre (BEG&C). “About 1,000 aspirants from Pune and adjoining districts had reported for the test but, on getting instructions, we had to cancel the exam. A fresh date for the exam will be announced by the Directorate of Army Recruitment,” an army officer said.This is the second instance since 2017 when a pan-India army recruitment exam had to be cancelled. The modus operandi too was similar, job aspirants were contacted with a promise of 100% recruitment against payment in the range of Rs2 lakh and Rs5 lakh. The suspect would collect original documents from aspirants with an assurance of returning the same once they clear the exam and get selected, the police said. When contacted, army’s director general (recruiting) Lt Gen Pradeep C Nair said, “We will investigate every aspect of the matter.” Asked if a court of inquiry has been ordered, he said, “The matter has come to the fore only today. We will take a decision on this soon.”Ganesh Salunke (21), an aspirant from Sangli, lodged an FIR after the police contacted him following the arrest of ex-servicemen Ali Akhtar and Mahendra Sonawane and Azad Khan, a civil defence cook, who lives in Bopkhel near Pune. Akhtar hails from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh and was residing at Vishrantwadi here while Sonawane is from Chincholi Gurav in Satara district. All three have been booked for criminal breach of trust, cheating and common intention. Crime branch inspector Rajnish Nirmal and his team made the arrests. So far, the investigation has revealed that the trio took Rs1 lakh advance from some candidates. The remaining amount was to be taken later, the police said. The three men had approached the complainant on February 6 when the latter had gone to collect his exam admit card at the BEG&C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-cancels-recruitment-exam-for-soldiers-three-held/articleshow/81262382.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur Flying Club to be headed by Dy CFI: HC||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has given the green signal for the Nagpur Flying Club to be headed by the deputy chief flying instructor (Dy CFI), as allowed under the amended provisions of Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR). Assistant government pleader (AGP) NR Patil informed the court that the rules were revised in 2018. He stated that the rules governing the appointment of chief flying instructor (CFI) were changed in 2018 and the Dy CFI can be the head of the present category of the Flying Club. Patil added that since the rules permit the Dy CFI to head the club, the former will report to the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) for further formalities and take charge. In their order, the bench headed by justices Anil Kilor and Nitin Jamdar said, “We accept the AGP’s statement that the Dy CFI can head the Club. We expect the respondents to take steps expeditiously and upon the Dy CFI taking charge, the DGCA would carry out further process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-flying-club-to-be-headed-by-dy-cfi-hc/articleshow/81262375.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||How many jobs created by TRS: BJP||Hyderabad: BJP MLC candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates’ constituency N Ramchender Rao on Sunday wrote a letter to TRS working president and municipal administration and urban development minister KT Rama Rao seeking answers for 10 questions related to jobs and employment. Rao, in his letter, asked KTR how many jobs did the TRS regime create in the last seven years and why vice-chancellors were not appointed for several universities in the state. He sought to know if anything was happening on the 50,000 job notification and TSPSC notification. Rao also asked what happened to the Rs 3,016 allowance promised to the unemployed youth. He also asked what happened to promises to lawyers and said there was no truth in allegations levelled against him by KTR. Rao said he was ready for a debate on these issues on Monday with KTR at the Arts College on Osmania University campus. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/how-many-jobs-created-by-trs-bjp/articleshow/81263699.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Covid cases cross 52,000-mark in Aurangabad district||Aurangabad: The total number of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad district has crossed the 52,000-mark, but the fatality rate has reduced to 2.4% which a morale booster for the health department’s battle against the pandemic. As per official data, the fatality rate in Aurangabad district was at peak (14.3%) last year in April — the early outbreak of Covid-19. It was followed by gradual decline barring a few abrasions. The rate was hovering around 2.5% by the end of December. The tally of Covid cases has now gone up to 52,343 in Aurangabad district by Sunday afternoon. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) health officer Neeta Padalkar said early Covid testing leads to early medical intervention. “This can bring down the mortality rate. Citizens should not assume anything at their level and rush to nearest testing facility where Covid testing is done for free,” she said. “Delayed testing leads to the multiplication of the virus in the body causing health issues that may aggravate despite administering the best possible treatment as per protocol,” she said. Notably, many other major cities from Maharashtra including Ahmednagar (1.5%), Nashik (1.6%), Pune (2%) and Nagpur (2.3%) have slightly better fatality rate when compared to Aurangabad. Meanwhile, health authorities said the vaccination of elderly population and other target groups is expected to begin by March 7. Stating that detailed guidelines of the government were yet to be received, authorities said the civic administration would set up help centres for necessary registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-cases-cross-52000-mark-in-aurangabad-district/articleshow/81260719.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Parents want government to rethink decision to reopen schools in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With several students testing Covid-19 positive in a Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) in the state, parents demanded the government to review the situation and reconsider its decision to start schools, especially for younger children. They said that it is quite evident that children are acting as transmitting agents in spreading Covid-19 as cases have considerably increased in the state ever since the schools reopened. “It is not worth the risk. The state should not wait until the situation here also becomes worse like that of Maharashtra and other states. Schools should be closed and managements should be encouraged to continue with virtual classes,” said K Sujatha, whose sons are studying in class 5 and class 7 in a private school in Secunderabad. Parents said that after the state permitted reopening of schools, several managements have stopped online classes and are forcing all students to attend schools. With several of them not having enough space to maintain social distancing norms, parents said that chances of Covid-19 spreading through schools is very high. In the state, several cases of Covid-19 positive cases have been reported among students and teachers since the schools reopened on February1. On February 18, 26 students of Telangana Residential Social Welfare School, Gowlidoddi had to be rushed to a private hospital in Gachibowli after they showed symptoms of fever and cold. They were tested for Covid-19 as the principal tested positive. Only one student is said to have tested positive for Covid-19 among 26. Likewise, 24 children in Zilla Parishad High School, Rudraram had to be tested for Covid-19 after a teacher had tested positive. “After coming to schools for few days, several students have stopped attending classes. When enquired, they said that they are having high fever, but did not confirm whether or not it is Covid-19,” said M Ravinder, a maths teacher at a government high school. He said that as there is still a stigma around Covid-19, parents and students are not informing teachers if they tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-want-govt-to-rethink-decision-to-reopen-schools/articleshow/81262361.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Postal department to modify vans for transportation of vaccine||HYDERABAD: The postal department is waiting for clearance from the state health department to modify their mail vans to meet requirements of transporting vaccine vials. “A month ago, a three-member team including members from the medical department, transport department and TSRTC had visited ‘mail motor service’ MMS, Koti. They checked our mail vans and felt that certain modifications were necessary to transport vaccine vials. The postal department is ready to make the modifications and is waiting for specifications from the health department,” said L A Arshad Khan, senior manager, MMS. A member of the Postal Service Board (PSB), Delhi, K Sandhya Rani, who recently visited Hyderabad, said postmen and ‘gramin dak sevaks’ (GDS) would also support vaccination efforts by helping people link their mobiles with ‘Aadhaar’ numbers. Adding to this, the member of the PSB clearly stated that the department of posts does not have cold chains and cold storages and hence will not be doing vaccine transporting. “We are not tying up with the Union health ministry and even not examining the postal department’s stamp depots and postal departments stores depots across the country for cold storage facility to preserve Covid-19 vaccine vials,” member of PSB clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/postal-dept-to-modify-vans-for-transportation-of-vaccine/articleshow/81263730.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao to inspect Yadadri temple work on March 4||HYDERABAD: Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will be visiting Yadadri temple on March 4 to inspect the works which are in the final stages of completion. All arrangements are being made for the CM’s visit to the temple town. However, as the model code of conduct is in force for the graduates MLC constituencies, KCR’s visit is expected to be a low-key affair. Yadadri temple executive officer N Geeta Reddy confirmed to TOI that the works are nearing completion. The prestigious project is estimated to cost around Rs 1,800 crore and so far, Rs 800 crore have been spent. After inspecting the works, KCR is likely to consult Chinna Jeeyar Swamy and fix a muhurat (auspicious date) for the inauguration of the Yadadri temple project. Officials in the temple town said that there are no auspicious dates for another few months and that the best dates are only after Ugadi. The state government has planned to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi among other VVIPs for the inauguration of the temple. While the entire project of constructing bus stands and laying roads will take time, works on the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy main temple located on the hillock have been completed. The officials also propose to seek directions from the chief minister on the location and design of the bus stand for convenience of pilgrims coming to the temple, gas line to the prasadam building among other facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-inspect-yadadri-temple-work-on-march-4/articleshow/81262399.cms||Roushan Ali
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Warmest February, highest minimum temperature of 21.4°C in Jaipur since 1991||JAIPUR: There has been a continuous increase in temperatures across Rajasthan, making the February a little warmer with winter, which lingers on, all but vanishing from the state. On Saturday, Jaipur witnessed the warmest morning in the past 30 years when the Pink City recorded a minimum temperature of 21.4°C. The mercury also continued its upward swing across the state. On Sunday, TOI spoke to the director of Jaipur Met office on the rising mercury. “February has been warmer this season so far as many places witnessed minimum temperatures of above 19°C. Though on Sunday, we witnessed a minimum temperature of 20.7°C, we had the warmest morning on Saturday when Jaipur recorded a minimum temperature of 21.4°C,” said Radhey Shyam Sharma, director, Jaipur Met office. The minimum temperature was the highest in Jaipur since 1991, he said. “After February 18, we have been witnessing a minimum temperature of 18 to 19°C which too is unusual for this month. This year, the winter has disappeared from Jaipur and many other parts of the state a little earlier. Usually, we see minimum temperature reaching 20.0°C around mid-March,” he added. Sriganganagar remained the coolest in stateWith the mercury continuing to rise, Jayanti Market in the city, known for shops selling air-conditioners, and other markets like Hasanpura, which sell water coolers, have started getting customers. “Last year, we had a lockdown before sales picked up. But this year, we have been selling 5 to 10 air-conditioners for the past one week,” said Karan Samtani, a dealer on MI Road. Similarly, other places in the state too have been witnessing a rise in temperature. Meanwhile, Sriganganagar remained the coolest, reporting a minimum temperature of 11.8°C. But the Met office said that the state may witness an upper air cyclonic circulation which may result in mild showers and chilly winds in the morning and guide the mercury down. On Monday, the weather is expected to remain mainly dry while the minimum and maximum temperatures may continue to rise some more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/warmest-feb-highest-min-tempof-21-4c-in-pink-city-since-1991/articleshow/81263727.cms||Ashish Mehta
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||43 new Covid-19 cases surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 43 new cases of Covid-19, the coronavirus tally shot up to 96,992 in Uttarakhand on Sunday. Also, the cured cases reached 93,453 as 11 more people recovered from Covid-19 infection. “Among the new infections, the maximum of 18 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 10 in Haridwar, seven in Nainital, five in Udham Singh Nagar, and one each in Almora, Champawat and Tehri,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, the Dutt Joshi Hospital in Ramnagar, run under the World Bank-funded Uttarakhand Health Systems Development Project, became the state's first government-certified NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Health Care Providers, Quality)-certified hospital. The hospital has been operating under the PPP mode since July 2020 in collaboration with Shubham Sarvan Medical Projects Company. Yugal Kishore Pant, project director, Uttarakhand Health Systems Development Project, said that high quality services are being provided by qualified doctors in all departments like surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, orthopedics, pediatrics, ophthalmology, nasal and other diseases. He added that all the modern equipment for diagnostic tests and surgeries are available for the services of the patient in the hospital. He also informed that the hospital and all the staff are trained and ready to help the patients. Pant congratulated all the officers of the hospital, doctors, paramedical staff and all the members of the Hospital Management Committee for this achievement. He also hoped that this achievement would inspire other hospitals in Uttarakhand to improve their facilities and encourage them to get certified by NABH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/43-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/81261328.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Traders fume as Hingoli administration imposes strict curfew till March 7||AURANGABAD: In the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Hingoli district administration has announced to impose a strict curfew between March 1 and March 7. The move has sparked angry reactions, especially within the business community, which has questioned the rationale behind the decision to impose fresh restrictions. “Barring essential services, all other services — including the supply of fuel to private vehicles — have been banned in Hingoli in both urban and rural areas. Moreover, there is a blanket closure on all educational institutes,” an official release said. While the supply of milk is allowed between 9 am and 5 pm, the banks are allowed to work only for government purposes and are banned from catering to private customers. The district administration has banned marriages and other social events, whereas hotels and mess facilities are allowed to only deliver food to students and tourists. The local traders’ body has condemned the district administration for taking a unilateral decision of a week-long curfew without taking anybody into confidence. “Only isolated areas of Hingoli city have witnessed a rise in Covid cases. Therefore, it is wrong to declare a lockdown for the entire district. Different businesses had just started recovering after taking a hit during the first wave of the pandemic. The new curfew is uncalled for and has no logic,” Gajanan Ghuge, the president of the traders’ body, said. Hingoli, on Saturday, reported 46 new cases, taking the tally of total patients to 4,083 here. The Latur administration has opted for a janata curfew whereas Aurangabad has imposed a night curfew to contain the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/traders-fume-as-hingoli-admin-imposes-strict-curfew-till-march-7/articleshow/81260722.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Buy Bengal gram & paddy at MSP, Revanth tells KCR||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Sunday demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao immediately issue orders for setting up of procurement centres and procure Bengal gram and paddy at MSP from farmers in the state. In a letter to KCR, Revanth said the farmers were at the mercy of the private traders and the government’s intervention was the need of the hour. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/buy-bengal-gram-paddy-at-msp-revanth-tells-kcr/articleshow/81263717.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Boy from viral video a BJP favourite now||Hyderabad: A nine-year-old, Narsimha from Banswada in Kamareddy district, has become a favourite of BJP leaders, including BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and Nizmabad MP D Arvind, both of whom met him. Narismha’s expressions in response to Arvind’s attack on the TRS regime went viral. He told reporters that he was upset with TRS because they did not give his family a double bedroom house. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/boy-from-viral-video-a-bjp-favourite-now/articleshow/81263738.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Saffron swing or balm for palm? Rural Gujarat seals the fate||AHMEDABAD: Amid Covid-19 scare, the turnout in the elections to district and taluka panchayats and municipalities remained low compared to the 2015 civic polls on Sunday. The voting remained particularly tepid in semi-urban areas as 57.55% polling in the 81 municipalities as compared to 62.77% in the previous election. Around 64.70% voted in taluka panchayats (69.18% in 2015) and 63.77% in district panchayats (69.31% in 2015). Election officials, however, said the turnout was expected to increase after the final figure is calculated and it may be close to the 2015 number. Barring some stray incidents of violence and boycott of polls in some villages, the process was conducted peacefully. The results will be declared on March 2. After a decisive victory in the six big cities, a buoyant BJP is looking to replicate its electoral success in towns and villages of the state as well. The elections are a battle for existence for the Congress, which had made significant gains in 2015 due to an acrimonious Patidar quota stir. The party, however, witnessed its worst-ever debacle in the recently concluded elections for the six municipal corporations. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is contesting 2090 seats in the three civic bodies and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), have spiced up the polls which have remained a two-party affair for decades. Tribal-dominated Narmada district, the home to the world's biggest statue, the Statue Of Unity, emerged as the torchbearer for electoral awareness clocking the highest voting (79.16%) in taluka panchayat polls and 79.12 %In district panchayat polls. Amit Chavda, state Congress president said, “Voting has increased everywhere despite Covid impact in rural areas and municipalities. This is a clear sign of voting against misrule of the state and central government. We are confident of winning more seats than we won in 2015.” “The voting percentage has increased considerably, which reflects anger of people against misrule of Congress in taluka and district panchayats. The Congress got decimated in municipal corporations and BJP will win over three-fourths of the seats in rural local bodies as well,” said state BJP president C R Paatil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saffron-swing-or-balm-for-palm-rural-gujarat-seals-the-fate/articleshow/81262409.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Polling staff gear up for Hyderabad graduate seat poll||HYDERABAD: Gearing up for the biennial elections to the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates’ constituency polls on March 14, district election authorities are training presiding officers (POs) and additional presiding officers (APOs). The POs and APOs were on Sunday trained on Covid-19 arrangements, procedures that need to be followed on polling day, including arrangements of ballot boxes inside polling booths, seating arrangements etc. The final electoral rolls have been published and the number of electors stood at 5.31 lakh till February 18. As per records, the highest number of voters are enrolled in Rangareddy ( 1,40,968) followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (1,27,543) and Hyderabad (1,07,124). Postal ballot facility would be available for the speciallabled (person with disabilities) , electors above 80 years and Covid-19 patients. “People enrolled as voters and tested positive for Covid19 should submit a letter by hospital, people under home quarantine should submit a letter given by the district medical officer of health (DMOH) to cast their vote through postal ballot,” a nodal officer on election duty said. As per the guidelines issued by Election Commission, due to Covid19 not more than 1,000 electors would be assigned for a polling station. “We have identified 616 polling stations and 183 auxiliary polling stations, taking the tally to 799 polling stations,” a nodal officer appointed for MLC election said. In all, 93 candidates are in the fray for biennial elections to the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduate’s constituency poll. Contesting candidates should submit prior application, 24 hours before, to hold rallies, meetings and padayatras to returning officers or collectors of respective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/polling-staff-gear-up-for-hyd-graduate-seat-poll/articleshow/81263728.cms||Nabinder Bommala
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Universities, degree colleges set to reopen today||DEHRADUN: Universities and degree colleges are set to reopen from Monday for all students irrespective of course or semester. Though, the colleges had started with offline classes for selective students in December 2020, from Monday, the colleges are allowed to conduct offline classes for everyone. Not all are happy with reopening educational institutions though. Poor implementation of precautionary measures against Covid-19 among some school students is a cause of worry, they said. The schools reopened for students of classes 6-9 and 11 in the first week of February, the offline classes for Board classes had started in November 2020, and witnessed a "below average" student turnout. The basic precaution against Covid-19 like wearing a mask or maintaining social distancing hasn’t been implemented well in many cases. The student groups sense a repeat once the degree colleges reopen. “Everyone has witnessed the way the SOPs are being implemented in schools across the state. Similar things will be witnessed in colleges as well. The government should provide Covid-19 vaccine to students with immediate effect. The vaccines should be provided for free and to support this cause, we will start a campaign in the coming days,” said Mohan Bhandari, state president of NSUI. Meanwhile, the private colleges and universities have welcomed the decision and claimed that there is no reason to keep the educational institutes shut, especially when things are getting back to normal. “We have already stalled the classes for a year now. It is necessary to conduct offline classes in the higher education institutes. Precautionary measures will be followed properly and there won’t be any virus outbreak on college campuses,” said GS Warne, secretary of Association of the Self-Financed Colleges of Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/universities-degree-colleges-set-to-reopen-today/articleshow/81261334.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 1, 2021||Nashik||4 held for stealing wallet in Nashik||Nashik: Indiranagar police have arrested four people for stealing a wallet containing Rs 20,000 in cash and using the WiFi-enabled debit card for purchasing alcohol worth Rs 17,000.As per registered complaint, the wallet, belonging to a shopkeeper, was stolen on February 22. Later, the debit card was used at different liquor shops to buy alcohol worth Rs 17,000. Acting on the complaint, police began their investigation and through their informers, the police got to know that the purse was stolen by two suspects — Anup Bharati and Vishal Chere. After getting to know that Bharati stays in Satpur area, police detained him for questioning. During interrogation Bharati confessed to stealing the purse along with his friend Chere. But he also informed that he had no idea where the debit card was.The police got to know that the duo had handed over the ATM to another history-sheeter Javed Ansari. Accordingly, Ansari was detained and he also confessed that he along with his friend, Amjad Khan, had purchased the alcohol from different shops. The debit card was used at five different liquor shops. Police have recovered the stolen debit card and a motorbike, worth Rs 1 lakh, used for committing the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-held-for-stealing-wallet-in-nashik/articleshow/81260730.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||BMC tells Powai, Bhandup housing societies to stop using gardens, pools & gyms||MUMBAI: Over a dozen housing societies in parts of Powai and Bhandup have been served an appeal by BMC’s S ward, requesting them to immediately stop the use of their gardens, gymnasiums, playgrounds and swimming pools. This is among the eight other directives that were listed out in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the locality. While the average growth rate of cases in Mumbai is currently 0.28%, that of S ward stands at 0.26%. At the moment, it the ward with the highest number of sealed buildings (18), along with M west ward (Chembur) which also has 18. It also has the highest number of containment zones (8), which are slum localities. Other directives given to the housing societies include informing the ward’s Covid war room if a resident has come from outside Mumbai, using masks inside the building or when moving around in the complex, placing hand sanitizers at the entry, not holding social gathering in the society, making sure social distance is maintained, strictly isolating asymptomatic patients within respective homes, and informing the Covid war room (022 25954000) if the patients are found roaming around. BMC’s letter also states that domestic help visiting residents’ houses must be checked daily for their body temperature, or if possible, an arrangement be made for them to stay at the house they work at. Courier, delivery persons, laundry men must be stopped from entering society premises. Civic authorities said that while 10-15 cases were being recorded in the ward daily, now the number has shot upto nearly 50 daily. Assistant municipal commissioner (S ward) Vibhas Acharekar said that the reason behind this public appeal was that most of the cases were being traced to non-slum areas. “There is a rule to seal the building if there are over five positive cases. However, even if the building is sealed, sometimes there could be a crowd of residents in spaces like gardens or gyms. This would defeat the purpose of trying to ensure that people do not gather during a pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-tells-powai-bhandup-hsg-socs-to-stop-using-gardens-pools-gyms/articleshow/81264403.cms||Richa Pinto
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Not ‘use and throw’, Nagpur Covid warriors demand one year bond, govt job quota||NAGPUR: Declaring that they are not “use and throw items”, Covid warriors have responded to the calls from the district administration, which is seeking their services, by demanding one year service bond and reservation in government jobs whenever recruitment drives are conducted. Under the banner of Corona Yoddha Seva Suraksha Abhiyan, over 200 Covid warriors have refused to join duties at 12 Covid care centres which the administration plans to restart due to increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. “Last year, we were given a bond for three months or till the Covid ends but the wave continued for more than six months. The administration started removing us from September. Now, they want us back. There is no guarantee if they will keep us for even 15 days, weeks or months. We are not use and throw items,” said Ram Wadibhasme, who is leading the campaign. Wadibhasme added that some are in severe financial crisis and are forced to take up the contract being offered till March 31. “We all had decided to get our demands fulfilled and only then report to work. But some are no longer unable to say “no” and the authorities are exploiting the situation. We can’t stop a member who wants to join duty,” he said. He said the group members include lab technicians, nurses, staff nurses, ward boys, data entry operator, house keeping staff and pharmacists. “As per government data, 4,200 such regular posts are lying vacant. As we are working risking our lives, our demand is that when they fill up these posts, at least 50% should be reserved for Covid warriors like us. We have also met two ministers in this regard,” he said. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar didn’t respond to TOI’s queries on this issue. Wadibhasme said the administration has refused to given any assurance over their demand for bond and job quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/not-use-and-throw-covid-warriors-demand-one-year-bond-govt-job-quota/articleshow/81262440.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 1, 2021||Kolhapur||44 fresh cases in Maharashtra's Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 44 fresh Covid cases and one patient from Kolhapur city succumbed to the infection on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 50,437. The death toll has now risen to 1,744. As many as 48,400 patients have recovered while 293 patients are undergoing treatment. Of the fresh cases, 33 are from Kolhapur city. The city also has the highest number of active cases (80). Sangli adds 17 cases On Sunday, 17 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Sangli district. The total number of cases in the district has reached 48,492, including 167 active cases, 46,567 recoveries and 1,758 deaths. 119 patients +ve in Satara Satara district reported 119 fresh cases of Covid and one death on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 58,816. Meanwhile, 55,698 patients have recovered, 1,853 have succumbed to the infection and 1,265 are currently being treated. 74 cases in Solapur rural The rural parts of Solapur rural registered 74 cases and two deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 40,533. This includes 1,182 deaths, 38,857 recoveries and 494 active patients. Solapur city recorded 30 cases and three deaths on Sunday. The city has 399 active patients. Of the total 12,417 cases of Covid, 659 have died and 11,379 have recovered from the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/44-fresh-cases-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/81260728.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Late spike in cases spoils February good run||NEW DELHI: After 200 new Covid-19 cases were witnessed daily for four consecutive days, the numbers reduced to 197 on Sunday, apart from one fatality. February has seen a significant dip in new cases and fatalities, but in the last one week the positivity rate has been slowly going up. The number of active cases has also reached the pre-February level. With 168 patients recuperating from the disease in the past 24 hours, the number of active cases has now reached 1,335. While the figure was 1,361 on January 31, it dropped to 1,265 as February began. It kept on decreasing and at one point it seemed that it would go below the 1,000-mark. However, with a steady rise in cases in the last one week and those recuperating being comparatively fewer, active cases have jumped up nearly 25% from 1,071 last Sunday. This month saw 4,193 new cases till February 28 from 16.4 lakh tests with an average positivity rate of 0.2%. On Sunday, however, the positivity rate was 0.3% from 57,772 tests, including 39,070 RT-PCR. The overall infection tally stands at 6,39,289, out of which 6,27,044 patients have recuperated, which is a recovery rate of 98%. The death tally on Sunday reached 10,910, but February saw the mortality rate plummet. While January saw 10.2 fatalities on average daily with 317 deaths, February recorded around two deaths on average every day with the total figure on February 28 standing at 57, the same as and the lowest for a month since April. February also recorded zero deaths on multiple days for the first time in 10 months. However, with a spike in cases in other states, more relaxations, such as allowing standing passengers in public transport buses, were discussed but put on hold in a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday. In the meeting chaired by LG Anil Baijal and attended by CM Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, strict enforcement of Covid-compliant behaviour was sought, along with maintenance of current levels of RT-PCR testing to contain resurgence of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/late-spike-in-cases-spoils-feb-good-run/articleshow/81262500.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Eight killed, 18 injured in 4 Rajasthan accidents||JAIPUR: Eight persons were killed and 18 others injured in four separate road accidents at Dausa, Sriganganagar and Dholpur districts of the state on Sunday. Near Bhandana on NH-21 in Dausa district, a car hit a motorbike and killed three persons from the same family who were riding on the bike. “The deceased have been identified as Kailash Chandra (45), Nawal Kishor (30) and Sanjay Kumar (28). They were daily wage labourers and returning to Bassi after work. They were hit by a car from Jaipur going to Agra,” said a senior police officer of Sadar police station of Dausa on Sunday. Soon after the incident, local residents alerted the police and ambulance. “All the three were declared brought dead at the hospital. Two others in the car were injured,” said the officer. In another accident near MD toll plaza on the Anoopgarh-Gharsana road in Sriganganagar district, two people were killed and two others injured in a head-on collision between two cars. “Both the drivers of the cars, Ved Prakash (25) and Ramkishan (35), died on the spot while two others were injured. They were returning from a marriage,” said a senior police officer. Police said that it was a nasty collision as both the cars were badly damaged. Three people were killed and nine others seriously injured in yet another head-on collision between a car and truck near Sarmathura village of Dholpur district. An eight-year-old boy, a nine-year-old girl and the driver of the car died in the accident. “A family was returning after pilgrimage to Kaila Devi temple when the accident took place at 2am on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as Devendra (27), the driver of the car, and two children, Ujjwal (8) and Vaishnavi (9),” said Anil Gautam, station house officer, Sarmathura police station. In another accident near housing board chowki area of Dholpur, a car fell down into a gorge injuring five persons. “The driver lost control and the car fell into a 20ft gorge,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/eight-killed-18-injured-in-4-raj-accidents/articleshow/81263772.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nashik||Over 13L Nashik school students to be give de-worming tablets||Nashik: Over 13.4 lakh school students from across the district will be given the de-worming tablets on Monday, as part of the district health department’s de-worming campaign.The campaign has been organised jointly by the public health department, women and child welfare department and the education department. As many as 3,532 Asha workers and 5,226 staff of Anangwadi centres, 3,997 rural schools, 481 private schools, health workers, Anganwadi workers and teachers will be part of this programme.The de-worming tablets will be administered to children in the age group of 1 year to 19 years. The first round will take place on March 1 while the rest will be given the tablets on March 8 during the mop-up round. Children between 1 year and two years will be given 200 Mg Albendazole tablets and those above two years of age to 19 years will be given 400 Mg tablets. The teachers, Ashas and health workers will make the school students eat the tablet in front of them. This campaign aims to improve health and quality of life. In India, close to 70 % of children below five years of age are anaemic.Training to teachers, Anganwadi sevikas, Ashas, health workers about administering the tablet has been given as if some cases temporary side effects are visible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-13l-nashik-school-students-to-be-give-de-worming-tablets/articleshow/81260735.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Elderly couple foils chain-snatching attempt, catch aide waiting on bike||PUNE: An elderly couple from Baner foiled a 26-year-old motorcycle rider’s chain-snatching attempt shortly after his accomplice had grabbed the woman’s gold chain worth Rs 65,000. The incident occurred in the Murkute Garden area around 8.20pm on Saturday. The motorcyclist’s accomplice managed to flee the spot. The woman, Geeta Rukmangad Bawane (68), and her husband were on an evening stroll when the incident took place. The suspect — Dayanand Ashruba Gaikwad of Marunji — was handed over to the Chatushrungi police. Geeta lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday night. The police also seized Gaikwad’s motorcycle following his arrest. The search for his accomplice is on, an officer said. Geeta’s husband Rukmangad Bawane (75) told TOI, “We generally take a stroll for half-an-hour. A man came running from behind and snatched my wife’s gold chain. The chain broke in two pieces. The man took one piece and we have the other half,” he said. “The man then ran towards a motorcycle and was about to sit pillion. I ran towards the vehicle and before the rider could start the bike, I grabbed its rear bar. My wife and I started shouting. The pillion rider, who had snatched the gold chain, ran away from the spot, but we did not lose our grip on the vehicle,” he said. “The rider attempted to kick us twice and start the motorcycle, but we pulled the vehicle back both times. People soon gathered at the spot and helped us nab the motorcycle rider,” he said. “We found toothpaste in his pocket. The toothpaste was used to hide the registration number of the motorcycle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-couple-foil-chain-snatching-attempt-catch-aide-waiting-on-bike/articleshow/81262481.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Indoors in Ahmedabad are polluted too!||AHMEDABAD: Pollution is not a devil that lurks only on roads teeming with fuming vehicles — it also bedevils our homes, schools, and offices. We spend 90% of our time indoors, where we imagine we get a measure of protection against pollution. However, two indoor environmental experts teamed up with the AMC to map indoor pollution in 50 AMC-run schools and found toxic traces in many classrooms. During the survey, 333 classrooms were covered. In four schools, during peak summer, the experts found traces of gasses such as formaldehyde. They also discovered that Total Volatile Organic Chemicals (TVOC) were above the permissible limit of 0.1 milligrams per cubic metre thanks to off-gases emanating from furniture paint, wall paint, and plywood. In 35 schools, PM2.5 (fine particles) levels were higher than 25 micrograms per cubic metre during winters. In 33 schools, PM10 (dust) levels were higher than acceptable limits during the same period. The experts also found that only 13 schools had desirable humidity levels, while only 13% of the 50-odd schools had adequate lighting. The study was conducted by Sneha Asrani and Dipsha Shah of Cept University. In the case of particulate matter pollution such as PM2.5, the experts found that during winters — between January and mid-February — PM2.5 oscillated between 27 micrograms per cubic metre and 82 micrograms per cubic metre in 35 schools. The permissible limit is 25 micrograms per cubic metre. In the case of PM10 or dust levels, in at least 10 schools, they reached the limit of 250 micrograms per cubic metre during the same winter period. The permissible level is 100 micrograms per cubic metre. Asrani and Shah point to the effects of indoor air pollution on children’s health. “The impact of indoor air quality on students’ performance is such that by increasing the outdoor air supply rate inside a classroom, the speed of work increased by 8% overall,” the study said. It also highlighted the fact that children are particularly vulnerable to indoor air pollution as their resting metabolic rate is higher and they have higher oxygen consumption per unit body weight compared to adults. “Thus, indoor air pollution impacts academic performance of children by lowering their concentration levels and even accentuating or triggering asthma and allergies,” the study said. “The amount of daylight presenting in classrooms affects students’ performance. Higher daylight has shown an increase in test scores.” The study found that only six schools had good lighting in classrooms, exceeding 300 lux (unit of light).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/indoors-in-abad-are-polluted-too/articleshow/81262486.cms||Paul John
March 1, 2021||Nashik||Nandurbar admin forms mobile squads to collect swab samples||Nashik: The district administration, for efficient tracing and tracking of the contacts with the high risk patients, has ordered formation of mobile squads in Nandurbar city for collection of swab samples in areas where fresh Covid-19 cases have been detected. Chairing the meeting with officials from municipal council, police and health department, Nandurbar collector Rajendra Bharud said that four mobile teams will be formed in the city and they would collect swab samples of the people who came in contact with the positive cases.“Every team will comprise one official each from police, municipal council and health department. The teams will collect a minimum of 100 swabs per day of those falling in high risk categories,” Bharud said, stressing on the need to cut down the spread of the disease. The collector also came down heavily on those who were not adhering to the safety norms and asked the enforcement agencies to take stern action against those who are not adhering to the norms. “People who are defying the norms should be penalized and even cases registered against them so that the others get the message of the importance of ensuring protective measures against the fight against the virus,”said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-admin-forms-mobile-squads-to-collect-swab-samples/articleshow/81260739.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Bareilly||Watchman, 42, charred in LPG cylinder blast||Pilibhit: A 42-year-old watchman deployed at posh Vasundhara Colony charred to death after an LPG cooking cylinder at his cottage busted and caught fire early Sunday morning. Upon hearing the thunderous sound of the blast, policemen at Assam road crossing police outpost under Sungarhi police station — a few yards from the colony’s main gate — rushed to the spot only to find the charred body of the watchman. Police suspect the explosion took place due to overheating as a room heater was placed close to the cylinder. The body was sent for autopsy. SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the victim — Kallu of Kherpur village under Bisalpur kotwali — had been working as a watchman at the colony for the past six years, while his family lives in his native village||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/watchman-42-charred-in-lpg-cylinder-blast/articleshow/81259736.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 1, 2021||Pune||Man detained in PhD pupil’s murder case||Pune: The Chatushrungi police on Sunday detained a person and are questioning two others in connection with the murder of a 30-year-old doctoral student from the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), Pashan. The police refused to divulge any more information about the two persons and the role of the detained person in the crime, stating that it may affect their investigation. Sudarshan alias Balya Baburao Pandit (30), the student was residing at Sutarwadi in Pashan. He was found dead on Pashan hill on Saturday morning. Later in the day, the police registered a case of murder. Pandit was a native of Jafrabad in Jalna district. The police said the deceased student was brutally assaulted by the assailants on his head and neck sometime in the night intervening Friday and Saturday. They then disrobed him and threw his body in a trench in a bid to destroy evidence. Pandit was staying with two others on rent in Sutarwadi. When he did not return on Friday his cousin Sandeep Pandit (34) lodged a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-detained-in-phd-pupils-murder-case/articleshow/81262457.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nashik||NMC to send more swabs to Bamu lab||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has said the ban on one of the private labs in the city from conducting RT-PCR tests would not affect the swab testing of Covid-19. NMC has already made provisions to send more swabs to the laboratory of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) in Aurangabad. “We are already sending 300 swabs to the lab in Bamu per day. We may send upto 500 swabs per day if required,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintending officer of NMC. The civic body has already increased the swab collection centres from two to four last week. Now, RT-PCR tests are being conducted at Bytco, Zakir Hussain, Satpur and Morwadi hospital in Cidco division. The NMC has plans to add two more swab collection centres — one at the IMA Hall in Shalimar area and another at Indira Gandhi hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-send-more-swabs-to-bamu-lab/articleshow/81260746.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Sunday sees improved adherence to Covid curbs||NAGPUR: The call to enforce restrictive regulations over the weekend to break the corona chain witnessed a better-than-expected outcome on Sunday, with citizens opting to stay indoors while shops, except the essential ones, stayed shut. NMC’s nuisance detection squads and city police had to crack the whip at some places, slapping heavy fines on the violators who ventured out without masks, kept their businesses open despite not being bracketed within ‘essential services’ and breached Covid distancing norms. City buses largely ran empty, except on the routes where examination venues were located. A large number of students and job aspirants appearing in different examinations thronged the buses and other modes of public transport, apart from walking along the roadside. The first day of the weekend had witnessed much confusion about liquor shops, with many questioning their operating even as only essential outlets were allowed to open. On the second day, some meat shop owners, too, wanted to operate their outlets citing some orders but were asked to refrain from opening their outlets. City police chief (CP) Amitesh Kumar said the drive against not using masks and failing to follow Covid distancing norms would be intensified in the coming week. “Shops remained closed and so did the market places,” he said. Kumar supervised the deployments and the daylong bundobust with the zonal DCPs and addl CPs. The ‘aloo pyaz’ (potato-onion) market at Kalamna, allowed to open as per the norms, functioned with at least 40% less crowd. “Potato trucks had come from Chhindwara while onion consignments reached the market from Nashik and Gujarat, but there were fewer dealings than usual,” he said. “The rush was substantially less today,” he said. While the vegetable market operated, fruit and grain merchants kept their businesses closed as usual on Sunday. The veggie market and essential shops at Old Bhandara road and Itwari remained open but rest of the businesses were almost non-existent. On Sunday, Nagpur municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B extended the lockdown-like curbs till March 31, following the state guidelines. Following suit, CP Amitesh Kumar, too, imposed section 144 of criminal procedure code (CrPC) till the extended period of March 31, continuing the orders already in place to give effect to the lockdown restrictions of disallowing assembly of five or more people at public places, and other such prohibitory orders.  NMC ACTION IN NUMBERS Sans mask: 79 cases. Fine collected: Rs39,500 Mangalwadi: Fines from open shops: Rs25,000. Marriage lawns checked: 21 Ashinagar zone: Fines from open hotels: Rs15,000. Marriage lawns checked: 19 Lakadganj zone: Marriage lawns checked: 15 Satranjipura: Fines from Covid distancing and masks violators: Rs9,000 Hanuman Nagar zone: Marriage halls checked: 7 Dhantoli zone: Marriage halls checked: 8 Nehru Nagar zone: Marriage halls checked: 11 Dharampeth zone: Fines from mask, Covid distancing violators and open shops: Rs5,000 POLICE ACTION Sans mask: 183 cases Covid distancing violation: 15 cases Total fine: Rs27,500||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sunday-sees-improved-adherence-to-covid-curbs/articleshow/81262545.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||February: Shorter month, lot more cases, fewer deaths in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: After almost three months of decline in Covid-19 cases and deaths, February — the shortest month of the year — has brought back memories of the September-peak. At 46,600, the number of Covid-19 cases in 28 days of February was far more than the monthly cases reported in November (28,074), December (25,177) and January (21,065). The graph of Covid-19 cases, which was moving southward consistently since September, at once showed V-shape rise in February. This is considered an indicator of possible second wave in Vidarbha region. The sudden spike in new cases is being attributed to the more infectious variant of coronavirus found in Amravati and Yavatmal. Out of over 46,600 cases in February, more than 30,000 were reported in last 10 days of the month. If we consider this as the beginning of a new wave, this wave is going to be even bigger than September. This time, Amravati division proved to the worst sufferer. More than 60% of the Covid-19 cases reported in February are from five districts of Amravati division. From last 10 days, more than 20% samples tested in this division are returning Covid-19 positive. There are two expert views about the present condition of Covid-19 in Vidarbha. Head of medicine department at a leading medical college in Nagpur said that March will see even higher number of cases and the second wave will hit Vidarbha. “But, this time, the virus is more infectious and less dangerous. So, number of serious patients, those who require oxygen and ventilators will be low. Daily caseload will be more than even September peak,” he said. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde believes cases will come down in March. “The present control measures are keeping a check on cases and they will drop further in March. Decline in new cases will continue during summer. We can expect another wave in June-July, but till then, good vaccination coverage will again make the impact of the virus weaker,” he said. According to him, gradually, the Covid-19 will turn into an endemic disease. The statistics also support these views. As compared to January (21,065), February has reported more than double increase in number of cases (46,609). But, at 420, February has reported only 11 more deaths than January’s 409. Almost same numbers of cases (49,827) were reported in October 2020, but the same month had reported 1,492 deaths due to Covid-19. These statistics show that the number of deaths has gone down significantly, which indicates the virus has become less fatal now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/february-shorter-month-lot-more-cases-fewer-deaths-in-vidarbha/articleshow/81262538.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Passenger traffic in January highest in last 8 months||PUNE: Passenger traffic at Pune airport in January this year was the highest over the last eight months — an increase of almost 9% as compared to December last year and by more than 94% since May last year, when air traffic resumed after two months of suspension due to the pandemic. According to airport authorities, while the increase in numbers was a good sign and the same expected to improve in February and March too, April and May could see a dip. The airport would remain closed for all flight operations for around a fortnight from April 26 to May 9. “It is an unprecedented increase, considering that Pune and Maharashtra has been the epicentre of the pandemic with maximum caseload since last year. With the summer schedule set to be applicable from March-end, we are expecting more domestic connections to begin from Pune. The popular direct flight between Pune and Goa, which had been discontinued, may resume too. However, the closure of all flight operations due to runway work will have an impact,” said an airport official. “The Pune airport started with 20 flight movements on May 25 and passenger traffic of just 1,618. The month of May saw a total passenger traffic of a little more than 17,000 passengers. Presently, the total flight movement stands at around 80, an increase of around 300%. The summer schedule, which starts from March end, is expected to see some more flights but care is being taken to maintain social distancing norms,” another official pointed out. The latest passenger figures are quite low as compared to pre-Covid times. “Permission has not been given to start 100% flights and the airport will remain at 12-hour operations until October,” the official added. Aviation experts said the increase in numbers was expected. “The increase in passenger traffic is because of the increase in number of flights being operated. As for occupancy, it will take some time to achieve pre-Covid levels. However, economic recovery of Pune is expected to be faster as compared to some other major cities,” said aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar. Flyers too remain cautious about flying even now. “I boarded a flight in mid-February for the first time in months and the crowd was scary. As people queued up to enter the terminal building, there was no social distancing. By now, passengers need to be responsible enough,” said Rahul S Zaware, a flyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/passenger-traffic-in-jan-highest-in-last-8-months/articleshow/81262499.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 1, 2021||Nashik||Provide regular water supply: Gite||Nashik: Ganesh Gite, the chairperson of Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) standing committee, on Sunday, directed the water supply department to provide regular and adequate water supply with full pressure. This comes after the panel members complained about irregular, inadequate water supply in parts of the Nashik Road division. They also said water is supplied with low pressure. “The residents in parts of the Nashik Road division are getting irregular water supply for the past many days,,” said Rahul Dive, a standing committee member and corporator from the division. Dive said the division gets water from the Gangapur dam through the Gandhinagar water filtration plant. The purified water from the filtration plant is released to elevated water tanks (EWTs). These EWTs are expected to be filled before releasing water into distribution lines. But these EWTs are filled half and released to city residents through water distribution pipelines at around 4 am. As a result, the residents of the areas are getting less water with low pressure, said Dive. P B Chavan, a senior officer of NMC’s water supply department said he will call a meeting of officials from the Nashik Road division to sort out the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/provide-regular-water-supply-gite/articleshow/81260762.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Sops only for TRS members: MLA||Jangaon: TRS MLA from Station Ghanpur T Rajaiah on Sunday sparked a controversy after he said that only TRS party members would be eligible for the government’s welfare schemes. Speaking at the TRS party workers’ welfare yatra in Rajavaram village, the MLA said, “Only those who have TRS party membership will be eligible for welfare schemes,” he said. He promised party workers that those who did not receive the benefits under the Constituency Development Fund (CDF) will also receive the benefits. Meanwhile, several villagers condemned his statement. “Votes to elect the public representatives were not cast by only TRS activists, everyone from the constituency voted and Rajaiah has to remember that,” said a villager. Recently, Jangaon MLA Muttireddy Yadagiri Reddy had created controversy by stating that only TRS workers would get the double bedroom or 2BHK houses under the state government’s flagship housing scheme, while Parkal MLA C Dharma Reddy’s comments on Backward Classes and reservations had led to protests by members of the BC community and opposition parties in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sops-only-for-trs-members-mla/articleshow/81262525.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
March 1, 2021||Pune||Woman falls to death from second floor of care home||Pune: A 33-year-old mentally-challenged woman fell to her death from the second floor of a care home run by a prominent NGO in Kothrud on Saturday morning. Preliminary police investigation revealed that the woman was walking on the ramp to the second floor when a minor girl (14), also mentally challenged, pushed her, resulting in the fall. The woman died of multiple injuries, the police said.Sub-inspector Amol Ghodke of Kothrud police station said, “Initially, no one knew how the incident took place. However, CCTV footage revealed that the incident took place at the point where the ramp ends on the second floor. The minor girl is seen pushing the deceased woman. We tried to speak to the girl but she was unable to explain anything due to her own condition. The deceased woman had been staying at the home for 22 years.”A representative of the home said, “The minor girl is from Mumbai and was shifted to the facility about a month ago. There are some individuals at the home who find it difficult to walk. Hence, the institution had constructed ramps on each floor to help them walk by holding the railing bars instead of climbing steps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-falls-to-death-from-second-floor-of-care-home/articleshow/81262501.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Aurangabad||4 held for health exam malpractice||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad rural police raided a study centre in the Khokadpura area and claimed that they have busted a racket of “impersonation and cheating” during the health department exam held on Sunday. Four people have been arrested and a manhunt has been launched for their accomplices. The examination to fill the vacant positions in the public health department was held across the state in two sessions — 10 am-noon and 3 pm-5 pm. Precautions were taken to maintain confidentiality, but the paper was leaked. Chikalthana police received the information that a “duplicate” candidate is writing the paper for a candidate registered for the examination at the Dhaneshwari Agriculture College at Gevrai Tanda. API Vishwas Patil said the police team arrested two people from the study centre and two candidates from an exam centre at Gevrai Tanda. The police had laid a trap at the exam centre and arrested Madan Bahure (24) at the entrance and found a headphone device with him. He revealed the name of another person who was going to tell him the answers on the headphone device. He told the police that the information will be provided from the Gajanan study centre at Khokadpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-held-for-health-exam-malpractice/articleshow/81260748.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Cops detain one, book two for robbery||PUNE: The Bhosari MIDC police on Saturday detained a person, and are searching for his two aides, on the charge of robbing a 21-year-old man of his cellphone and cash, collectively worth Rs 10,000, earlier in the afternoon at Sardar chowk on Spine Road. Ashish Javle lodged an FIR. Sub-inspector R B Jadhav of the Bhosari MIDC police told TOI that on Saturday that Javle had gone to the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO for an exam to get a two-wheeler driving licence. “While walking back home after the exam, three men on a motorcycle stopped him at Sardar chowk and forced him to sit on the motorcycle,” Jadhav said. He said the suspects then drove to a secluded spot and thrashed him. “They robbed him of his cellphone and a sum of Rs2,500,” Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-detain-one-book-2-for-robbery/articleshow/81262528.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Unease among affiliated colleges as Batu VC resigns before end of term||Aurangabad: Barely two-year after taking charge as vice-chancellor (VC) of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technical University (Batu), V Rama Sastry has tendered his resignation. While Sastry is the second VC of the university who has put in his papers before expiry of the tenure, the development has caused unease among the affiliated colleges. Majority of leading engineering colleges from Aurangabad has parted ways from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) and sought affiliation with Batu over a period of last five-years. Principal of Deogiri Institute of Engineering and Management Ulhas Shiurkar said it is unfortunate that two VCs could not complete their stipulated term. “There is a need to look into the reasons behind premature exits. Many colleges joined Batu with very high hopes, but such exits definitely do not send a positive message among stakeholders,” he said. Earlier, VG Gaikar, predecessor of Sastry, had also tendered his resignation at the end of 2018 — before the expiry of his term. But he was persuaded to finish his term. He had openly expressed his displeasure over no required strengthening of Batu, including supply of manpower and financial assistance to the fledgling technological university. Principal of PES College of Engineering Abhijeet Wadekar said sustained growth of Batu was necessary for ensuring quality education in the field of engineering and other professional courses that come under the aegis of the technology university. “The univeristy has been performing well on different fronts since its inception and therefore many colleges are attracted towards it. We hope the university and its affiliated colleges thrive in days to come with official support,” he said. While Sastry has said that he was quitting due to personal reasons, student union ABVP has held the state government responsible for the untimely exit of the VC. “The higher and technical education department has been exerting its influence over the state universities without understanding that these are autonomous institutions. There is resentment among academic circles over such meddling by the government,” ABVP leader Swapnil Begde said. He also linked the resignation of Pradip Patil, vice-chancellor of Kavayitri Bahinabai Chaudhari North Maharashtra University (Jalgaon), to alleged growing intervention from the state government. State minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant could not be reached for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/unease-among-affiliated-colleges-as-batu-vc-resigns-before-end-of-term/articleshow/81260766.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Doctor couple charred to death||Ahmedabad: When they were returning after meeting their son in the Maninagar area of the city, a doctor couple from Bayad town of Aravalli district were charred to death on Sunday when their car collided with a truck. The accident occurred near Lihoda village on the Bayad-Dahegam road in Dahegam taluka of Aravalli district. The deceased were identified as Dr Mayur Shah and Dr Prerna Shah, both aged about 58, who ran Vatsalya hospital in Bayad town. Their son Dr Himal Shah is a gynecologist who runs a hospital in Maninagar and their daughter Pankti Shah is also a doctor, said a police officer. “Their car, which was speeding, rammed into a truck, which was also over-speeding,” said sub-inspector A J Shah of Rakhial police in Gandhinagar. Shah said that the impact of the accident was so powerful that the engine of the car flew onto the road. The truck turned turtle and fell into a roadside pit. “Due to the impact of the accident, the car doors got locked. Fuel and the heat generated by the accident sparked a major fire in the car,” Shah said. Shah said that the couple could not come out of the car. “The bodies were charred to such an extent that it was next to impossible to identify them,” said Shah. “As we found the number plate of the car, we ascertained the victims’ identities and called their son who identified his mother by the chain she wore.” A team of forensic experts were called in; the report will be available by Monday. A complaint of negligent driving causing death has been filed against the truck driver, who is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-couple-charred-to-death/articleshow/81262603.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Govt failed to provide jobs to youth: JAC||Hyderabad: The Telangana Bhumi Putra JAC on Sunday organised a round-table conference to discuss implementation of the state government’s scheme to provide jobs to the youth. The speakers said that the government had framed certain rules in 2019 to support local youth by providing jobs in the private sector but has failed to implement the same. “If the promises to provide jobs to the local youth are not implemented now when several companies are setting up offices here, many will be left behind to do menial jobs,” said Prem Kumar, member of Telangana Bhumi Putra JAC. They demanded the state to ensure 75% job quota in private sectors, start business apprenticeship programmes, offer incentives to the industry, compulsory hiring of local youth in human resources and government departments and in banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-failed-to-provide-jobs-to-youth-jac/articleshow/81262550.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Pune||One held on charge of extortion||Pune: The Hinjewadi police on Saturday arrested a man from Nere village in Mulshi on the charge of extorting Rs20,000 from a building contractor. Police arrested Vaibhav Dhamale (28) after Dashrath Kasbe of Kivale lodged an FIR. An officer from the Hinjewadi police said Kasbe had taken a contract of constructing a structure at Dhamale Vasti in Nere in May last year. “Vaibhav and his accomplice had been harassing Kasbe since then. They had also threatened to kill him and demanded a bribe if he wanted to continue work,” the officer said. Between May last year and February 23, the suspect had extorted Rs20,000. “When Vaibhav continued to harass Kasbe for money, he lodged the complaint,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-on-charge-of-extortion/articleshow/81262561.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Thane||Thane civic parking lot to turn into Covid facility||THANE: Following a slight rise in Covid-19 cases over the last one week, a wary Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has stepped up pace of converting the under-construction civic parking lot along the Eastern Express Highway into a Covid care facility. The new field hospital that will come up on the parking lot was proposed in August last year. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said that the first few floors of the parking lot building are being remodelled into a dedicated Covid hospital and will accommodate over 1,000 beds, in addition to Saket Covid hospital. Adequate staff hired by the TMC last year in addition to those provided by the contractor could be deployed here, said officials. “We can increase the number of beds, whenever required. We are prepared to operate the facility at a very short notice,” said Malvi. The facility will have adequate space for staff restrooms and for storing medicines, said TMC officials. On Sunday, 211 fresh cases and one Covid death were reported in TMC’s jurisdiction. The recovery rate stood at 96%, as 59,267 people have recovered till date and 1,743 are still undergoing treatment. Till date, more than 11 lakh tests have been conducted in Thane region, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-civic-parking-lot-to-turn-into-covid-facility/articleshow/81264420.cms||Manoj Badgeri
March 1, 2021||Pune||Mixed-reality headset lets surgeons take a giant leap in body imaging||Pune: Visual estimations are passé. Surgeons are now using gesture controls to flash in three-dimensional images at their fingertips while operating in real-time.“This is no less a scene from a science fiction,” said Pune-based surgeon Ashish Babhulkar. He is the first shoulder replacement surgeon in India and has been trained in using the HoloLens2, a mixed-reality headset that blends digital objects as 3D holograms in the physical world.Babhulkar demonstrated the immense possibilities of the technique — compacted in a headset — to the world’s finest surgeons and technocrats while operating on a 72-year-old woman at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH) on December 10, 2020.The woman had a massive tear of rotator cuff tendons leading to secondary arthritis of the shoulder joint due to the delay in recognising the tendon tear.On February 9 this year, 13 shoulder surgeons from across the world, including Babhulkar, transmitted their HoloLens2 assisted surgeries during an online event organised by Microsoft.The event was part of a project aimed at showing how HoloLens2 can benefit surgeons as well as patients and enable collaboration between doctors worldwide.Eminent shoulder surgeons sitting in their offices in Paris, and London watched the surgery on Microsoft Teams, receiving the exact surgical field that Bhabulkar was looking through.“They had the perfect, unblemished, live picture and could follow my every gaze and movement and even ask questions in between,” he said.The surgeons on three continents thus discussed the procedure, conferring on each step and sharing their respective approaches.More importantly, the mixed reality technology doesn’t cost a bomb.“It comes at just Rs7 lakh, a fraction of the premium cost (Rs 6-10 crore) involved in installing a surgical robot. For economically conscious countries like India, where health costs are unaffordable, HoloLens 2 is going to be a game-changer,” said Paris-based surgeon Thomas Gregory.HoloLens uses special software to turn conventional body scans into manipulatable 3D images. The cost-effective device also doesn’t require enormous infrastructure. “All a doctor needs is a good computer and some dexterity,” Gregory said.Currently, surgeons at most use 3D CT scan data to plan shoulder replacement surgeries. These advanced 128 slice 3D CT scans are then printed on plain paper, with multiple images for visual estimation.However, while performing a complex shoulder replacement, they (surgeons) often have to leave the surgical field and revisit the printed films on a viewing box or twist head almost 180 degrees to reinforce the visual estimation.“HoloLens 2 has changed all that. The sophisticated environmental mapping hardware and eye-tracking camera within the HoloLens 2 allows the surgeon to view 3D images in real-time,” Babhulkar said.Not only does the surgeon has the entire set of patient’s CT scans and X-ray within his/her eyesight, the surgeon can also increase, widen, rotate, twist, and move the 3D virtual image far or close.“My iris and finger control can resize the image and tuck the image in a corner, only to be retrieved at will. Just like a scene in a science fiction movie,” he saidPost-surgery, the woman recovered and”has now started her exercises. “I am almost pain-free and have no stiffness and disability,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mixed-reality-headset-lets-surgeons-take-a-giant-leap-in-body-imaging/articleshow/81262574.cms||Umesh Isalkar
March 1, 2021||Pune||Inconsistent int’l travel rules, Covid surge hit holiday plans||Pune: The ever-changing international travel regulations are taking their toll on travel agents, who have been hit by cancellations and trip deferments. “Eight clients have cancelled their bookings to Dubai and the Maldives in the past few days. Further, 18 bookings on the verge of confirmation have been cancelled,” Nilesh Bhansali, director of Travel Agents Association of Pune, told TOI. He said unclear — oftentimes confusing — travel regulations play a part in this hesitancy. “The rules should be easy to read and easier to understand. And they should not be issued by multiple agencies,” he said. According to Bhansali, a foreign trip easily costs between Rs1 lakh and Rs2 lakh. “If someone gets quarantined in a foreign country, they incur additional expenditure and nobody wants that. The cost of hospitalization is not covered by travel insurance, too,” he said. While there is a ban on international travel from India till the end of March, the country has air bubble pacts with more than 20 nations and under this, 28 flights operate per week. However, a fear of rising Covid-19 cases abroad has forced many to reconsider their plans. Puneet Divekar, a businessman from Koregaon Park, planned a trip with his wife to Dubai in March. He told his travel agent to postpone the trip on Saturday. “The regulations are quite confusing and I also learnt that there was a surge in Covid-19 cases in Dubai. We have decided to wait for a month or so,” Divekar said. Ajinkya Mali, who works for a financial firm in Dubai, decided to put his annual vacation to his native Pune on hold for at least two months. “I visit my family every March. I decided to put it off this year, given the situation in Maharashtra,” Mali said. Shiksha Mohta, who planned to visit Ahmednagar from Qatar, also postponed her trip. “There some registration that needed to be done on the Delhi airport’s website, but I couldn’t really understand what I needed to do,” she said. Santosh Gupta, owner of Shree Vinayak Holidays, said this surge in cancellations has also highlighted problems with travel portals. “Refunds are being delayed, and portals are not answering queries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inconsistent-intl-travel-rules-covid-surge-hit-holiday-plans/articleshow/81262562.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 1, 2021||Pune||Southern Command to hold 7 rallies with norms in place||Pune: The Southern Command’s recruitment zone has decided to conduct seven recruitment rallies for soldiers in its limit, that cover Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa, Daman, Diu, Dadra and Nagar haveli.The zone couldn’t conduct the rallies last year due to the pandemic. “We have made a comprehensive plan for each rally, in strict compliance with pandemic measures,” said a senior army officer. “Our primary focus is to coordinate with the respective civil administrations in each army recruitment office (ARO)’s jurisdiction. It would not be possible to conduct the rallies without varied kinds of logistical support from them,” added the officer. The zone, this year, has managed to conduct rallies for the first women’s recruitment in Pune and soldier general duty in Jamnagar, Gujarat, successfully.The successful conduct of recruitment rally at Jamanagar from February 1 to 15 has instilled confidence that with strict implementation of precautions, a recruitment rally can be conducted, a statement issued by the zone said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/southern-command-to-hold-7-rallies-with-norms-in-place/articleshow/81262566.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 1 mali for every 5 south corporation parks||NEW DELHI: Thanks to large-scale vacancies in South Delhi Municipal Corporation, for every five park, there is just one gardener or mali to take care of it. A report submitted by the horticulture department of SDMC brought forward this alarming state of the corporation where out of 3,210 sanctioned posts for gardeners, over 1863 are lying vacant. The report states that 1,347 malis are now taking care of 6,862 municipal corporation parks, which are spread over an area of 2185.36 acres — thinly spreading the available resources and manpower. Similar vacancies are seen in some supervisory roles too, such as chaudharis and section officers. Out of 13 sanctioned posts for assistant directors, 10 are lying vacant. The scale of vacancies varies between 55.5% in central zone of the corporation to over 60.7% in west zone. The department officials stated that the vacant posts are to be filled by DSSSB and requisitions have been sent several times to fill these posts. “For posts of gardeners, dependent relatives of dead employees are hired on contract under welfare measures scheme,” the department’s response states. The report also states that many tubewells in parks are also non-functional. Out of 1,421 tubewell, 167 don’t work. The central zone has 66 non-functional tubewells followed by 49 in Najafgarh and 6 in South zone. The west zone has 46 such points out of which 23 have been sealed due to falling ground water levels. As per the National Green Tribunal’s orders, the municipal corporations are also trying to switch to usage of recycled wastewater in green belts and parks. Civic bodies are setting up treatment plants and sourcing water from sewage treatment plants through tankers instead of relying on groundwater. At a time when some parts of west Delhi are seeing alarming drops in groundwater levels, almost half of the municipal corporation’s functional tubewells are also present in this region. The west zone alone has 600 functional tubewells out of total 1,231 such sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-mali-for-every-5-south-corpn-parks/articleshow/81262042.cms||Paras Singh
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Medaram temple closed for 21 days||MEDARAM: Priests of Sammakka-Saralamma temple announced a 21-day closure after four government officials tested Covid-positive while on duty at the recently concluded Mini Medaram Jatara. The jatara began on February 24 and concluded on February 27. With several devotees visiting the small village, four endowments department officials discharging duties at the jatara tested Covid-19 positive. District medical and health officer Dr Appayya confirmed that the officers contracted the virus while on duty at the mini jatara. The priests’ association president Siddaboina Jagga Rao announced the closure of the temple for 21 days. “In view of the Covid-19 positive cases reported, we have decided to close the temple for 21 days. The temple will be cleaned and sanitised,” he said. It may be recalled that Bhupalapally MLA Gandra Venkataramana Reddy, his wife and Warangal Rural zilla parishad chairperson Gandra Jyothi had tested positive for the coronavirus after offering prayers at Medaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medaram-temple-closed-for-21-days/articleshow/81262563.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Can Air India pay a month’s salary to terminated pilots, asks Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has directed Air India (AI) to inform it whether the airline can, in an interim arrangement, pay a month’s salary to pilots who have challenged the termination of their contractual employment during the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Prathiba M Singh asked the lawyer appearing for the airline to seek instructions “for payment of one month’s salary immediately, as an ad-interim arrangement, especially in view of the difficulties being faced by the petitioners (pilots) during the pandemic”. The court was hearing two pleas moved by the pilots, through advocate Lalit Bhardwaj, for quashing an April 2, 2020 order suspending their services and the subsequent order of August 7, 2020 by which they were all terminated. Justice Singh, referring to the facts of the case, said that it was “prima facie clear that the suspension, which was issued in April 2020, was nothing but termination for which one month notice was to be issued as per the contract”. The court, however, said that it was leaving open for now the question of whether the contracts were rightly terminated or not and listed the matter for hearing on March 25. Bhardwaj, during the hearing, said that AI, on November 23, 2020, was asked by the court to take instructions on whether the terminated contractual pilots can be paid one month’s salary as an interim arrangement. The contention was refuted by AI’s lawyer who claimed the plea was not maintainable as the subject matter of the disputes are private contracts and there is no public function involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/can-ai-pay-a-months-salary-to-terminated-pilots-asks-hc/articleshow/81262612.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Gateway Towers takes an hour-long healthy route||PUNE: Residents of Gateway Towers at Amanora Township in Hadapsar started their Sunday on a healthy note by participating in the Yoga At Your Doorstep session, conducted by The Times of India, in partnership with the Yoga Institute, Mumbai. The hour-long event was hosted at their clubhouse called the White Lotus Club while social distance was maintained. Residents were taught about meditation and chakras, and the effect it has on the mind, body and soul. A few essential yoga asanas were also demonstrated by skilled experts. Jagdish Chaudhary, a participant, said, “I got to learn a lot of new things. It was not only educational but also very enlightening. I will be sure to implement whatever I have learnt into my daily workout at home. I am part of a group of four individuals who go for yoga, running, hit the gym and explore other forms of exercise. But I have been practicing yoga every alternate day for a year now and it has worked wonders for my fitness.” Another resident who participated in the session, Ashok Khandelwal, said, “The event was beneficial for all the participants who went back home with more knowledge of yoga than they had before. We know the basics of yoga, but it was interesting to discuss the science behind the asanas and get tips on how often you must do them. I usually practice basic asanas at home by myself for an hour every morning, now I will try to incorporate the poses that were demonstrated in the session as well.” “I read about this event happening in other societies and was thrilled that it was being organised in ours too. I had been looking forward to it and jumped at the opportunity to attend it. It was a good session for beginners like me. I have learnt a few basic poses and have been inspired to start practising yoga at home regularly. I will start small and see how it progresses gradually,” said Godwin Bangera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gateway-towers-takes-an-hour-long-healthy-route/articleshow/81262607.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Black magician, four aides nabbed in Nagpur for trapping minor||NAGPUR: The city’s crime branch has managed to save a 16-year-old girl from getting trapped in the racket of a black magician. Five persons, including the black magician, were arrested on Saturday for trying to lure the minor with a promise of Rs50 crore. The girl was supposed to be disrobed and “touched” during the ritual for the wealth rain. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Gajanan Rajmane, after receiving a tip-off regarding the black magician, had set up a team under senior inspector Sarthak Nehete to bust the racket. After laying a trap, the police first nabbed Vickey Khapre (20) and later Dinesh Nikhare (25), Ramakrushna Mhaiskar (41) and Vinod Masram (42), before finally zeroing in on the alleged black magician Sopan Kumre, alias DR, at a desolate place near a river in Chimur, Chandrapur. The five were nabbed within 12 hours. Khapre and Nikhare were promised Rs20 lakh each by Kumre if they could procure a minor girl, with weight not more than 50kg and height at least five feet, for him to perform a ritual for raining wealth worth Rs50 crores. Kumre, who had approached Khapre and Nikhare through the other three accused, was supposed to perform the ritual at a desolate place after completing ‘three steps’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/black-magician-four-aides-nabbed-for-trapping-minor/articleshow/81262581.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Tour guides at SoU to speakin Sanskrit too||Vadodara: ‘Bhavatam sarvesham, hardam hardam swagat aste’ — tourists visiting the Statue of Unity (SoU) at Kevadia get welcomed in chaste Sanskrit by tour guides who haven’t merely parroted a single line, but can even handle conversation in the world’s most ancient language. ‘Ektamurtiyaha, dakshinatah saatpula parvat maala asti’ (To the south of SoU lies the famed Satpura mountain range) is how they describe the location of the statue to the visitors. While this may sound particularly unfamiliar to the uninitiated, the guides, mostly tribals, welcome guests in Sanskrit not only to impress but also advocate the usage of the beautiful ancient language. Authorities at the SoU have trained 15 local tribals to speak in Sanskrit and they have already begun guiding the tourists. “The decision to train the guides in Sanskrit language was inspired by PM Narendra Modi, who has been advocating the usage of this language since long,” said Dr Rajiv Gupta, managing director, Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd (SSNL). In his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme on Sunday, Modi mentioned about this initiative and also shared a clip of a female tour guide describing the world’s tallest statue purely in Sanskrit language. The PM said there are more than 15 guides who can speak Sanskrit fluently. “India is a land of many languages that are a symbol of our culture and pride,” Modi said. The guides can even answer queries in Sanskrit. “They learnt to speak Sanskrit in just five weeks. It isn’t easy to pick up this language and communicate with the tourists. I think this is the real empowerment of the local tribals who are working as guides at the SoU,” Gupta told TOI. Apart from SoU, Sanskrit-speaking guides are also available at Jungle Safari, Arogya Van and Ekta Nursery. “Tourists are taking a lot of interest in the Sanskrit-speaking guides. It is a different experience for them,” Gupta added. Dozens of local tribals have been employed as tour guides at the SoU and the other tourist attractions and they guide the visitors in Hindi, Gujarati as well as English language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tour-guides-at-sou-to-speakin-sanskrit-too/articleshow/81262565.cms||Tushar Tere
March 1, 2021||Pune||State board helpline for students who need writers||Pune: A dearth of writers for the physically challenged students appearing for state board examinations has prompted the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education to set up a helpline. Those interested in being writers and those in need of a writer can call up the helpline and register so that the process becomes simpler and students need not hunt for writers till the last minute. The board’s chairman Dinkar Patil said schools and junior college principals must see to it that no special children are left out because of non-availability of writers or readers. Guidance will be provided to students and schools on the helpline numbers. MSCERT has also stepped in to prepare a bank of writers and readers for future requirements of physically challenged students. The state government has set rules and regulations for physically challenged students who would want to avail the facility. Students must seek permission from the education department to get a writer who should be from a lower standard than the candidate availing the facility from standards I to IX. SSC and HSC students can have an adult writer as per the provisions made by the education department. The writer, cannot be a teacher or relative of the candidate. A writer writes for the student who dictates the answers. Chairman of MSCERT, Dinkar Temkar, said, “State board students look desperately for writers just before the exams and many wait till the last minute as there is no communication or there are no writers available at that moment. Hence, we will have this data ready for future needs. Schools and junior colleges have been told to motivate students and the public about the importance of having writers and readers.” Schools and junior colleges must appeal to citizens to act as writers, he added. A link has been created on the MSCERT website for interested individuals to register as writers by March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-board-helpline-for-students-who-need-writers/articleshow/81262615.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Cong, NCP laud CM’s decision on Sena minister||Mumbai: Congress and NCP welcomed CM Uddhav Thackeray’s decision to accept the resignation of minister Sanjay Rathod, but felt that the prolonged delay resulted in a “massive damage to the MVA government’s image”. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant pointed out that unlike BJP, Thackeray accepted Rathod’s resignation even before the inquiry was completed. NCP spokesperson and skill development minister Nawab Malik said: “By accepting Rathod’s resignation, it has been established beyond doubt that the CM will not protect any one...We are sure the probe will be completed in a time-bound period.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-ncp-laud-cms-decision-on-sena-minister/articleshow/81263908.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
March 1, 2021||Pune||Four held on abduction and murder charge||Pune: Four men were arrested on Saturday on the charge of abducting a 32-year-old man on February 24 and murdering him in Kasar Amboli in Mulshi taluka. Investigation revealed that the victim Rahul Ingawale of Pirangut, ran a business of renting utensils, and he was the neighbour of one of the suspects. He was kidnapped and murdered, following an old dispute with the prime suspect Akash Kedari (21) of Pirangut. The police also arrested Kedari’s accomplices — Vikram Jagtap (21), Shekhar Kedari (23), both of Pirangut, and Pramod Kamble (30) of Kasar Amboli. The suspects had abducted Ingawale in a car. “They took him to a secluded spot near Kasar Amboli and hacked him to death with sharp weapons. They then took the body to Ghol village in Velhe taluka and dumped it in a pipe and set it on fire,” an officer from Paud police said. Ingawale’s relative had registered a missing person’s complaint with the Paud police. “After receiving information about the burnt body in Velhe, we sent Ingawale’s photograph to the Velhe police and ascertained the identity,” the officer said. The Paud police received information about Akash Kedari’s involvement in the abduction and murder case. “We took Kedari into custody. During questioning, he admitted to his involvement in the crime and also revealed the names of his three accomplices,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-held-on-abduction-and-murder-charge/articleshow/81262624.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Parents in a fix as no word on admission to EWS seats for nursery in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Dayanand, a parent, missed the chance of getting his four-year-old son admitted to nursery in a private school last year. He had tried applying under the economically weaker section/disadvantaged group (EWS/DG) category, but the pandemic played spoilsport. Even this year he tried to apply, but was told that the application process under the quota was yet to start. There are many parents like Dayanand who are eagerly waiting for the process to start. “The new session will start from April, so I thought that the admission process had started for all,” said the resident of Jaitpur in south Delhi. Admission for the 25% EWS/DG category quota is centralised and conducted by the Directorate of Education (DoE). Since 2016, DoE has been conducting the application process online. Ekramul Haque, who runs the NGO Mission Taleem, helps parents secure admission under this category. He said, “We have been receiving a lot of queries from parents. On Sunday, we conducted a meeting of volunteers and parents and asked them not to panic.” The NGO has also written to Delhi government asking them to initiate the process along with the general category admission. The last date for submission of forms for the general category for entry level classes — nursery, KG and Class I — is March 3. They have also asked the AAP government to increase the permissible income limit cutoff to Rs 2.5 lakh from the current Rs 1 lakh, just like Haryana government. A parent said, “It is becoming increasingly difficult to get the income certificate at the district magistrate’s office.” However, a senior government official said they had not discussed the matter yet. “The application process for EWS/DG category will begin once general category admissions are done and we get the data of the actual seats,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parents-in-a-fix-as-no-word-on-admission-to-ews-seats-for-nursery/articleshow/81262049.cms||Shradha Chettri
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Virus fear: Neighbours fight over spitting in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: As the number of Covid-19 cases began rising again, fear of the deadly virus resulted in fight at two places — Shahpur area of the city and in Geratpur in Ahmedabad district — on Saturday. In Shahpur, an Asha worker Bijal Patni was assaulted on Saturday night by her three neighbours, including two women, after a quarrel over spitting. Patni stated in her FIR with Shahpur police that she was cleaning her house on Saturday at that time her neighbour Savan Datania was gargling and spitting in front of Patni’s house. Patni objected to it saying that spitting may cause the deadly disease. This did not go well with Datania, who along with her son Shyam and daughter-in-law Kavita began abusing and thrashing her. Patni alleged that they had attacked her with stones and a bat due to which she began bleeding badly. Other residents stepped in and rescued her from the trio. She was taken to a nearby hospital. Later she filed a complaint of assault and abetment with Shahpur police. In Geratpur of Daskroi taluka of Ahmedabad district, a 48-year-old man, Nitin Barot, said that his neighbour Raju Patel and his nephew Yash Patel attacked him and his son suspecting that they were spitting in front of their house. Barot said that the accused rushed inside his house with sticks and bat with an intention of assaulting him and his family members. He alleged in the FIR with Vivekanandnagar police that Raju and Yash were accusing them of spiting even though they take all Covid precautions. Barot alleged that they thrashed him and his son first and when other family members tried to rescue them, the accused thrashed them also. In the attack, Barot suffered multiple fractures and his two family members also suffered injuries. He approached Vivekanandnagar police and filed a complaint of assault, criminal intimidation and abetment against Raju and Yash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-fear-neighbours-fight-over-spitting-in-shahpur-geratpur/articleshow/81262630.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Two motorists killed in road accident||WARANGAL: Two motorists died in a road accident on Sunday evening on the outskirts of Ambala village of Kamalapur mandal. The deceased were identified as G Satyarao, 35, of Parkal mandal and D Veeraswamy, 55, of Dharmaram village of Nadikuda mandal in Warangal Rural district. According to Elkaturthy inspector Srinivas, the two motorists, who were travelling in the opposite direction, lost control of their vehicles at Ambala village and their vehicles collided. Both motorists died on the spot. A pedestrian, B Anandam, sustained serious injuries and was shifted to MGM Hospital in Warangal. After receiving news of the accident, Parkal MLA C Dharma Reddy rushed to the spot. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-motorists-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/81262611.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
March 1, 2021||Nashik||Only 2 of 51 junior college students test +ve for Covid||Nashik: The test results of 49 of the 51 students, whose throat swab samples were collected for Covid-19 testing after six students of a city-based junior college tested positive, have returned negative. On Thursday, the health squads of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had visited the junior college and traced 51 students who had come in contact with the six infected students and sent their throat swab samples for testing. According to lab reports, only two out of the total 51 throat swab samples have tested positive for Covid-19. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintending officer of NMC, said, “This has come as a huge relief as a majority of the students have tested negative for the viral infection.” All these students were staying at the hostel located in the campus of the junior college. They had been kept in isolation in the same hostel. Moreover, 116 other students staying in the hostel have been sent home. There has been a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last three weeks. Moreover, the number of fresh cases reported per day is more than the number of recoveries per day. The NMC has already been appealing to citizens to follow Covid safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and using sanitizers.The civic body has already started taking action against those not wearing masks. Previously, the fine was Rs 200 each for not wearing masks. After the directive of district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, the fine amount has been increased to Rs 1,000 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/only-2-of-51-junior-college-students-test-ve-for-covid/articleshow/81260775.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Kavitha helps loan app victim’s kin||Hyderabad: TRS MLC K Kavitha on Sunday offered help to the family of G Chandramohan, who had committed suicide on January 2 due to harassment by a Chinese loan app. She met the victim’s family members on Sunday and expressed her condolences on the untimely death of Chandramohan. She said that she will support the education of Chandramohan’s three daughters till their graduation and announced a job for the victim’s wife Saritha at a prestigious institution. Chandramohan, 36, a resident of Petbasheerabad, was an employee in a warehouse (godown). He had taken a loan from an instant app and committed suicide following alleged harassment by the representatives of the instant loan app. In a tweet, Kavitha said: “The Chinese loan app scam that took the life of Chandramohan had left a deep void in the life of Saritha and their daughters. Today, I met the family and extended my support to them.” Kavitha also assured Saritha that she can always reach out to her in case of any distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kavitha-helps-loan-app-victims-kin/articleshow/81262619.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Lone tigress in Mukundra may not get mate soon||JAIPUR: The lone surviving tigress MT-4 at Mukundra Hills in Tiger Reserve (MHTR) is not likely to get companion soon. The forest department continues to wait for the permission of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to relocate another tiger to the reserve. The tigress has been living alone in the 24-hectare enclosure for the last five months. A senior official source said the NTCA was neither in a mood to release the tigress in existing 82 square kilometre enclosure in the forest nor give permission to relocate a male tiger to pair up with the tigress. Moreover, as there is acute shortage of skilled patrolling staff, the department is apprehensive to release the tiger in Darrah range (outside the 82 square kilometre enclosure) where the tigress was living earlier. “After the mysterious deaths of the tigers, the NTCA is not giving permission to release tigress MT-4 in the 82 square kilometre enclosure. Also, relocation of male tiger is not on the cards in near future.” Wildlife enthusiasts alleged that due to ill-planning of the state forest department not only public money is wasted, lone big cats are leading a miserable life in big cages. The tigers were relocated in the Darrah range after constructing 24 kilometre chain-link fencing and 31kilometre of stone wall. Tapeshwar Singh Bhati, president of Mukundra Hills Environment and Wildlife Society, said, “Due to forest department’s apathy and lack of political will, the tigers in the state are suffering. At MHTR, infrastructure is already created. Though, tiger deaths were reported, the government should devise a recovery plan. Otherwise, in coming year, the forest wall will fall down and money spent in relocation programme will go down the drain.” MT-4 is nearly four-and-half-years-old. It was relocated to Darrah range in MHTR from Ranthambore National Park (RNP) in December 2018. In June, 2020, it was spotted with two cubs. However, the cubs could not survive at the park. The tiger count, which had risen to eight in June as per official figures, including the newborns, is now down to one. The tiger reserve, which was notified in 2013 and was on verge of dying a premature death got a breather only with the presence of this tigress. “There was a hope that sooner or later the forest department will relocate the male tiger to pair up with the tigress. However, even after five months, no concrete steps have been taken,” said another green activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lone-tigress-in-mukundra-may-not-get-mate-soon/articleshow/81262614.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Is this Covid's 2nd wave in Nagpur? Feb sees dist’s highest cases after peak, fewer deaths||NAGPUR: As claimed by guardian minister Nitin Raut some days ago, February seems to have been the beginning of Covid-19 second wave, as it saw highest number of positive cases after the peak. The number of cases in February was the fourth highest in 11 months of the pandemic. The civil surgeon said the district registered 15,514 cases in 28 days of February. The number is more that January (10,507), December (12,002) and November (8,979). The district had witnessed peak of Covid-19 from third week of August to end of September, with August registering 24,163 cases and September 48,457. The cases started to decline from October (17,417), for a daily average of 562. The daily average of cases in February was 554, which is almost at par with October. In February, there were over 1,000 cases on three days, between February 24 and 26. Highest number of 1,181 cases was on February 24. This happened for the first time after August and September. Considering the data, experts have described the rise in cases in February as the second wave. Cases declined, though, in last two days, to 984 on February 27 and 899 on February 28. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “Chances of decline in cases from third week of March cannot be ruled out. Cases are likely to reduce with rise in temperature.” Due to efforts of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad, number of tests in February was second highest after September, with 1,81,435 tests conducted in this month for a daily average of 6,480. There were 1,75,317 tests for daily average of 5,655 in August, followed by 1,96,722 (6,557 per day) in September, and 1,81,395 (5,851 per day) in October. Tests were much less in remaining months. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and his team have continued facility of testing at over 50 centres across the city. Also, mobile swab collection centres were pressed into action and special testing camps held in large number of places from second week of February to the end of the month. Test positivity rate (TPR) in February was 8.55% which was highest after August (13.78%), September (24.63%) and October (9.6%), which again endorses the claim of Raut and experts about a second wave. Only silver lining in February was fewer deaths. There were 177 fatalities in February and case fatality rate (CFR) was 1.14%. The fatalities and CFR in February were less than November (269, CFR 3%), December (258, CFR 2.15%) and January (228, CFR 2.17%), which had less cases compared to February. The deaths and CFR were very high in August, September and October compared to February. February also witnessed beginning of phase-II of Covid-19 vaccination programme. Inoculation of front-line workers (FLW) was started from February 5. Second dose of healthcare workers was started from February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-2nd-wave-feb-sees-dists-highest-cases-after-peak-fewer-deaths/articleshow/81262610.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 1, 2021||Nashik||Nashikites for restart of shuttle trains||Nashik: Passengers, who often travel by train to Manmad and Bhusawal from Nashik, have again demanded that the railways restart the shuttle train services with immediate effect. The shuttle train services has been stopped since the Covid-related lockdown and the commuters demanded immediate restoration of the services in the interest of daily workers and students who have to travel daily. The situation is almost normal now and people take all the precautionary measures against Covid when they travel in a public place. “It is high time the railways start the shuttle services between the various destinations around the Nashik,” Sandeep Shinde, a traveller from Manmad said. The shuttle services were used by students from rural areas to travel to Nashik city for their education. “Now junior and senior colleges also have started functioning physically so it is more important the service starts,” said Asif Raza from Manmad. As the railway officials can ensure passengers with only confirmed tickets are allowed in the station for long-distance trains, similarly, they can issue tickets and monitor the entry of people for the few selected shuttle services. “If railways can manage huge crowd during Kumbh Mela, it can easily handle few people daily as numbers of shuttle services are limited to two to three per day,” said Akash Pagar, another regular traveller by trains. The railway officials said the restarting of these trains is being decided by the railway board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashikites-for-restart-of-shuttle-trains/articleshow/81260785.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Delhi||IHBAS doc shortage: HC to hear plea||New Delhi: The Delhi high court is likely to examine a contempt plea against the Centre, Delhi government and director of Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) on Monday for their alleged failure to tackle shortage of doctors. The petition said that despite the court making it clear that vacancies must be filled, there has been no action in IHBAS and cites an order passed by the court in September last year, directing that pending vacancies be filled. Filed by advocate Amit Sahni, the plea informs the court that IHBAS is a premier mental health and neurosciences institute of the country, but is functioning with 24 doctors against the sanctioned strength of 103. It also states that the petitioner had made a representation in August last year for filling the pending vacancies of faculty and other medical staff at IHBAS, but no action was taken. “The division bench had on September 2, 2020, directed the respondent authorities concerned to treat this writ petition as a representation and to look into the grievances ventilated by the petitioner in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policies applicable to the facts of the case. Court had also said that we expect that the respondent authorities concerned shall fill up the vacancies as early as possible and practicable,” Sahni’s petition adds. It states that even the faculty association of IHBAS also took note of the situation on January 29, 2021 and highlighted their grievance regarding the shortage of doctors at 23%, which is leading to over-burdening the existing faculty. FAI also noted that despite court directions to fill vacancies as early as possible, nothing has happened over five months later. The National Medical Commission considering the assessment report dated August 31, 2020 declined to recommend the recognition of the DM (Neurology) Course of the Institute due to deficiencies of professor, associate professor and assistant professor, the plea submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ihbas-doc-shortage-hc-to-hear-plea/articleshow/81262682.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Spurious edible oil worth Rs 45k seized, three nabbed||Ahmedabad: The edible oil you are consuming in your favourite cuisines might be a spurious one and injurious to your health. A corporate house team along with Naranpura police on Saturday seized 16 canisters of duplicate sunflower oil worth Rs 45,000. Three persons have been accused of illegally selling it by putting fake label and sticker on it. According to an FIR filed with the Naranpura police, legal head of Adani Wilmer, Ashish Gupta, 37, along with two other company employees and cops found the duplicate sunflower oil from a shop near Parishram Tower on Mirambika School Road. “We had received information from a consumer that a person was selling duplicate sunflower oil in the canisters of Fortune brand sunflower oil at Akash Flats near Parishram Tower,” said Gupta in his FIR. The company staff and the cops reached the shop with an original canister of their firm’s sunflower oil and began enquiry with the shopkeeper identified as Vikram Chaudhari, 48, a resident of Ghatlodia. The team found five duplicate canisters in his shop. They later made him call the supplier for more supply. After a while, a man and his aide came there in a loading rickshaw and provided 11 more canisters of duplicate edible oil. The cops caught the duo, identified as Shailesh Modi, 49, a resident of Nava Vadaj, and Pravin Vagh, 22, a resident of Balolnagar. They told the cops that the fake edible oil was provided to them by two traders of Odhav, identified as Mahesh Patel and Ajit Patel, who were caught later. On the complaint filed by Gupta, police booked Chaudhary, Mahesh and Ajit Patel under charges of breach of trust and cheating along with other relevant sections of IPC and under the Copyright Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spurious-edible-oil-worth-rs-45k-seized-three-nabbed/articleshow/81262681.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Congress appoints poll incharges||Hyderabad: Telangana working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy was appointed the election campaign in-charge for Hyderabad-Rangareddy- Mahbubnagar and CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka was appointed election campaign in-charge for Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates MLC constituency. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy also appointed former Union minister Renuka Choudhary and Bhuvanagiri MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy as star campaigners. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-appoints-poll-incharges/articleshow/81262650.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC nala status report gathering dust||SECUNDERABAD: A report on the status of existing nalas in Secunderabad zone, compiled by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) engineering wing, is gathering dust. As a result, the process to get clearance from the authorities concerned, appointed for strategic nala development programme (SNDP) in November 2020 by GHMC, is getting delayed. During the two-month exercise, GHMC officials had inspected nalas in 20 km length covering the entire Secunderabad zone and identified critical narrow points and encroachments. “Last October’s floods had made it easy for us to identify bottlenecks on the nalas which caused severe inundation, in several areas like Sitaphalmandi, Lalapet, Chilkalguda, Anna Nagar, Begumpet and other areas,” an engineering official said. “During our inspection, we noticed that the width of nalas had shrunk due to encroachments. For instance, the nala width was supposed to be 40 feet, but with encroachments on either sides, the nala width has reduced, leading to overflows during the recent flood,” he said. “Widening nalas, razing encroachments and removal of silt are necessary for free flow of sewage water in these nalas. The exact number of encroachments will be known after SNDP takes up a survey on the nalas,” the official said. “Moreover, residents of abutting residential colonies have realised that their areas got inundated due to dumping waste in the nalas,”another civic official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-nala-status-report-gathering-dust/articleshow/81262639.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Wastepickers want partnership with civic body to continue||PUNE: In view of World Waste Pickers’ Day on Monday, the wastepickers associated with SWaCH Kagad Kach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat want the government to hear them out before making a decision of hiring private contractors for garbage collection. A proposal to hire private contractors for waste collection in the city is pending before the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Several citizens and elected representatives have expressed their preference for the SWaCH cooperative-PMC partnership. Earlier this month, SWaCH representatives had submitted a memorandum to the mayor, where 33,14,890 citizens and over 6,62,978 households and establishments expressed their support of the continuation of the services provided by SWaCH wastepickers. Harsh Barde, the director of SWaCH, said, “SwaCH was started 12 years ago. It became a cooperative where the members were supervised by their own people, not by outsiders from private companies. Now, with the support of the PMC, they have access to eight health benefits and welfare schemes by the government, equipment such as push carts and PPE kits as they work through the pandemic. This is a cooperative that was formed with the support of the PMC.” “Over 3,000 women are employed and have financial independence because of the cooperative system. ,” Vidya Naiknaware, who works in Sahakarnagar, said. Jyoti Pandit, a wastepicker working in Wanwadi, said they were well-adjusted with the way the system was working and did not want any change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wastepickers-want-partnership-with-civic-body-to-continue/articleshow/81262643.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||Pune police fine 2,340 people for stepping out without masks||PUNE: The police on Sunday fined 2,340 people across the district for not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms. The Pune police penalized 1,097 persons moving on the city roads and public places without masks and collected a cumulative fine of Rs5,37,700 from them. So far, the police have collected fine of Rs11.30 crore from maskless people. The Pimpri Chinchwad police fined 156 people and collected a total fine of Rs78,000. The Pune rural police took action against 1,087 persons for violating the mask rule and also penalized three commercial establishments for violating Covid-19 norms — staffers were not wearing masks and social distancing was not being maintained on the premises. A total of Rs2,27,700 was collected from violators and commercial establishments. Following the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the district, the police and local bodies initiated a crackdown on those violating Covid-19 protocol. On Saturday, police fined 1,801 people across the district. Local bodies collected Rs6.65 lakh in fines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-fine-2340-people-for-stepping-out-without-masks/articleshow/81262651.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Himmat to coordinate dialogue with Gujarat farmers’ unions, to mobilise agitation||Jaipur: In a bid to mobilise the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws in Gujarat, the Samyunkt Kisan Morcha — a group of 40 farmers’ unions — will be sending a team of 4-5 members, including Rajasthan farmer leader Himmat Singh, to the state to have a dialogue with the farmers’ unions and associations there.The team will also talk to all the opposition political parties in the state to mobilise the movement in Gujarat, where, according to the farmer leaders, the agitation hasn’t gained momentum as there is a sense of ‘fear and insecurity’ among the farmers’ unions.Singh said they are already in touch with Bharatiya Tribal Party’s (BTP) Chhotubhai Vasava, Congress party’s Hardik Patel, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).“We will first go to Bardoli (Surat) in Gujarat and meet the farmers there. We are planning to start our movement in the state from Bardoli (where a farmers’ movement was led by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in 1928 against the British government’s decision to increase land revenue taxes),” Singh told TOI. Singh on Saturday met SKM leaders at Delhi’s Singhu border to discuss the matter.“We will first have a meeting there (Bardoli) and will try to unite all the farmers’ unions. The farmers’ agitation has not gained momentum in Gujarat yet. We will also meet the farmers in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Junagadh, Saurashtra and Rajkot. After meeting the farmers in these places, we will return to Delhi and submit a factual report to SKM. We will try to understand their problems and then develop a roadmap for the agitation in the state. We will encourage them to join the farmers’ movement,” he added.Singh further said, “The agitation has not gained momentum there because the farmers are not allowed to hold panchayats there and if they organize protests, they are required to seek permission from the courts. Farmers are being suppressed in Gujarat and they don’t have the freedom to stage a protest or demonstration. Some of the farmers from the state have joined the agitation at Singhu border, the movement hasn’t picked up there.”BoxHimmat meets with minor accidentJaipur: Rajasthan farmer leader Himmat Singh met with a minor accident as a Nilgai suddenly came in front of his car on Saturday night while he was returning from Delhi’s Singhu border. He suffered a fracture on his right hand and is under treatment at Jaipur’s EHCC hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/himmat-to-coordinate-dialogue-with-gujarat-farmers-unions-to-mobilise-agitation/articleshow/81262647.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Wedding venue in Nagpur turns Covid detection centre||NAGPUR: A routine wedding on Saturday at Sawargaon in Narkhed taluka of Nagpur district turned special as officials of Primary Health Centre (PHC) descended on the venue Krishita Sabhagruha and conducted Rapid Antigen Test on everyone present including bride and groom. The priest, the cook and the drivers too were tested. The action won praise from district collector Ravindra Thakare who said it was a good ‘local innovation’ that can be held as a role model and replicated elsewhere to check spread of Covid. Dr Vidyanand Gaikwad, taluka health official of the Narkhed, had the idea of conducting the tests at wedding venues. He said marriage events had become superspreaders in the ongoing second wave of corona in the district. “We conducted 26 antigen tests at the venue and fortunately everyone was negative. The idea was to immediately isolate anyone found positive and take further precautions,” Gaikwad said. “The visit to the wedding venue was planned with a dual purpose. First to check whether the Covid norms like wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and using sanitisers were being followed. Also, there should not be more than 50 persons at the wedding venue,” he said. “The second aim was to conduct antigen tests as there is mass mingling at weddings. The bride and groom especially are greeted by all. We wanted to ensure this marriage did not turn into a super spreader event,” he said. The team, comprising Dr Devendra Barai, Satish Mowade, Kumre, Jaybhaye and Dhurve first counselled the guests at the wedding venue then conducted the tests, said Dr Gaikwad. He also followed rules strictly. “Apart from conducting tests, we also slapped a fine of Rs 6,000 on the parties as many of the guests were found without masks,” he said. Last year, a health team under Dr Gaikwad had sanitized an entire wedding venue with sodium hypochlorite at Agra village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/health-officials-subject-bride-groom-and-guests-to-covid-test/articleshow/81262677.cms||Soumittra S Bose
March 1, 2021||Nashik||Covid positivity rate doubles in Nashik's rural parts||NASHIK: The Covid-19 positivity rate in the rural areas of the district has risen to 15% from the 7% recorded in January this year. As per the data available with the district health officials, the monthly average positivity rate in the rural areas of Nashik district — which excludes Nashik city and Malegaon — is 15% though the daily positivity rate has been around 19% over the last few days after a surge in the confirmed Covid-19 cases. “The monthly average Covid-19 positivity rate had reached 42% in September, when the viral infection was at its peak. It dropped to 7% by the end of January. Off late, the rise in Covid-19 cases has again increased the positivity rate,” said authorities from the district administration. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients, which was pegged at 97.9% around February 15, has now dropped to 96%. The active cases has also risen from 400 to 600 patients. Maximum Covid-19 cases are being reported from Sinnar, Niphad, Nashik, Dindori and Nandgaon talukas. Barring Niphad, the active cases in the remaining talukas is still below 100. The administration is struggling to keep the active case count under control. The Covid-19 positivity rate for RT-PCR tests in Sinnar taluka stood at 33%. Hence, the health authorities have increased the scanning and screening of Covid-19 suspects in the taluka. The health authorities as well as the revenue officials have now decided to take strict action against wedding halls and market places and penalize those failing to observe Covid safety protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-positivity-rate-doubles-in-rural-parts/articleshow/81260782.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 1, 2021||India||February Covid cases at 9-month low; weekly tally up||NEW DELHI: India in February reported the fewest number of Covid-19 cases since May last year but infections continued to surge for the second straight week with the last seven days seeing a surge of more than 19% in cases and nearly 18% rise in deaths from the virus. There were 3,53,750 new cases of the coronavirus in February, a big drop from the number reported in the previous month, when infections had risen by more than 4.7 lakh. February’s Covid count was the lowest in nine months since May last year, when the country had recorded 1.5 lakh new cases. The number had shot up to 4 lakh in June. Deaths from the virus dropped sharply in February to 2,767, from 5,453 recorded in January. The Covid toll in February was the lowest since April last year, which had seen 1,085 fatalities in the country. These cheerful numbers, however, were dampened by the spike in the pandemic over the past two weeks. This was also the first time in six weeks that new cases topped the 1 lakh mark. Last week (February 15-21), 89,258 cases were recorded. On Sunday, India recorded 15,615 new cases, a slight drop from the 16,000-plus numbers being reported over the past four days. Maharashtra continued to record over 8,000 cases, accounting for more than half of the total count. There were 110 deaths on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/february-covid-cases-at-9-month-low-weekly-tally-up/articleshow/81264730.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC judge named member of governing council of law univ||New Delhi: National Law University (NLU), Delhi, has got a new member on its powerful governing council. Justice Siddharth Mridul of Delhi High Court has been nominated as a member for a period up to June 29, 2023, with immediate effect, by Chief Justice D N Patel. Delhi High Court Chief Justice, who is also chancellor of NLU, Delhi, issued a notification on February 26 nominating Justice Mridul as member of the governing council of NLU. The council is the supreme authority of the university to take its all crucial decisions related to administration. Justice Mridul was designated as senior advocate in May 2006 and was appointed as additional judge of Delhi High Court on March 13, 2008, and as a permanent judge on May 26, 2009. While he was practising as an advocate, justice Mridul was appointed by the high court as a member in various committees to go into the issues of rehabilitation of children after the abolition of child labour, illegal construction in contravention of municipal bye-laws and member of the committee constituted to suggest, supervise and implement measures for the efficient and hygienic functioning of the Safdarjung Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-hc-judge-named-member-of-governing-council-of-law-univ/articleshow/81262701.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Varsity launches disinfecting robot||Hyderabad: An Autonomous Unmanned Vehicle (AUV) Disinfecting Robot named MUDRA (Mahindra Universite UV Disinfectant Robot Autonome), which is designed to disinfect rooms, labs, offices, shop floors, among other spaces using Ultraviolet-C (UVC) rays was launched by Mahindra University on Sunday. The varsity said that MUDRA has been designed to navigate autonomously on the floor without needing any extra infrastructure and can be used to sanitise closed spaces frequently and properly. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/varsity-launches-disinfecting-robot/articleshow/81262662.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Transport minister Kailas Gahlot seeks RWAs’ help as Switch Delhi drive enters 4th week||NEW DELHI: As Arvind Kejriwal government’s Switch Delhi campaign to promote adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) entered the fourth week on Sunday, transport minister Kailash Gahlot appealed to Resident Welfare Associations in the city to come together in the ‘EV movement’. Switch Delhi is an eight-week mass awareness campaign by the Delhi Government to sensitize Delhiites by informing, encouraging, and motivating everyone to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission electric vehicles. “RWAs today are instrumental in encouraging citizens’ participation in ensuring better living environments and have played an important role in the development of the capital. As the Switch Delhi campaign enters its fourth week, our focus is to connect with each RWA in Delhi and urge them to undertake awareness activities to make the campaign a mass movement,” Gahlot said. “We encourage RWAs to take the Switch Delhi pledge to install charging points in at least 5% of parking spots in your area. This will assure residents of proper charging infrastructure on their premises and ensure an effortless transition for Delhiites,” Gahlot said. Gahlot said that Delhi government is taking all measures to help citizens overcome apprehensions. While more than 70 public charging stations are already operational in Delhi, 500 charging points are coming up on 100 locations soon. The government is providing subsidies of up to Rs 1.5 lakh, scrapping benefits of up to Rs. 7,500 and other benefits. More than 100 models for two, three and four wheelers are covered under the EV policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gahlot-seeks-rwas-help-as-switch-delhi-drive-enters-4th-week/articleshow/81262074.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Desert Festival concludes amid fireworks & stellar performances||Jaisalmer: The state’s famed Desert Festival concluded on Saturday with grand fireworks under the full moon amid performances by singers Swaroop Khan and Mame Khan at Sam sand dunes.Thousands of tourists flocked the Sam sand dunes on the last day of the festival. People enjoyed the sunset, camel rides and jeep safari.Earlier, people took part in camel race, camel dance, horse dance, tug of war and sand art display. Cabinet minister Shale Mohammad, MLA Ruparam, district collector Ashish Modi, SP Ajay Singh and other public representatives were present and distributed the prizes. Indian Idol fame Swaroop Khan and singer Mame Khan enthralled the audience with their folk songs. Gunsaar music band, too, lured the audience with their performance. People praised the performance of 12-year-old Adhishri.In camel race, Adrim Khan of Luno ki Basti stood first. In tug of war, the local Jaisalmer team won, while the tourists’ team was the runners up. The festival concluded with grand fireworks.A horse race was organised at Lanela ka Rann, 20km away from the district headquarters. Dozens of horses from various places, including Jaisalmer, Barmer, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, took part in the race. A horse was sold for Rs 11 lakh at the animal fair.The horse race was held in four categories: in gallop, the speed remains normal; in maadri, the speed is medium; in choti rewal, the speed is 30-35kmph and in badi rewal the speed is 40kmph.In gallop race, Buddhraj Singh Luna stood first. In maadri race, Bhan Singh Rajpurohit bagged the first position. In choti rewal race Kishor Singh Kutch won the first position, while in badi rewal Roop Singh of Khara Jaisalmer came first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/desert-festival-concludes-amid-fireworks-stellar-performances/articleshow/81262671.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||Pune police raid popular pub open two hours after deadline||PUNE: The city police raided a popular pub at Mohammed Wadi in the early hours of Sunday after it was found operating well beyond the 11pm deadline. At least 94 men and women were on the club’s premises at the time of the raid. The police booked the pub’s manager, nine employees and all 94 patrons on the charge of flouting Covid-19 safety norms by not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. As per restrictions imposed by the district administration on February 21 — in effect till March 14 — all restaurants, pubs and other venues must close by 11pm. “The pub should have wound down its operations by the 11pm deadline, but it was found open two hours after that. The pub’s patrons and employees were found flouting Covid-19 norms in the establishment, which is a public place. We have taken action against the pub’s administration and the patrons present in the pub.” deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Namrata Patil, who led the team that raided the facility, told TOI. Patil said the police would initiate further legal action against the pub after receiving its documents, such as its licence, from the Pune Municipal Corporation. A case has been registered with the Kondhwa police under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently commits any act which is, and which s/he knows or has reason to believe is, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) under the Indian Penal Code. The police have also invoked provisions of other Covid-19 rules against the pub’s operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-raid-popular-pub-open-2-hrs-after-deadline/articleshow/81262666.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||Goa govt primary schools see enrolments drop by 50%||PANAJI: Over the past eight years, student numbers in government primary schools have gone down uniformly across the different regional languages offered as medium of instruction (MOI) in these institutions. Students enrolled in Marathi, Konkani and Urdu schools in government schools have nearly halved since 2012. However, according to directorate of education (DoE) data, it appears that parents have an issue with the way government schools are managed, and not with the regional languages offered as MOI. This is because during the same period (2012 to 2020), students enrolled in privately-managed Marathi, Konkani and Urdu medium schools nearly doubled. The number of students enrolling in English medium schools over the past eight years has remained nearly consistent, at around 30,000. The DoE data indicates that only around 1,300 students were lost by government schools purely due to a shift in choice of MOI from regional language to English medium over the past eight years. The students lost by government primary schools show a direct correlation in the gain in student numbers by privately-managed aided schools offering education in the same regional language. In 2012, 1,579 students enrolled in Konkani-medium government schools, a number which was down to 893 in 2020. Similarly, student numbers in Marathi-medium government schools came down from 26,071 in 2012 to 18,231 in 2020. In the case of Urdu, too, enrolment in government schools dropped from 1,062 to 471. In comparison, student enrolment in Konkani-medium aided schools rose from around 3,000 to over 7,000 between 2012 and 2020. In Marathi-medium aided schools, the number of students rose from 8,000 to nearly 13,000 over this period. The Urdu aided schools gained nearly double the students, from 441 in 2012 to 819 in 2020. In all, government primary schools have lost approximately 10,000 students over the past eight years, and currently, the total enrolment stands at 20,601. In 2012, while 20 aided schools had shifted MOI overnight from Konkani and Marathi to English, leading to an upheaval in the state, over the past eight years, at least four aided and unaided schools have changed medium from English to either Marathi or Konkani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-primary-schools-seeenrolments-drop-by-50/articleshow/81263874.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||At over 46,000, Vidarbha sees three-month spike in cases||NAGPUR: After almost three months of a decline in Covid-19 cases and deaths in Vidarbha region, the shortest month of the year has seen a sudden spike in cases. At 46,600, the number of cases in February was far more than the cases in November (28,074), December (25,177) and January (21,065). The surge is being attributed to the more infectious variant of coronavirus found in Amravati and Yavatmal. Out of over 46,600 cases in February, more than 30,000 were reported in the last 10 days of the month. More than 60% of the cases are from five districts of Amravati division. In the past 10 days, more than 20% samples tested in this division have been returning positive, officials said. However, fatalities are lower. Despite the surge in cases, there have been 420 deaths as compared to 409 in January. Nearly the same number of cases (49,827) was reported in October 2020, but the toll was 1,492.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-over-46k-vidarbha-sees-three-month-spike-in-cases/articleshow/81264423.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 1, 2021||Pune||Trupti Desai, others seek FIR against ex-minister||Pune: Activist Trupti Desai and four others staged a protest in front of the Wanowrie police station on Sunday, demanding the registration of an FIR against a former state minister and two others for abetting the suicide of a 22-year-old woman in Mohammadwadi in Pune on February 8. The protesters included a distant relative of the woman from Beed. Desai told TOI, “There are audio/video clips suggesting the involvement of the suspects, but the police have not registered an FIR even 18 days after her death. We staged a protest at the police station, but the police served us notices and told us to suspend our agitation or face an FIR for interfering with their work. We suspended our protest and will take a call on Monday about what to do next.” The victim’s relative said, “We want the police to subject the suspects to a narcoanalysis test. We will continue our agitation till our demand is met. We will meet the CM.” DCP (zone V) Namrata Patil said, “The victim’s relative was demanding the registration of an FIR on the basis of some audio clips. She has not disclosed any new facts relating to the death which in the inquiry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trupti-desai-others-seek-fir-against-ex-minister/articleshow/81262683.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Patotsav: 1 lakh Patidar families to be insured||AHMEDABAD: The Patotsav of Vishv Umiya Dham was organized on Sunday at which trustees and office-bearers of the temple announced a group insurance scheme for 1 lakh families of Patidars. Named ‘Uma Chhatra,’ the insurance will be Rs 1,000 crore, said R P Patel, president of Vishv Umiya Foundation. The scheme will start before the completion of the world’s tallest Umiya Mata temple, he added. The event, which took place at Jaspur, also saw the participation of state deputy CM Nitin Patel. The work on the 451-feet tall temple has started at the site. Officials said that Patidars can be part of the initiative by donating Rs 4,000. The beneficiaries will get up to Rs 10 lakh following any untoward incident, they added. During the event, the officials also announced the wedding of 100 women at zero cost during 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patotsav-1l-patidar-families-to-be-insured/articleshow/81262704.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||7 calves rescued, van seized||Kota: Jhalawar’s Pagariya station police rescued seven male calves which were allegedly being taken for slaughter on a van on state highway on Saturday night. The driver and helper managed to flee and attempts were underway to nab them.Following a report of not stopping at a check-post under Misroli police station area of the district, cops from of Pagariya police station were deployed to trace the van, SHO Ramprasad said. The team at night spotted the vehicle coming from Bhawanimandi side on state highway and chased it following which the two persons left the vehicle and disappeared into the roadside forest.The police booked the two unidentified accused under relevant section of cow protection Act and attempts are underway to nab them, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-calves-rescued-van-seized/articleshow/81262687.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 19 caught with ammo at IGI airport this year||NEW DELHI: Nineteen passengers were allegedly caught carrying ammunition in their hand baggage during screening at Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) this year so far, police said on Sunday. A senior officer said all such passengers face criminal proceedings under the Arms Act. He also said it was a matter of concern that despite warnings passengers carry ammunition, knowingly or unknowingly, with them. From January 1 to February 26, a total of 19 cases, when ammunition was found in passengers’ baggage during security check, have been registered at IGI airport police station under Arms Act, police said. A 44-year-old man was caught with 19 live bullets of .32 bore in his hand baggage on February 14, while he intended to travel to Bangalore by a private airline, according to data shared by police. A case was registered against him under the Arms Act and during questioning he told cops that the cartridges belonged to him and he has an arms licence, which is valid in Karnataka only, police said. The man worked with a Bangalore-based garment factory, they said. In another instance, a 21-year-old woman passenger, who was travelling from Delhi to Pune on February 14, was caught carrying one live cartridge in her hand baggage during screening at Terminal 2, police said. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/19-caught-with-ammo-at-delhi-airport-this-yr/articleshow/81262739.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kochi||Violence, graft have sullied LDF government’s rule: Nirmala Sitharaman||KOCHI: The left government has converted Kerala from god’s own country to ‘fundamentalists’ own country’ by encouraging violence and supporting extremist groups, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, here, on Sunday. Hitting out at the CPM-led LDF government, she said the law and order situation has worsened and there is an ongoing appeasement, not of minorities, but fundamentalists. Sitharaman was speaking at a public meeting in Tripunithura organized in connection with BJP state president K Surendran’s ‘Vijaya Yatra’, which entered Ernakulam district on Sunday. She said the government with its behind-the-door dealings with hardline groups such as SDPI is encouraging the growth of fundamentalism in the state. “What can be more shocking than the government permission to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the 1921 Mappila rebellion,” she asked She cited Walayar case, murder of Youth Congress activists Kripesh and Sharat Lal, brutal hacking of RSS activist Nandu Krishna as instances of violence and disruption of law and order in state. Amidst left-sponsored cruelty, the Congress leadership has been silent because the two are buddies in West Bengal, where also the CPM has institutionalized violence, the FM said. Sitharaman, who spoke in English, Hindi and Tamil, also bemoaned the high levels of corruption in the state. “When the Kerala budget was presented, all money was given to KIIFB. I don’t know how you can do that? We also present budgets but don’t give all the money to one agency. CAG has commented and criticized it calling it a total questionable operation. As for the Rs 5,000-crore deep-sea fishing MoU that was signed with a foreign company, how is it that such a thing was done without the knowledge of the people of Kerala.” She later felicitated former Kerala high court judge Justice P N Raveendran, former DGP Venugopalan Nair, former TELK MD Rr Adm B R Menon, former BPCL general managers Soma Choodan and M P Gopinathan, former deputy GM K Ravikumar, Dr Prasannakumar, etc, who were among several eminent persons who joined the party on Sunday. It was also announced that Justice Chidambaresh would be joining the party in the first week of March. Tripunithura for Sreedharan? “You will get a very good MLA candidate of whom you can be proud, Surendran told the audience in Tripunithura. The comment evoked large cheers from the crowd, which was agog with news that E Sreedharan is the preferred candidate of the BJP leadership. “You will get good candidates in Ernakulam,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/violence-graft-have-sullied-ldf-govts-rule-sitharaman/articleshow/81261525.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nashik||Nashik police’s single-window system receives over 100 applications in 3 days||Nashik: The single-window system started by the police to issue permission for programmes that may involve a gathering of people has received more than 100 applications in just three days it has been operational. Most of the applications pertain to wedding ceremonies. API Vivekanand Rokade, who has been appointed at the single-window system, said aim is to grant permissions after sensitizing the applicants about the importance of following the Covis guidelines issued by the government. The police are clearing the applications as early as possible so that the applicants are not inconvenienced. The wedding season is at its peak. Many people also want the ceremonies done fast fearing the possibility of another lockdown. Meanwhile, on Sunday, the police issued a release stating that people who are organizing programmes at auditoriums of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and have taken permission from the civic body, do not need to take the police permission again. However, police permission is mandatory in the absence of an NMC permission. In the case of programmes at non-NMC venues, the parties concerned must take police permission even if permission from the NMC is available. The work of granting permissions has been taken up by the police commissionerate on a war-footing.  The applicants are given the permission after taking assurance from the parties concerned that they would adhere to the terms and conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-polices-single-window-system-receives-over-100-applications-in-3-days/articleshow/81260813.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Soft launch of public vaccine drive at six hospitals today||PUNE: The Covid vaccine drive for people above 60 and those over 45 with comorbidities will see a limited launch on Monday at select civic-run and government hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. More private hospitals will join the drive within the next few days, officials said. A total of six hospitals will carry out the first sessions in PMC and PCMC limits. For PMC areas, the list includes Kamala Nehru, Rajiv Gandhi, Jayabai Sutar and Sassoon hospital. The two hospitals in PCMC limits will be finalised on Monday. Pune rural may get as many as 100 vaccination sites. “The vaccination module (with instructions and details of beneficiaries) is expected on Monday morning. Once we get it, for the next couple of days, we will be assessing response at government hospitals before adding centres,” Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department, said.  Jabs for healthcare and frontline workers will continue simultaneously. There are currently 30 hospital sites offering vaccines in PMC areas. The PCMC has eight. Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner, said the drive on Monday will be largely “symbolic”. “We are yet to get clarity on the number of allocated doses. So it will take a few more days for the actual drive to start. As of now, vaccinations here will be carried out at two sites.” List of hospitals in PuneAadhar Multispeciality Hospital-ICU, Pune Apollo Speciality Hospital Pvt. Ltd.(Apollo Spectra Hospital), Pune Attharva Accident Hospital, Pune Bharati Hospital & Research Center, Pune Brahmchaitanya Superspeciality Hospitl Private Limited, Pune Deendayal Memorial Hospital, Pune Dr. Bansal Hospital, Pune Dr. D.Y.Patil Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, Pune Fortune's Sparsh Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. (Sparsh Hospital), Pune Grant Medical Foundation, Ruby Hall Clinic, Pune Imax Multispeciality Hospital, Pune Jeevanjyoti Hospital, Pune Jivanrekha Multispeciality Hospital, Pune Kohakade Hospital, Pune Kotbagi Hospital Pvt. Ltd., Pune Krishna Hospital, Pune Lokmanya Hospital Chinchwad, Pune Lokmanya Hospital Pradhikaran, Pune Makan Hospital, Pune N.M. Wadia Institute of Cardiology, Pune Ojas Multispeciality Hospital, Pune Om Hospital, Pune PAWANA HOSPITAL, Pune Pioneer Hospital, Pune Rajveer Health Services Pvt.Ltd. Phoenix Hospital, Pune Ranka Hospital, Pune RAO NURSING HOME, Pune Sadhu Vaswani Mission's Medical Complex - inlaks Bhudrani Hospital & MN Bhudrani Cancer Institute, Kirpalani & Kundani Eye Institute, Fabiani Budhrani Heart Insitute, Pune Sainath Hospital , Pune Sai Shree Orthopedic Superspeciality & Joint Replacement Center, Pune Sancheti Institute of Joint Replacement, Pune Sanjeevan Hospital, Managed by Shashwat Multispeciality Hospitals, India Pvt Ltd, Pune Sanjeevani Hospital, Pune Sharada Clinic, Pune Shashwat Health Services Pvt Ltd, Pune Shashwat Hospital (Aundh, Pune Shendkar Healthcare and Hospitality Services Pvt Ltd. Global Hospital and Research Institute, Pune Shivam Multi-Speciality and Accident Care Hospital, Pune Shusrut Medical Care Society Hardikar Hospital, Pune Vinod Memorial Multispeciality Hospital, Pune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/soft-launch-of-public-vaccine-drive-at-six-hospitals-today/articleshow/81262728.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Survey to find school dropout students of Nagpur region starts today amid Covid scare||NAGPUR: As the 10-day statewide out-of-school students’ survey kicks off on Monday, some academics have voiced concerns over its timing. The survey aims to take stock of how many students have dropped out of school in entire state and then focus on bringing them back to the mainstream. As per directives of the state government, the survey has to be completed between March 1-10. Since such surveys have happened before also, the process right down to the taluka level is a ‘well oiled machine’ with everyone knowing what is required of them. Typically a group of government employees, right from departments such as education, civic body, zilla parishad to child and women welfare, form small teams and visit market places and neighbourhoods to track out of school kids. Majority of such kids are from families living on the streets or of daily wagers and migrants residing in makeshift shanties. Zafar Khan, president of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA) said the timing of the survey is not good. “We are all aware of the rise in Covid-19 cases, especially in Vidarbha. Despite this, we are asking our teachers to go out and venture into neighbourhoods or crowded markets to search for students,” said Khan. “There is a bigger problem of involving teachers in any survey. For census, there is no objection from our side, but anything else is unfair. Teachers are being made to run around for every little scheme or campaign, which comes to minds of bureaucrats,” said Khan. Though many are opposing it, so far there have been no reports of teachers boycotting it. An education official, on condition of anonymity, said such protests are a regular affair. “Nobody in the world wants to do more work, so this is just a psychological reaction. One may argue that it’s not academic work, but you cannot deny that it’s completely unconnected. We are trying to search for students who are deprived of education and bring them back to schools, so how can you say that such surveys have nothing to do with education,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/survey-to-find-school-dropouts-starts-today-amid-covid-scare/articleshow/81262741.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Infants stolen from hospitals in Dungarpur, Banswara||UDAIPUR: Two infants were stolen from hospitals in Dungarpur and Banswara districts on Sunday. Both the incidents were captured on CCTV and police have launched an investigation into the cases. Panic struck at the district government hospital in Dungarpur on Sunday morning after it was discovered that a four-day-old baby had been stolen from the NICU. The baby suffered from jaundice and hence was admitted in the critical care unit while his mother was in the ward upstairs. Police have found CCTV footage from inside the NICU where a woman is seen taking the baby away. The woman had come with a youth and the duo drove away in a motorbike. Police have sought footage from all the close circuit TVs in the town to search the culprits. Jyoti, wife of Rakesh Mochi, had delivered a baby boy on February 24 and two days later the infant was diagnosed with jaundice and thus kept in the NICU. On Sunday morning, Jyoti's mother-in-law and another woman were attending the baby and they were asked to go out when the sweeper came to clean the room around 8.30am. While they went upstairs to visit Jyoti, the baby started crying. The nursing staff called out for the baby's attendants and then a woman went inside claiming to be his mother. After the nursing staff left the room, the woman was seen going out with the baby. The entire scene was caught in the camera. The hospital staff informed the police. Jyoti's relatives were infuriated and raised questions on the security arrangements even inside the NICU. Jyoti's husband Rakesh ran a provision store in Kuwait and he had come during the lockdown and returned recently. It was their first baby. In another cases, a 19-day-old infant was stolen from the Mahatma Gandhi Hospital premises in Banswara city on Sunday. According to police, the baby's mother and grandmother had taken him to the hospital for vaccination. A woman approached them asking what they had come for and when the women told her their purpose, she introduced herself as an anganbadi worker. She said that she would get back the child after vaccinating him. The woman took away the baby and when she did not return after some time, the child's mother realised the baby had been stolen. Motiram Charan of Kotwali police station held a nakabandi and teams have been made to find the child and the woman. The police have also sought CCTV footage, however, the images are of poor quality and hence identification is said to be difficult. Pics 1. Pic: CCTV footage shows a woman taking away the baby from hospital in Dungarpur 2. A CCTV footage showing a woman taking away an infant from the Banswara hospital on Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/infants-stolen-from-hosps-in-dungarpur-banswara/articleshow/81262707.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||CR, WR fine 8,000 in February for travelling without masks||MUMBAI: In a major drive to catch commuters travelling in trains without masks, both Central and Western Railway fined close to 8,000 commuters in February flouting Covid rules. Penalty to the tune of Rs 14 lakh was collected from them, officials said. CR chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said that 4,000 cases were registered from February 1 to 28 in which fines totalling Rs 8 lakh were collected. WR chief spokesperson Sumit Thakur said that in February, the officials booked 3,819 people for not wearing masks while travelling. “We recovered close to Rs 6 lakh in fines,” he said. “We appeal to commuters to wear masks while travelling, keep social distancing and travel only if required,” added Sutar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cr-wr-fine-8k-in-feb-for-travelling-without-masks/articleshow/81264449.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kochi||Thiruvambady in focus as IUML leaders meet bishop||Kozhikode: IUML national general secretary P K Kunhalikutty and state secretary M K Muneer visited Thamarassery bishop Mar Remigiose Inchananiyil at the Bishop’s House on Sunday amid reports that the church wanted the Congress to take over the Thiruvambady assembly seat, which has been contested by the party for the past few elections. The meeting lasted roughly for half an hour. Though the IUML leaders said that it was only a customary meeting, it is learnt that the Congress had asked its ally to convince the church as to why it is not possible to bring any changes in the seat sharing as far as Thiruvambady is concerned. The church had reportedly asked the Congress to take over the seat in the last assembly elections, but the IUML was unrelenting. IUML candidate V M Ummer suffered a defeat at the hands of CPM’s George M Thomas in the elections. This time too there is very little chance of IUML giving the seat to the Congress. There was also a suggestion to give the seat to the CMP to enable C P John to contest the seat, but that also is not acceptable to the IUML. The political situation has changed significantly this time and the IUML cannot overlook the opinion of the church. IUML leaders are walking an extra mile to placate the Christian community, which has turned against the UDF recently over a host of issues. IUML leader Panakkad Syed Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal has reiterated on Saturday that his article on Hagia Sophia was misunderstood by the Christian community. Internal compulsions may force the IUML to retain the Thiruvambady seat, but the party will try to make the church understand its constraints. Meanwhile, there are indications that IUML may get three more seats this time. The party had asked for six seats that have become vacant after the exit of parties like Kerala Congress (M) from the UDF. It is learnt that the IUML may get Beypore in Kozhikode, Koothuparamba in Kannur and Chelakkara in Thrissur districts. IUML had contested 24 seats in the last assembly elections and won 19 of them. There are also chances of Congress and the IUML exchanging some seats.  The bilateral discussions between the parties are over and the seats will be announced after the discussions with the Kerala Congress (Joseph) next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thiruvambady-in-focus-as-iuml-leaders-meet-bishop/articleshow/81261572.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man beats wife after she learns about his affair||Ahmedabad: A 29-year-old woman from the Gomtipur area of city mistakenly exchanged her husband’s memory card and when she inserted it in her cellphone, she was shocked to know that her husband had an affair with another woman whose obscene videos and pictures were found by her, states an FIR filed with Gomtipur police on Saturday. The woman states in her complaint of domestic violence against her husband, an electrical engineer who worked with an oil and gas company’s unit in Muscat in Oman, that her husband stays in the foreign country and comes to India occasionally. After her marriage with him, she shifted to his place in Gandhinagar with him and in-laws in September 2018. Soon after their marriage, her husband moved to Muscat and visited her around three to four times. On February 11, he came to India again. At that time, the husband and wife were sorting out some technical glitch in their cellphones during which they removed their memory cards. Mistakenly, her husband did not insert his memory card and went out of their home. The complainant inserted that memory card in her cellphone and found some pictures and videos of her husband with another woman. When she opened those pictures and videos, she saw her husband’s intimate moments with another woman. When he came home, she objected about his extra-marital affair with another woman. Enraged, her husband abused and thrashed her badly and abandoned her. She then came to her parents place and filed a complaint of domestic violence against her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beats-wife-after-she-learns-about-his-affair/articleshow/81262737.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||Ferrando to stay with FC Goa for next season||Panaji: Juan Ferrando has earned himself a contract extension at FC Goa after taking the team to the playoffs of the Indian Super League (ISL). Ferrando had signed a one-year contract with Goa in May last year. The Spanish coach was selected after an extensive search that saw the club being flooded with close to 100 biodatas. There were some big names in the fray – Carlos Dunga, Guus Hiddink and Sven Goran Eriksson to name a few – but Goa opted for Ferrando, impressed with his work in Greece where he won back to back promotion with Volos NFC. “What Juan has done with FC Goa this season is really good. The team has had many problems, so many departures, yet this season has seen an unbeaten run of 13 matches, besides, more importantly, qualification to the playoffs,” said one official. According to sources, Ferrando’s contract has a clause that provides for an automatic renewal if Goa made it to the top four. Another source said Ferrando was told last month itself that his job is safe, regardless of what happens for the rest of the season. “What Juan has done is there for all to see,” said the source. “Before the clash against Odisha FC (February 17), he was given the vote of confidence by the management. Goa won two games in a row and then secured a much-needed draw against Hyderabad FC.” The draw against Hyderabad means Goa are now unbeaten in 13 matches since the 1-2 defeat against Chennaiyin FC on December 19, 2020, a record in the ISL. Hyderabad bowed out of the league, despite remaining unbeaten in 12 matches. “The only record that’s important is winning the trophy,” Ferrando said at the post-match press conference. “These (unbeaten) records are not important for me. I am happy because Goa are in the playoffs. I am happy that for a lot of games, we were in control.” Goa’s unbeaten record will face its greatest threat when they come up against Mumbai City FC, who won the League Winners Shield with a comfortable 2-0 win against ATK Mohun Bagan in the concluding league clash. Reduced to 10 men in the 40th minute, Goa lost their first leg clash against Mumbai 0-1 after Adam Le Fondre converted an added-time penalty. They settled for an entertaining 3-3 draw in the return clash, thanks to a 96th minute equaliser from Ishan Pandita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ferrando-to-stay-with-fc-goa-for-next-season/articleshow/81281023.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 1, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Family of 17-year-old donates his organs||JAIPUR: The family of a 17-year-old boy, a resident of Dholpur, donated his organs after he was declared brain dead at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital on Sunday. His family gave consent to donating his heart, lungs, liver and kidneys. The teenager, Sevaram, was riding pillion when he met with an accident recently. At the time of accident, he was not wearing helmet. He was rushed to Gwalior, but as his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to SMS hospital, said officials of State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (SOTTO). His lungs were transported to Hyderabad, while his heart and kidneys were transplanted into patients at SMS hospital, while liver was transplanted at Mahatma Gandhi hospital. It was the 42nd cadaver donation in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/family-of-17-year-old-donates-his-organs/articleshow/81262738.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Chennai||Speeding truck runs over two fixing flat tyre of car in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A 28-year-woman and her brother-in-law changing a punctured car tyre were run over by a truck at Sriperumbudur on Chennai-Bengaluru highway on Sunday morning. The truck grazed the car’s side, and the two were caught between the car and the truck and crushed to death, police said. Two relatives of the deceased, who were inside the car and witnessed the gory accident, escaped without injuries. Police said the accident occurred around 6am. The accident happened in front of their two relatives who were seated inside the car and watched the gory scene. Police said the deceased — Bhavani and her sister’s husband Thamizh, 35, resident of Kolar mines in Karnataka — were on their way to Chennai with Bhavani’s mother-in-law Arulammal, 60, and Arulammal’s sister Anandammal, 55, in the car. When the car reached VRP Chathiram near Sriperumpudur, Thamizh noticed the car had a flat tyre and parked it on the side of the road to change it. “Thamizh couldn’t change the stepney and he and Bhavani were looking for a mechanic. The elderly women remained inside the car as the repair took a long time,” a police officer said. As Thamizh and Bhavani stood leaning on the car, a tipper lorry heading towards Chennai suddenly ran amok and brushed against the car, crushing Thamizh and Bhavani in the process. “The two couldn’t move as they were trapped between the speeding truck and the car,” the officer added. The women inside the car cried for help. A few motorists passing the accident scene alerted the police control room and called 108 for an ambulance. Bhavani died on the spot and Thamizh was rushed to Sriperumpudur government hospital where he died not responding to treatment. The Sriperumpudur police have registered a case of rash and negligent driving and are on the lookout for the truck driver, who fled the scene fearing he would be attacked by the crowd that gathered at the accident spot. Police said the car had its hazard lights on as per rules and that the truck driver must have failed to notice it. “The truck was speeding though we have placed barricades at some spots on the stretch to control such speeding,” said a senior police official. Chennai-Bengaluru highway has the two deadliest road stretches in the state — Poonamalle-Walajah and Krishnagiri-Hosur — where roughly 260 accidents are reported every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/speeding-truck-runs-over-two-fixing-flat-tyre-of-car/articleshow/81262793.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||Production in 51% companies back to pre-nCoV days, says MCCIA study||Pune: The latest survey of industries in Pune released by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) on Friday has indicated that 51% companies have reached production at pre-Covid levels and 20% more are set to achieve it by May. It is a shot in the arm for the manufacturing sector in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, Ranjangaon and Chakan. Of the remaining, 13% are expected to take around six months to recover and 16% may take longer than six months, the survey said. On an average, the 135 surveyed companies said, their current level of production has increased to 85% in February, up from 82% in January 2021. Production levels of just 26% was reported in May 2020, so this is a significant uptick in recovery, Prashant Girbane, Director General, MCCIA, said. Also, the surveyed companies said the number of employees working has increased to 86% in February as compared with the lowest 21% workforce reported last May. State joint director of industries Sadashiv Survase agreed with the survey’s findings. He said as per the government's estimates most large industries in Pune are functioning with around 90 to 95% of their production capacities. “The demand for the products of these industries continues to be good after around four to five months of closure. It is this demand which is helping them recover fast. The government's credit guarantee scheme has played a key role in this revival,” Survase said. Heads and members of the Pune units of industry associations including that of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DICCI), Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Pune chapter, and the MCCIA, have warned that the recovery process will be seriously hampered if the state imposes any further restrictions in view of the rise in Covid cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). Girbhane said both the government systems and society need to leverage the experience and infrastructure built over the past ten months. “We need to further build on this march to full recovery and growth. MCCIA continues to appeal to follow all published protocols and support the government in managing this pandemic,” he added. Alakesh Roy, immediate past chairman of CII, Pune, and managing director of Ranjangaon based Zamil Steel India, told TOI that the CII members are also witnessing a similar trend in their companies. “ Most are working to full capacity, but one should remember how this change happened. Earlier, there were apprehensions if the labour would come back. Many industries pressed their own buses and even planes to bring back the workforce that had migrated. So, the change happened after the travel restrictions were relaxed. Those who are hinting at another lockdown must remember that the industry runs on sentiments and the future growth that they foresee,” he said. In a press statement, Sudhir Mehta, president of MCCIA, said it is great to see the Indian economy turn into a positive territory as nationally too it is out of technical recession. “We are keenly awaiting a full recovery in lagging sectors like hotels, travel and transportation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/production-in-51-companies-back-to-pre-ncov-days-says-mccia-study/articleshow/81262761.cms||Abhijit Atre
March 1, 2021||Goa||Goencho Avaaz decides to plunge into political battlefield||Panaji: Goencho Avaaz, an organisation that has taken up many public issues in the last three years, announced plans to enter politics. Stating that Goencho Avaaz has formed a political party, co-convener Capt Viriato Fernandes announced on Sunday that they plan to contest the next assembly elections. They will, however, not contest the March 20 municipal polls as they are not being fought on party lines. Party president Swapnesh Sherlekar said that they have applied for registration of the party with the Election Commission two months ago and are awaiting approval. Goencho Avaaz has been very active in opposing many projects, including the three linear ones, which they say are against the interest of the state. Fernandes said Goencho Avaaz will be the voice of the peopel of the state as “it is committed to preserving the unique character of Goa and promoting unity in diversity, and safeguarding its rich biodiversity”. Sherlekar told reporters there is a vacuum of honest politicians who are working for the public and said that none of the decisions taken by the government have been in the interest of the people. The party appealed to right thinking Goans to join them “on the journey to save our motherland”. The vacuum has to be filled by an organisation or party which has values and promise for the future generation to save Goa, the party stated. “Given the fact that Goa has come to the point of no return, and that survival of the state and its people are hanging by a thread, the need of the hour is a political party that serves as the custodian of public interest and operates from a deep desire to do what is right for Goa. We strongly feel that there is an urgent need for a new governance and leadership style that places due emphasis on preserving Goa and makes the well-being of Goans first priority,” Sherlekar said. He said the party ultimately seeks to provide economic prosperity to its people, even while safeguarding its environment and traditional occupations through sustainable development. Fernandes said the opposition has failed the people and failed to raise their concerns in the assembly. While stating that said many parties approached them and Goencho Avaaz for the municipality elections, Fernandes said, “We told them that these elections are not on party lines, but if there is a good candidate we will support them.” College youth Valerie Afonso said that “Goencho Avaaz leaders have given the right direction to the youth, and youngsters will rally behind the new political party”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goencho-avaaz-decides-to-plunge-into-political-battlefield/articleshow/81263921.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Why did Ahmedabad grow on periphery? Paper maps reasons||AHMEDABAD: Just why did Ahmedabad expand in the periphery? A new World Bank report traces the history of the city’s expansion to the development plan of 1965 when a 240 metres wide area on private agricultural land covering an area of 8.4 sq km was proposed in the new plan. This was the year when the total municipal area of the city was 93 sq km. Today, the urban agglomerate area of the city, including AUDA area, is around 1,900 sq km with a green belt covering 9% of the total land cover. “The main objective of the green belt was to restrict urban sprawl and regulate and balance open versus built development and act as a sink for urban pollution,” claims the paper authored by Madhu Bharti and Shagun Mehrotra. But this proposal met with resistance as land owners were unhappy with AMC’s compensation and challenged the plan in the court. In the 1980s and 1990s the report states, the city rapidly expanded beyond the municipal corporation limits, leading to fragmented urban expansion, particularly along the western fringes of the city. “This fragmented development outside the city limits was partly attributed to the Urban Land Ceiling Act, 1976, which led to an artificial increase in land prices within the city limits. “Over time, many encroached on these green belt reserves to build houses,” states the WB paper. The Sardar Patel Ring Road was conceptualized in the 2001 revised development plan to facilitate integrated urban development along the metropolitan periphery of Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-did-ahmedabad-grow-on-periphery-paper-maps-reasons/articleshow/81262783.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||Recoveries in PCMC limits go past 1 lakh||Pimpri Chinchwad: The health department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has recorded over one lakh Covid-19 recoveries so far within its jurisdiction. On Sunday, data showed that 1,00,392 people had recovered from the infection, out of the 1,05,704 positive cases so far — a recovery rate of 95%. Around 74,000 cases were from the 22 to 59 age group. Rajesh Patil, PCMC chief, said the civic body is now focused on containment. Marshals have been deployed at key locations to ensure people are wearing masks and daily testing is set to go up to 2,500 samples from the current 1,500. “We have intensified action against those found without masks. We have collected Rs 1.64 crore in fines. Another Rs 8.21 lakh in fines was collected from those found spitting on the roads,” Patil said. He added that most of the new cases coming in were asymptomatic. “So, there is nothing to worry about. Patients will recover after proper treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-in-pcmc-limits-go-past-1-lakh/articleshow/81262784.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 1, 2021||Chennai||CBCID books spl DGP for harassing woman IPS officer||Chennai: Four days after the state government formed a committee to inquire into a sexual harassment complaint against Rajesh Das, special DGP, the CB-CID booked him for of outraging the modesty of a woman IPS officer. The allegation is that the DGP harassed the young officer after asking her to get into his car ‘for a discussion.’ The CB-CID also booked Chengalpet superintendent of police (SP) D Kannan for stopping the officer when she was coming to lodge a complaint against Das. The CB-CID forwarded the FIR to the DGP office on Sunday. The Tamil Nadu IPS Officers Association expressed solidarity with the survivor-officer, the SHRC took suo motu note of the event and issued notice to the government and opposition parties slammed the government for delaying action against the DGP, after which Das was relieved from his Special DGP (Law&Order) post. The fact that the survivor-officer was prevented from lodging a formal complaint and stopped by a SP of another district, who blocked her car with special strike force vehicles and made her talk to Das further shocked the force. Now, on a day when DMK MP Kanimozhi launched an agitation seeking suspension of Das, the government ordered CB-CID probe. Earlier, Kanimozhi had tweeted: “When a woman IPS officer is sexually harassed by a higher-ranked officer and the CM takes no notice of it, what hope do 'ordinary' women have in this regime?” On his part, Kannan told TOI he merely carried out ínstructions from the DGP and that he was unaware of the reason behind the woman SP going to Chennai. He said he had apologised to the survivor after coming to know she was an SP-rank officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cbcid-books-spl-dgp-for-harassing-woman-ips-officer/articleshow/81262841.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||‘I urge everyone to take the shot, be cautious till we attain herd immunity’||Pune: I took my first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, on February 15. I felt a little bit of pain but nothing more. It was smooth and I didn’t have any problems. I have seen people experiencing some post-vaccination fever, body aches & general malaise. I am working and attending patients as before. I am attending to all my patients and I have been looking after the work at Shree Hospital throughout this pandemic. We have known about this disease since it first broke in November 2019. In the early stages we tended to many patients and tried different drugs as per WHO/ICMR guidelines. It was a panic button. We heard of, read about many drugs that were tried with or without trials, with varying results. As the infections rose around the world with no cure in sight, prevention was key. All eyes were focused on creating a vaccine which could prevent the pandemic. This was the first time in medical history that such an enormous amount of resources was utilized to develop, manufacture and distribute the Covid-19 vaccine. As a result, the Covid-19 vaccine could be made available in a short span of time. In India, the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was available by January 2021. I had been eagerly waiting for my turn to get vaccinated, having been in the thick of it all since the beginning. Our hospital started treating Covid patients since May 2020 and was recognized as a vaccine centre on February 9 this year. Regarding any new disease, there is always confusion and misinformation, but there has been an unprecedented amount of both in regard to Covid-19. As a physician, we study information from authentic sources and make decisions that are in the best interest of our patients and community. As a medical professional, I urge all to take the vaccine as and when it is available to them. Though it is too early to confirm its full efficacy, this is our first line of defence. Being a surgeon, I was not a primary physician to these patients, but I have seen and operated on a few of them. I have seen that most people recover but rarely do we have any clue as to who will recover or who won’t. So far there is no fully effective treatment or definitive universal protocol. The vaccine, so far, has had the most promising data to show in regards to protection from a severe bout of Covid-19. In the early days, the anxiety and fear was not only among patients and relatives, but among health care workers (HCWs) too. It was difficult to convince HCWs to tend to patients. It was with much persuasion and after providing all necessary protective gears — such as N-95 masks, PPE kits and sanitizers — did they agree. After the Covishield jab, their immunity, as well as morale to serve patients and our community, got a boost. There’s still a long way to go and we have to observe precautions till we, as a community, develop herd immunity. The writer is a senior bariatric surgeon in Pune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/i-urge-everyone-to-take-the-shot-be-cautious-till-we-attain-herd-immunity/articleshow/81262826.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cop’s wife, her sister molested and thrashed||Ahmedabad: A 33-year-old Juhapura woman, whose husband is a cop, on Saturday filed a complaint of molestation and causing hurt against four men. She said the men tore her and her elder sister’s clothes after a verbal spat near their house. In her FIR filed with Vejalpur police, the woman stated that the accused men keep the keys of the main gate of their society. On Friday night, the complainant went to a hospital in her car and returned at about 11.30pm. She said the accused persons had locked the gate by then. She came out of her car and told one of the accused, Zakir Sikandar, to open the gate. He along with Sohel Sikandar, Firoz Chopda, and Akbar Chopda began arguing with her. “They began telling me aggressively that they are not free to provide services whenever I want,” the woman alleged in the FIR. “When I objected to their hostility, they began abusing me and also slapped me.” Her elder sister tried to intervene, but they began thrashing her. “They tore her clothes and began molesting her,” the complainant said. “I tried to rescue my sister. But the accused also molested me and tore my clothes while constantly thrashing us.” The two sisters began screaming for help and some other residents rescued them from the four accused. The complainant also alleged that the accused told them to leave their house and go somewhere else. The complainant and her sister were taken to a nearby hospital and later filed a complaint of molestation, causing hurt, verbal abuses, criminal intimidation, and abetment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-wife-her-sister-molested-and-thrashed/articleshow/81262819.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||Demand for plasma up at YCMH bank||Pune: The blood bank of Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital is again seeing an increase in the demand for convalescent plasma, used in the treatment of critical Covid-19 cases. Blood transfusion officer, Shankar Mosalgi, said demand is now at five to six bags per day, up from one or two bags when cases had dropped significantly. Mosalgi said during August and September last year, when cases had peaked, demand was at 50 or 60 units per day. “Demand is up again. We will once more urge those who’ve recovered from Covid to donate plasma,” he said. A recovered patient can donate blood plasma more than once. Mosalgi said they have maintained a database of recoveries in the region. The official said requests for plasma have come in from outside PCMC limits too — mainly from private hospitals from PMC areas. He said out of the nearly 1,999 units of plasma supplied till February, requests for nearly 950 units were from outside PCMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-plasma-up-at-ycmh-bank/articleshow/81262836.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 1, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: LDF releases its tagline for election campaign||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Aiming to reinforce the concept of continuation in office in the minds of voters, LDF on Sunday released the tagline for its assembly election campaign. ‘Urappanu LDF’ (It’s LDF, For Sure) will be the tagline for this poll season. The LDF leadership also interprets this slogan as ‘LDF is a guarantee’. CPM state acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan released the tagline by handing over the first brochure to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Vijayaraghavan said the return to power of LDF would guarantee development, growth and welfare for the state and its residents. Giant hoardings that trumpet ‘Urappanu LDF’ slogan along with ‘Urappanu Vikasanam’ and ‘Urappanu Janakshemam’ slogans came up in major locations across the state on Sunday. According to sources in LDF, the word ‘Urappu’ will also be explained as strong leadership which only LDF possesses. Unlike in the past, the front is seeking votes for a team led by Pinarayi Vijayan who has in the last five years proven his strength while tackling with several crises. In 2016, the party banked on the tagline ‘LDF varum, ellam sariyavum’ which was an instant hit. The new media and conventional media advertisements planned for assembly poll campaign will also use catch words such as ‘Munnottu’, ‘Pinarayi 2.0’, ‘Classic Captain’ and ‘LDF thudarum, Keralam valarum’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ldf-releases-its-tagline-for-election-campaign/articleshow/81261592.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||1,600 people infected, five succumb to Covid||Pune: Exactly 1,600 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday. Five people succumbed to the contagion. With this, the progressive caseload for the region stood at 4,08,053, while the death toll rose to 9,240, as per a report issued by the district health office. In the 24 hours till 8pm on Sunday, 1,083 people were discharged after they recovered from the infection. With this, the total number of recoveries in PMR was 3.88 lakh. Of the fresh cases on Sunday, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 774. Pimpri Chinchwad added 423 patients, while rural areas (279), municipal councils (94) and cantonments (30) accounted for the rest. Among recoveries, PMC once again reported the highest with 427 discharged patients. As many as 319 patients were discharged in Pimpri Chinchwad, while rural areas had 209 recoveries. Municipal councils (102) and cantonments (cantonments) made up the rest. As of Sunday, there were more than 10,000 active cases in PMR limits — 4,344 patients were admitted to various hospitals, while 6,028 people were under home quarantine. Of the five deaths on Sunday, two were recorded in PMC limits. Pimpri Chinchwad, municipal councils and rural parts of the district accounted for one fatality each. According to data available with PMC, the areas under its jurisdiction had 545 patients being treated with oxygen support. The report further stated that the condition of 261 patients was critical. Those who breathed their last on Sunday were suffering from underlying conditions, such as hypertension and heart problems. On Sunday, the state reported over 8,000 cases for the fifth day in a row. A total of 8,293 cases were added, taking the state’s total to 21,55,070. The state also added 62 deaths, taking the overall toll to 52,154.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1600-people-infected-five-succumb-to-covid/articleshow/81262839.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Complaint filed over ‘reckless’ driving||Ahmedabad: Two women living in neighbourhood in a residential society of the Naroda area indulged in verbal spat over a dispute of speed driving inside the society lane, states an FIR filed with Naroda police on Saturday. In her FIR with Naroda police, Meenal Patel, 36, a resident of Neel Arcade bungalows in Naroda, stated that her neighbour, Sujatha Subramaniam, threatened and abused her and her husband alleging them of negligent driving. On Tuesday evening, when Patel and her husband Jimmy came to their home in their car and parked it in front of their house, Subramaniam and her husband rushed to her and alleged that they did not know on how to drive a car. “They began alleging that we were driving so recklessly that it might hit kids playing on the road. Though I and my husband tried to convince them that we took utmost care while driving the car, they continued to blame her,” Patel said in the FIR. She said that Subramaniam threatened to kill her and her husband. “She threatened us that they would eliminate us and also said that even police cannot cause any harm to her and her family members. She threatened us with dire consequences if we would approach police,” said Patel. After the incident, Patel family went out of the city for two days to avoid any scuffle. They returned to their house on Saturday and approached Naroda police about the issue. Cops registered a complaint under charges of criminal intimidation and uttering of abusive words against Subramaniam and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/complaint-filed-over-reckless-driving/articleshow/81262835.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||Greens see red over Mollem nod, brace for legal action||Margao: Embittered and aggrieved after the Centre approved the diversion of 140 hectares of forest for South Western Railways’ double-tracking project, environmental activists and groups are bracing for a long legal battle to save the biodiversity hotspot. “It’s illegal. We will challenge it in court,” Abhijit Prabhudessai of Goyant Kollso Naka (GKN) told TOI. “This clearance comes as an absolute insult to the people who have been relentlessly fighting against these projects for years now,” said Roshan Mathias of Goencho Avaaz. “The fact that people are being ignored and overlooked only proves that the government is against us and not for us.” The in-principle approval, issued by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), paves the way for diversion of 120.9ha of the biodiversity hotspot that lies within the Bhagwan Mahavir National Park and Mollem Sanctuary for the Castlerock to Collem stretch, while another 1.9ha and 15.6ha of forest land has been cleared for the Collem to Margao section. Significantly, around 120 hectares — almost 85% of the area slotted for diversion — lies within the Bhagwan Mahavir National Park, and this move is likely to drastically impact the biodiversity hotspot of Mollem in the ecologically-fragile Western Ghats. Over the past few months, TOI has highlighted that biodiversity and wildlife experts believe that the three Centre-sponsored infrastructure projects — the Panaji-Belagavi NH expansion and the Tamnar power transmission project, apart from the double-tracking — have the potential to exacerbate Goa’s water woes turning it into a parched state, while posing a mighty threat to the endemism and the flora and fauna of the region. “Despite the ecological and socio-economic destruction this project will bring to the state, the irony is that the people who are constitutionally elected to safeguard the fabric of our environment are the same group of people who are giving said clearances amidst the groundswell opposition against the projects,” said Goencho Avaaz convener Capt Viriato Fernandes. “This shows the power of the capitalist-controlled decisions at the highest levels in the government.” Prabhudessai, of GKN, rued the lack of transparency in processes in granting clearances and approvals to the project by the central government authorities. The Stage-1 clearance came to light nearly three weeks after it was issued. “There is no transparency in the processes for approvals, far from it,” he said. “Besides, there have been intentional moves to suppress facts pertaining to the three linear projects.” He also drew attention to the manner in which a project has been split into five “to undervalue the Environment Impact Assessments (EIA)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/greens-see-red-over-mollem-nod-brace-for-legal-action/articleshow/81263929.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Imported cigarettes worth Rs 5 cr seized||A cigarette smuggling racket was busted and imported cigarettes worth Rs 4.75 crore was seized at Nhava Sheva port on Saturday. This is the fifth seizure carried out by the DRI in the last two months. The consignment had come from Dubai. No arrests have been made yet. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/imported-cigarettes-worth-rs-5-cr-seized/articleshow/81263933.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 400 crore okayed for memorial of Balasaheb Thackeray||MUMBAI: The state cabinet on Sunday approved Rs 400 crore for the conversion of Mayor’s Bungalow at Shivaji Park into the Balasaheb Thackeray memorial. Recently, the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority approved the addition of a fourth building to the complex. The construction of the buildings will be completed in phase I and is estimated to cost Rs 250 crore. Phase II will include technological installations like laser show and virtual reality, and will cost around Rs 150 crore. The initial expenditure will be borne by the MMRDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-400cr-okayed-for-memorial-of-bal-thackeray/articleshow/81264456.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Burglars use SUV to uproot, steal ATM||Tirupur: A four-member gang dragged away an unguarded automated teller machine (ATM) of a public-sector bank with more than Rs 1 lakh in it using a sports utility vehicle (SUV) from Koolipalayam Four Road near Uthukuli here in the early hours of Sunday, after their attempts to break open the machine and take the cash away failed. Police have formed six special teams to nab the ATM burglars.According to the Uthukuli police, the masked gang members entered the ATM booth of Bank of Baroda on Koolipalayam Four Road around 4am. “They attempted to break open the ATM to steal the cash. When their efforts went in vain, they tied a crane belt around the ATM machine, which was fixed to the floor, and connected the belt to the SUV. One of the gang members then started the vehicle at full throttle and managed to uproot the ATM in the third attempt. Immediately, they took away the ATM in the SUV. All this happened in 30 minutes,” a police officer said. Passers-by later found the ATM missing from the booth, the main door of which was broken open, and alerted the Uthukuli police, who collected CCTV footage from the centre. They also informed the Tirupur and Erode district police, who launched an intense vehicle check.The SUV used for stealing the ATM was later in the day found abandoned at Vijayamangalam near Perundurai in Erode district. “From there, the gang seemed to have shifted the ATM to another vehicle. We have brought the SUV to Uthukuli police station,” the officer said.Preliminary investigation revealed that the gang had stolen the SUV from Perundurai area on Saturday night to execute the burglary plan. “Its owner, Balamurugan, 42, of Nalligoundanpalyam near Perundurai, had parked the vehicle at Vettuvapalayam area on Saturday night. When he went there on Sunday morning, the vehicle was missing. He subsequently lodged a complaint with the Perundurai police. We have picked him up for questioning,” the officer said.Bank officials told police that they had loaded around Rs 15 lakh in the machine on February 19. “They said the machine had only Rs 1,00,100 when it was stolen,” the officer said.Forensic experts have visited the crime scene to lift fingerprints, if any. A sniffer dog was also pressed into service, but with little success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/burglars-use-suv-to-uproot-steal-atm/articleshow/81262843.cms||A Subburaj
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||AIADMK misusing official machinery for poll work: DMK||Coimbatore: AIADMK functionaries here are using official machinery for poll-related work, DMK MLA N Karthik said.The ruling party is utilising the service of government staff at district collectorate, taluk offices and corporation office for collecting voter details, a statement issued by the MLA on Sunday said. “Senior government officers in the collectorate provided details of self help groups from government records, along with their names and residential addresses. This data has been given to AIADMK men, who in turn take the help of government staff to contact the SHGs and woo them,” Karthik said. Blaming local administration minister S P Velumani, the MLA said that government officials are following the orders of AIADMK men fearing backlash if they refuse to do so. “If the misuse of government staff continues, it would lead to major violations during the polls, making a mockery of the election process.”AIADMK men as well as district administration authorities denied the charges. “This is a baseless allegation. We have neither given any data to any political party nor are we helping any party in election work,” said a district administration officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-misusing-official-machinery-for-poll-work-dmk/articleshow/81262840.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Chennai||Trawlers continue to kill Olive Ridleys in Chennai||CHENNAI: Use of trawlers near the shoreline continues to endanger Olive Ridley turtles nesting on the city’s coast. Carcass of four such turtles were washed ashore at Ennore on Saturday morning. The turtles had died of injuries after getting caught in the propellers of the trawlers. Trawler operations within five nautical miles from the shoreline are prohibited yet continue, say conservationists. Shravan Krishnan, a volunteer with the Students Sea Turtle Conservation Network (SSTCN), said trawler operations begin after 11pm and go on till early in the morning in the prohibited area, coinciding with the time the turtles come to the shore to lay eggs and return. “When the trawlers move within the five nautical miles area, they get injured, die and are washed ashore,” he said. Turtle conservationists want the fisheries department to regulate the operation of trawlers during turtle nesting season. R T John Suresh, another conservationist, said the fisheries department has been informed about the deaths of turtles. “Normally, the department requests turtle conservation group members to conduct awareness programmes about the nesting season for fisherfolk in Chennai, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts every year. But that wasn’t the case this year for some reason,” John Suresh said. When contacted, a senior official from the fisheries department said lack of patrolling boats was a major shortcoming. “At present, we hire boats from local fishermen and patrol the prohibited area for movement of trawlers. But often, those we hire boats from alert their counterparts. So the trawler operators stay away from the sea during our checks and continue fishing when the patrol boats aren’t around,” the official said. The enforcement wing of the fisheries department should be provided with a vessel to patrol so action could be taken against those using trawlers, he added. Conservationists said wildlife authorities show little interest in turtle conservation and added that better coordination is needed between them and fisheries authorities. Chennai Wildlife warden C H Padma did not respond to this reporter’s call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/trawlers-continue-to-kill-olive-ridleys/articleshow/81262867.cms||P Oppili
March 1, 2021||Kochi||AIADMK betting on TN-model in Kerala||IDUKKI: The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) plans to replicate its TN-model alliance with BJP in Kerala and become an important player in the border districts of Idukki, Palakkad and Pathanamthitta for the upcoming assembly election. According to AIADMK leaders, a decision on Devikulam seat – which the party contested in the 2016 assembly election – in Idukki has been reached. They believe the party can tap into the majority Tamil voters in the constituency. In Idukki, over 90% of plantation workers are of Tamil origin. In Devikulam, Peermade and Udumbanchola taluks there is a considerable number of Tamil voters and the entry of the TN-based political party has raised a challenge to both UDF and LDF. “AIADMK will also field candidates in Idukki, Palakkad, Pathanamthitta and Thiruvananthapuram districts. The final decision will be taken after March 5. We have arrived at a seat-sharing deal with BJP on Devikulam and this will help us win the seat,” according to AIADMK state president Shobakumar. In 2016, AIADMK’s R M Dhanalakshmi bagged 11,613 votes in Devikulam and stood third overall. BJP candidate N Chandran received 9,592 votes. CPM leader S Rajendran won the election netting 49,510 votes against the UDF candidate A K Mani’s 43,728 votes. But is AIADMK jumping the gun on alliance plans? “If AIADMK wants Devikulam we will consider forming an alliance. We will hold a discussion on candidates soon. An alliance will help us win Devikulam. However, we will not give up Peermade,” BJP Idukki district president K S Aji said. According to AIADMK’s Idukki district secretary Dhanalakshmi Marimuthu, “The decision on aligning with BJP will be taken by the party central leadership after March 5. We are certain of winning Devikulam if both parties join forces.” AIADMK’s efforts to expand its presence in Idukki in the recent local-body election produced no results. It contested in 10 grama panchayats and fielded 66 candidates, including one for district panchayat and seven to the block panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aiadmk-betting-on-tn-model-in-state/articleshow/81261598.cms||Sandeep Thomas
March 1, 2021||Pune||Pune school gives SSC students two options to take prelims||PUNE: A prominent school in the city conducted a zoom meeting on Sunday evening with parents of students appearing for secondary school certificate examination (SSC, std X) to discuss the further plan of action. During the meeting, the principal gave two options to the parents — the students could appear for the examination by writing the paper sent via Google forms or the students could go to school and appear for the exam offline. The principal also mentioned that the students that would like to give the offline examinations could come in casual clothes instead of the uniform. Some of the parents objected to the offline examination. When contacted, the principal of the school, said, “We are aware about the government circular regarding the closure of schools till the middle of March. However, under certain circumstances we can call students to school if it is for a brief time period. We have conducted online examinations, so far. But, the students really need to write and so we thought that they should come to school and give offline examinations before they begin the board exams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/school-gives-ssc-students-2-options-to-take-prelims/articleshow/81262848.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||29-yr-old man gets shot as gun misfires while poaching hares||Coimbatore: A 29-year-old farmer got shot on chest accidentally while trying to poach hares along with two of his friends on his farmland at Ettiveerampalayam near Perumanallur in Tirupur district in the early hours of Sunday. The Perumanallur police have arrested one of his friends in connection with the incident, while the other one is on the run.A police officer identified the injured as P Murugesh, of Karupparayar Thottam at Ettiveerampalayam. “Around 2.30am on Sunday, he, along with Mahendran, 31, and Chandran, 30, went to his farmland to poach hares. They had a gun with them. Mahendran misfired the gun and the pellet hit Murugesh on his left side of chest.”Murugesh was rushed to the government hospital in Tirupur, from where he was later shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital.Initially, Murugesh told police that unidentified people had opened fire at him while he was irrigating the farmland. “But finally, he confessed that he was hunting hares along with his friends. We have registered a case against the trio under the Arms Act and arrested Mahendran. Chandran has gone into hiding. Murugesh will be arrested after getting discharged from the hospital,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/29-yr-old-man-gets-shot-as-gun-misfires-while-poaching-hares/articleshow/81262847.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Extortion bid alleged for holding condolence meeting||Ahmedabad: A 60-year-old man from Meghaninagar on Sunday filed a police complaint alleging that a local goon sought extortion for holding an obituary meeting and hymns in his locality, and when the complainant refused to pay, he pointed a knife towards him.In his FIR with Meghninagar police, Natwar Chauhan, a resident of Amar Park, said that they were holding a hymns and obituary meeting in the memory of one of his relatives who died last week. As they were singing hymns on loudspeaker, the accused, Nikul Telang, came there and began objecting to it. Telang told Chauhan that he would have to pay him money for holding any event in the locality. “He became aggressive and abused me while seeking money from me. I tried to convince him saying that I was holding hymns and obituary meeting for my relative. But he continued to abuse me and threatened to stop the event,” said Chauhan in the FIR.Chauhan said that Telang took out a knife and pointed at him threatening him to stop the event. At that time, other people intervened and tried to push him away. While going from there, Telang hit a stone on a motorcycle and damaged the vehicle. Chauhan, then, called up police control room and filed a complaint of extortion and criminal intimidation against Telang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/extortion-bid-alleged-for-holding-condolence-meeting/articleshow/81262844.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: New cases surpass 3,000-mark again, 22 deaths in the Vidarbha region||NAGPUR: Number of new Covid-19 cases once again surpassed the 3,000-mark on Sunday, and reached 3,278 in Vidarbha. With 1,848 patients recovering, the region’s recovery rate dropped under 90% for the first time since October 31. Now, out of 3.20 lakh total cases till date, 2.85 lakh have recovered completely. Around 25,000 are under treatment. The only respite is that more than 80% of these patients are not hospitalized. They are either in home isolation or at Covid care centres. Number of daily cases was going down constantly from February 24 to 27, but the graph again went upwards with 400 more cases than Saturday. Once again, Amravati division alone accounted for 2,078 of Sunday’s total cases, which means nearly 64% cases came from the five districts of Amravati division. Though the number of tests has increased in Amravati division, the sample positivity rate is more or less the same as it was a week before. On Sunday, Amravati district conducted 2,505 tests and 892 of them (35.6%) were positive. 2,171 tests were conducted in Akola and 473 (21.7%) of them were positive. Yavatmal (16.7%) and Washim (16.3%) also reported high sample positivity. Buldhana was the only district in Amravati division with a less than 10% positivity rate, which is an indicator of control over spread of virus there. 3,600 test reports were received in the district on Sunday and 340 of them (9.4%) were positive. In Nagpur division, barring Wardha (13.1%), no district had more than 10% sample positivity rate. Even Nagpur, where 899 new cases were reported on Sunday, had conducted 11,542 tests which means only 7.8% of the samples were positive. On the same lines, 22 out of 885 tested positive in Bhandara (2.5%), 11 of 420 in Gondia (2.6%), 70 out of 794 in Chandrapur (8.8%) and 33 out of 430 in Gadchiroli (7.8%). In short, conditions are still worrisome in Amravati division but better in Nagpur division so far. In the last five days, cases have started increasing in Nagpur division too. Chandrapur reported 70 cases on Sunday, its highest this month. Gadchiroli (33) and Wardha (165) also reported a surge. Both the districts have started taking precautionary measures. Amravati: Even after a week of lockdown there seems to be no remarkable drop in new cases and deaths as the district reported 892 cases and, for the third successive day, eight deaths on Sunday. Yavatmal: The district has recorded three deaths on Sunday. The deceased are 76 year old man from the city, 62 year old man from Mahagaon and 70 year old woman from Maregaon. The death toll has become 465 so far. Chandrapur: In all 70 people were tested positive, while 16 patients were discharged on Sunday, leaving 323 active cases in the district. There was no death reported during the day keeping the toll stable at 398. Wardha: A 78-year-old man died on Sunday, taking the toll to 342. New 165 cases were detected positive and caseload reached 12,352 while 58 patients were discharged and recoveries increased to 10,894. Gondia: In all, 420 tests were conducted in Gondia on Sunday. With 11 of them testing positive, the Covid-19 caseload reached 14,433 in the district. With three patients recovering from the disease, the total number of recovered patients reached 14,118. No death was reported. Gondia now has 130 patients under treatment. Bhandara: The district conducted 885 tests in last 24 hours. Out of them, 22 tested positive. This took Bhandara’s Covid-19 caseload to 13674. With 18 patients recovering in a day on Sunday, total 13111 of these have recovered now. No death was reported from Bhandara on Sunday. Death toll is 328. Total 235 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Record 3,600 tests were conducted in Buldhana on Sunday. Out of them, 340 were positive. On the other hand, 284 patients recovered. A 62-year-old woman from Buldhana died during treatment. The caseload reached 18,668, with 15,776 recoveries and 193 deaths. Now, 2,699 patients are under treatment in Buldhana. Washim: Three deaths, all elderly patients, were reported in Washim. This took the death toll to 160. Deceased persons include a 72-year-old man from Karanja, an 85-year-old man from Mangrul pir, and an 80-year-old woman from Parsani village in the district. All were admitted in the last 3 days. The district also reported 187 new cases and 41 recoveries. Now, Washim has 8,934 total cases, 7,354 of them have recovered, and 1,419 are under treatment. Gadchiroli: On Sunday, 33 new Covid-19 patients were detected in the district. Also, 13 people were released from the hospital after recovering. Out of 9,568 total cases so far in the district, 9,344 have recovered. Now, 118 patients are under treatment. So far, a total of 106 deaths have been reported in the district. As a result, the corona recovery rate in the district is 97.66%, active patient rate is 1.23% and mortality 1.11%. Akola: The district conducted 2,171 tests in the last 24 hours and 473 of them were positive, which is a serious concern for Akola. A 66-year-old woman died during treatment on Sunday. This took the death toll to 367. Now, Akola has 16,145 Covid-19 cases. Out of them, 12,302 have recovered and 3,476 patients are under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-cases-surpass-3k-mark-again-22-deaths-in-region/articleshow/81262842.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Electric vehicles vroom as petrol prices race ahead||Coimbatore: Electric vehicles, especially scooters, are selling like hot cakes in the district, thanks to the petrol price that crossed the Rs 90 mark.According to transport department officials here, more than 300 e-vehicles were registered in 2020, a two-fold increase compared to the previous year. “More people are buying e-vehicles also because they are environment-friendly and are exempted from road tax,” said an RTO official.Depending on battery capacity, engine and speed, e-scooters are available for Rs 35,000 to Rs 1 lakh. “In the last two months, the number of inquiries we received almost doubled. We are receiving 10 walk-in customers and 15 to 20 calls every day. At least 40% of them would purchase a vehicle. Of late, we have been struggling to meet the rising demand,” said Sathya Chandran, a dealer of Wagon Wheelz. “A basic e-vehicle can cover 30 km/h on full charge. Vehicles that can give over 100 km mileage on single charge will soon hit the market. It requires hardly one to 1.5 units of electricity to charge the battery, which amounts to less than Rs 1 per kilometre. E-vehicles are cheaper compared to petrol vehicles,” Chandran said.Buyers do not require driver’s license or register e-vehicle that have top speed of 50 kmph, said Abilash, sales executive of CK Motors. “The vehicles are zero maintenance for the first few years as they have a three-year battery warranty. We offer free service after the vehicle covers the first 1,000 km,” he said. As the vehicles are not suitable for those who travel long distances and those who travel without proper planning, it is purchased mostly for college students and those who use them for short trips, said Muthukumar, dealer of Ampere Electric Bikes - Smart bykes. “There has been a 50% increase in the sales of e-vehicles in the last two months,” he said.“Two-wheelers have become an inevitable part of life and it is difficult to use public transportation after using a motorcycle for years. While petrol prices are skyrocketing, the only alternative is an e-vehicle. You can cover 50 to 60 km on a single charge,” said S Prakash, a resident of Singanallur and owner of an e-vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/electric-vehicles-vroom-as-petrol-prices-race-ahead/articleshow/81262873.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 1, 2021||Goa||Pep Guardiola lauds Mumbai City's ISL success||Panaji: Pep Guardiola has congratulated Mumbai City FC for their “incredible success” in the Indian Super League. Mumbai, part of the City Football Group which also owns Manchester City, managed by Guardiola, defeated ATK Mohun Bagan 2-0 on Sunday to win the League Winners Shield, awarded to the team that finishes the league stage on top. The league winners also qualified for next year’s AFC Champions League group stage. “Incredible success,” Guardiola said at the club’s pre-match media briefing on Monday. “It’s part of this family, the City Football Group. Now comes the playoff. Hopefully, they can do it well as well. So, congratulations for all people, manager (Sergio) Lobera, especially the players. Big congratulations. Every league is tricky and when you win, it’s well deserved,” he said. Mumbai have been drawn to play FC Goa in the semifinals after Lobera’s former team edged out Hyderabad FC with a goalless draw to finish fourth. The first leg will be played at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Friday. Mumbai have never qualified for the ISL final but since being taken over by the City group, the team has looked hard to stop. NorthEast United will face second-placed ATK Mohun Bagan in the other semifinal, the first leg of which will be played at the GMC Athletic Stadium on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pep-guardiola-lauds-mumbai-citys-isl-success/articleshow/81281195.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Mann ki Baat: PM mentions Bageshwar farmer, 55, who revived dead spring||DEHRADUN: Fifty-five-year-old Jagdish Chandra Kudiyal, a farmer and grocery shop owner from Kumaon’s Bageshwar district, revived a spring in his locality which had been lying dead for decades. Inspired by the Chipko movement, he started planting saplings around the spring, which slowly recharged the ground water table. After 20 years, the spring finally came to life and now helps locals irrigate their fields. On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded his efforts in 'Mann ki Baat'. “I was not expecting to hear my name,” Kudiyal told TOI. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat took to Twitter to praise him too. “When stubbornness turns into passion, there are definitely meaningful results. Shri Jagdish Kudiyal Ji, resident of Bageshwar district of Uttarakhand, has recharged the dry local water springs many years ago with his efforts to overcome not only the drinking water crisis, but also the irrigation problems in villages,” the CM wrote. Recalling how it started, Kudiyal, who lives in Sirkot village of Bageshwar district's Gardud block said that the idea first came to his mind when the village faced acute water crisis and all he could see was dried up springs. “At that moment, I remembered the Chipko movement in which people started saving trees as they were sources of water recharge, among other things. I went to the ‘gadera’ [water spring] - the only source of water for the nearby villages. You couldn’t see a drop of water in it. It was all dry, filled with leaves, stones,” Kudiyal said. He then started plantation around the ‘gadera’. Initially around 100 trees were planted, but like every success story starts with a failure, locals didn’t show any support. “Villagers used to send their animals to graze on small plants. They sometimes used to destroy them for fun. But, I had already decided that I was there to bring life to it,” Kudiyal added. He then started tea farming in his field which was also located near the spring. “I hired labourers to work in my tea fields and this is how I also got people to guard my saplings. And we managed to turn them into trees. We then dug deep pits after every two to three metres that used to get filled up with rain water. Finally, the hard work and patience of 20 years paid off when the spring came to life.” Kudiyal said villagers later joined the "movement" when they saw his determination and results. His one son is a manager in an Indian overseas bank while the other is an Army officer, but he never left his village to lead a city life. The water spring is now not only providing drinking water to 400 homes in villages, but is also being used for irrigation. Bageshwar's chief development officer DD Pant said the water conservation campaign from the plantation in Sirkot village is truly commendable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mann-ki-baat-pm-mentions-bageshwar-farmer-55-who-revived-dead-spring/articleshow/81260880.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Activists flay smart city’s ‘shoddy website’||Coimbatore: City corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian has launched a dedicated website for the Coimbatore Smart City Limited, five years after the Union government selected the city for development under the Smart Cities Mission.While https://coimbatoresmartcity.org has detail of the projects taken up under the mission and names of the board members, it lacks every other detail, including salient features of the projects, cost, company executing the work and timeline, activists say.The 19 other cities, including Indore, Bhopal, New Delhi and Chennai, which were selected along with Coimbatore in January 2016, had launched own websites immediately and have been sharing information regarding projects. The Indore Smart City Development Limited has set an example by uploading annual financial reports that contain information regarding turnover of the company, details of the company share and principal business activities of the company. The website also publishes information about tenders and board meetings.“Without revealing much information, why did the corporation even launch the website?” asks city-based activist M Loganathan. “Ideally, it should have uploaded the government order issued to start Coimbatore Smart City Limited, information regarding the public information officer (PIO) of smart city, first and second appellants, procedure to file a query under the Right to Information Act, 2005, minutes of board meetings and information regarding financial position. These are open documents and should be made available to the public.”Under Section 4 of RTI Act, maximum information about the projects should be uploaded on the website, says K Kathirmathiyon, another activist. “As per government norms, details like cost, date of commencement, expected date of completion, status and company executing the project should be displayed on the site. When other smart cities can reveal such information, why is Coimbatore smart city reluctant to share it? Lack of transparency creates suspicion.”The website should also have provision to get feedback from the public, Kathirmathiyon says. “It does not serve any purpose at all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/activists-flay-smart-citys-shoddy-website/articleshow/81262881.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Gowardipe Maha & Goa bar council prez||Advocate Anil Gowardipe has been elected the president of the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa. He has been practising as an advocate at the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court since 1988. Advocate Gowardipe also served as the special government prosecutor (MCOCA). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gowardipe-maha-goa-bar-council-prez/articleshow/81263990.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cancer patient beaten by son||Ahmedabad: A 30-year-old woman from Bapunagar on Saturday filed a complaint against her younger brother and his wife, stating that they assaulted her father, a 72-year-old cancer patient, following a domestic quarrel. The complainant said the accused had first thrashed her and her elder brother and then attacked her father when he tried to intervene. She said the accused also pushed her father down the stairs. In her FIR filed with Bapunagar police, Jyoti Makwana, a resident of Umang flats, said that the accused — Yogesh and Priyanka — used to fight with the family members over petty issues. She alleged that Yogesh and Priyanka also used to abuse her father, Parshottam Makwana, who is undergoing cancer treatment at Civil Hospital. On Friday night, Yogesh and Priyanka told Jyoti’s elder brother Bharat to return their scooter which he had borrowed for some days. When Bharat sought a little more time from them, Yogesh and Priyanka began abusing and thrashing him. Parshottam tried to rescue Bharat, but the accused began beating him. The complainant said that after the attack by Yogesh and Priyanka, her father suffered fractures in both his legs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cancer-patient-beaten-by-son/articleshow/81262882.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||7.2 tonnes of ration rice seized from pvt godown||Coimbatore: Revenue department officials seized 7.2 tonnes of ration rice from a godown on Podanur-Chettipalayam road on Saturday. District revenue officer Ramadurai Murugan had received a tip-off about rice meant for public distribution system stored in a private godown. He directed Madukkarai taluk supply officer P Rameshkumar, flying squad revenue inspector Kumar and the civil supply revenue inspector to conduct a search. The officials rushed to the godown on Saturday evening and found 144 gunny bags (each 50kg) contained ration rice. The seized rice was handed over to the civil supplies CID police for further investigation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/7-2-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized-from-pvt-godown/articleshow/81262849.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Amitabh Bachchan hints at undergoing surgery on blog||MUMBAI: Megastar Amitabh Bachchan has shared that he has a “medical condition” for which he needs to undergo a surgery. It is unclear if the medical procedure is complete. In a one-line, cryptic message on his personal blog, the 78-year-old actor gave an update to his followers. “Medical condition... surgery...can't write (sic)”, Bachchan wrote on Saturday. He had also contracted Covid last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bachchan-hints-at-undergoing-surgery-on-blog/articleshow/81264458.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Testing centres restarted at APMC||NAVI MUMBAI: Following a spike in cases, NMMC has reactivated testing centres at APMC market yard at Vashi, which was a hotspot of Covid-19 cases earlier.  Screening has been restarted at the entrance gates of the wholesale market yard which sees a footfall of over 50,000 daily. The civic body will also intensify testing at all railway stations soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/testing-centres-restarted-at-apmc/articleshow/81264464.cms||B B Nayak
March 1, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Para-military force to help local police ensure free & fair poll in Salem||SALEM: With the model code of conduct for the state assembly election is in force, district collectors in Salem region, which comprises Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts, have convened all-party meetings and appealed them to follow the poll code and conduct the election in a fair and smooth manner. On Sunday, 183 para-military personnel arrived in Salem and 92 each in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. They represent the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Indo-Tibet Border Police. A Salem city police officer said 91 of the 183 jawans would help the district police and the remaining the city police. “They will be accommodated at the Salem government engineering college at Karuppur, on the outskirts of the city.” Superintendent of police Sivakumar Pandey, of Chhattisgarh, who led the jawans to the city, said they would assist the local police with vehicle check and keeping a tab on politicians. Salem collector S A Raman, meanwhile, opened a strong room to keep the electronic voting machines (EVMs) in the presence of functionaries of all political parties. “We have taken 214 EVMs for training polling booth officials and creating awareness among the public.” He said the district would have 4,280 polling booths spread across the 11 assembly segments. On his part, Erode collector C Kathiravan inspected a few private schools in the city to set up polling booths and vote counting centres on Sunday. “We have to set up booths and counting centres at Erode municipal corporation school, P P Agraharam middle school and Christ Jothi matriculation higher secondary school.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/para-military-force-to-help-local-police-ensure-free-fair-poll/articleshow/81262942.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Chennai||Woman ends life week after boyfriend||Chennai: A week after her boyfriend committed suicide, a 20-year-old college student set herself ablaze at a relative’s house near Avadi on Friday night. She died of burns on Saturday. Police said M Sujatha, a native of Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh, was in a relationship with a relative, Silambarasan, 24. Sujatha’s parents opposed their union and had condemned the woman. They had also rejected Silambarasan’s formal proposal to marry her. Dejected, Silambarasan hanged at his house in Chittoor on February 22. Police, quoting relatives, said Sujatha had been visibly upset since then and had remained withdrawn and inconsolable. To help her forget about the tragedy, her parents had sent her to their relative’s house at Karalapakkam near Avadi. “But she stopped eating and grew weaker,” a police officer said. On Friday night, Sujatha set herself afire. Hearing her cries, relatives and neighbours put out the fire and moved her to a government hospital, where she died on Saturday. The Muthapudhupet police have sent the body for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-ends-life-week-after-boyfriend/articleshow/81262917.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Man killed in drunken brawl||Tirupur: A 40-year-old man was murdered by his relative, who was also his co-worker, at a garment unit at Palladamin in Tirupur district on Sunday early morning. Police have formed two special teams to nab the murderer, who has gone into hiding.An investigation officer identified the deceased as S Mangalishwaran, a native of Tiruchuli near Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district. He was a wall painter. “The garment unit at Palladam had hired him and his 40-year-old relative R Valivitta Ayyanar, also from Tiruchuli, for painting job as part of some renovation work two weeks ago.” According to the officer, the two were staying in a room on the garment unit premises. “On Saturday night, the duo consumed alcohol and fought with each other. On Sunday morning, other workers of the unit found Mangalishwaran dead in a pool of blood in the room. His relative was not seen anywhere on the unit premises.”The garment unit alerted police, who sent the dead body to hospital for postmortem. Police suspect that Ayyanar might have murdered Mangalishwaran using an iron rod and escaped from the room later. “The special teams have launched a manhunt for him,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-killed-in-drunken-brawl/articleshow/81262910.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||25-yr-old knifed over water suppy||Ahmedabad: A 25-year-old man from the Odhav area of city on Sunday filed a complaint with police that he was knifed on head, eyebrows and forehead by a man over a dispute of buying drinking water from him. Mohit Gupta, who works with a private firm, shifted from Noida to a residential society in Odhav around four months ago. At that time, he had deposited Rs 500 to a mineral water supplier identified as Shivam in Odhav and was getting around 10 litres of mineral water every day. He sought the mineral water service as drinking water supply was irregular in the area. For past two months, Shivam was not providing water regularly to Gupta. Recently, Gupta told him to return his deposit and take back his empty vessel in which he provided water. On Saturday night, Shivam called up Gupta and told him to come at Kharicut canal near Rajendra Park and collect his deposit. When Gupta along with a friend went to meet Shivam, the accused abused him for not availing his mineral water service. When Gupta told him that he was irregular in the water supply, Shivam became furious and began beating him. Shivam took out a knife and attacked Gupta. Later Gupta’s friend and local people rescued him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/25-yr-old-knifed-over-water-suppy/articleshow/81262914.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Vaccination for general public to begin at 25 govt hospitals, 79 private hospitals||COIMBATORE: The district health department is all set to vaccinate the public against Covid-19 from Monday. People aged above 60 years and those between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities are eligible to get inoculated. The health department said the vaccine would be administered at 25 government hospitals free of cost. People could also get vaccinated from the select 79 private hospitals, which would charge Rs 150 for the vaccine and anywhere between Rs 100 and Rs 250 for the service. While the vaccination for health workers was stopped on February 23, interested workers could get the shot along with the public. According to an official source, the public would have to register on Co-WIN application and choose the date and centre, where they wish to get the jab, in advance. Registered candidates have to produce Aadhar card, voter’s id and proof of age, along with health certificates if they have any comorbidities, at the vaccination centres. A digital QR code would be provided to the public after receiving the first dose of the vaccine. “A link to download their digital certificate would be provided after the second dose, which they have to get 28 days later,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vaccination-for-general-public-to-begin-at-25-govt-hospitals-79-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/81262894.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kochi||Alappuzha native gives ‘life’ to Thalaivi statues||ALAPPUZHA: Abhipriti (6), a Class I student of Thaliyaparambu Government LP School and Sajayan Madhavan (40), a sculptor and expert in animatronics and prosthetics, have made Alappuzha proud. Madhavan, a native of Panavally near Cherthala, shot into spotlight after he made life-size statues of former Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa that were installed in a museum at Marina Beach in Tamil Nadu. Abhipriti, daughter of Madhavan’s friend Jibeesh, donated her long tresses for the statues. The 167-cm tall statues, made using hyper-realistic silicone technology, were completed after five months of hard work. The body of the statue is made of silicone rubber and resin. Real hair is used make the statue’s hair. “My phone keeps ringing after the news about the statue became viral on social media. I am so glad that I got a chance to make Jayalalithaa’s statues,” said Madhavan, a teacher with a fine arts college in Karaikudi in Tamil Nadu. It was Madhavan who made the birds in Rajinikanth’s movie ‘Enthiran 2.0’. He has also done artwork for Vijay’s Mersal. “Around four years ago, I had made a statue of Udham Singh for a war memorial in Punjab,” said Madhavan, who is also the director of Artpac Studio in Kochi. Abhipriti too has no words to share her happiness. When Madhavan said he was looking for someone to donate their real hair for the statue, Jibeesh told his wife Sojamol and Abhipriti about it. Abhipriti and her mother were more than willing. Abhipriti was planning to donate her hair to cancer patients. “My parents told me about Jayalalithaa and her life. So, I think I have been very fortunate to be part of the project,” said Abhipriti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/alpy-native-gives-life-to-thalaivi-statues/articleshow/81261648.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Isro launches city institute’s satellite||The Indian Space Research Organization (Isro) on Sunday launched PSLV C-51 from Sriharikota. One of the satellites that is being launched in the orbit - Sri Shakthi Sat - is developed by Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology in the district. The satellite could perform all Internet of things (IoT) operations, right from detecting a leaking underground pipeline to fire in forest or buildings. As the satellite would be placed at 500km to 575km above the earth, it would cross India twice a day. To get data round the clock, it will inter communicate with 300 other satellites. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/isro-launches-city-institutes-satellite/articleshow/81262922.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Iranian convict caught using cellphone in jail||CHENNAI: Prison officials seized a mobile phone from an Iranian inmate at the Central Prison in Puzhal during a surprise raid on Saturday night. The raids were a routine search for possession of mobile phones and ganja by prisoners. The man found in possession of the phone was Mohammed Jaffer Ali, 36, a native of Iran arrested for smuggling drugs in 2018 and lodged in the prison after he was convicted. Jaffer Ali was caught red-handed speaking on the phone during the raid. While the cellphone was confiscated, an investigation is on to find out how he got the device. Soon after the seizure, prison authorities carried out a thorough search for more such violations and issued a strict warning to inmates. The Puzhal police have registered a case and are checking the call logs on the phone to trace Jaffer Ali’s accomplices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iranian-convict-caught-using-cellphone-in-jail/articleshow/81262941.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||‘Mrityunjay Doot’ to come to aid of highway victims across Maharashtra||NAGPUR: The state highway traffic police are roping in volunteers to act as first responders during accidents to bring down death rates by 30-40% from the existing 1,000 on an average annually. These first responders are expected to be more active around 376 black spots on the 7,247km of the highways in Vidarbha, Nanded and Hingoli. Based on the concept of ‘Good Samaritan’ of the ministry of road transport and highways, Addl DG, state highway traffic, BK Upadhyay is set to launch ‘Mrityunjay Doot’ along highways. The volunteers would also double up as crime stoppers across Maharashtra from March 1. Volunteers would be groomed in handling accident victims. Upadhyay said 40-50% of deaths in road accidents take place due to non-availability of medical assistance in the ‘golden hour’. “Apart from rushing victims to hospitals, we also need to train them how to handle the injured too, like administering first aid, carrying victims on stretchers and not making common mistakes like offering water to victims which aggravates their condition,” he said. Upadhyay also said that stretchers too would be given to volunteers. “The state highway traffic personnel would be interacting with the local network of the volunteers on a regular basis,’ he said. Upadhyay added that volunteers would also try to intervene in a crime incident as it’s also in the mandate of the state highway traffic. “We will also take the help of the local ‘Mrityunjay Doots’ to eradicate the black spots as they are more knowledgeable and have practical experience about the topography, road conditions and the accident record of a place,” said Upadhyay, stating that the entire scheme would be nothing but a well-oiled network of volunteers, ambulance services, hospitals and local officials of police stations and other departments. “We may not be able to reduce accidents but we would certainly bring back an injured person from the jaws of deaths by helping the victim with prompt and proper medical assistance,’ said the Addl DG. According to Dy SP Sanjay Pande, state highway traffic police, such measures to rush victims to hospitals had drastically brought down the number of accidents in Tamil Nadu too. “We are aiming to bring down the death rate from 1,029 in 2020,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mrityunjay-doot-to-come-to-aid-of-highway-victims/articleshow/81262943.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Artisan steals Rs 30 lakh gold in 2019, caught trying to repeat scam in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 34-year-old artisan was arrested by D B Marg police two years after he decamped with gold worth Rs 30 lakh from a jeweller in south Mumbai. Accused Arvind Dabde stole the gold under the pretext of making jewellery, and later bought property equivalent to the stolen booty. Dabde, a native of Osmanabad, was arrested from Zaveri Bazaar when he came to Mumbai to dupe another jeweller on Saturday. A police complaint filed by Kalpatru Jewellers in 2019, stated that in November 2019, the jewellers gave Dabde around 753g of 22 karat gold to be made into a necklace and mangalsutra. “Dabde had been making ornaments for various jewellers for several years. He was to hand over the ornaments in a week,” said an officer. Dabde did not turn up after ten days, and was not answering his phone. Police searched his house in the presence of his mother, who told police that in 2019, Dabde had purchased nearly 2 acres of land worth Rs 29.4 lakhs from the money he brought from Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/artisan-steals-rs-30l-gold-in-19-caught-trying-to-repeat-scam/articleshow/81264044.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||CBI books Meerut-based Army auditor for seeking Rs 10,000 bribe||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow unit of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has lodged an FIR against a Meerut-based Army auditor for allegedly asking a local businessman for a bribe to get his bills cleared. The businessman, Abdul Haleem, who owns a computer showroom in the city, alleged in his complaint to the CBI that the auditor, Ashutosh Yadav, asked him to pay Rs 10,000 to clear bills for the computers he had supplied. Haleem informed the CBI anti-corruption team that an order of 12 computers had been placed by the Central India Horse Department of Military Affairs in Meerut in December 2020 via Government e-MarketPlace (GeM). “On December 17, I completed the order and sent a Rs 2.06 lakh-bill to the controller of defence accounts in Meerut for the payment,” he said in his complaint. However, the auditor Ashutosh Yadav, first kept it pending and then asked for Rs 10,000 bribe for clearing it, Haleem said in his complaint. He later informed the anti-corruption unit of the CBI based in Lucknow. The CBI said that an FIR under the charges of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against Yadav and probe started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-books-meerut-based-army-auditor-for-seeking-rs-10000-bribe/articleshow/81264006.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
March 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Para-military force to help local police ensure free & fair poll||Salem: With the model code of conduct for the state assembly election is in force, district collectors in Salem region, which comprises Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts, have convened all-party meetings and appealed them to follow the poll code and conduct the election in a fair and smooth manner. On Sunday, 183 para-military personnel arrived in Salem and 92 each in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. They represent the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Indo-Tibet Border Police.A Salem city police officer said 91 of the 183 jawans would help the district police and the remaining the city police. “They will be accommodated at the Salem government engineering college at Karuppur, on the outskirts of the city.”Superintendent of police Sivakumar Pandey, of Chhattisgarh, who led the jawans to the city, said they would assist the local police with vehicle check and keeping a tab on politicians.Salem collector S A Raman, meanwhile, opened a strong room to keep the electronic voting machines (EVMs) in the presence of functionaries of all political parties. “We have taken 214 EVMs for training polling booth officials and creating awareness among the public.”He said the district would have 4,280 polling booths spread across the 11 assembly segments.On his part, Erode collector C Kathiravan inspected a few private schools in the city to set up polling booths and vote counting centres on Sunday. “We have to set up booths and counting centres at Erode municipal corporation school, P P Agraharam middle school and Christ Jothi matriculation higher secondary school.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/para-military-force-to-help-local-police-ensure-free-fair-poll/articleshow/81262944.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||In 2-hour journey, PSLV puts 19 satellites into orbit||CHENNAI: In one of its longest journeys lasting nearly two hours, Indian Space Research Organisation’s workhorse Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C51) successfully placed Amazonia-1, an optical earth observation satellite, from Brazil and 18 other satellites in orbit on Sunday. It was Isro’s first launch mission in 2021 and the first dedicated mission for its commercial arm NewSpace India Limited. “Congratulations to NSIL and @isro on the success of the 1st dedicated commercial launch of PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 mission. This ushers in a new era of space reforms in the country. 18 co-passengers included four small satellites that showcase dynamism and innovation of our youth,” PM Narendra Modi tweeted. “Congratulations President @jairbolsonaro on the successful launch of Brazil’s Amazonia-1 satellite by PSLV-C51,” he said in another tweet. Around 17 minutes after the lift-off from Sriharikota’s first launch pad at 10.24am, the rocket injected 637kg Amazonia-1 into a 755km sun synchronous polar orbit. In the next one hour 38 minutes, PSLV injected the remaining 18 satellites after it reached a lower orbit, following restart of the rocket’s PS4 or upper stage engine twice. “India and Isro feel very proud and happy to launch the first satellite designed, integrated and operated by Brazil,” said Isro chairman K Sivan. With this, Isro has launched 342 foreign satellites from 34 countries. Amazonia-1, an optical earth observation satellite designed, integrated, tested and operated by National Institute for Space Research, Brazil, will provide remote sensing data to users for monitoring deforestation in Amazon region and analysis of diversified agriculture across Brazilian territory. Out of the 18 other satellites, Satish Dhawan SAT (SD SAT) and UNITYsat, a combination of three satellites and built by three colleges, were launched through IN-SPACe. The other 14 satellites, including SindhuNetra, SAI-1 NanoConnect-2 and 12 SpaceBEEs satellites were launched through NSIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-2-hour-journey-pslv-puts-19-satellites-into-orbit/articleshow/81264746.cms||U Tejonmayam
March 1, 2021||Chennai||Decade since it got bigger, not all of Chennai is better||CHENNAI: It is exactly a decade since areas such as Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Valasaravakkam, Ambattur, Maduravoyal, Alandur and Madipakkam were annexed with Greater Chennai Corporation. While the motive behind the move was to ensure that the residents there enjoyed good infrastructure and facilities on par with core city areas, the ground reality and opinions of senior civic officials presents a very middling perspective. While property owners have benefited from a boom in land, rental rates, and pucca roads, street lights and modern conservancy operations, two essential services — piped water and underground sewage connection — remain elusive.  For instance, residents in Ambattur have only now started getting sewer connections in homes. The same work has been taken up randomly in Ullagaram, Puzhuthivakkam areas and has resulted in dug up, dusty main roads. Government medical and education institutions continue to remain modest in added areas as, though the facilities fall under GCC purview, they continue to be maintained by the respective district administrations. The number of schools and primary health centres (PHCs) in extended areas is lesser compared to core city areas. Residents in the added areas, however, pay more property tax than the city’s core area residents. “The tax paid by people in North or West Chennai added areas is around Rs 11 per square feet, those along Mount Road pay only Rs 90 paise/sqft. But residents paying Rs 11/sqft still deal with septic tanks,” said a senior GCC official. In areas such as Perungudi, Manali and East Coast Road, stormwater drains have been proposed only in 2021, meaning they were left more vulnerable to flooding until now. R S Babu, a Manali resident since 2004, says despite living in what is termed a city, residents there still face the onslaught of severe air pollution. “Whenever we step out to even visit a temple nearby, ammonia fumes (from industries around) irritate our skin. There has been no improvement over years,” he said. A senior engineer with GCC said since the expansion, the civic body has focussed on providing well-lit, high quality roads and private conservancy services in extended areas. “These are the basics a citizen asks for,” he said. Saidai Duraisamy, a former mayor of Chennai during the previous AIADMK government, said the life of residents in extended areas would not have improved so drastically if they were still governed by municipalities and village panchayats. “If the water supply and sewage connection work was undertaken by GCC, we would have completed it faster,” he said. Ma Subramaniam, a DMK MLA and former mayor, said lack of fund allocation, periodical inspections, review meetings and dialogue with contractors were responsible for the slow pace of development work. “A local body such as Meenambakkam, which had excess funds before 2011, is now rethinking its merge with GCC as facilities have not improved,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/decade-since-it-got-bigger-not-all-of-chennai-is-better/articleshow/81262951.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra DGP asks police to integrate with village economy for the symbiotic relationship||NAGPUR: State director general of police (DGP) Hemant Nagrale, who was on a two-day visit to Maoist-affected Gadchiroli last week, has directed security forces to help boost the local village-level economy by purchasing materials of daily needs from them to foster a symbiotic relationship with them. The aim of the state top cop is to ensure police plays a dual role of robust custodian and potential customers of the local tribal and other village population. Advising the cops to support the villagers, Nagrale is learnt to have suggested the cops to purchase green veggies, grains, rice, milk, eggs, chicken, mutton and such daily need materials from the villagers, which will go a long way in helping them earn and nurture a mutual dependency for a better rapport. Nagrale was assistant superintendent (asst SP), Rajura (Chandrapur) in the late 80s — the early days of his career. The state top cop is also learnt to have offered several tactical inputs to the jawans related to safety mechanisms while guarding posts and during operations. “Police from interior posts already purchase materials of their daily needs from local villagers. The DGP wanted the entire exercise to be more systematic and regular, rather than the casual practice which exists now,” said a senior official. Nagrale, who visited Sawargaon, Dechlipetha and Dhodraj police posts in the highly sensitive zones along with SP Ankit Goyal and deputy inspector general (DIG) Sandip Patil, had met the jawans deployed at such critical places to boost their morale. Apart from discussing various operational issues and gathering information about the present status of the Naxalite movement, Nagrale also formally declared accelerated promotion for some of the jawans for their exemplary efforts in tackling the armed guerrilla group. The DGP also visited the remote Murkudoh post at the tri-junction of Maharashtra’s Gondia, Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon and Balaghat of Madhya Pradesh, where security forces of three states are deployed. Speaking to the media, Nagrale also said that Maharashtra police have managed to nullify Naxalite influences at Nanded, Bhandara and Chandrapur, while its presence in Gadchiroli and Gondia is being tackled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maharashtra-dgp-asks-police-to-integrate-with-village-economy-for-the-symbiotic-relationship/articleshow/81262947.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 1, 2021||Kochi||Nilambur MLA Anvar’sabsence puts LDF in a fix||Kozhikode: LDF has landed itself in an unenviable situation of having to explain the absence of an MLA from his constituency. Nilambur MLA P V Anvar, who has been staying in Sierra Leone for the past two months to set up a mining business, is yet to return to the constituency even after the announcement of polls. LDF leaders are finding themselves in a spot as they had been telling the cadres that the LDF backed independent MLA will arrive in the constituency by the time the poll schedule is announced. Even though people close to the MLA say that he will arrive in the first week of March itself, UDF has already made the absence of the MLA in the constituency a poll issue. The MLA was absent for the slew of inaugurations of development projects held in the constituency during the past one month and also could not attend the receptions accorded to the LDF’s Vikasana Munnetta Jatha. Anvar, who had left for abroad after the local body polls, had revealed his location and purpose of visit only in the first week of February after a large number of people, mostly UDF supporters, flooded the official Facebook page of the President of the Republic of Ghana demanding ‘release’ of Anvar on assumption that the MLA was in that country. The MLA had also said that he had travelled abroad after informing the chief minister and securing permission from the party. Meanwhile, CPM Malappuram district secretary E N Mohandas said that the MLA’s business visit to Africa will not become a serious poll issue. “He had gone abroad as a private entrepreneur and the declaration of polls came a bit earlier than expected. He will be back in the next few days. The people of Nilambur are fully satisfied with his performance MLA,” he said. Asked about the candidature of Anvar in the constituency in the upcoming polls, he said LDF is yet to enter into candidate selection talks but added that being an incumbent MLA who has served for just one term, Anvar was well within the eligibility criteria set by the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nilambur-mla-anvarsabsence-puts-ldf-in-a-fix/articleshow/81261661.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Bride & groom made to take Covid test with vows||Nagpur: A couple faced the first test of their marriage when officials from the primary health centre (PHC) landed up at the wedding venue and made them undergo a rapid antigen test for Covid-19. Guests who had come to attend the wedding on Saturday at Krishita Sabhagruha at Sawargaon in Narkhed taluka of Nagpur, as well as the priest, cooks and drivers, were tested too. With the surge in Covid cases across the state, the initiative has won praise from district collector Ravindra Thakare who said it was a good “local innovation” that could be replicated elsewhere to check spread of the virus. Dr Vidyanand Gaikwad, taluka health official of Narkhed, came up with the novel idea to conduct tests at wedding venues. He said marriage events had become superspreaders in the ongoing second wave of coronavirus in the district. “We conducted 26 antigen tests at the venue and fortunately everyone was negative. The idea was to immediately isolate anyone found positive and take further precautions,” Gaikwad said. “The visit to the wedding venue had a dual purpose. Officials also wanted to check if Covid norms like masks, maintaining social distancing and use of sanitizers were being followed. We also wanted to make sure not more than 50 persons were present at the venue,” he said. “The second aim was to conduct antigen tests as there is mass mingling at weddings. We wanted to ensure this marriage did not turn into a superspreader event,” he added. The team first counselled guests and then conducted the tests, said Gaikwad. The tests were conducted free of cost. “However, as many guests were found without masks, we imposed a fine of Rs 6,000,” he said. Last year, a team under Gaikwad had sanitized an entire wedding venue with sodium hypochlorite at Agra village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bride-groom-made-to-take-covid-test-with-vows/articleshow/81264467.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Unidentified man dies at Gandhi||Hyderabad: An unknown man succumbed while undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital on Sunday. On February 27, Malkajgiri police received information about a 45-year-old man lying unconscious on the road at Yadavnagar. Cops shifted the man to hospital for treatment. Police suspect that he was a beggar and a suspicious death case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unidentified-man-dies-at-gandhi/articleshow/81264013.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man goes missing, wife files complaint||HYDERABAD: A 42-year-old woman, J Kavitha, from Mylargadda lodged a complaint with Punjagutta police on Sunday stating that her husband, J Siddesh, 46, a security guard at a private company in Somajiguda, went missing. She informed police that Siddesh left the house on February 25 but did not report for work and did not return home. A missing case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-goes-missing-wife-files-plaint/articleshow/81264029.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Vaccine drive for elderly begins today, first shot for 900 in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The phase III of mass Covid vaccination drive will roll out in the city on Monday in which people aged 60 years or above and 45-59 years with comorbidity will be given their first shots. Health department has made arrangements to give jabs to 900 people at nine booths in four centres on the inaugural day. Services will be free at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) and SPM Civil Hospital, while at Shekhar hospital, Indiranagar, it will cost Rs 250. People will have to bring government recognised IDs. Those with comorbid conditions will need to produce the prescription of their disease certified by a registered medical practitioner. All will be registered on the spot on Co-WIN 2.0 app. “There are around 5.5 lakh intended beneficiaries who are 60 years or above and around 1 lakh with comorbidity in the 45-59 age group,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, spokesperson, office of the chief medical officer. People can also get jabs on March 4 and 5 rounds meant for second doses to frontline and healthcare workers, he added. Plans are underway to conduct vaccination four days a week in the coming days. Registration for Phase 3 starts today: Advanced registration for next rounds of Phase III will also start at 10am on Monday. People can register at CoWIN 2.0 app, Aarogya Setu app and Sahaj Jan Seva Kendra by uploading required IDs for registration and produce them later at the time of inoculation at the centre. The option of walk-in with the facility of on-site registration will also continue. The number of centres will be gradually increased to 170 in coming rounds. -- 137 private hospitals empanelled with PM Jan Arogya Yojna where inoculation will be done on payment of Rs 250 and 33 government aided with free facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vax-drive-for-elderly-begins-today-1st-shot-for-900-in-city/articleshow/81264026.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||12 students positive in KGBV hostel; Telangana schools reopening under lens||HYDERABAD: Six days after returning to their hostels, 12 students of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) in Sangareddy district tested positive for Covid-19, raising fresh concerns over state’s plan to open all residential educational institutes soon. All the students are from class 9, 10 and Intermediate batch who had returned to hostels. While 150 members —132 students and 18 staff — took rapid antigen tests (RAT) tests, 12 of them tested positive. On Saturday, authorities collected fresh samples for RT-PCR tests from all those who tested negative. Reports are awaited and will most likely be out on Monday. “Initially, a student had a severe cold and complained of breathlessness. As a precautionary measure, the principal got her tested for Covid-19 and she tested positive,” said N Rajesh, district education officer, Sangareddy. He said that immediately all the staff and students gave samples for RAT and a dozen tested positive. The DEO said that as all the staff has tested negative, it is likely that Covid-19 has spread from one of the asymptomatic students. He said that they are trying to figure out how the Covid-19 spread on the campus. Rajesh added that all students hail from different villages and study in different classes. “Parents of those who tested positive for Covid-19 were informed. Students are being sent home with a Covid kit and have been asked to be under home isolation,” he added. The officials said that teachers are continuously counselling and monitoring students and ensuring that they remain calm. After knowing about the spread of Covid-19 in the hostel, at least 20 anxious parents visited the campus on Sunday. They wanted to take their daughters back home immediately. The officials, however, counselled them and asked them to wait for RT PCR results so that they can be sure if their kids have Covid-19 and what precautions needs to be taken. Officials said that students are screened and their history is noted down when they enter the campus and made to stay separately for about four to five days. “All covid-19 precautions, including social distancing, is followed in classroom and hostels. Masks and sanitisers are also made available to students,” the official said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12-students-ve-in-kgbv-hostel-t-schools-reopening-under-lens/articleshow/81264468.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya without medicine as chemists’ stir enters third day||AYODHYA: Indefinite strike by medical shops in the district, which entered the third day on Sunday, is posing problems to locals. The strike has been called by the Ayodhya Chemists Association in protest against harassment by a drug inspector. People are facing a tough time as government hospitals here have exhausted their medicines quota due to the ongoing strike by medical shops.The situation has turned so grave that locals have started terming it as a health emergency. Talking to TOI, Ghanshyam Singh, chief medical officer, Ayodhya, said, "The strike has definitely affected the public badly. Usually government hospitals give medicines only to patients who are admitted here or who get themselves examined at OPDs.” Meanwhile, Avi Anand, president of the Ayodhya Chemists Association, said, "Drug Inspector of Ayodhya is harassing drug dealers for obvious reasons. There is rampant corruption in issuance of licences and renewals. We have called on Ayodhya BJP MLA Ved Prakash Gupta. But still no action has been taken in the matter.” Gupta, however, has assured the association members that he would take up the matter with the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-without-medicine-as-chemists-stir-enters-third-day/articleshow/81264034.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
March 1, 2021||Delhi||51% Vote In Civic Bypolls, Results Out On March 3||New Delhi: Only around half of the 2.4 lakh voters came out to exercise their franchise for bypolls in five municipal wards under north and east corporations. The final voter turnout at the end of Sunday was 50.9%.Kalyanpuri ward in east Delhi recorded the highest polling at 59.2%, while north Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh (North) ward saw the lowest turnout at 43.2%. The other two east corporation wards also had a relatively higher voting turnout with Trilokpuri at 55.9% and Chauhan Banger at 55.6%.The fate of 26 candidates, including eight independents, has been sealed in 327 electronic voting machines. The results would be declared by the state election commission (SEC) on Wednesday.Minor complaints of EVM malfunction were reported in the morning at places like Sahib Singh Verma Community Centre polling booth, but they were soon resolved and the overall process was smooth with no reports of violence or disruptions.Initially, the voter turnout was very low with just 8.6% polling recorded till 9.30am, but the pace picked up in the second half of the day. The polling percentage was 20.3% at 11.30am, 32.2% at 1.30pm and 42.9% at 3.30pm. At the end of the day, the final polling at 5.30pm was 50.9%. In all, 1,23,299 people cast their vote.Among the five wards, three seats were in the reserved category for scheduled caste or women. Four seats had been vacated due to councillors being elected as MLAs on an AAP ticket, while Shalimar Bagh ward fell vacant due to the death of BJP councillor Renu Jaju.In a novel initiative, SEC had set up large boards at polling stations giving details of candidates, including education, criminal records, assets, etc so that voters could make an informed choice.Alpana (20), a first-time voter who had queued up at the primary school in Shahbad Dairy, said, “I was very excited since last night and had kept my voter ID ready. I feel responsible about taking part in this democratic exercise.” She was seen proudly displaying her inked finger.Rohini-C ward, where Shahbad Dairy is located, recorded 44.6% turnout amid heavy police deployment to maintain law and order. The seat fell vacant when a sitting BSP councillor switched over to AAP in 2020 and got elected as an MLA.Special arrangements had been made in view of the pandemic. Thermal screening and hand sanitisation was being carried out at the entry points of 46 polling stations. Though the last hour (4.30pm-5.30pm) was kept for Covid-positive patients and those with high body temperature, no votes were cast by them. SEC data showed that 10 Covid patients were present in Shalimar Bagh ward and two in Kalyanpuri, but no one voted.In all, 35 transgender voters were registered with the highest (17) being in Rohini-C ward. Three transgenders voted in Shalimar Bagh. Aarti Chaudhri, who was seen with her two disciples, Vandana and Sindhu Chaudhary, said they came to make their voices heard so that policies could be formulated for them too. “Our representatives should bring us into the mainstream through targeted welfare schemes,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/51-vote-in-civic-bypolls-results-out-on-march-3/articleshow/81261739.cms||Paras Singh
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Class act! Hyderabad kid gets junior Spanish club licence||HYDERABAD: Eighteen-year-old Adarsh Narayanapuram has achieved what many budding footballers can only dream of. The teen became the first from Telangana to secure a European player licence in the junior category. Though not there yet, the Hyderabadi has joined the small list of Indian players such as Bhaichung Bhutia and Bala Devi who have represented foreign football clubs. A centre-forward who idolises Lionel Messi, Adarsh is playing for CD Olimpic de Xativa, a Group VI, third division club in Valencia, Spain since Feb 2018. He started with U-18 'B' team an now promoted to the under-18 'A' team. The “Telangana Messi,” as his teammates fondly call him, has scored five goals in eight games before the pandemic struck and he’s been only practising ever since. A foreign players needs to be 18 to get this licence and Adarsh had to wait for two years to get the licence. “It is a proud moment and one of the best in my life,” Adarsh told TOI from Valencia on Sunday. Many Indians want to play football at the highest level. Experience is one thing every footballer needs and I get a lot of it playing here.” Adarsh started playing the game at nine and he thinks he started late. His physical education mentors David and Sudharshan at Oakridge International School gave him a chance to train under Arsenal coach Xaviar as a part of Arsenal Soccer Schools Programme. At the Arsenal camp, he was one of the two players to be adjudged the best among 150 trainees. Adarsh’s fascination for the beautiful game grew during his trip to the United Kingdom to attend training camps in 2016. He also got selected to German club DFI. However, the turning point of his career came when he attended a selection camp conducted by Xativa. “My coach Vijay sir told me to attend this selection. I was one among the seven selected from India by coach and ex-Real Madrid player Oscar Riberio. That was in August 2018 and it took more than six months to arrive in Valencia,” Adarsh said. “It’s been a fabulous experience here. I got a scholarship and the club takes care of everything. I am fortunate to get such top-class training,” he said. The club is owned by Sudeva football academy and the owner is Anuj Gupta. Seven other Indians have got a senior licence and Adarsh is also confident of getting it. “This junior licence helps me to play for one year and I am confident of securing the senior licence as well,” he said. Going forward, Adarsh’s goal is to represent the Hyderabad team in ISL and play for India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/class-act-city-kid-gets-jr-spanish-club-licence/articleshow/81264472.cms||Manne Ratnakar
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Cops say snatchings are down. Here is why the numbers do not add up||New Delhi: Delhi Police have cited data to claim that snatchings have been brought under check in the city. In fact, they claim that snatching-related PCR calls had declined by more than half in 2020 compared with 2019.Till just before riots broke out in Delhi in February last year, Delhi Police had come under the scanner over allegations of manipulated registration of snatching-related FIRs. Multiple instances had surfaced where brazen snatchings — even those caught on CCTV cameras — were lodged under sections of theft or merely filed online as e-FIRs. These did not show up in figures of snatching FIRs and, thus, reflected a decline.However, the current police chief, S N Shrivastava, is learnt to have put an end to this practice and ordered fair registration of FIRs soon after taking charge. He also ordered disciplinary action against SHOs found trying to manipulate FIRs.PCR calls, on the other hand, reveal a better picture for the simple reason that the cops have little control over them. “If a crime happens, people will call 112 or 100 no matter what and it will be recorded as part of an automated process. There is nothing we can do to hide it,” explained a senior officer.In 2019, there were 56,937 snatching-related calls to police control room. In 2020, the number reduced by around 56% as only 24,746 calls were recorded through the year. FIRs, on the other hand, saw a rise as 7,965 were registered last year compared with 6,266 in 2019. This was an increase of of 27.1%. Retired cops and lawyers say there has been and will always be some gap between PCR calls and FIRs lodged due to multiple factors.“At times, same victim make many SOS calls to the control room after a crime and each call is recorded. There are prank calls too. Many a times, a caller reports a snatching incident even when a wallet or phone is stolen; many snatching calls are made during brawls,” another official explained. However, the gap should not be too wide. Conversion rate of calls to FIR should be above 40% in any case,” he added.Data accessed by TOI shows that conversion of PCR calls into criminal cases was shockingly low in 2019. In July 2019, for example, of 4,831 calls related to snatching received at the police control room, only 486 were converted into FIRs, that is a mere 10%. “In 2020, even if the lockdown months of April and May are excluded, the number of PCR calls declined substantially. In July, there were just 1,845 calls for snatching, but 47% of them (872) were registered as FIRs. So, there was a rise from 10% to 47% even when the actual incidents declined,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-say-snatchings-are-down-here-is-why-the-numbers-do-not-add-up/articleshow/81261763.cms||Raj Shekhar
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Now, pay Rs 5 more for parking your four-wheeler in LMC lots||Lucknow: Four-wheelers will have to pay Rs 5 more for using parking lots under jurisdiction of the Lucknow Municipal Corporation from second week of March. The proposal was approved by the LMC House at its meeting held here on Sunday. While no change has been made for two-wheelers, for the first time LMC will start taking parking fees from three-wheelers and bicycle owners in underground slots. Parking rates for four-wheelers have been increased from Rs 25/four hours to Rs 30/four hours. Three-wheelers like auto and tempo owners will have to pay Rs 20/four hours. Similarly, cycle owners will be able to use the facility by paying Rs 5/four hours, said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi, while briefing media persons after the meeting. The rates for motorised two-wheelers (bikes and scooters) will remain Rs 10/four hours, he added. He further said that for the first time, LMC has increased its ambit of ‘parking’ by including public and commercial transports which use the area under LMC jurisdiction for taking passengers and loading/unloading commercial goods. These vehicles include trucks, buses, e-rickshaw and tempo. Heavy vehicles such as trucks and buses will be charged Rs 100/four hour, smaller vehicles will have to pay Rs 50/four hour and three wheelers Rs 30/four hours, he added. He clarified that radio cabs have been exempted from this category. The decision will bring Rs 50 crore per annum additional revenue. Till now, LMC’s revenue from parking lots was Rs 80-85 crore, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-pay-rs-5-more-for-parking-your-four-wheeler-in-lmc-lots/articleshow/81264046.cms||Nikhil J Nair
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: No law to deter them, snatchers take own course||NEW DELHI: Will the murder of 25-year-old Simran Kaur during a snatching bid in Adarsh Nagar be a wake-up call as far as bringing in a law to deal with a crime that has had the city on the tenterhooks for years is concerned? As bizarre as it may sound, there are no specific sections under the Indian Penal Code to book snatchers in Delhi and several other states. Till date, snatchings are registered through jugaad by combining two sections of IPC pertaining to theft and use of criminal force, a provision enacted by the police years ago. Five years ago, Haryana government brought in amendments to the law to have specific sections to deal with the crime and made it a non-bailable offence. TOI has been raising the issue since 2015. Around 25 cases of snatching are officially recorded every day in the capital, but Delhi does not have a law to deal with this crime. Haryana has, however, brought two additions to Section 379 (theft) — 379 A and 379 B — making snatching a non-bailable crime. The Haryana government had also proposed a reward for information on snatchers. Delhi Police, too, has been contemplating a similar addition to the law, but things have not gone beyond the conception phase despite many policemen, including top officers, admitting that things could get better if the law was amended. In the capital, snatchers are currently booked under Sections 379 (theft) and 356 (assault or criminal force during theft). Maximum punishment under the first section is three years. Under the second, it’s two. Chain snatchings are provisionally registered under Section 392 (robbery), which provides for 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine. But police concede that most cases registered under this section have fallen flat in court on legal grounds. In Haryana, Section 379A has made snatching punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than five years, which may extend to 10 years and a fine of Rs 25,000. Section 379B provides for a rigorous imprisonment not less than 10 years, extendable to 14 years and fine of Rs 25,000. “Snatching cases also have a poor conviction rate as most victims do not pursue the case, and often suspects are not identified through the test identification parade,” said an investigator. “Often, snatchers have helmets on, while the motorcycles and phone used in the crime turn out to be stolen, making identification of the robbers difficult.” Another roadblock is the practice of snatchers melting the gold chains they rob, leaving no case property to prove the police case. “The accused usually are freed within a few months in most cases,” said the investigator. To add to the woes, cops have realised that they can no longer expect known groups or individuals to have committed the crime. Till some years ago, small-time liquor smugglers were often involved in snatchings. “When crimes under the Excise Act became non-bailable, many smugglers from the Saansi community shifted to snatching,” pointed out a police officer. “Now, many of those involved include college and even school students. A majority don’t have any record and are considered first-timers,” an official explained. Both cops and legal experts TOI spoke to asserted that replicating Haryana’s amendments could help curb street crime in the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-law-to-deter-them-snatchers-take-own-course/articleshow/81261755.cms||Raj Shekhar
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Crop divide: More paddy, less veggies cost Telangana dear||HYDERABAD: Over-dependence on paddy cultivation in Telangana despite poor returns is increasingly resulting in the state losing out on Rs 30,000 crore possible income from cultivating other vegetables, the horticulture department said. “At present the market of vegetables is worth Rs 22,000 crore and if the cultivation of vegetables is extended to 15 lakh acres more, the market can be around Rs 50,000 crore,” horticulture director L Venkatram Reddy told TOI. Extent of paddy cultivation has reached the highest limit in the state at 50.58 lakh acres in the current season. Now, a study conducted by the Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) for horticulture department has estimated that state is giving Rs 4,780 crore import market to other states for failing “The study revealed that the returns on paddy is very less when compared to horticulture crops. In paddy, for every one-rupee investment, the return is not more than 50 paisa, whereas in horticulture, the returns for every Rs 1 investment can be Rs 3 to Rs 3.50,” Venkatram Reddy said. Telangana depends on other states for 11 types of vegetables, including onion and potato, while there are only eight types of vegetables mostly cultivated in the state. The state government also spends about Rs 10,000 crore as electricity subsidy charges for paddy. Interestingly, neighbouring Karnataka has more than 50 lakh acres under horticulture crops. Officials say there is a huge scope for horticulture crops in the state, provided subsidies are given In 2020, 29 lakh acres in this season were brought under paddy cultivation, this year in the same season it touched 50 lakh acres, the highest-ever since the state was formed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crop-divide-more-paddy-less-veggies-cost-t-dear/articleshow/81264473.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur Government Medical College and Hospital Covid ICUs teeming with critical patients||NAGPUR: Covid ICUs having around 50 active beds in two wards at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) are running full for the last couple of days. In sharp contrast, just seven critical Covid patients are admitted in Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH) Covid hospital. Both the medical colleges have committed 600 beds in their dedicated Covid hospitals. GMCH’s medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said as per protocol only moderate to severe Covid patients and most of the critically-ill being brought from outside the city are being admitted in the hospital. The outside patients belong mainly to Amravati district or neighbouring states. Dr Gawande, however, refused to comment on why more critical patients are there in GMCH only. IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keoliya, who is also chairman of Covid task force, didn’t answer TOI’s calls. Citing data from civil surgeon’s office, IGGMCH officials said they have admitted more number of Covid patients than GMCH and it was up to the patients and their relatives to choose where they wish to get treated. “We can neither refuse admission nor force any patient to get admitted in our Covid hospital,” they said. As per the civil surgeon’s data, 158 patients are admitted at GMCH and 135 in IGGMCH as on Sunday. Of these, IGGMCH has 32 patients in moderate to severe condition, including two on ventilator, five on non-invasive oxygen support and 25 on high flow nasal oxygen. The hospital is operating eight wards, including one for Covid patients, one for suspects, one for Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patients, one ICU and six more wards. While its critical patient-load is spiralling, GMCH is also short of 80 ICU beds as these were blocked for fire audit in January. The two ICU wards have 31 patients, either on high flow nasal oxygen or ventilators. GMCH’s 28-bedded high dependency units (HDUs) and presumptive ward too is full with 26 patients, said officials. “Workload in GMCH is very high. A couple of observations have been made regarding entire load of critical Covid patients being borne by us. Private hospitals, a premier institution, and general practitioners are all referring critical patients to GMCH. Some patients also told us they were informed that beds were not available in other medical college. Care at GMCH is reason why people prefer to stay here,” said officials. Asked about closed wards, Dr Gawande said soon 400 more beds would be ready for Covid as per high court order. The hospital has got no objection certificate for oxygen plant which had held-up starting the new wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmchs-covid-icus-teeming-with-critical-patients/articleshow/81263035.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||2 held for robbing senior of gold worth 2L||Mumbai: Two history sheeters were arrested by the Special Task Force of the railway police for looting a senior citizen of jewellery worth Rs 2 lakh on the Malad station overbridge. Their accomplices are yet to be nabbed. The gang's modus operandi was to crowd around a target to confuse him and snatch his bag within seconds before dispersing. On February 23, Rajendra Shah, 63, had gone to Mumbadevi to pick up jewellery for his son's upcoming wedding. He packed the jewellery in a rexine pouch and took a local train to return home to Malad. Around 8.35pm, while he was on an FOB in Malad East, there was suddenly a crowd around him and his pouch of jewellery vanished. Shah lodged a complaint with the Borivali GRP post. On examining CCTV footage of Malad station, the cops identified a history sheeter, Bablu Shaikh, 39, in the crowd. They knew his modus operandi. But Bablu was not available at home. Tapping their network of informants, the cops tracked him and his associate, Naeem Shaikh, to a jeweller's store in Nala Sopara. Shah's jewellery was recovered. Both Bablu and Naeem were staying in Nala Sopara. Police said Bablu has a lengthy criminal history with cases at LT Marg, Malad, Kapurbavdi, Rabodi, Virar and CST GRP police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-held-for-robbing-senior-of-gold-worth-2l/articleshow/81264077.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Patna||Arun Kumar Singh appointed new chief secretary of Bihar||PATNA: Arun Kumar Singh was appointed new chief secretary of Bihar after the retirement of his predecessor Deepak Kumar on Sunday. A 1985-batch IAS officer, Arun is scheduled to retire on August 31 this year. He was earlier posted as development commissioner. Deepak, a 1984-batch IAS officer, has now been appointed afresh the principal secretary to CM Nitish Kumar. State’s cabinet secretariat department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar on Sunday issued a notification regarding the appointment of Deepak after his superannuation. “A notification regarding the terms and conditions of Deepak’s appointment will be issued separately,” the notification reads. Amir Subhani, the topper of 1987-batch civil services examination who served as additional chief secretary (home) with the additional charges of vigilance and prohibition, excise & registration departments, was on Sunday appointed development commissioner in place of Arun. According to a notification issued by the general administration department, Subhani has also been given the additional charge of director general, Bihar Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (BIPARD) and the additional chief secretary, vigilance department. Similarly, water resources department’s principal secretary Chaitanya Prasad (1990-batch) has been transferred to home department in similar capacity. Prasad will be the new head of the home department in place of Subhani. Prasad will also hold the additional charge of principal secretary, prohibition, excise and registration department. Principal secretary of art, culture and youth department Ravi Manubhai Parmar (1992-batch) has been transferred to the minor water resources department in similar capacity, replacing Santosh Kumar Mall (1997), who has been posted as secretary, information technology department. Mall will also hold the additional charge of secretary, tourism. Parmar has been given the additional charge of the art, culture and youth department till further order. Prem Singh Meena (2000-batch), secretary, SC/ST welfare department, has been sent to the finance department in similar capacity, replacing Divesh Sehra (2005), who has been asked to join as secretary, SC/ST welfare department. Energy department’s secretary Sanjiv Hans (1997 batch) has been asked to hold the additional charge of the secretary, water resources department, till further order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/arun-appointed-new-chief-secretary-of-bihar/articleshow/81261777.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Angry Adarsh Nagar residents say lax patrolling leading to a spurt in crime||NEW DELHI: The Adarsh Nagar locality where the gruesome murder during a snatching bid took place is outraged with the incident. Residents on Sunday alleged lack of patrolling and policing measures. “Crimes like this can’t happen without police connivance or laxity. If police want, they can stop these incidents. They can solve such crimes within an hour. It’s all about will,” said an angry resident. Another recalled how residents had done everything possible under the sun to secure the neighbourhood. “We have installed gates. There are watchmen, cameras... What more can we do? Do police have any responsibility or not? Should they not do their bit?” asked a woman from the colony. Residents said they were paying for two watchmen on each colony gate who are on a 12-hour shift. They claimed that such incidents had become rampant. One resident said a man had his phone and money snatched just a few days ago in a nearby park a few days ago. They said two back-to-back incidents had taken place recently. The latest incident has also raised questions on safety of women. “Should we not get out of our homes? Simran had just gone out to buy medicines. It was not even midnight or people could have started blaming her for venturing out in odd hours. She was with her mother in the vicinity of her home. What could she have done to ensure her own safety?” asked a neighbour. TOI has all these comments from the residents on video. The residents said incidents had increased because of the local weekly market that attracted a large crowd from nearby areas, including criminals. “We asked them to hold the market in a limited and organised manner, but they said they paid Rs 70,000 per month and could not scale down the operations,” alleged another resident. DCP (North West) Usha Rangnani said the claims of no patrolling in the area were not true. “We have installed pickets at many places in the area. Patrolling happens. We have stepped up patrol frequency and are making best efforts to ensure that such incidents don’t happen,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/angry-adarsh-nagar-residents-say-lax-patrolling-leading-to-a-spurt-in-crime/articleshow/81261770.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Pune||Night-time curbs extended in Pune district till March 14||PUNE: The district administration and municipal commissioners of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad on Sunday extended the 11 pm-6 am restrictions till March 14 to control the spread of Covid-19. Restaurants, bars and clubs must continue to shut by 11 pm, while schools, colleges and coaching classes too will remain closed for the next two weeks. Online classes will continue, and coaching centres and study rooms for aspirants preparing for competitive exams will also be allowed to operate at 50% capacity. The restrictions were initially announced by divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao from February 21 to 28. The fresh orders were issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Essential and emergency services, like health and medicines, milk, vegetables and newspapers, are exempt. “The decision was taken to control the spread of Covid-19. The situation would be reviewed in due time,” PMC chief Vikram Kumar said. “Steps should be taken so that HSC and SSC students do not suffer. The education department must plan keeping in mind Covid-19 mitigation guidelines,” district collector Rajesh Deskhmukh said. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Rajesh Patil in his order stated that online education would continue. He also said citizens must act responsibly and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/night-time-curbs-extended-in-pune-district-till-march-14/articleshow/81263097.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||‘Aarogya Vatika promoting medicinal herbs’||LUCKNOW: In the hustle and bustle of daily life, we are going away from mother nature and as a result, diseases like hypertension, blood pressure and diabetes are gripping us. There is an urgent need to go back in the lap of nature and make medicinal plants a part of our life. “Aarogya Vatika initiative by Navbharat Times is helping people to go back to medicinal herbs,” said chief development officer, Prabhash Kumar during setting up of the Vatika at Lal Bahadur Shastri park at Sarvodayanagar on Sunday. Senior scientist of Central Institute of Medicinal Plants, Saudan Singh made the residents of the area aware of the medicinal values of various plants like Tulsi, Giloy and Aloevera. Residents happy with the green initiative said NBT should continue its green marathon to make citizens of Lucknow healthy. “This is a wonderful initiative which has made me realize that the cure of mild cough and fever is available in my garden itself,” said Karuna Dubey Another resident from the same locality Chaya Dwivedi said, “Ashwagandha, Giloy, and Aloe vera are available in every household but not all are aware of their benefits. NBT’s event is making people understand that the cure is in their homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-vatika-promoting-medicinal-herbs/articleshow/81264059.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||OU cops arrest 7 for extortion||Hyderabad: Osmania University police apprehended seven persons who extorted Rs 4,600 cash from a group of gamblers at Tarnaka. Posing as SOT sleuths, the accused carrying batons extorted cash from four persons indulging in three cards gambling. Based on the complaint of the victims, OU police apprehended the accused and seized the cash along with batons and two bikes on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-cops-arrest-7-for-extortion/articleshow/81264060.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||12 vegetable shops gutted in Wardha fire||WARDHA: A huge fire broke out in Tilak Market, Gol Bazaar area of city, on Sunday at around 9am. The blaze gutted 12 vegetable shops by the time it was extinguished by the fire brigade of municipal council and local people. Tilak Market, popularly known as Gol Bazaar, is the main vegetable market of city. Due to the 36-hour lockdown in the district, all shops in the area were closed. A local resident Prashant Chaube said, “A homeless man who resides in the market was cleaning the area. Later when he was burning the garbage the fire suddenly caught the vegetable waste and in a short time it took a raging form. Immediately some other residents tried to douse the fire and also informed the fire department.” The fire destroyed vegetable and fruits shops and some handcarts. This has caused significant loss to the small vegetable sellers. Due to the curfew, the small vegetable sellers had parked their handcarts in the Gol Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-vegetable-shops-gutted-in-wardha-fire/articleshow/81263075.cms||Balwant Dhage
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh medical scam puts focus on Rs 450 crore deals||HYDERABAD: A medical equipment maintenance fraud, allegedly worth crores, is unfolding in Andhra Pradesh. Documents of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and health department, accessed by TOI, reveal alleged irregularities in biomedical equipment (BME) maintenance service contracts akin to Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) fraud in Telangana where hundreds of crores were siphoned off for purchase of medicines and equipment by inflating prices by Insurance Medical Services (IMS) former director Ch Devika Rani. The IMS chief, who had allowed shell companies to supply medicines at higher prices to ESI hospitals by fabricating records, was arrested subsequently. In Andhra Pradesh, the ACB has now asked CID to register a criminal case against the service provider and public servants. The equipment and assets have an estimated value between Rs 450 crore and Rs 480 crore in hospitals across Andhra Pradesh. The violations found in BME maintenance scam include price escalation, raising bills for non-existing equipment, issuing invoices for equipment under ‘Beyond Economical Repair and Warranty’, and bills raised on equipment still in the warranty period. A sample inspection of a few hospitals, including King George Hospital, Visakhapatnam, by ACB had shown Rs 96 lakh excess payments. “It is just the tip of the iceberg,” an official said. AP Crime Investigation Department (CID) was asked to probe further and unearth the scam after registering a first information report (FIR). TBS India Telematic and Biomedical Services Private Limited was identified as a service provider and the then commissioner of family welfare and health, AP, had entered into an MoU on November 1, 2015, for providing biomedical equipment maintenance services in government health facilities. The successful bidder, TBS, would receive 7.45% of total value of assets for 2015-16 and further, they were supposed to receive 10% escalation over the 7.45% ever year. The AP high court had ordered an ACB probe based on a PIL filed by activist Indkuri Venkata Rama Raju in 2018 . ACB, in its inquiry report, said, “Around 25.5 lakh was paid to the firm Numbers Only Hospital Supply Chain Solutions Private Limited though the agency never visited 21 hospitals for inventory mapping of BME.” A field verification at KGH, Visakhapatnam, had revealed that TBS had claimed that the price of each ventilator was 11 lakh and each humidifier 45,000, but the price range of ventilators was between 6.5 lakh and 11.5 lakh and humidifier 40,000. “TBS has claimed excess amount in the bill submitted for heart lung machine by inflating value to 45 lakh of its original value of 14.6 lakh. Excess payment of 3.8 lakh was made from November 2015 to June 2017. Excess payment of 34 lakh was made to TBS from November 2015 to June 2017 by inflating the value of BME,” ACB said. Excess payment of 62.8 lakh was made to TBS for the period of November 2015 to June 2017 on the basis of the bill submitted for maintenance of BME, which were under warranty, and the figures pertained to randomly verified hospitals and health centres. A penalty of 45 lakh was not imposedd on TBS despite the failure of the company to repair BME at KGH, Visakhapatnam, within seven days of complaint for repair of 29 BMEs. Then AP chief secretary LV Subrahmanyam, in his note in 2019, said, “ACB has reported many administrative, and procedural lapses resulting in a huge financial loss to the government. ACB reports reveals that there is wilful financial mismanagement in executing the contract for maintaining BME in government hospitals.” In reply to a show cause notice, TBS India said, “Those referred instances are some isolated and bona fide mistakes.” The agreement suspension orders of the AP government said, “TBS India Telematic and Biomedical Services Private Limited agreed that due to human error incorrect prices were billed. It submitted that out of five assets mentioned in the show-cause notice, two assets tagged incorrectly due to clerical errors, an asset is under PPP mode wrongly tagged due to non-availability of information, one is tagged with the wrong name.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-medical-scam-puts-focus-on-rs-450cr-deals/articleshow/81264474.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Health officials subject bride, groom, and guests to Covid test in Narkhed||NAGPUR: A routine wedding on Saturday at Sawargaon in Narkhed taluka of Nagpur district turned special as officials of Primary Health Centre (PHC) descended on the venue Krishita Sabhagruha and conducted Rapid Antigen Test on everyone present including bride and groom. The priest, the cook and the drivers too were tested. The action won praise from district collector Ravindra Thakare who said said it was a good ‘local innovation’ that can be held as a role model and replicated elsewhere to check spread of Covid. Dr Vidyanand Gaikwad, taluka health official of the Narkhed, had the idea of conducting the tests at wedding venues. He said marriage events had become superspreaders in the ongoing second wave of corona in the district. “We conducted 26 antigen tests at the venue and fortunately everyone was negative. The idea was to immediately isolate anyone found positive and take further precautions,” Gaikwad said. “The visit at the wedding venue was planned with a dual purpose. First to check whether the Covid norms like wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and using sanitizers were being followed. Also, there should not be more than 50 persons at the wedding venue,” he said. “The second aim was to conduct antigen tests as there is mass mingling at weddings. The bride and groom especially are greeted by all. We wanted to ensure this marriage did not turn into a superspreader event,” he said. The team, comprising Dr Devendra Barai, Satish Mowade, Kumre, Jaybhaye and Dhurve first counselled the guests at the wedding venue then conducted the tests, said Dr Gaikwad. He also followed rules strictly. “Apart from conducting tests, we also slapped a fine of Rs 6,000 on the parties as many of the guests were found without masks,” he said. Last year, a health team under Dr Gaikwad had sanitized an entire wedding venue with sodium hypochlorite at Agra village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/health-officials-subject-bride-groom-and-guests-to-covid-test/articleshow/81263135.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 1, 2021||Patna||Two held for Champaran gang rape case in Bihar||MOTIHARI: A minor girl was abducted from her home and gang-raped by three persons near Areraj in East Champaran district Saturday night. The victim was sent to Motihari sadar hospital for her medical examination on Sunday. Her father has lodged an FIR with Harsidhi police station against Afroj Mian, Sheo Chandra Sah and Sukesh Yadav. Areraj SDPO Jyoti Prakash said Sheo Chandra Sah and Sukesh Yadav were arrested on Sunday. The third accused would be arrested soon. All the accused belong to different villages under Harsidhi police station area. Harsidhi police station SHO Shailendra Kumar said the rape survivor has, in her statement, said she was forcefully lifted by the three named accused from her home Saturday night and taken to a place in Areraj where they raped her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-held-for-areraj-gang-rape/articleshow/81261809.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Queer Pride enthralls with ‘Taaro maaro prem chhe’ in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: City’s Lohia Park never looked so colourful before as on Sunday when members of Awadh Queer Pride Committee as well as supporters of the LGBTQ community assembled at the park’s amphitheatre to mark the 5th Awadh Queer Pride. At 1pm the giant rainbow flag made its way to the front of the crowd, colourful rainbow batches and glittery masks were distributed amongst the people and curious bystanders, and dhol beats egged the crowd forward to take part in the event. This year’s pride event was markedly different from previous ones. For the first time instead of organising a pride march, this time the committee members decided upon Queer Pride event, due to the pandemic, filled with dance performances, stand-up comedy, stalls and games. Members wearing colourful scarves and headgears, saris and trousers draped in colours of rainbow, expressed their unparalleled pride through poems and performance. Prateek Vats, a participant at the event, recited a personal composition, while Alex enthralled the audience with dance moves. Many visitors and people looking from outside the park were greeted with incessant drumming of dhols and chants from the parade, ranging from ‘Azaadi’, and the Gujarati slogan ‘Taaro Maaro Prem Chhe, Same Chhe, Same Chhe’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/queer-pride-enthralls-with-taaro-maaro-prem-chhe/articleshow/81264075.cms||Aditi Singh
March 1, 2021||Dehradun||Dr Tripti Bahuguna to be next DG health of U’khand||Dehradun: As Dr Amita Upreti retires from the post of director general of health of Uttarakhand after serving one of the longest stints, Dr Tripti Bahuguna will take over the charge. Bahuguna was serving as the director in the health department and is expected to be promoted as the DG in March. Bahuguna said that the aim of doctors should be to improve healthcare facilities across the state. “Everyone should strive for giving the best healthcare services to people, especially in the hills. We all will make constant efforts to become a state which people will look up to when they talk about healthcare,” she added. Meanwhile, the authorities of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) held “Installation Ceremony-2021” for the election of Dr Amit Singh as the IMA President, Dehradun chapter. Mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama and chief medical officer (Dehradun) Dr Anoop Dimiri remained the chief guest of the occasion and sought cooperation from the private medical fraternity from the state capital to win the fight against Covid-19. In yet another significant development, Dr Roopa J Hanspal was elected as IMA honorary secretary. Also, Dr Vijay Tyagi secured the post of treasurer, IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dr-tripti-bahuguna-to-be-next-dg-health-of-ukhand/articleshow/81260975.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 1, 2021||Goa||A goal that was not to be||Except for the opener against Rajasthan when captain had scored in every game at the National Football Championship for the Santosh Trophy in 1978. He scored two in the semifinals against Karnataka and even bamboozled Bhaskar Ganguly who was guarding defending champions Bengal’s goal in the league stage. There were goals against Uttar Pradesh, Railways and Kerala too, so nobody would have bet against Dempo Sports Club’s striker from finding the mark again in the final as Goa locked horns with fierce rivals Bengal, who had won the Santosh Trophy for three years in a row. He did just that in the final in Srinagar. It happened in the 35th minute when right-back Rosario Rodrigues caught Bengal on the counter and lobbed the ball towards the goalline. Francis timed his run well, and as defenders Subrata Bhattacharya and Crompton Dutta hesitated, the striker volleyed the ball home for the opening ‘goal’. “The Goa players were dancing, hugging and kissing one another,” news agency PTI wrote in its match report. This was after all the first time Goa had made it to the final of the national football championship, and up against the might of the defending champions, had taken a deserving lead. Cause for celebrations, isn’t it? Yes, surely. But there was a twist. “The referee after little hesitation gave off-side verdict and disallowed the goal,” the match report noted. “After heated exchanges with the referee Fredrick D’Souza (from Maharashtra), the Goan team commenced playing reluctantly though.” Except for the linesman or assistant referee, nobody was convinced there was an offside. Definitely not the one who scored. “There’s no way it could have been an offside,” said Francis, who finished as the highest scorer with seven goals. “The ball bounced off the defender and fell to me. There were not two but three defenders ahead of me. They were found wanting as I struck the volley. This was a legitimate goal.” Bengal survived that scare and true enough for a team packed with internationals, surged ahead after the change of ends through Manash Bhattacharya in the 59th minute. Goa tried to fight their way back but stumbled in the end. Bengal maintained their hold over the Santosh Trophy winning the tournament for a record fourth consecutive time. They also held their unbeaten record against Goa, defeating them for the fourth time after victories in 1971, 1972 and 1974, two of them in tiebreaker and once in extra time. “We were all shattered,” said captain Nicholas. “The disallowed goal upset our rhythm and we couldn’t fight back from there. There were lot of protests, everyone saw it was a clear goal. Many suggested we should walk out, but we didn’t do that. This was the final, so we had to respect the competition.” In the final, Goa were handicapped by the absence of Brahmanand Shankhwalkar. The star goalkeeper, who played every minute of the team’s campaign till the final, was hospitalised on the eve of the all-important clash after being diagnosed for jaundice. “I just couldn’t stand. I was vomiting continuously and had to be taken to the government hospital. It was so frustrating,” said Brahmanand. Brahmanand was Goa’s star and had done his reputation no harm when he saved two penalties in both semifinal legs against Karnataka. He rarely got beaten in the tournament, conceding just two goals in the league stage against Bengal when Goa fought back from two goals down to steal a draw. “Srinagar was a long journey from Goa in unreserved train compartments. We travelled by bus from Jammu to Srinagar and that was quite scary,” remembered Francis. Once Goa reached Srinagar, they found it difficult to acclimatise. It was cold and the higher altitude meant life at the Sports Stadium in Srinagar wasn’t easy. Goa took time to get into the groove with narrow wins against Rajasthan – led by India striker Magan Singh -- and Uttar Pradesh in the pre-quarterfinal league stage. But once they got into the groove, there was no stopping. Until the final.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-goal-that-was-not-to-be/articleshow/81284179.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Transport dept to realign auto routes for new Metro stations||Kolkata: The state transport department is all set to realign auto routes to help facilitate the Metro Railway expansion so that a robust last mile connectivity for the passengers is developed. For this, the auto routes must be perpendicular to the metro alignment and not parallel, the transport department officers said. After Dakshineswar and Baranagar Metro stations were thrown open to passengers, transport department officials studied the passenger dispersal from the stations and found a number of auto routes still running parallel to the metro alignment and have started losing passengers. Auto-rickshaws or autos are a very good paratransit to facilitate faster dispersal of metro passengers. From Tollygunge to Dum Dum, a very reliable network of auto routes (perpendicular to metro alignments) have developed over the years. A study shows a whopping 60 per cent metro passengers use auto as last mile connectivity in this stretch. However, a large number of autos still run parallel to metro route in the stretch between Tollygunge and New Garia. Some autos routes running from metro stations to different directions need to be realigned for greater efficiency and sustainability. Same is applicable for the new stretch of metro from Noapara to Dakshineswar. Both at Baranagar and Dakshineswar metro stations, there are some teething issues with passenger dispersal. “We are preparing comprehensive transit planning for this area so that the modal shift becomes seamless,” said an officer of the traffic and transport planning and engineering wing of the department. For instance the fleet size of the auto-route running from Dunlop to Dakshineswar must be thinner. Already auto operators have complained of massive loss of passengers and their daily earnings. Instead, a huge chunk of this fleet can run along Surya Sen Road or Ramkrishna Paramhansa Road and Rabindranath Tagore Road to ferry passengers to north and south of this east-west stretch of the metro, said an officer. Baranagar, for instance, will be emerging as a major transit point for its proximity to Dunlop crossing.  A large number of autos which are coming to BT Road can now run along Bonhooghly Colony Road to move to Northern Park Road to go further north. There are three routes currently operating to connect Sinthee with Barrackpore — Sinthee-Dunlop, Dunlop-Kamarhati and Kamarhati-Barrackpore. Because of the metro, the travel demand from Sinthee to Dunlop has lessened a bit. Now a sizable number of autos on this route can be realigned from Baranagar to Kamarhati, bypassing B T Road to some extent, said another officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/transport-dept-to-realign-auto-routes-for-new-metro-stations/articleshow/81261829.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Siddharth Sagar emerges overall winner||Lucknow: Siddharth Sagar emerged as overall winner of the two-day President’s Cup Golf Tournament which concluded at the Lucknow Golf Club here on Sunday. Anubhav Shukla bagged the juniors title while Adwaitya Thapa stood second. Vihan Bhargava (first) and Haryash Karan Singh (second) excelled in sub-junior section. In ladies category, Rashmika Bhakuni and Sona Singh finished first and second, respectively. In senior veterans’ category (above 75 years), RN Singh and TP Khare bagged top two spots while Maj Gen A Parmar and Col Nazeer Kamaal finished first and second in senior veterans category. Harsh Rastogi and YK Goel occupied top two spots in veterans section while Prem Lata Gulati won in veteran ladies category. Lt Col PS Matharu (veteran) and Dinesh Kumar Singh (open) hit the longest drive while Virendra Srivastav (veteran) and Ajay Katyal (open) excelled in nearest to pin contest. Sushant Mishra and Amit Kumar Singh secured top two spots in 15-18 years category while Pankaj Agarwal and Dinesh Kumar Singh stood first and second in 10-14 years’ section. In under-9 category, Bharat Thapar emerged winner while Vijay Kumar Singh stood second.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/siddharth-sagar-emerges-overall-winner/articleshow/81264085.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||‘Watch kids’ social media a/cs’||Mumbai: The cyber police issued an advisory to citizens asking them to be vigilant about their children’s social media accounts and the content shared on it. The advisory said that police were increasingly noticing instances of strangers befriending youngsters over Instagram, obtaining their nude photos and then blackmailing them. “Parents should take their children into confidence and keep a watch on their social media conversations,” the advisory said, adding that social media accounts should be private. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/watch-kids-social-media-a/cs/articleshow/81264096.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Sizzling adieu: February signs off with hottest day in 70 years||LUCKNOW: The city sizzled on Sunday as it recorded its hottest day in the month of February in 70 years, with the mercury soaring to 34 degrees celsius, six units above normal. According to the met department data available, since 1951, the highest maximum temperature ever had been 35.9 degrees celsius, recorded on February 25, 2006. A spike in minimum temperature also became a cause of conern as it zoomed to 19.4 degrees Celsius, 7.1 notches above normal. No significant relief from the ‘hot conditions’ is expected till Friday. The amount of heat being witnessed at present is normally seen in the month of April. The mean maximum and minimum temperatures of February are 26.2 and 10.7 degrees celsius respectively and the same for April are 38.2 and 20.7 degrees celsius respectively. These mean values are averages based on data of 20-30 years. Met director JP Gupta said, “High temperatures these days are because of a steady stream of western disturbances (WDs) that have been hitting the Himalayas for the past 15 days. These WDs have restricted the flow of cold air from snow fed mountains towards the plains, leading to rise in temperatures. Climate change which is affecting the environment globally could be behind such “extreme” weather conditions.” This is the third time when the city is witnessing extreme weather conditions. Earlier, on January 1, minimum temperature had dropped to lowest on a new year day in 70 years. Then maximum temperatures spiked to 28.9 degrees Celsius on January 6., making it the hottest “January day” in 14 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sizzling-adieu-feb-signs-off-with-hottest-day-in-70-years/articleshow/81264099.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||People with comorbidities can get vax||People between 45 and 59 years having comorbidities are eligible for vaccination, reports Sribala Vadlapatla||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-with-comorbidities-can-get-vax/articleshow/81264111.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Airport set to get exclusive terminal for Haj pilgrims||Kolkata: Plans are afoot to set up a low-cost terminal at Kolkata airport for exclusive use by Haj pilgrims. To be located next to the quarters used by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to the south of the integrated terminal, the Haj terminal will have to be accessed from VIP Road through a road that leads directly to it. “We are in the process of preparing the plan for a functionally efficient Haj terminal for dedicated use during the annual pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina. Once the terminal is ready, we can demolish the old domestic and international terminals that now serve the Haj pilgrims. This will pave the way for the next phase of the Kolkata airport expansion,” said Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. While Air India used to earlier operate flights to Saudi Arabia during Haj, the flights are now operated by Saudia, formerly known as Saudi Arabia Airlines. In 2019, 2 lakh Indian Muslims went for Haj, of which around 9,000 were from Bengal. In 2021, the Haj committee decided to allow only half the number to travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. At present, the pilgrims put up in the Haj house in New Town where the check-in formalities are completed. They are then ferried to the airport for security check, immigration and Customs. Sources said the proposed terminal would be around 40,000 sq ft with two thirds allocated for departure and a third for arrival. Both departure and arrival will be housed in the ground level. The pilgrims will then be transferred in coaches to the Saudia aircraft stationed in the remote bay. “Work on the terminal will begin in the financial year 2021-22 and should be completed in 18-24 months. The site has been identified. The only issue that remains to be addressed is the requirement of a large parking lot because vehicles cannot be parked on the VIP Road,” an airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-set-to-get-exclusive-terminal-for-haj-pilgrims/articleshow/81261869.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 1, 2021||Lucknow||Primary school bells to start ringing again today||Seeing the kids settle themselves before their computers for online class with a listless ‘Present Ma’am’ revived memories of the loud synchronised ‘good morning, teacher’ from the whole class in unison in own schooldays. This coordination was on show not only in wishing teachers, but also in punishments and even during assembly for a condolence. It now appears incomprehensible how and why, did a smile begin somewhere following the command to stand in attention for two minutes, turn into a giggle and travelled row to row till someone burst into laughter. It was inexplicable spontaneity. Schooldays were fun, with friendships, games, pranks and bonding with teachers in spite of the rap on knuckles from them for transgressions, but that didn’t lessen any respect for them. Those friendships, bonding stood the test of time and lasted long. The fun began as soon as we stepped out of home for school. Games like ‘raja-mantri-chor-sipahi’, antakshari, pushing the rickshaw on steep incline and never-ending chats were hallmarks of the rickshaw-ride to school. Cycling to school was coming of age and gave a sense of freedom. We raced against each other, rode double (even triple at times) and lent a hand or money if someone’s cycle developed a snag. Help was always at hand during uniform inspection if one forgot to wear a belt or tie. As one slipped to the end of the queue, the item would reach just in time from someone who got checked by then. The bonding was so strong that the threat of mass punishment always failed in eliciting the name of a prankster if the mischief was discovered. Pilfering food from others’ lunch boxes brought divine finger-licking experience. None cared for the goodies in their own tiffin, the taste buds yearned for delicacies of others. Schooldays are more or less the same for all, but for some minor differences, until the academic session that began in April 2020, when the ‘monitor’ was not of class but of desktop, and pens, copies became redundant. The discipline went for a toss and snoozing in class lost its charm. School uniforms and classrooms are great levellers, online classes aren’t. Besides, the availability of laptop, smartphone and internet connectivity at home gave an undue peak into uncharted aspects of a child's life. Matthew Arnold’s lines: ‘In the sea of life enisled… We mortal millions live alone’ reverberate on seeing the keyboard-monitor education. It can create automatons but cannot inculcate life-skills and develop a child into a mature adult. Schools make us realise we are social animals with traits of empathy and sense of community. We unconsciously learn teamwork while playing or making a project. Resolving a fight during break teaches conflict resolution skills. The fellowships help us sail the crests and troughs of life. Thankfully, the schools are opening by and by to welcome back the students, and this generation shall also grow with its own memories. The writer is an officer in UP Education Services||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/primary-school-bells-to-start-ringing-again-today/articleshow/81264102.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Foresters adopt measures to reduce man-animal conflict||Jamshedpur: In view of the rising incidents of man-animal conflict in Chakulia forest range, the Jamshedpur forest division has taken a slew of preventive measures, including distributing torch-lights among the van suraksha samitis and increasing the number of quick response teams (QRT) deployed in that range, among others. On Sunday, the division distributed torch-lights among 40 van samitis spread across 40 villages that are located in the foothills of the elephant corridor in Chakulia. “More flashlights will be given to the samitis in the coming days,” Chakulia forest ranger Ashok Singh said. The division has assured the van samiti volunteers that the number of QRTs will be increased to two. QRTs, which consists of six forest guards, rush to the spot immediately after receiving information about the movement of elephants in the foothills to drive the animals back to the forest. The van samiti volunteers assist the teams in chasing them away. “Besides these measures, a jeep for the QRTs to travel to the designated spots with the equipment required to chase away the animals will be provided to the local forest range office soon,” Kumar said. He added, “In the next couple of months, solar street lights will be installed in 100 villages in Chakulia which frequently report instances of man-elephant conflicts.” Man-elephant conflicts in Chakulia forest range, in particular, and in other parts of the forest division, in general, are extremely common. The villages, situated in the foothills of the elephant corridor between Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary and Bengal, in Patamda, Ghatshila, Dhalbhumgarh, Baharagora and Chakulia blocks, are vulnerable to such conflicts. In the past two-and-a-half-years, 10 villagers died as a result of these conflicts in different parts of the forest division. In most of the cases, the elephants came down on the foothills in search of water and subsequently, stray into agricultural fields, eat crops, destroy crop fields, damage houses and cause injuries to the villagers. In the early hours of Sunday, a herd of seven wild elephants damaged the houses of one Govind Munda and one Kartik Munda in Dakshinsol village in Chakulia. They had to run out of their homes in order to save themselves. The herd was later chased back into the forest by the locals. In another incident on Sunday, a herd of three wild jumbos entered Dinai and Bidri villages situated in the foothills of Dalma Sanctuary in Chowka forest range in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. They ate 10 quintals of paddy crop, destroyed several acres of the crop land and demolished the boundary walls of three houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/foresters-adopt-measures-to-reduce-man-animal-conflict/articleshow/81262034.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Symbolic rites of 3 workers in Ramgarh||Ramgarh: Almost a week after the Uttarakhand government had declared that all missing workers in the Chamoli tragedy were dead, family members of three out of the four missing workers from Ramgarh performed symbolic final rites. They immersed the soil brought from the debris site in a local river here. A family member of the fourth missing worker is still in Chamoli and is expected to return with the soil soon. Of the four Ramgarh natives who died during the natural disaster, three workers were from Chokad village and one from Saralakhurd village under Gola block. They were working at the NTPC’s hydel power project site in Tapovan when the tragedy struck on February 7. Dilip Mahto, a resident of Chokad village, said, “We performed the symbolic final rites of Birsay Mahto and Mithlesh Mahto in Gomati river on Sunday. A similar ritual was carried out for Madan Mahto of Saralakhurd village on Saturday. Rituals for Kuldeep Mahto will be conducted soon.” Ramgarh labour department superintendent Digambar Mahto, who had visited Chamoli to take stock of the situation, said after the Uttarakhand government declared the missing workers as dead, the families of all four missing workers from the district were officially conveyed the message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/symbolic-rites-of-3-workers-in-ramgarh/articleshow/81262158.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Simdega gears up to host 2 national hockey meets||Gumla: The tribal-dominated district of Simdega will host two major national sporting events over the next couple of months. From March 10-18, it will host the national women’s sub-junior hockey meet, and the junior women’s hockey championship will be held between April 3-12. Simdega has had a rich history of producing several national and international hockey players but it is only recently that the district has been selected to host prestigious events. Hailing the development, Simdega hockey president Manoj Konbegi said the events will provide an exposure to local talents. He added, “We have begun preparations for the meets.” The district administration, too, has assured to provide full assistance for the successful hosting of the events. Simdega DC Sushant Gaurav said, “We have constituted 14 committees, including an organising committee, that are giving final touches to the preparations. The astro turf stadium has been given a facelift and the lodging arrangements are fine. We want the visiting players, coaches and sports officials, guests to have a memorable experience in Simdega,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/simdega-gears-up-to-host-2-national-hockey-meets/articleshow/81263658.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Oppn to raise law and order, cancellation of employment policy during Budget session||Ranchi: Opposition BJP has decided to raise the issue of deteriorating law and order situation, cancellation of employment policy and smuggling of minerals from Jharkhand during the Budget session. The legislative party leaders have also decided to question the government for cancelling the ‘CM question hour’, a regular practice in Jharkhand Assembly as part of the chief minister answers questions on policy matters. Addressing media persons after the legislative party meet, BJP MLA Bhanu Pratap Shahi said that thousands of youngsters are living in the lurch after government cancelled the employment policy and BJP is seriously concerned about the situation. “We are also worried about the law and order situation as extremist organizations have dared to paste posters near Raj Bhavan and Pathalgarhi activists have gone up to high court premises. As a responsible opposition, we cannot let all this happen in state.” The meeting was presided over by state party president MP Deepak Prakash and attended by leader of the legislative party, Babulal Marandi, BJP chief whip Biranchai Narayan and other MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/oppn-to-raise-law-and-order-cancellation-of-employment-policy-during-budget-session/articleshow/81263676.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Jamshedpur||44 new cases, 2 Covid deaths in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported 44 fresh infections and 40 recoveries while active cases stood at 494. Two casualties from Garhwa and Ranchi took the death toll from the virus to 1,090. Fresh infections reported on Sunday came from 11 districts. Among the 44 new cases, 23 were from Ranchi. As per government data, as many as 1,19,945 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,18,365 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 98.67%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.07% against the national average of 0.10%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 997.56 days against the national figure of 663.36 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/44-new-cases-2-cov-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81269493.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||44 new cases, 2 Covid deaths in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported 44 fresh infections and 40 recoveries while active cases stood at 494. Two casualties from Garhwa and Ranchi took the death toll from the virus to 1,090. Fresh infections reported on Sunday came from 11 districts. Among the 44 new cases, 23 were from Ranchi. As per government data, as many as 1,19,945 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,18,365 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 98.67%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.07% against the national average of 0.10%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 997.56 days against the national figure of 663.36 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/44-new-cases-2-cov-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81263565.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Doctors in Jharkhand-run hospitals to protest against non-payment of arrears from today||RANCHI: More than 500 doctors, including senior residents, across various state-run hospitals will wear black badges to work for a week, starting from Monday, to protest against the alleged non-payment of their arrears which are pending since 2016. The doctors have threatened to go on a strike if their demands are not met within a week. On Sunday, the members of Junior Doctors’Association (JDA) at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), Ranchi communicated their decision to protest to the authorities concerned at the medical colleges of Hazaribag and Dhanbad while they will intimate the medical colleges in Palamu, Jamshedpur and Dumka on Monday morning. JDA member Dr Vikash Kumar said, “We have raised the issue of our long-pending arrears at every platform but no one seems to be interested. They just want us to keep working by elevating us to a position where we are called frontline warriors but the authorities concerned aren’t interested in giving us what we deserve.” He added, “We have informed our director and have also raised the issue with the state health secretary but they always indulged in buying time tactics whenever we approached them with our predicament. We were assured that by the first week of February, all our issues will be settled but now that February has gone by, we have decided to go for the week-long protest. We will launch a full-fledged strike if our demands are not met within a week.” The protest will be joined by doctors posted as senior residents at medical colleges of Palamu, Hazaribag, Dumka, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur and Rims. The house surgeons and doctors pursuing post-graduate courses at Rims are also expected to join the agitation. They have alleged that they haven’t been paid their salary as per the Seventh Pay Commission between January 2016 and March 2019. There are a few doctors who completed their three-year course at different medical colleges but weren’t given the pay benefits even after completing their course. “I was in the 2017-2020 batch pursuing medicine at Rims and now I work as a senior resident in Hazaribag Medical College. I haven’t been given the pay scale implemented by government. Isn’t three years enough for the government to implement pay parity,” Dr Poonam Munda, senior resident at Hazaribag Medical College, said. Another senior resident at Dhanbad, Dr Mahipal, said, “We had approached everyone when we were studying medicine and even now even after graduating and having started work, we have not received the arrears yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/doctors-in-state-run-hospitals-to-protest-against-non-payment-of-arrears-from-today/articleshow/81263609.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Maoist, who joined rebel group to avenge kin’s murder, surrenders||Ranchi: CPI (Maoist) zonal commander Jivan Kandulna surrendered along with arms and ammunition before the Ranchi district administration on Sunday during a function held at the new police line here. He laid down a .315 rifle and 10 cartridges before the administration on the occasion. The police had registered 77 cases, several of them related to murder, against Kandulna in police stations across Ranchi and Chaibasa districts. The state government had also announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his arrest. He laid down the arms before Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan and SSP Surindra Jha. Addressing the function, Ranjan said, “Other extremists should also take inspiration from Kandulna’s decision and join the mainstream.” Kandulana also appealed to his “brothers and sisters” living in jungles under banner of extremist organisations to take advantage of the state government’s surrender policy. Police said Kandulna surrendered in connection with murder case registered with the Tamar police station in 2018. Kandulna has also aided the police in recovering four rifles, over 200 cartridges, three can bombs, two arrow bombs, splinters, 27 batteries, wires and naxal literature from the Sonua police station area in Chaibasa. He was a resident of village Japud in Khunti district and had studied up to Class IX after which he went to Jalandhar for work. When he was away, four boys gang raped and murdered his sister, a college student, in January 2009. Kandulna’s family members, however, could not register a case due to fear of the extremist organisation, PLFI. Kandulan came home and established contacts with the Maoists to take revenge and joined the group in 2010. He murdered two of the rape accused, namely Madhyam Kumar and Rajkishore, while the two others fled from the village. He along with other Maoist cadres later also murdered Abraham Topno in 2018 after branding his as a police informer. Later, he got disenchanted with the Maoists when the organisation failed to provide him monetary help for treatment of his parents leading to death of his mother and father in 2019. He ran away from the organisation on February 10, 2021 and lived at different places in his village. Both the Ranchi SSP and SP (rural) Naushad Alam sent messages to him to surrender under the state policy. Kandulan then decided to join the mainstream after consulting his family members and other residents of his village. Jha said, “Kandulan was a notorious extremist. Police were on a look out for him for the past 10 years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/maoist-who-joined-rebel-group-to-avenge-kins-murder-surrenders/articleshow/81263600.cms||Sanjay Sahay
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Oraon slams G-23 leaders’ public display of dissent, insiders hint at party rebellion||Ranchi: The reverberations of the recent meeting by a group of dissenting senior Congress leaders, popularly known as G-23, in Jammu may be felt in the party circles in the state in the coming days. During the meeting on Saturday, the leaders, including Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma and Ghulam Nabi Azad, among others, openly criticised the central party leadership claiming that the Congress was getting weaker and steps must be taken to help it regain its old glory. While state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon and a few other senior leaders hit back at the dissenters for going public with their grievances, many also said on the condition of anonymity that such veteran leaders were being forced to speak as there was an increased resistance within the party high command to change for the better. Questioning the stand of the state leadership on the issue, local dissenters said the state unit of the party may also have to face rebellion if the situation does not improve soon. Reacting to the G-23 meet, Oraon said: “Our state unit is solidly behind Sonia-ji and Rahul-ji. The open criticism of the party leadership by the G-23 leaders has not come at an appropriate time. We must remember that assembly elections will be soon held in four states and one Union territory.” Ex-MP and party veteran Furkan Ansari, too, agreed with Oraon about the timing of the G-23 meet. “Even if they had genuine issues, it was not the right time. Such brazen and open criticism ahead of the polls will weaken the party and confuse voters,” Ansari said. But at the same time, Ansari raised issues about the functioning of the state unit. Criticising the state leadership, he said, “I don’t see any leadership here.” Further, referring to state party in-charge RPN Singh, Ansari added, “He doesn’t have any experience and wants to run the party as a one-man show. In our state unit, the wisdom to learn from seasoned workers is lacking. RPN Singh is keeping the central leaders in the dark.” “We don’t have a proper working committee in the state. Where will one then raise their voice and objections,” he quipped. Another party MLA, unwilling to be named, said that the recent public clashes between groups of Congress workers in Garhwa and Ranchi were enough to understand the deepening discontent within the party. “Differences will exist in any party but the key lies in effectively resolving them. It is okay to promote youth but not at the cost and humiliation of veterans. That is exactly what is happening at the moment,” he said, adding that it was only a matter of time before the rebellion singes the state unit too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/oraon-slams-g-23-leaders-public-display-of-dissent-insiders-hint-at-party-rebellion/articleshow/81263556.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 1, 2021||Vadodara||Villages boycott polls for basic amenities||Vadodara/Surat: Excitement in the local body polls in semi-urban and rural areas on Sunday seemed more than last week when elections for six municipal corporations were held. However, there were several villages that boycotted voting over long pending demands. In Bharuch district’s Kesar village, nobody voted over their angst for a bridge over river Kim. Around 350 voters from the village abstained from voting to lodge their protest against the administration. “Children and villagers have to cross the river and go to a nearby village to go to the school and PDS shop, so all villagers unanimously decided to boycott the elections. If our issues remain unresolved, we will boycott gram panchayat polls too,” said Jayesh Patel of Kesar village. Similarly, villagers of Targol and Kathiyari in Chhota Udepur’s Sankheda taluka stayed away from voting over the long pending demand of a road for their villages. The two villages had a common polling centre at Targol primary school but nobody turned up. “Last election, too, we had threatened to boycott the polls, but we were assured by the local leaders that immediately after the elections, construction of road will start but nothing has happened. Our villages get disconnected during monsoon and at times of medical emergency, we have to lift the patients to reach the ambulance,” said Chiman Ramsinh, a resident of Targol. At Dabhasi village of Anand’s Borsad taluka which counts for 6,000-odd populace, not a single person turned up to vote till late afternoon. The villagers are angry against the political leaders after their repeated requests of constructing an underpass ahead of the six-laning work of Vasad-Bagodra highway went unheard. If the underpass is not constructed, they will face problems in reaching to other side of the village, they said. After initial boycott in Kalol taluka’s Shaktipura settlement in Navariya village, around 15 voters went and cast their votes. The residents of settlement had announced boycott due to lack of facilities following which district administration went to convince them to exercise their franchise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/villages-boycott-polls-for-basic-amenities/articleshow/81261260.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Jamshedpur||Doctors in Jharkhand-run hospitals to protest against non-payment of arrears from today||RANCHI: More than 500 doctors, including senior residents, across various state-run hospitals will wear black badges to work for a week, starting from Monday, to protest against the alleged non-payment of their arrears which are pending since 2016. The doctors have threatened to go on a strike if their demands are not met within a week. On Sunday, the members of Junior Doctors’Association (JDA) at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), Ranchi communicated their decision to protest to the authorities concerned at the medical colleges of Hazaribag and Dhanbad while they will intimate the medical colleges in Palamu, Jamshedpur and Dumka on Monday morning. JDA member Dr Vikash Kumar said, “We have raised the issue of our long-pending arrears at every platform but no one seems to be interested. They just want us to keep working by elevating us to a position where we are called frontline warriors but the authorities concerned aren’t interested in giving us what we deserve.” He added, “We have informed our director and have also raised the issue with the state health secretary but they always indulged in buying time tactics whenever we approached them with our predicament. We were assured that by the first week of February, all our issues will be settled but now that February has gone by, we have decided to go for the week-long protest. We will launch a full-fledged strike if our demands are not met within a week.” The protest will be joined by doctors posted as senior residents at medical colleges of Palamu, Hazaribag, Dumka, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur and Rims. The house surgeons and doctors pursuing post-graduate courses at Rims are also expected to join the agitation. They have alleged that they haven’t been paid their salary as per the Seventh Pay Commission between January 2016 and March 2019. There are a few doctors who completed their three-year course at different medical colleges but weren’t given the pay benefits even after completing their course. “I was in the 2017-2020 batch pursuing medicine at Rims and now I work as a senior resident in Hazaribag Medical College. I haven’t been given the pay scale implemented by government. Isn’t three years enough for the government to implement pay parity,” Dr Poonam Munda, senior resident at Hazaribag Medical College, said. Another senior resident at Dhanbad, Dr Mahipal, said, “We had approached everyone when we were studying medicine and even now even after graduating and having started work, we have not received the arrears yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/doctors-in-state-run-hospitals-to-protest-against-non-payment-of-arrears-from-today/articleshow/81269562.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand to start vax drive for senior citizens from today||RANCHI: With the Union health ministry announcing the launch of registration for vaccination of people above 60 years and for those with co-morbid conditions between 45 and 59 years, Jharkhand is all set to give shots to 37 lakh people falling under this category from Monday. The state health department has identified 241 session sites that will be functional from Monday to cater to the beneficiaries. As per health department sources, a total of 8.4% or 32 lakh of the total population of Jharkhand is above 60 years and 13.4% or 50 lakh people are between 45 and 59 years. However, only around 10.4% or 5 lakh among this 50 lakh have comorbidities. So the overall population to be inoculated under the second phase of vaccination in the state is 37 lakh. Talking to TOI, the nodal officer for the vaccination drive in the state, Dr Ajit Prasad, said: “A total of 241 session sites, including 233 state-run and eight private facilities, have been identified and these will start functioning from Monday. We will increase the number of private vaccination facilities in the days to come.” In order to ensure a hassle-free experience to beneficiaries at the session sites, the state health department has completed the training of healthcare workers who will be deployed at these sites. “The majority of our beneficiaries during this phase will be senior citizens and people with co-morbidities. Even the healthcare workers from private hospitals have been trained based on the SOPs provided by the Union health ministry,” Dr Prasad said. On being asked about the process for registration and verification of beneficiaries, Dr Prasad said: “Those turning 60 by January 1, 2022 will be able to get themselves registered. The same cut-off date will apply to people with co-morbidities. Th elderly can register themselves online or walk in at their nearest session site with photo identity proof of date of birth. However, people with co-morbidities above 45 years will have to carry a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (RMN). The certificate will be verified by the session site manager.” Notably, the Union health ministry has issued a format which enlists 20 co-morbid conditions. The health authorities have also issued a word of caution for doctors asking them not to indulge in certifying people who do not have the listed conditions as that will lead to action against them. Meanwhile, among the eight private hospitals that have been allowed to operate a vaccination site from Monday, Ranchi, Hazaribag and East Singhbhum have two each, while Deoghar and Dhanbad have one each. The chairman of Ranchi-based Raj hospital, which has been selected to administer the vaccine, said: “We have completed all the arrangements for the vaccination drive that will start on Monday. We will inoculate a maximum of 100 beneficiaries on the first day. However, the numbers will increase in the days to come. A fee of Rs 250 will be charged from the beneficiaries as has been fixed by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-to-start-vax-drive-for-senior-citizens-from-today/articleshow/81262067.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||State budget will focus on job creation: Jharkhand finance minister||RANCHI: Ahead of its second budget during the Covid-19 pandemic, the grand alliance government in the state said the common people will not be burdened unlike the Union Budget. Talking to TOI, state finance minister and Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee president Rameshwar Oraon said he will table a pro-people budget on March 3. Dubbing the Union Budget as pro-capitalist, Oraon said, “As a finance minister, I am not supposed to speak about the budget in detail before it is tabled in the assembly, but I can assure the people of this state that unlike the Union Budget, the state’s budgetary provisions will be in the larger interest of the population. Since our state and its people are already battling with financial and other woes, the government will aim to provide relief to every section of society.” On further prodding, Oraon said there would not be any additional tax burden on the people. “We are not going to impose any fresh taxes. After all, the major direct and indirect taxes, including GST, are now in the ambit of the Union government,” he said. The miister also said the budget’s main theme will be to boost employment. “Chief minister Hemant Soren has already announced that 2021 will be dedicated to jobs. Hence, a major thrust of our planning will be to bolster the employment of our local populace,” he said, stressing that other priority sectors will be given importance in terms of budgetary allocations. He added, “For a state like Jharkhand, the struggle for basic necessities is still a challenge for large sections of people. Hence, we have identified health, education, food and clothing as some of the priority sectors where were trying to put our main focus on to help people lead a decent life. A host of measures for the farm sector, too, is in the pipeline.” Notably, the trade and industrial sector is pinning hopes for its revival on the upcoming budget. Earlier this week, a delegation of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) had met Soren with their wish-list. The federation had sought special focus on the sector to revive about 600 ailing industrial units in the state, earmark land for textile parks to promote the MSME sector and bolster jobs, apart from giving a special push to the start-ups among others. Around the same time on February 20, a joint delegation of the Right to Food Campaign and Phia (Partnering Hope Into Action) Foundation had also met the CM requesting him to refrain from any cuts on food and social security schemes in the budget. They also demanded introduction of a regenerative family policy, setting up of a state-level advisory body comprising civil society and government representatives for smooth coordination and monitoring for rollout and execution of welfare schemes. Congress, which is part of the coalition government, too, presented its demand before the government. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said a party delegation had appealed to the government for pro-poor and growth-oriented budget. “We are hopeful that the budget will appeal to all classes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-budget-will-focus-on-job-creation-jkhand-fin-min/articleshow/81262124.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 1, 2021||India||In a first, desi satellite takes Gita, PM photo and names of 25k commoners to space||NEW DELHI: Thanks to a desi startup satellite, the Bhagvad Gita, has now found a home in space. The Hindu religious book was taken to space for the first time by SpaceKidz India’s satellite SD SAT, named after one of the founding fathers of India’s space programme Satish Dhawan, in whose name the Sriharikota launch centre has been christened. SD SAT was among the 19 satellites launched by Indian Space Research Organisation’s PSLV-C51, which lifted off from Sriharikota at 10.30 am on Sunday. Besides carrying a copy of the Bhagvad Gita in a secure digital card format, the SD SAT also carried the picture of PM Narendra Modi engraved on the top panel of the spacecraft to show solidarity and gratitude for his Atmanirbhar initiative and space sector reforms. SpaceKidz India (SKI) said its satellite also carried the names of 25,000 common people to create awareness about space and get people fascinated about space science. SKI founder and CEO Dr Srimathy Kesan came up with the idea of carrying Gita to space after taking a leaf out of the book of other space agencies, which had in the past carried holy books of other religions like Bible to space and Moon. On the scientific front, SD SAT, a 30x10x10cm cuboid experimental communication satellite, is carrying three scientific payloads – to study space radiation, magnetosphere, and to demonstrate a low-power wide-area communication network — and is expected to have a mission life of two years. Among the 19 satellites launched was the primary payload, 637-kg Brazil’s earth observation satellite Amazonia-1, which will help the south American country monitor the Amazon forest. Congratulating the Brazilian president on the successful launch of Amazonia-1, Modi tweeted “Congratulations President @jairbolsonaro on the successful launch of Brazil's Amazonia-1 satellite by PSLV-C51. This is a historic moment in our space cooperation and my felicitations to the scientists of Brazil.” On the first rocket launch of this year, PM Modi further tweeted, “Congratulations to NSIL (NewSpace India Limited) and @isro on the success of the 1st dedicated commercial launch of PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 Mission. This ushers in a new era of space reforms in the country. 18 co-passengers included four small satellites that showcase dynamism and innovation of our youth.” Besides SD SAT, the other four launched satellites built by students are UNITYsat, a three-in-one satellite developed by universities that will provide radio relay service, and ‘SindhuNetra’ satellite developed by Bengaluru-based PES University, which was awarded the Rs 2.2 crore contract by the Research Centre Imarat, which is a part of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). ‘SindhuNetra’ will be used for identifying suspicious ships through satellite imaging and can also be used to carry out surveillance in specific areas such as the South China Sea or pirate-infested areas near the Gulf of Aden and the African coast. Describing it as a special mission for the country, Isro chairman K Sivan said the space agency guided the universities in building the satellites and that the launch will enthuse industry and academic institutions to build their own satellites in future. Sivan said the mission was also special as the five satellites came under the new space reforms announced by the Modi government last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-desi-satellite-takes-gita-pm-photo-and-names-of-25k-commoners-to-space/articleshow/81264775.cms||Surendra Singh
March 1, 2021||Goa||Goa: Vax also must for young and healthy, says doctor||PANAJI: People who are young and healthy must also get vaccinated against Covid-19, nodal officer for vaccination at Hospicio Hospital, Dr Ira Almeida said. “It’s true that you may not be affected severely if you get Covid and may not show the symptoms, but the danger is you could transmit it and infect other family members at home and now with the new mutant coming we know that it could affect young people as well,” she said during an awareness session. When asked about apprehensions about the vaccines being developed in a hurry, Almeida said. “The vaccines are safe. It’s true that they were developed quickly because there’s been years of scientific research especially with other Corona viruses, like MERS and SARs and even the Ebola virus, so scientists had the advantage of that research already being available and this has shortened the vaccination process,” she said. One cannot get Covid-19 from the vaccine, she said. “Covishield doesn’t use the Covid-19 virus in it. It is based on a flu like virus, adenovirus, found in chimpanzees. Covaxin has a killed Covid-19 virus and there’s no way one can get Covid from the vaccines,” she said. When asked whether people with allergies could take the vaccine, she said this depended on the severity of the allergy. “If you have been hospitalised in the past you need to tell your vaccinator. If you have mild allergies, if you get a cold when you eat a banana or a stomach ache when you eat brinjal, or are allergic to mushrooms, these kinds of allergies don’t interfere with the vaccine and you can take the vaccine,” Almeida said. People taking ayurvedic or homeopathic medication can also take the vaccine. “Generally medications don’t interfere with the vaccine. Medication should be continued. However, some drugs, like steroids and immunosuppressant drugs, could cause weakened vaccination response. It is safe. These drugs will not cause an adverse effect of the vaccine,” she said. People with diabetes, hypertension and those undergoing dialysis must take the vaccine. “This is the population that is more at risk of getting complications from Covid-19 so they definitely need the vaccine on priority. The only issue is being immune compromised, there might be a weaker response to the vaccine, but definitely no harm will be done,” Almeida said. Around 25% of the vaccine beneficiaries experience adverse effects following immunisation. “These are generally mild and have been in the form of fever, chills, malaise, weakness, body ache, headache, basically flu like symptoms, which generally go away in a few hours. Very few had severe symptoms,and these also abated within 24 hours,” she said. All Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be followed even after vaccination, Almeida said. “Even though vaccine beneficiaries may not become sick or get any complications from Covid-19, they could still transmit the disease,” she said. “If we all get vaccinated as soon as possible, wear masks and follow social distancing in the meantime, the Covid virus will not be able to get a foothold and won’t be able to enter any host or any person and will die off after which we can return to doing all the things we were doing earlier,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doctor-vax-also-must-for-young-and-healthy/articleshow/81263419.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||Goa: Seniors, 45+ comorbid citizens can get jabs from 11am today||PANAJI: As phase-3 of the national vaccination drives commences on Monday, people over 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities will be able to visit any government health facility from 9am and 5pm, register themselves, and get the jab. While those above 60 need only to carry their Aadhaar card or any government-approved ID, those above 45 need to produce a certificate from a doctor that mentions their comorbidity. The certificate must be in the prescribed format of the government of India. While officially the drive begins at 9am at the 37 centres, it is expected that people will begin to get their jabs by around 11am on the first day. Beneficiaries will get the vaccine on first-come-first-serve basis. “Registrations can also be done online on the CoWin portal once it is open for the same,” the DHS said. “It has been decided to offer vaccinations only at government health facilities for the first two days, on trial basis,” a health official said. These include Goa Medical College (GMC), South Goa district hospital, the Mapusa and Ponda sub-district hospitals, public and community health centres. Each centre will target 100 doses a day, including second dose. There has been no communication yet on when inoculations will begin in private hospitals. The DHS said that a meeting with managements of private hospitals will be held shortly. The Centre has capped vaccination charges in private hospitals at Rs 250, while it is free at government hospitals. “There’s no need to panic. Everybody will get the vaccine according to the age-appropriate categories. It’s only a matter of time,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seniors-45-comorbid-citizens-can-get-jabs-from-11am-today/articleshow/81263461.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||K’taka names official for joint Kalasa team||Keri: Karnataka has appointed a superintending engineer to represent the state on the three-member committee that will be carrying out joint inspection of the Kalasa project at Kankumbi. The Supreme Court had recently directed formation of the three-member joint monitoring panel consisting of superintending engineers nominated by Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra respectively, in the Mhadei water diversion matter. Krishnoji Rao, the superintending engineer of Malaprabha left bank canal circle Navilutheertha, Belagavi, has been nominated by Karnataka. The state has requested Goa and Maharashtra governments to nominate their representatives to the joint monitoring team immediately. Dyamannanavar R B, the superintending engineer of Hidkal, has been nominated as the nodal officer to coordinate the team’s visit and to provide the required logistic support. Rakesh Singh, the additional chief engineer of Karnataka’s WRD, in his letter dated February 26, 2021, has written to the principal secretary of WRD, Maharashtra, and the secretary for WRD, Goa suggesting that the team take up the visit in the first or second week of March. The nominated officers of Goa and Karnataka have been advised to contact the nodal officer for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-names-official-for-joint-kalasa-team/articleshow/81263487.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Snatcher kills woman inside gated Delhi colony||NEW DELHI: A 25-year-old woman walking home from market with her mother and two-year-old child was killed during a snatching bid in northwest Delhi's Adarsh Nagar Saturday evening. The incident took place around 9.30pm inside a gated colony and was captured on a CCTV camera. Sheikh Fardeen, a 19-year-old notorious criminal, tried to snatch a chain, which Simran Kaur was wearing, and stabbed her twice in the neck when she resisted and tried to catch him. Kaur, married in Patiala and visiting her parents in Delhi, put up a fierce fight even as her child slipped off her lap and fell on the road. Fardeen fled, leaving the chain behind. His aide was waiting on a getaway bike nearby. Both were arrested on Sunday. Fardeen alias Double Anda and Mohammed Aqibul (22) alias Attache, both residents of Jehangirpuri, are notorious criminals with previous police records. Family inconsolable as holiday trip to Delhi turns into tragedyThe incident took place when the victim, Simran Kaur and her mother were returning home from the nearby weekly market after buying groceries and medicine for Kaur’s daughter. In the CCTV footage, a lone man can be seen following Kaur on foot for a few steps as soon as she enters the colony after crossing the gate. He then pounced on her and tried to snatch her pendent. Kaur was left stunned even as her kid fell down. The snatcher then quickly turned to escape, but Kaur fought back and held his leg from behind leading to the snatcher falling on the ground. As Kaur and her mother lunged at the snatcher again, he whipped out his knife and slashed Kaur on the neck. Kaur didn’t give up the fight after which snatcher swung the knife at her again even as her mother lent to give her support, the footage shows. The snatcher then escapes. Kaur was then rushed to Fortis Hospital in north Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh where she died during treatment. The body was handed to the family after the autopsy. Meanwhile, a dozen teams began a manhunt for the suspect. Over 100 history-sheeters of the zone were rounded up for questioning. By noon, cops got a tip-off and conducted a raid. The two accused were nabbed but claimed to be minors. Cops said the accused were arrested with help from technical surveillance and local intelligence. The cops got a heads-up due to the CCTV footage. DCP (northwest) Usha Rangnani said the weapon of offence and vehicle used in crime has been recovered. Kaur’s father, Daler Singh, runs a studio and lives in E block of Adarsh Nagar with wife Mamta and son Manpreet. Kaur's elder sister, Pooja, is married and lives in Canada with her husband, a neighbour said. She had recently come back to her parent's house on a holiday. Kaur had got married to a Patiala-based businessman, Paramjeet, three years ago. Eager to spend time with her family and meet her siblings, Kaur came to Delhi from Patiala on February 20. The tragic incident has left both the families shocked. “It was supposed to be a fun-filled holiday. Kaur’s parents had brought her along from her in-laws place for a few days. Who knew she would never return,” said a relative. Neighbours and relatives recalled how Kaur was that courageous girl from neighborhood who was also ready to help anyone in need. “She was full of life.. and a fighter. It was so her in the footage. Even when the child fell off, she tried to catch the criminals,” said a neighbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/snatcher-kills-woman-inside-gated-delhi-colony/articleshow/81264787.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||450-year-old Orlim church along Sal missing in CZMP||COLVA: The 450-year-old St Michael Church, Orlim, is yet another church to have gone missing on the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai. A similar situation is also seen with the church on St Jacinto Island. “Since the church and Dominican seminary is situated on the banks of Sal river, which the government wants to indicate as port limits and they did so on the plan, they have deliberately omitted the religious structures,” parish priest Fr Raju Godinho said. Likewise residential houses on the river’s banks have also not been shown. The Orlim church was the third to be built in South Goa after the Holy Spirit Church in Margao. Orlim sarpanch, Tamica Rosa D’silva said that the draft plan is totally different compared to the plan submitted by the panchayat in 2019. “They have not incorporated any of our suggestions and have done what they want. Asking the villages to prepare their own plan was just an eyewash,” she said. D’silva said that the Sal has been marked under the jurisdiction of port limits. Even salt plans, small private islands having proper survey numbers, sweet water bodies have been indicated as port limits, breeding zones for various marine species have not been marked. D’silva explained the draft plan to the villagers on Sunday during specially summoned gram sabha. She said that they have objected to the port limits, rejected the draft plan, and demanded that the government adopt the plan prepared by the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/450-yr-old-orlim-church-along-sal-missing-in-czmp/articleshow/81263503.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Vadodara||Attempts of booth capturing in Dahod, voters nab one||Vadodara: Violence marred local body polls in Dahod and Chhota Udepur districts on Sunday amid attempts made to capture a polling booth at Ghodiya village at Jhalod, According to police, at least three people barged into the primary school on Sunday afternoon and threw away the EVM and created a ruckus at the polling centre. After the violence, when the trio was trying to flee, voters nabbed one of them and thrashed him before handing him over to police. Meanwhile, the district administration immediately suspended voting at the centre. Senior police officials rushed to the village to ensure that the situation did not escalate. “There were three people who damaged the polling booth with the intention of disrupting the election process. One of them was nabbed by the public and has been shifted to a hospital,” said superintendent of police Hitesh Joisar. He added that the man will be questioned about who was behind the violence once his health stabilizes. “The returning officer and the EVM engineer have been sent to the polling centre. After their investigation and based on their opinion, a final decision will be made,” said collector Vijay Kharadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/attempts-of-booth-capturing-in-dahod-voters-nab-one/articleshow/81261277.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||In 10 years, Indians got more patents abroad than here||NEW DELHI: Indian researchers, scientists and innovators appear to have more success in obtaining patents when they file applications in another country. Analysis of data for 10 years shows that on average, four of every 10 applications made by Indians abroad fetch a patent, while it is one-in-10 in India. From slow disposal to indiscriminate filing and cost of registering patents, experts and researchers point to a variety of reasons for this trend. According to data from the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO), Indians filed 1.2 lakh applications in the country between 2010 and 2019 and 13,670 were granted patents. Comparatively, 44,477 of the 1.07 lakh applications filed by Indians abroad were granted. “The process is really time-consuming in India. It easily takes four to five years and this means that applications may get cleared in the later years,” Sourabh Gargav, head, business development and new ventures creation, JNCASR said. Muniasamy Neerathilingam, a translational researcher, echoing Gargav’s views said another reason could be that those filing abroad are more serious claims. One official from the Indian patent office said that a lot of applications filed in India are to pip competition and obtain first mover’s advantage, and that researchers take time thereafter to strengthen their claims. Rajendra Ratnoo, controller general of patents, designs & trademarks, told TOI: “In the last five years, the disposal rate has increased. While we encourage patent applications, we also have a robust system that’s meticulous in selection, which may be resulting in many applications not getting converted into patents. Given the cost of filing abroad, applicants are very careful and file only such claims they know have a chance of getting cleared.” Another official explained that the cost of the entire official filing fee is less than Rs 10,000 compared to $2,000 (around Rs 1.5 lakh) in the US. “...There are other costs like attorney fees, which are also affordable in India but the cheapest lawyers in other countries are expensive. Therefore, applicants are very mindful of making claims, which is why more applications are cleared abroad,” he said. Year-on-year data shows an increase in clearance in the last five years. For example, just 8.7% and 5.9% of the applications were granted patents in 2011 and 2014, respectively, the same jumped to 14.8% and 18.9% in 2018 and 2019. However, with 43.9% and 48.5% of the applications filed abroad getting grants in 2018 and 2019, the gap in the success rate continues to persist. Further, as TOI has reported earlier, foreigners continue to file more applications in India compared to domestic researchers. And this data shows that foreign patent filers have a better chance of getting a patent in India with 23.4% of all applications getting approved compared to just 10.8% filed by Indians. Foreigners filed more than 3.2 lakh applications in India in these 10 years, of which 76,637 were granted patents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/patent-success-rate-40-abroad-10-here/articleshow/81264790.cms||Chethan Kumar
March 1, 2021||Goa||Covid positivity rate rises to 4.4% in Goa||PANAJI: Although only 54 new Covid-19 infections were reported on Sunday, the state’s positivity rate rose to 4.4%. Testing fell by 364 with 1,224 samples tested as opposed to 1,588 on Saturday. A 74-year-old man from St Cruz with diabetes and hypertension was the only Covid casualty on Sunday. He died due to bilateral Covid pneumonia after three days of treatment at GMC. State saw eight deaths over the past five days. Active cases crossed the 600-mark on Sunday, after 16 days of remaining low and dipping to 464 last week, the lowest since June last year. During the day, 16 persons were hospitalised and 33 opted for home isolation. New Covid-19 infections were reported in Mapusa, Margao, Aldona, Ponda, Panaji,Cansarvanem, Corlim, Canacona, Vasco, Cansaulim, Chinchinim and Cortalim among other health centres. State’s recovery rate was at 97.4% with 45 persons recovering on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-positivity-rate-rises-to-4-4/articleshow/81263520.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh on alert mode with early signs of Covid-19 resurgence||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 pandemic had disproportionately burdened the state’s health care system in 2020. However, the state managed to flatten the curve of this highly transmittable respiratory disease by the third quarter of last year. The state’s working relationship with researchers, and sticking to the scientific advocacy helped it make a clear turnaround in terms of the pandemic management and control. Continuing the trend, the state recorded only 0.25% case positivity rate in February. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemicThis is the lowest ever case positivity rate for a month since the beginning of the outbreak in Andhra Pradesh – January 2021 (0.4%), December 2020 (0.8%), November (2.2%), October (5.8%), September (12.4%), August (16.6%), July (6.5%), June (2.1%), May (1.1%), April (1.5%) and March (5%). But the early signs of the resurgence of the pandemic are evident with the gradual increase in daily cases in the last one week. The state recorded 118 new cases on Saturday, the highest single-day total in the last one month. Read AlsoKarnataka among six states with high fresh Covid casesBENGALURU: Even while the state government prepares to roll out the Covid-19 vaccine to senior citizens and those in the 45-59 years age group with comorbidities, cases are rising steadily, so much so Karnataka is among six states with the most number of fresh cases. Figures from the Union healthSeveral states like Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, and West Bengal have been reporting a spike in the daily new cases. The Centre asked the states to maintain a rigorous vigil to contain the spread and not to squander away the gains of the collective work of the last year. Read AlsoTamil Nadu extends lockdown, instructs district administrations to enforce Covid-19 safety normsCHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has extended the state-wide lockdown till March 31. However, it has not brought in any new stricter rules but has listed out the advisories issued by the Centre. The order says that the district administration should strictly enforce measures to prevent and manageDr K Rambabu, AP Covid-19 nodal officer, told TOI that a surge has been noted in Chittoor district for the last few days, while there has been a slight increase in daily cases in Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. “Instructions have been issued to DMHOs and other officials on effective surveillance and testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation, etc. The department has also been constantly tracking the number of cases being admitted to ICU or availing home isolation to get an idea of the situation. Focus is also on increasing the vaccination coverage,” said Dr Rambabu. The Centre has deputed high-level multi-disciplinary teams to Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir to ascertain reasons for the surge. The teams would coordinate with the state health departments in Covid-19 control and containment measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/call-for-caution-as-andhra-sees-early-signs-of-covid-resurgence/articleshow/81261139.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 1, 2021||Goa||52 Olive Ridley eggs hatch after 52 days, released into sea at Agonda||POINGUINIM: Fifty-two Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings from the first pit at Agonda were released into the sea at about 5am on Sunday, forest officials at the Agonda Turtle Interpretation Centre said. The pit, preserved on January 7, hatched after 52 days. In neighbouring Galgibaga, the first pit that hatched last week produced 37 baby turtles. The two Olive Ridley turtle nesting spots in Canacona — Galgibaga and Agonda beaches — have been producing baby turtles right from 1999, following the initiative of then parish priest Fr Mariano Goes e Proenca. At the Galgibaga site, staff started protecting Olive Ridley turtle eggs from December 23, 2020, while at the Agonda site, it commenced only on January 7. This year, the Agonda nursery boasts 22 turtle eggs pits containing 2,462 eggs, including the one that hatched on Sunday. At Galgibaga, this season, the first nest was laid earlier than it was the previous season. The first batch of eggs was laid here on December 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/52-olive-ridley-eggs-hatch-after-52-days-released-into-sea-at-agonda/articleshow/81263542.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Covid vaccine for senior citizens from today in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 117 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,916. This is the second consecutive day for the state to record more than 100 cases. The state has not registered any deaths from the novel coronavirus disease for the second straight day. Altogether, 66 patients have been declared cured. There are currently 718 active cases with the 8,82,029 cumulative recoveries and 7,169 fatalities. Chittoor district, which shares the border with Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, recorded 41 new cases on Sunday, followed by Guntur (17), Krishna (11) and Srikakulam (10). The remaining districts posted single-digit case numbers. The vaccination programme for the senior citizens and people with comorbidities (45-59 age group) would begin on March 1, Monday. The government vaccination centres will offer free vaccination, while the private hospitals can charge a maximum of Rs 250 per each dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-vaccine-for-senior-citizens-from-today/articleshow/81261146.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||Draft CZMP upsets N Goa shack owners||Calangute: Beach shack owners and other tourism stakeholders in the Calangute-Candolim beach-belt have raised concerns over the draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) which makes no reference or mention of beach shacks in the inter-tidal zone. The Calangute-Candolim beach-belt has around 200 seasonal beach shacks, which are more than half of all the beach shacks in the state. Speaking to TOI, Calangute Constituency Citizens Forum president Premanand Divkar said Calangute has been marked as a fishing village in the draft CZMP. “The inter-tidal area on the beach, where shacks come up, has been marked as area for parking of fishing boats and the beach shacks have not been shown. If that is done, what is going to happen to the beach shacks? This CZMP has been done with malafide intentions.” SOWS general secretary John Lobo said, “Beach shacks have been allowed as temporary structures on the beach by the 1996 CRZ notification and they should be allowed to continue. The GCZMA needs to clear the ambiguity at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/draft-czmp-upsets-n-goa-shack-owners/articleshow/81263552.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Energy saver: Andhra Pradesh makes a mark in PAT cycle-II||VISAKHAPATNAM: With cumulative energy savings in industry reaching 0.25 million tonnes, Andhra Pradesh has demonstrated an appreciable performance in cycle-II of PAT (Perform, Achieve and Trade) scheme. This is a significant improvement from 0.21 million tonnes in cycle-I of the scheme. Further, Andhra Pradesh has achieved 0.89 million tonnes carbon dioxide reduction in PAT cycle-II, thereby registering a marked improvement from 0.73 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent in the first edition of the scheme. The energy efficiency measures have been implemented in 22 energy-intensive units in Andhra Pradesh including cement, fertiliser, pulp, paper, power generation and chemicals. These measures coupled with IoT-enabled efficiency measures helped the state save 238 crore units of electricity worth Rs1,600 crore. PAT is a flagship scheme introduced under the National Mission for Enhanced Energy Efficiency (NMEEE) of the Union government, said Abhay Bhakre, director general of Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE). "The objectives of the scheme are to achieve industrial efficiency and enhance the national economy. Energy savings achieved in PAT cycle-II by all designated consumers in the country is around 13.28 million tonnes of oil equivalent and reduction of 61 million tonnes of Co2," Bhakre added. PAT cycle-II covered 621 consumers from 11 sectors including three new sectors namely railways, petroleum refineries and electricity distribution companies, the BEE director general said further. India’s industrial sector alone consumes 40 per cent of the country’s total energy. The sector is also slated to see a rapid rise in consumption in future. Energy consumption is expected to reach 443.4 Mtoe (million tonnes of oil equivalent) by 2031 from the current energy consumption of 347 Mtoe. Officials say that Andhra Pradesh has been implementing the PAT scheme with an objective to improve energy efficiency measures in energy intensive industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/energy-saver-ap-makes-a-mark-in-pat-cycle-ii/articleshow/81261191.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||GMC doctors say vaccine safe, mild reactions possible||Panaji: No deaths or serious adverse reactions have been reported by the over 3,000 persons who have received the vaccine at Goa Medical College, professor and head of preventive medicine, Dr Jagdish Kakodkar said. Professor and head of pharmacology, Dr P V Rataboli said that he experienced no discomfort after either of his doses. He appealed to people not hesitate to get vaccinated. “This past year we have dealt with a lot of Covid patients, especially pregnant women with pregnancy-related complications. Looking at that suffering it is a must that we end it by getting vaccinated,” said senior resident in the department of obstetrics and gynaecology, Dr Rini Naik said. After being in lockdown for around a year, it is time to get vaccinated, students’ council general secretary Neel Lawande said. “The vaccine is an opportunity to fight against the virus,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-doctors-say-vaccine-safe-mild-reactions-possible/articleshow/81263564.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||‘Will win even if Kuncalienker, Utpal campaign against me’||Panaji: Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate on Sunday dismissed the move by former CM Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal and former MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker to back candidates against him for upcoming Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) polls, and said that even if the two campaign against him, his panel would win all 30 seats. Monserrate said that the “people of Panaji should not fall for this jumla”. Asked to react to the move, which was reported on STOI, Monserrate said that it’s up to the BJP brass to answer. “I have nothing to do with this question,” he said. “It is immaterial for me. If anyone has to contest, it doesn’t make any difference to me whatsoever. It is up to the voters...” Taking a sharp dig at the duo, Monserrate said that the voters of Panaji have rejected these people “who were nowhere and are suddenly coming together to defeat Babush and Panaji”. He said that the people have seen his work, and that the “people know me well”. “It is now for the people to decide, and I am confident that they will decide the right way.” “These people (Utpal and Kuncalienker) have nothing to offer Panaji,” Monserrate said. “Mine is a full-fledged panel, for which I have identified all 30 candidates. So, I am responsible for this panel, and as MLA of Panaji, will help this panel deliver better services and development for the city.” Monserrate was first to get off the blocks with his panel of 30 candidates, with full support from BJP. But with some aspiring candidates, who have been loyal to the party and Parrikar, losing out on a ticket, there is a growing murmur that Utpal and Kuncalienker may support these contestants, who are likely to stand as independents. BJP mahila morcha president Sheetal Dattaprasad Naik, other party members like Vaidehi Naik, Menino Da Cruz, Rekha Khande, Pundalik Dessai and the husband-wife duo of Rupesh and Aarti Harlarnkar from Ribandar have been denied tickets by Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-win-even-if-kuncalienker-utpal-campaign-against-me/articleshow/81263601.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh asks steel giant Posco to confirm investment plans||AMARAVATI: In a bid to clear apprehensions about Posco’s plans to take over Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (RINL), the government has requested the South Korean steel giant to confirm its investment plans in setting up an Integrated Steel Plant close to Krishnapatnam port in Nellore district. In a letter to Posco India chairman and managing director (India) Sung Lae Chun, special chief secretary (industries), Karikal Valaven said: “We expressed our keen interest to have Posco set up its Integrated Steel Plant at Krishnapatnam. We are committed to provide full support to the company,” said Valaven. He recalled the former was satisfied with his interaction with the officials of state government and port during his visit to the port area on February 10. He requested Chun to invite a delegation from Posco headquarters to visit the state and finalise the investment plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-asks-steel-giant-posco-to-confirm-investment-plans/articleshow/81261209.cms||Samdani MN
March 1, 2021||India||Supriyo faces flak, deletes ‘beti’ meme||NEW DELHI: TMC’s 2021 poll campaign, ‘Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter)’ has sparked a social media war. Facing protests from TMC, Union minister Babul Supriyo deleted a meme he had shared on Twitter, which had an image of Union home minister Amit Shah, that read “Beti paraya dhan hoti hai, is baar vida kar denge (A daughter is someone else’s wealth, this time we will send her off)”. The now-deleted post was an attempt to take a dig at a post featuring CM Mamata Banerjee. “Neither did I create this nor is this a statement of mine... I have earned enough goodwill to have people to ignore this as a meme that, I acknowledge, should not have been shared from my account,” Supriyo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supriyo-faces-flak-deletes-beti-meme/articleshow/81264799.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||Congress to field Pratima for Navelim ZP bypolls||MARGAO: The state Congress has zeroed in on Goa Pradesh Mahila Congress president Pratima Coutinho as its candidate for the by election to the Navelim zilla panchayat seat. “The decision to field Coutinho was taken in the interest of the party and she has accepted the nomination,” Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar said in a press note.  What’s significant is that Coutinho had recently snubbed Chodankar for offering to nominate her as the Navelim ZP candidate. “I feel I should not stoop to the level of ZP candidate. In the past I have been elected as a councillor and vice chairperson of the Margao municipal council. I am still working very hard and aggressively for the Congress party on the field. I feel I should be rewarded with a ticket for the assembly elections by the party,” Coutinho had said after Chodankar first offered her the Congress ticket for the ZP by election just over a week ago.  Chodankar, in a press note on Sunday, acknowledged Coutinho’s initial reluctance to contest the ZP by election. “However, the party leadership discussed with her and she accepted the nomination purely in the interest of the party,” he said, adding that the entire Congress leadership and party workers would work to ensure Coutinho’s victory for the ZP byelection. He exuded confidence of winning the Navelim zilla panchayat seat with a thumping margin. Chodankar further said that the Congress party was presently focused in the process of strengthening the booth level committees. “Very soon we will build up the organisation at the state level. We are receiving tremendous response to our digital membership drive,” he said. The ZP election was election for the Navelim seat was countermanded on account of the death of a candidate. BJP had sweeped ZP polls held in December 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-to-field-pratima-for-navelim-zp-bypolls/articleshow/81263610.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||During lockdown, aerosols reduced in Goa: GU study||PANAJI: During the lockdown last year, all human activities came to a complete standstill. The fine mode aerosols in the atmosphere in Goa showed a decrease during the lockdown period as against the pre-lockdown period and the corresponding period in 2019, three researchers of the Goa University’s School of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences have found in a study. Aerosols are tiny particles in the air that can be produced when different types of fossil fuels — coal, petroleum, wood and biofuels — are burned in different ways. A significant man-made source of aerosols is pollution from cars and factories. Researchers Harilal Menon, Atiba A Shaikh and Avirup Sen focused on the effect of the lockdown on the abundance of atmospheric aerosols over Goa. “The anthropogenic fine mode aerosols released during incomplete combustion of fossil fuels, bio-fuels and waste incineration are extremely hazardous to human health and chronic exposure to them are known to cause various respiratory/cardiovascular diseases,” states the study. The study was conducted by analysing Aerosol Optical Depth, Angstrom exponent, Black Carbon mass concentration and satellite derived Tropospheric Vertical Column Density (TVCD) Nitrogen Dioxide. The observations were carried out at the Goa University campus. The Black Carbon mass concentration was also found higher in 2019 as against the lockdown in 2020. “The Black Carbon mass concentration decreased during the lockdown period due to a complete halt in anthropogenic activities,” states the study. Major sources of aerosols, apart from urban/industrial emissions, etc, are also sea salt and dust. Outstanding problems include determining the natural sources of aerosols. Being in the vicinity of coastal waters, the study area is also subjected to land and sea breeze, which was also taken into account while analysing aerosol dynamics in the region to be able to get more accurate results, according to the researchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/during-lockdown-aerosols-reduced-in-goa-gu-study/articleshow/81263622.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
March 1, 2021||Goa||Three held in Calangute for prostitution||CALANGUTE: Calangute police arrested three persons, including a woman, for operating a prostitution racket. Police said after receiving a tip-off that some pimps would be coming at the Dolphin circle in Calangute to deliver a woman to a customer for prostitution, they kept a watch at the spot and nabbed the accused when they came in a car with the victim. The three accused, identified as Akbar Ali, 34, a native of Ladakh, Prana Jena, 40, a native of Odisha, and Neha Khatun, 22, a native of Kolkata, have been booked under Section 370 of the IPC and Sections 4, 5 and 7 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. The victim has been lodged at Apna Ghar, Merces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-held-in-calangute-for-prostitution/articleshow/81263631.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||EPS, OPS talk seat sharing with Amit Shah||CHENNAI: TN CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam on Sunday met Amit Shah to finalise seats for BJP for the assembly election. The discussion went on past midnight. AIADMK sources said it would be possible to offer 21 seats to the national party, since PMK wanted to be the senior-most partner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eps-ops-talk-seat-sharing-with-amit-shah/articleshow/81264806.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 1, 2021||Goa||Khotode specimens not petrified wood but ancient rock: Geologists’ association||Panaji: The Geological Society of Goa (GSG) said rock specimens in Khotode, Sattari, which were identified by certain scholars as petrified or fossilised wood, were actually banded magnetite quartzite, a type of sedimentary rock formed over 2,500 million years ago when there was no life on Earth. Reacting to a report published by TOI quoting a geomorphologist, GSG said eight geologists visited Khotode village to examine the rock exposures on two small mounds in the fields of Arvind Sawaikar and concluded that they were banded magnetite quartzite. The association explained that banded magnetite quartzite is made up of alternate bands of silica and iron oxide. “We believe that the rocks in Goa were formed during the Archean Era when there was no life form on Earth,” GSG said. “We did not find any conclusive field evidence that confirms the presence/occurrence of ‘petrified wood’ or ‘petrified stem’ or ‘fossil forest’ in the area.” The geologists said that during the process of petrification, organic matter breaks apart and is replaced by a single mineral, but in the rocks found at Khotode, silica and iron oxide were clearly visible. GSG said the banded magnetite quartzite belongs to the Bicholim formation of the Goa group of rocks, which were formed more than 2,500 million years ago. The oldest known fossilised trees of the world’s first forests occurred by the Late Devonian period (385 million years ago). “We assume that the earlier observers were misled by the banded nature of the rock. The tight folds have been probably misunderstood as rings of tree stems or trunks. We would like to emphasise that if it was petrified wood, at least one entire circular section of the tree trunk or stem would have been exposed,” GSG said in a statement. GSG is an association of professional geologists from the mining industry, oil field services, academia and researchers from eminent institutions in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khotode-specimens-not-petrified-wood-but-ancient-rock-geologists-association/articleshow/81263670.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi records 2nd warmest February in 120 years||NEW DELHI: The city recorded its second warmest February in the last 120 years with a mean maximum temperature of 27.9 degrees Celsius, eclipsed only by 2006 when the mean maximum temperature was 29.7 degrees, the IMD has said. Maximum temperatures during the month were on average four degrees higher than normal, making it exceptionally warm for February. Met officials say the warm conditions - brought on by absence of rain over the northern plains - are expected to continue over the next week, with the mercury unlikely to dip below 30 degrees. "The maximum may touch 29 degrees on March 2 due to strong winds, however it'll largely remain at 30-32," said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD's Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi. Don’t expect relief in form of rain anytime soonThe normal maximum temperature for this time of the season is 25-26 degrees while the normal maximum for February is 23.9 degrees C, Srivastava said The official added that Delhi is unlikely to get rain over the next few days. The city last recorded a spell of rain in the first week of February with a western disturbance influencing the region between February 4 and February 7. “After that spell, we have not seen a western disturbance impacting Delhi NCR and this had led to such a spike in temperatures. No immediate respite is expected,” he said. R K Jenamani, scientist at the IMD said the maximum temperature had been above normal most days in February this year with clear skies and low wind speed a consistent phenomenon. “North India records the highest frequency of western disturbances in February and March. However, only one western disturbance has affected the region in February. In the absence of western disturbances, the wind direction and speed hardly changed on most of these days. Windy conditions were not reported this month as the average wind speed remained below 7 kmph after the first week,” said Jenamani. Delhi recorded its warmest day of the season on Thursday and the warmest February day in 15 years, when the maximum touched 33.2 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung. A higher temperature in February was last recorded 2006, when the mercury shot up to an all-time high of 34.1 degrees for the month. Incidentally, February 2006 is also the warmest February in the last 120 years. On Wednesday, the maximum in Delhi was 32.5 degrees, while it was 33 degrees Celsius on Friday. The IMD says at 27.9 degrees, this is the joint second warmest February, alongside February 1960. “Records kept by the IMD since 1901 show 2006 is the all-time high, while 1960 is jointly the warmest now with 2021,” said a met official. On Sunday, Delhi’s maximum was 32.3 degrees Celsius – seven notches above normal. Meanwhile the minimum temperature was 15.6 degrees – three degrees above normal. The Sports Complex weather station in east Delhi was the warmest location in Delhi with a high of 32.8 degrees. It also recorded a minimum of 20.4 degrees Celsius, the highest across Delhi. Both Gurgaon and Noida had highs of 30.8 degrees Celsius. Relative humidity in the last 24 hours was between 35% and 88%. Forecast for Monday shows clear skies are expected to continue with the maximum and minimum likely to be around 31 and 13 degrees Celsius, respectively. “When clear skies are seen, it leads to a high maximum as well as a low minimum,” the official said. Delhi’s air quality on Sunday was recorded in the lower half of the ‘poor’ category with an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 208. With wind speed expected to pick up in the next 48 hours, experts say the air quality is expected to improve. Watch Delhi records 2nd warmest February in 120 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-records-2nd-warmest-february-in-120-years/articleshow/81264810.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 1, 2021||Goa||Agri sector picks up, 1,400 new farmers register after lockdown||PANAJI: Ever since the lockdown was imposed in the country nearly one year ago, many locals took it upon themselves to grow their own food, while some others took it a step forward and formed farmer groups to cultivate decades-old fallow lands . Till now, a total of 41,900 farmers in Goa have been granted a Krishi card. The directorate of agriculture has enrolled 1,400 farmers for a Krishi card in 2020-21, but the number is expected to be much more, thus showing an exponential increase in new farmers in Goa. “After lockdown, many farmers have come forward to obtain a Krishi card. Though the lockdown started in March, people went into agriculture by April-May. This included people that had returned to Goa from abroad besides those that were at home due to the lockdown. The 1,400 new Krishi cards are farmers that registered after lockdown,” a senior agriculture officer said. However, despite these numbers, department officials have received reports from zonal agricultural officers that there are many more farmers that are either yet to apply for a Krishi card or do not fit the criteria for the card. “For instance, there are many people that have grown crops in a small area of less than 500sqm. Naturally, they will not register for a Krishi card,” the officer said. Moreover, department rules mandate that farmers cannot avail of financial assistance through government schemes without having the Krishi card. Most farmers come forward to apply for the card only to avail of assistance from the department. These are for large expenses such as erection of a fence around the farm, digging a well or installing a pump or pipeline, purchasing machinery, etc. Only then do they apply for a Krishi card. Schemes such as 50% subsidy for vegetable seeds is given to farmers even if they don’t have a Krishi card. Despite the phenomenal response, the department has started a Krishi card enrolment programme to bring more farmers under the Krishi card. “This is a special campaign to bring more farmers – who are eligible – under Krishi card.” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-sector-picks-up-1400-new-farmers-register-after-lockdown/articleshow/81263688.cms||Nida Sayed
March 1, 2021||Goa||Candolim cabbies seek panchayat support against GoaMiles||CALANGUTE : The GoaMiles-private tourist taxis issue surfaced at the Candolim gram sabha on Sunday with local private tourist taxi owners demanding that the panchayat intervene and direct resorts and hotels not to allow GoaMiles cabbies. Candolim sarpanch Blaize Fernandes said they are supportive of the private tourist taxi owners from the village and would request hotels not to allow the app-based taxi service to pick up passengers. The draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) also came up for discussion. Fernandes said the panchayat has already sent its objections to the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) because the plan made by the panchayat incorporating the suggestions of the villagers does nsot reflect in the draft. A resolution to oppose the draft CZMP was adopted. Replying to another query, the sarpanch said the panchayat has taken the services of a private security agency to round up beggars, touts and others from the roads and requested people to telephone if they see any of them again. The phone numbers were provided at the gram sabha. The sarpanch, however, expressed helplessness over the same problem on the beach as it comes under the jurisdiction of the tourism department. Resort owner Lawrence Silveira urged the panchayat to address the stray dogs problem on the beach, stating that recently one of his guests was attacked. He suggested that the panchayat build a dog shelter. Fernandes said they do not have land for a dog shelter, but added that they would look into the issue. A stall owner on the Candolim promenade, Damien Teles, said the changing rooms and toilet facility on the beach has been functioning without electricity making it dangerous to go there at night. He claimed the electricity has been disconnected because the contractor has not paid the bills, and urged the panchayat to take over the facility and operate it for its smooth functioning. The gram sabha also approved the budget proposals for 2021-22 amounting to Rs 13,12,35,179.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/candolim-cabbies-seek-pyat-support-against-goamiles/articleshow/81263710.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||Convoy of chief of new Assam party ‘attacked’ by ‘BJP workers’||GUWAHATI: The newly floated Assam Jatiya Parishad alleged that the convoy of its president Lurinjyoti Gogoi was attacked by BJP workers in Nalbari district on Sunday. However, a police officer of Nalbari told TOI that Lurinjyoti’s vehicle was neither stopped nor blocked and it was the second vehicle which was held up for some time by BJP workers who shouted “Go back AJP”. “Gogoi was going to attend a meeting in Bahjani from Ghograpar. On the way, the physical interruption occurred in Kalag where some BJP workers were doing house to house campaign. But no physical attack happened. We’re registering a case based on the FIR by AJP,” he said. Police said the probe into the matter has begun and that no one was injured in the incident. However, AJP spokesperson Ziaur Rahman claimed that one car of the convoy was damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/convoy-of-chief-of-new-assam-party-attacked-by-bjp-workers/articleshow/81264812.cms||Rokibuz Zaman
March 1, 2021||Goa||Reis Magos locals oppose port limits under CZMP||Saligao: Objection to the draft CZMP regarding khazan land and port limits were the main issues raised at the Reis Magos gram sabha held on Sunday. A large number of residents attended the gram sabha. Sarpanch of Reis Magos Kedar Naik told the villagers that the new plan has been sent to the village for people’s objection and suggestion. He said that services of an architect have been requisitioned to explain the plan. Residents opposed the ports limits fearing that the government may have other plans for the coastal area. They also asked the panchayat to write to authorities to correct anomalies in the draft CZMP. Residents highlighted issues such as water, especially at Quegdevelim. The sarpanch told villagers that if owners give the approval to dig a well in their property, then the panchayat is ready to build.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reis-magos-locals-oppose-port-limits-under-czmp/articleshow/81263704.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||Goa: Nerul villagers highlight water woes at gram sabha||SALIGAO: Water scarcity, migrants’ verification forms and kiosks were the main issues raised at the gram sabha at Nerul Sunday. Villagers had a heated discussion on the water crisis. Many demanded that mega construction be stopped as they are putting burden on the PWD water supply at the cost of locals. Sarpanch Reshma Kalangutkar said that the village panchayat will be constructing three wells to supply drinking water. “If land owners give a no-objection certificate to construct wells in their property, then the panchayat is ready to do so,” she said. The villagers asked the panchayat to write to the police and owners to provide a police verification form so that a check can be kept on the tenants or migrants. The villagers demanded that licences to run kiosks be granted to locals so that they can start their own business. Kalangutkar said the panchayat is giving approval to kiosks, but under certain stipulations. “In fact, PWD had given us a letter to act on the illegal gaddas that are being erected along the roadside in its property near the Nerul bridge,” she said. Villagers also suggested raising the rent of shops operating from the panchayat building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nerul-villagers-highlightwater-woes-at-gram-sabha/articleshow/81263731.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Goa||After bulls, social media abuzz with rooster fights||Panaji: Even as the state is grappling with the issue of animal cruelty by way of bullfights, roosters are being compelled to engage in fighting. The People for Animals Goa (PFA) has written to Curtorim police station to register a complaint and conduct an immediate investigation of a “Cock Fight Tournament” that was announced to be held in Chandor on February 28. “To put an end to this menace, it is critical that all proposed animal fight events, including cock fights, are investigated on a war footing. We request you to register a police complaint and initiate an investigation at once.” PFA wrote. A poster giving an open call for entries to the “All Goa Cock Fight Tournament” was being shared on social media. This was proposed to take place on February 28 in Chandor with details of entry fees and monetary awards for winners on the poster. Police officials from the Maina-Curtorim police station, however, said that no such event was organised on Sunday. “The message was distributed among a certain friends’ circle but no such fight has taken place on Sunday. We will take action in case there are any cock fights,” an officer said. All animal fights including cock fights are illegal and punishable as an offence of animal cruelty under Section 11 (l) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The act clearly states that “anyone who organises, keeps uses or acts in the management or, any place for animal fighting or for the purpose of baiting any animal or permits or offers any place to be so used or receives money for the admission of any other person to any place kept or used for any such purposes.” Cock fights have also been declared illegal in light of Section 11 (l) of PCA, in the decision of Narhari Jagdish Kumar by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in 2016, where the court stated that, “Sadism and perversity is writ large in the actions of the organisers of these cockfights. The event is meant not for the well-being of these cocks/roosters, but for the perverse pleasure of human beings, particularly the organisers and spectators, who enjoy watching these birds savagely attack and maim each other, forgetting the intrinsic worth of these animals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-bulls-social-media-abuzz-with-rooster-fights/articleshow/81263750.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||‘Vaccine not behind AP woman’s death’||NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old anganwadi worker, Gulshan Begum, died in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, four days after she was administered the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the fourth such death since the rollout of vaccines in the state. Her relatives blamed the adverse effect of the vaccine behind her death, but authorities dismissed the claims and said she probably died of other reasons and the vaccination bit was purely coincidental. Police have registered a case under Section 174 CrPc and sent the body for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccine-not-behind-ap-womans-death/articleshow/81264828.cms||Venu Lanka
March 1, 2021||India||Curfew imposed in Maharashtra city till March 7||AURANGABAD: In the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Hingoli district administration has announced a strict curfew between March 1-7. The move has triggered furore, especially within the business community, which has questioned the rationale behind the decision to impose fresh restrictions. “Barring essential services, all other services — including the supply of fuel to private vehicles — have been banned in Hingoli in both urban and rural areas,” an official release said. Meanwhile, the Latur administration has opted for a janata curfew whereas Aurangabad has imposed a night curfew to contain the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/curfew-imposed-in-maharashtra-city-till-march-7/articleshow/81264830.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Wedding venue in Nagpur turns Covid detection centre||NAGPUR: A wedding venue at Sawargaon in Maharashtra’s Nagpur district turned into an impromptu ‘Covid detection centre’ when health officials arrived at the spot and subjected all present— bride, groom and guests— to rapid antigen tests. Even the priest, cook and drivers were not spared. Praising this unique move, district collector Ravindra Thakare said this could be replicated elsewhere (instead of imposing fines) to check the spread of coronavirus. Narkhed health official Dr Vidyanand Gaikwad came up with the idea of conducting Covid tests at wedding venues, which have emerged as superspreader events amid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 in Nagpur. “We conducted 26 antigen tests at the venue and everyone tested negative. The idea was to immediately isolate anyone found positive and take further precautions,” Gaikwad said. “The visit was planned with a dual purpose. First, to check whether Covid norms like masking, social distancing, sanitization and the cap of 50 people were being maintained. Second, to conduct antigen tests as there is mass mingling at weddings. The bride and groom especially are greeted by all. We wanted to ensure this marriage did not turn into a superspreader event,” he added. The team first counselled the guests and then conducted the tests, Gaikwad said. “Apart from conducting tests, we also slapped a total fine of ?6,000 as many were found without masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wedding-venue-in-nagpur-turns-covid-detection-centre/articleshow/81264835.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 1, 2021||India||2 youths from Indore arrested under MP’s ‘love jihad’ law||KHARGONE: Two people from Indore have been booked under MP’s new religious law (MP Dharm Swatantra Adhiniyam 2020) on Sunday for allegedly hiding their real identity and forcing two teenagers to marry them. Mandleshwar police in Khangone have registered a case against the two men, identified as Sohail Khan and Hasan Qadir. They have been arrested and handed over to Azad Nagar police in Indore. ASP Khargone, Jitendra Singh Pawar, told TOI that on the complaint of two class 12 girls aged 16 and 17,Sohail and Hassan have been booked under IPC, Pocso Act and MP Dharm Swatantra Adhiniyam 2020. Pawar, quoting the complaint, said the accused somehow got the mobile numbers of both girls and started chatting using different names and concealing their identity. Two days ago, they took the girls in a car asking them to join in a cafe to celebrate their birthday. Midway, they took them to Jam Ghat and asked the girls to marry them and took their pictures, he said. On suspicion, members of a saffron outfit, who were present there, caught and handed them to Mandleshwar police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-youths-from-indore-arrested-under-mps-love-jihad-law/articleshow/81264848.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||Finding issues to praise PM Modi is like looking for needle in a haystack: Harish Rawat||NEW DELHI: Even as Congress steered clear of veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad’s praise for PM Narendra Modi, party general secretary and former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat said it was tough to find issues to appreciate in the PM in view of mounting national problems. “There is no need to look for motive in every comment by Azad. Currently, there are many problems like inflation etc. In such a scenario, praising Modi is like looking for a needle in a haystack. Azad and others had earlier also expressed concern over the prevailing situation in India,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/finding-issues-to-praise-pm-modi-is-like-looking-for-needle-in-a-haystack-harish-rawat/articleshow/81264850.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Private hospitals await vax doses; registrations will begin today||BENGALURU: While private hospitals are gearing up to join the nationwide inoculation drive under Phase 2 of the Covid-19 vaccination programmed from Monday, they are still awaiting delivery of vaccines. The government is also yet to commit on the number of doses each hospital will receive. The government has said a list of empanelled hospitals will begin vaccinating those above 60 years of age and people above 45 years with specific comorbid conditions. “So far, no vaccines have been delivered to hospitals, but we are expecting them to arrive tomorrow (Monday),” said Dr HM Prasanna, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). “It is not yet clear how many doses will be supplied to each hospital.” Besides state-run facilities, two private hospitals in each district have been selected to administer the dose, while Bengaluru will see 18 hospitals administer the jab, said Dr Rajani N, Karnataka immunisation director. “We are not looking at supplying vaccines daily,” Dr Rajani said. “Hospitals will be supplied with as many doses as they need based on their capacity and the number of registrations. For example, if a hospital has enough registrations to vaccinate for four days, it will get those many doses,” she said. Dr Prasanna said the registration process was yet to begin as the Co-Win app hasn’t been made accessible to people. “We are getting a number of inquiries but are unable to register. We’ve been told that the app will be accessible from 9am tomorrow (Monday),” he said. Rajani said that while walk-in or on-site registrations will be allowed, the priority will be for online registrations. “Once people who’ve registered online are catered to, vaccines will be made available for walk-ins,” she said. As of 7am on Sunday, Karnataka had expended 8,18,722 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. The state has received more than 17.1 lakh doses of vaccine (including 1.6 lakh of Covaxin). All vaccines Karnataka has received have an expiry date of May 2021 and the state is eager to use them before that to prevent waste. Rajani said private hospitals could even vaccinate more than 100 people a day if they have the capacity to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-private-hospitals-await-vax-doses-registrations-will-begin-today/articleshow/81264852.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mysuru||Karnataka: Private hospitals await vax doses; registrations will begin today||BENGALURU: While private hospitals are gearing up to join the nationwide inoculation drive under Phase 2 of the Covid-19 vaccination programmed from Monday, they are still awaiting delivery of vaccines. The government is also yet to commit on the number of doses each hospital will receive. The government has said a list of empanelled hospitals will begin vaccinating those above 60 years of age and people above 45 years with specific comorbid conditions. “So far, no vaccines have been delivered to hospitals, but we are expecting them to arrive tomorrow (Monday),” said Dr HM Prasanna, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). “It is not yet clear how many doses will be supplied to each hospital.” Besides state-run facilities, two private hospitals in each district have been selected to administer the dose, while Bengaluru will see 18 hospitals administer the jab, said Dr Rajani N, Karnataka immunisation director. “We are not looking at supplying vaccines daily,” Dr Rajani said. “Hospitals will be supplied with as many doses as they need based on their capacity and the number of registrations. For example, if a hospital has enough registrations to vaccinate for four days, it will get those many doses,” she said. Dr Prasanna said the registration process was yet to begin as the Co-Win app hasn’t been made accessible to people. “We are getting a number of inquiries but are unable to register. We’ve been told that the app will be accessible from 9am tomorrow (Monday),” he said. Rajani said that while walk-in or on-site registrations will be allowed, the priority will be for online registrations. “Once people who’ve registered online are catered to, vaccines will be made available for walk-ins,” she said. As of 7am on Sunday, Karnataka had expended 8,18,722 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. The state has received more than 17.1 lakh doses of vaccine (including 1.6 lakh of Covaxin). All vaccines Karnataka has received have an expiry date of May 2021 and the state is eager to use them before that to prevent waste. Rajani said private hospitals could even vaccinate more than 100 people a day if they have the capacity to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-private-hospitals-await-vax-doses-registrations-will-begin-today/articleshow/81270702.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Private hospitals await vax doses; registrations will begin today||BENGALURU: While private hospitals are gearing up to join the nationwide inoculation drive under Phase 2 of the Covid-19 vaccination programmed from Monday, they are still awaiting delivery of vaccines. The government is also yet to commit on the number of doses each hospital will receive. The government has said a list of empanelled hospitals will begin vaccinating those above 60 years of age and people above 45 years with specific comorbid conditions. “So far, no vaccines have been delivered to hospitals, but we are expecting them to arrive tomorrow (Monday),” said Dr HM Prasanna, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). “It is not yet clear how many doses will be supplied to each hospital.” Besides state-run facilities, two private hospitals in each district have been selected to administer the dose, while Bengaluru will see 18 hospitals administer the jab, said Dr Rajani N, Karnataka immunisation director. “We are not looking at supplying vaccines daily,” Dr Rajani said. “Hospitals will be supplied with as many doses as they need based on their capacity and the number of registrations. For example, if a hospital has enough registrations to vaccinate for four days, it will get those many doses,” she said. Dr Prasanna said the registration process was yet to begin as the Co-Win app hasn’t been made accessible to people. “We are getting a number of inquiries but are unable to register. We’ve been told that the app will be accessible from 9am tomorrow (Monday),” he said. Rajani said that while walk-in or on-site registrations will be allowed, the priority will be for online registrations. “Once people who’ve registered online are catered to, vaccines will be made available for walk-ins,” she said. As of 7am on Sunday, Karnataka had expended 8,18,722 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. The state has received more than 17.1 lakh doses of vaccine (including 1.6 lakh of Covaxin). All vaccines Karnataka has received have an expiry date of May 2021 and the state is eager to use them before that to prevent waste. Rajani said private hospitals could even vaccinate more than 100 people a day if they have the capacity to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-private-hospitals-await-vax-doses-registrations-will-begin-today/articleshow/81270704.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||Be a warrior, not a worrier: PM to students||NEW DELHI: Wishing students ahead of their examinations, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday urged them to “be a warrior, not a worrier” as he invited parents and teachers to give suggestions for ‘Pariksha pe Charcha”. Speaking in his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’, the PM also urged the youth to think beyond traditional ways. Noting that the next few months were of special importance for students with board and other exams approaching, Modi said, “You have to become a warrior, not a worrier, go gleefully for the examination and come back with a smile. You have to compete with yourself, not with anyone else. Get adequate sleep and be mindful of time management. Do not stop playing, for those who play are the ones that blossom. Revision and smart methods of memorisation are to be adopted, that is, overall, in these exams, you have to bring out your best.” He said due to pressures of traditional thinking, the youth were often not able to do what they really liked. “That is why you should never hesitate in thinking new, doing new. In the same manner Sant Ravidasji has given another important message. This message is ‘to stand on one’s own feet’. It is not fair at all that we remain dependent on others for our dreams. Things remaining the way they are… Ravidasji was never in favour of this.” Modi underlined that Aatmanirbhar Bharat was not just a government policy but a national spirit, and said the mantra of self-reliant India was reaching the villages. He called for a 100-day campaign to clean all water bodies and prepare them for rainwater harvesting before the monsoon started. Stressing the importance of collective responsibility towards water conservation, he said the jal shakti ministry would soon initiate a ‘catch the rain’ campaign with its main theme being “catch the rain where it falls, when it falls”. The PM rued not being able to make enough efforts to learn Tamil. “In the run-up to Mann ki Baat, I was asked if there was something I missed out on during these long years as chief minister and Prime Minister. I feel, it is a regret of sorts, that I could not make enough efforts to learn the world’s oldest language, Tamil. Tamil literature is beautiful,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/be-a-warrior-not-a-worrier-pm-to-students/articleshow/81264857.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Vadodara||Final vote days before diksha||Vadodara: Come March 3, this 22-year-old woman will not only give up her belongings but also one of her official identities. Even as she was busy with all rituals and ceremonies in the run-up to taking diksha , Kanchi Shah, a commerce graduate living in Godhra, did not miss the sacrosanct duty of exercising her adult franchise for the final time. On Sunday morning, Shah decked in a saree and gold jewellery, reached the polling centre near Town Police Chowki with her parents to cast her vote for the last time as a citizen. After voting, Shah and her parents again got busy as her procession was planned in the town and she had to visit several houses before she part ways with the material world on March 3. “Right now, I am a citizen, and my one vote too can have a big influence. I appeal to all people to come out and vote and whoever gets elected should do good for the society and country,” said Shah. The 22-year-old’s decision to become a monk did not come much as a surprise to her family members. “Since a young age she had been inspired by how our family has been involved in the religious activities. So, when she told us that she has decided to renounce the world after attending a camp in Mumbai, our family was quite happy,” said Shah’s father Mayur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/final-vote-days-before-diksha/articleshow/81261641.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Vadodara||Two Covid positive patients turn up at polling booth||Vadodara: Even as many voters who tested positive of Covid-19 skipped Sunday’s local body elections, there were some who braved the fatigue to reach to the polling booths and make their votes count. Two Covid-19 positive patients turned up at a polling booth in Karamdi village of Vadodara’s Karjan taluka. The husband-wife duo had pre-registered for Sunday’s elections and reached the polling booth in the last hour, as per guidelines. The duo were in isolation at Sumeru Covid Care Centre, Karjan, from where they reached the polling booth at Karjan wearing PPE suits. “They had informed us in advance. All the arrangements like PPE kits, gloves, sanitisers were already there at the polling booth,” said a district health official, adding that the voters and the staff at the booth took enough precautions during the process. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-covid-positive-patients-turn-up-at-polling-booth/articleshow/81261658.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Adhir-Abbas strain shows in Brigade rally||Kolkata: Furfura Sharif cleric and Indian Secular Front (ISF) patron Abbas Siddiqui pledged his support for Left candidates across the state from a rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds on Sunday, but stopped short of doing the same for the Congress, sending out a clear message that the ISF would strictly act on a quid pro quo basis. “We want bhagidari (our share) in electoral politics. I would like to thank the Left Front for sacrificing their own seats to give us 30 seats. We will support the Left across the state and ensure they win, along with our own candidates, defeating both the BJP and its B-team, Trinamool, in Bengal,” Siddiqui said at the rally, in a bid to put pressure on the Congress over seat-sharing with the ISF before talks begin on Monday. The ISF patron, however, didn’t lose sight of his prime targets: BJP and Trinamool. “Modi and Didi are the same. They might put up a mock fi-ght, but they are friends. They are using religion to divert attention from the core issues. The BJP could spread their wings in Bengal only because of the TMC. If there is a hung assembly, TMC will join ha-nds with the BJP to form a government,” Siddiqui alleged. Siddiqui stepped on the dais amid rapturous applause by his supporters when Adhir Chowdhury, Congress leader in Lok Sabha, was speaking. CPM leader Md Selim was taking Siddiqui near the lectern near Chowdhury, when the Congress leader stepped back. It was only after Left Front chairperson Biman Bose waved at him and asked him to carry on that Chowdhury resumed his speech. Chowdhury called the grand alliance of the Left-Congress and other secular forces against Trinamool and BJP the “notun paribartaner ramdhanu (rainbow for a new change)”. Chowdhury held that the Bengal assembly polls were not going to be a two-cornered fight. “Those who had thrown up the Modi-Mamata binary in Bengal should rethink after Sunday’s rally. I am excited and satisfied (with the enthusiasm of supporters). In future, there will not be any BJP or TMC; only the grand alliance will remain,” Chowdhury said. The Brigade rally turned out to be a confluence of several political colours, a break from the usual monochromatic gatherings. Red flags fluttered with white-and-green of the ISF, along with specks of the Congress tricolour, the first time ever in a Brigade gathering. The mood on the grounds was also different this time, with “Bhaijan, bhaijan” slogans addressed to Siddiqui, along with Left political slogans. “Tumpa eshe gechhi’ posters as an allusion to the viral ‘Tumpa Brigade chol’ parody may have irritated some, but they also showcased the enthusiasm among the young supporters, something that had been missing in Left gatherings for quite some time. A section of Left and Congress supporters kept their fingers crossed over how the “poll gamble” with the ISF would play out among the other communities, when Bengal has been witnessing polarization among voters. The ISF may give a boost to the Left vote-share in south Bengal by breaking the Trinamool monopoly over assembly seats in South 24 Parganas, parts of North 24 Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah and East Midnapore. But Left leaders are not very sure what impact it would have in urban constituencies with refugee presence and also in the 45 assembly seats along the India-Bangladesh border. “The ISF is a party of Muslims, Dalits and Adivasis. Former Jharkhand chief minister Shibu Soren is the party president. It will field candidates from all oppressed communities,” Siddiqui told TOI. Left leaders at tried to take the poll agenda out of religion or language polarization and turn the focus on lives and livelihood issues. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury pointed to the continuing farmers’ protests at the Singhu border. “If farmers, who provide us with food, can put up such a gallant fight, we too can do it here,” Yechury said. CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra focused harped on “unity of alliance partners” and “unity of working people” above all. “The alliance will work towards ensuring filling up of all vacant posts. Investment will be increased in agriculture to create more job opportunities. Large industries will be set up with the consent of the people,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/adhir-abbas-strain-shows-in-brigade-rally/articleshow/81264389.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Tejashwi set to call on Didi today||Kolkata/Patna: Bihar opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav arrived in Kolkata on Sunday and will meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee at her Kalighat home on Monday. “Our leader Tejashwi will have a meeting with the TMC chief on Monday,” RJD’s national general secretary Shyam Rajak, who is accompanying Tejashwi, told TOI over phone. He added that Tejashwi and other RJD leaders would return to Patna by Monday evening after the talks. Sources said RJD wants to contest three to four seats — preferably Asansol, Howrah and central Kolkata — in Bengal in alliance with Trinamool. Tejashwi skipped the Left-Congress meeting on Brigade Parade Grounds during the day but interacted with local RJD workers in the city. The RJD leader’s arrival has led to speculations whether the party will continue its long alliance with Left Front in West Bengal and take on Trinamool and BJP. RJD has always fielded candidates in some north Kolkata seats in alliance with Left. It is largely believed this had come up for discussion when Tejashwi spoke at length with local party workers on Sunday. “It felt good interacting with the dedicated party workers of the Bengal unit in Kolkata. These interactions always inspire and enthuse me,” the RJD leader posted on Twitter. Tejashwi shares a good rapport with Banerjee, and significantly did not attend the Brigade rally in which attacks were made against Trinamool and BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tejashwi-set-to-call-on-didi-today/articleshow/81264009.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Bokaro, Khunti sadar hosps bag certificate for quality care at labour rooms||BOKARO: The sadar hospitals of Bokaro and Khunti received the ‘State Certification for LaQshya’ under the National Quality Assurance Programme on Sunday, said Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh. LaQshya is a programme launched by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The programme aims to improve the quality of care in labour rooms and maternity operation theatres. “The main objective behind LaQshya is to reduce maternal and newborn mortality through quality care, said civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak. Since 2019, Bokaro sadar hospital was struggling for the certification as it bags Rs 50 lakh fund from the government for development of infrastructure and incentives for the staff and doctors at the labour room. Rajesh Mishra, technical consultant of LaQshya, said there has been a lot of improvement in the last two years, especially in the labour room and maternity operation theatre at the hospital. Confidence among patients has also increased. In 2019, there were barely 100 deliveries that took place in a month and now, there are over 300 deliveries every month. In the next few months, the number will rise to 500, said the hospital management. Singh congratulated the entire team, including the civil surgeon and deputy superintendent Renu Bharti of sadar hospital for the success. “It is a matter of pride for sadar hospital to receive the National Quality Assurance Certification. NITI Aayog has praised it. Of the 300 deliveries, only 80-90 are caesareans while the rest are normal deliveries,” Bharti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-khunti-sadar-hosps-bag-certificate-for-quality-care-at-labour-rooms/articleshow/81261870.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: After Covid-Amphan knockouts, College St Boipara back to life||KOLKATA: A for Amphan, B for Boipara, C for Covid... sandwiched between the two biggest blows of 2020, the kilometre-long stretch on central Kolkata’s College Street — a treasure trove of academic books and journals, that’s also not a bad place to hunt for second-hand books of fiction — is finally looking to turn over a new leaf. The combined punch of the pandemic-induced lockdown from March last year, and later that of the devastating Cyclone Amphan two months later, had all but broken the spine of the world’s biggest market of used books: first, all business halted during the lockdown, and then the storm destroyed numerous stalls and damaged books worth crores. The heart of what is arguably the city’s biggest educational hub — flanked by more than 30 schools and colleges, iconic institutions like Calcutta University, Presidency University, Sanskrit University and Medical College and Hindu School to name just a few — had stopped beating. But the bookstores and stalls are attracting crowds once again, and the sales figures are growing. Just like the Bengal Renaissance was a rebirth of a culture, College Street is coming back to life. Several bookstore owners TOI spoke to said sales were in the region of 75% to 90% of the pre-lockdown business. “It has been a very tough and long year, but the good news is that people who love books are returning to Boipara,” said Indrani Roy Mitra, joint managing director of Mitra and Ghosh Publishers. “Almost 90% of the business is back on College Street.” Roy Mitra had gathered Rs 17 lakh through crowd-funding and distributed Rs 10,000 each to 170 book-stall and bookshop owners to tide over the twin blows. The key reasons behind the revival of Boipara are the resumption of online classes, and the resumption of all modes of transport. “Till December, business was very bad. But with schools reopening partially and educational activities picking up, a lot of people are coming to buy books now,” said a representative of National Book Store. Soon after Cyclone Amphan, images of books floating in water and strewn across the length of College Street to dry began to be circulated. The devastation had prompted several communities of students and alumni from across the world to start various crowd-funding initiatives. “Water entered my shop and books worth thousands got damaged,” said Tarapada Das, owner of Modern Book Stall, opposite Presidency University. “I could not come to Kolkata to salvage anything because trains and long-distance buses were not plying. I received aid from various do-gooders and started from scratch. The business is decent now, though sales are not as brisk as they used to be at this time of the year.” Several booklovers have also made it a point to purchase books from College Street in solidarity with the owners. “I could have either purchased online or bought the digital version of the book, but I came to College Street all the way from Jodhpur Park because I want to buy from the stall owners here. This is the only way we can save Boipara,” said Priyanka Mukherjee, an assistant professor in a Howrah college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-cov-amphan-knockouts-college-st-boipara-back-to-life/articleshow/81264421.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||JSCA inspects land for cricket stadium in Bokaro||BOKARO: A team from the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) inspected the earmarked site for the proposed cricket stadium in Bokaro and expressed satisfaction, said officials on Sunday. The 20-acre land near Visthapit College in Balidih has been offered by BSL On Saturday, a six-member team of the JSCA headed by its president Nafees Akhtar went for site inspection. BSL officials and Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan were also present. They also met with director in-charge of BSL Amarendu Prakash and deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh separately. The stadium is proposed to come up at an investment of Rs 250 crore. BSL, which has given in-principal approval for allotting the land to JSCA, demanded three major things before closing the deal — adequate advertising rights for Steel Authority of India Limited (BSL’s parent body) inside and outside the stadium, sufficient seats for SAIL officials and invitees in VVIP boxes and a SAIL representative in the management committee of the stadium. Akhtar said, “This was our first meeting with the BSL director in-charge for the international cricket stadium. The meet was positive and BSL has asked for a few things, which we have assured to respond to soon after discussions with our members.” Prakash said, “The proposal for transfer of land to JSCA is on track. The detailed terms and conditions will be finalised and clearance from the SAIL board will be sought soon.” It was in the first week of February this year when the Union steel ministry had given a clearance for allotment of BSL’s land to JSCA. The Narayan said, “In 2016, JSCA begin searching for land. A cricket stadium will boost the development of the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jsca-inspects-land-for-cricket-stadium-in-bokaro/articleshow/81261928.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid allowed us to adapt, learn and appreciate life: Anupam Kher||Veteran actor Anupam Kher, who was in the city recently for a reading of his latest book, Your Best Day is Today, mesmerised city folk with anecdotes from his life and career in a starry event at Falaknuma Palace on Friday. In conversation with Lakshmi Manchu, who played host for the evening, Anupam opened up about how the pandemic had an impact on him. “Every crisis presents an opportunity and the same was the case with the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. Introspection begins when you have nothing to do. In all the years I’ve lived in Mumbai, for the first time I could hear the chirping of birds and noticed that the sky is blue in Mumbai, as well,” the actor recalled. “The pandemic also allowed us all to take a pause and reconnect with our loved ones at home. People know me as Anupam Kher, but at home, my name is Bittu. After many years, I took a break from being Anupam Kher and was just Bittu — being myself surrounded by loved ones.” Lakshmi, meanwhile, spoke about how the pandemic opened up new avenues and brought fresh opportunities for her. “I decided to use the lockdown to virtually interact with as many people as I could. I even hosted virtual shows on social media and kept myself busy. I feel it's important to adapt whenever there is a crisis,” Lakshmi said. The evening witnessed a gathering of high-profile guests, including British Deputy High Commissioner Andrew Fleming, Turkish Counsel General Adnan Altinors, Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar, film producer D Suresh Babu and a host of other business personalities and socialites from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-allowed-us-to-adapt-learn-and-appreciate-life-anupam-kher/articleshow/81258773.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Defecating squatters a worry for masons building boundary around Bokaro airport||Bokaro: Although Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) served notices to the squatters settled around the airport here, which is being expanded into a commercial one, illegal residents continue to enter the premise from the Dundibagh area by scaling the eight-feet high boundary wall just to defecate. The workers engaged in the construction of the boundary walls find it difficult to work amid the filth. A labour said, “After coming to work each morning, we pour mud on the excreta to stop the smell, which otherwise makes it difficult for us to work.” The squatters use the scaffolding of the new boundary wall to enter the premises. Wilfred Kerketta, deputy general manager and the in-charge of air traffic control at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda International Airport, said, “We will take a tour of Bokaro Airport next week to assess the completion of work.” The Airports Authority of India has recently written a letter to Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) to sort out issues related to the trespassing of the squatters on its land, but hardly anything has been done, except for a notice which gave the squatters a month’s time and warned of forced eviction. There are about 300 hutments adjacent to the boundary on BSL’s land. With the expansion of the airport is being carried in full swing, even the district administration has asked the BSL management to remove the squatters from its land and pave way for the development under Phase-II of the Regional Connectivity Scheme (UDAN)-2016. Of the four airports to be developed in Jharkhand, Bokaro is one of them. “Over 90% construction works have been completed,” said AAI sources. “The remaining work comprises construction of boundary walls, levelling of land and cutting of trees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/defecating-squatters-a-worry-for-masons-building-boundary-around-bokaro-airport/articleshow/81261838.cms||Divy Khare
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||TMC first list of candidates likely today||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to announce the Trinamool Congress’ candidate list on Monday at her Kalighat party office but in a marked departure from the past, the list will be declared in phases. According to sources, several new names will feature on the list to be announced by the CM after Monday noon. Banerjee has already convened a meeting of the 12-member election committee at her home before the final list is declared. The committee has senior MPs Subrata Bakshi, Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Derek O’Brien, C M Jatua and Saugata Roy along with Abhishek Banerjee and senior state ministers Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim, Aroop Biswas, Chandrima Bhattacharya and Subrata Mukherjee. The phase-1 poll process will kick off in politically significant zones in East and West Midnapore with nominations set to begin on March 2 and polls to be held on March 27. These include the key Contai South and North seats and several others hemming these battleground seats. It is largely believed Chandrima, who won the 2016 bypoll from Contai (South), will vacate her seat and return to contest from Kolkata. In West Midnapore, several key seats, including Kharagpur and Midnapore, also go to polls on March 27. Trinamool is likely to again field Pradip Sarkar from Kharagpur. It is likely to nominate a new face in Midnapore. In Bankura, Sujata Mondal is likely to make her debut from one of the reserved seats. The estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan has impressed Trinamool leaders with her grit, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-first-list-of-candidates-likely-today/articleshow/81263988.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Kolkata||Babul Supriyo backtracks after ‘Beti paraya dhan’ meme backlash||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress’s 2021 poll campaign, “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter)” has sparked a full-scale social media war. On Saturday, in the face of strong protests by Trinamool Congress, Union minister Babul Supriyo deleted a meme he had shared on his Twitter handle, which had an image of Union home minister Amit Shah, that read “Beti paraya dhan hoti hai is bar vida kar denge (A daughter is someone else’s wealth, this time we will send her off)”. The now-deleted post was a dig at a post with CM Mamata Banerjee’s image, captioned “Main Bangal ki beti hoon (I am Bengal’s daughter)”. After Supriyo’s “paraya dhan” post, Bengal’s women, child development and social welfare minister, Shashi Panja, tagged Supriyo on Twitter, saying, “I am extremely worried about the state of women’s affairs in this country if public representatives like you endorse such chauvinistic views. Stunned and shocked to see how deep and wide sexism runs in BJP leaders.” Trinamool leaders termed Surpiyo’s post “misogynistic”. Supriyo’s response was: “This is a viral post on social media... neither did I create this nor is this a statement of mine. I have two daughters hence I do not need any ‘political’ party, be it TMC or Left-Congress to explain to me what misogyny is”, adding, “I have earned enough goodwill for myself to have people to ignore this as a meme that, I acknowledge, should not have been shared from my account. That’s it!! Period. Nothing more — Nothing less either.” On Sunday, a fresh political war broke out on Twitter, with senior Bengal BJP leaders, including Supriyo, showcasing the image of a bruised and swollen face of a 85-year-old North Dum Dum resident, who was reportedly assaulted by Trinamool supporters who were allegedly targeting her son, Gopal Majumdar, a local BJP leader. “Isn’t she also Bengal’s daughter?”, some BJP leaders questioned on Twitter. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien dubbing this as “fabricated”, alleged the fake news factory was “not even sparing senior citizens.” “BJP is desperate. They have no counter to Mamata Banerjee on good governance and #BanglaNijerMeyekeiChay,” he said. On the assault issue, it was BJP’s turn to take on Trinamool on Sunday. Senior leaders attacked TMC for the “brutal attack” on an “elderly helpless woman.” Trinamool’s North Dum Dum Town president Bidhan Biswas alleged that the 85-year-old victim was ailing for long and the allegations were “lies.” BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari said, “Even our mothers are not safe in this state. Will the perpetrators of this brutal attack ever be punished?” The Nimta police station said they had received an FIR naming a local Trinamool leader, who will be questioned. A medical report will also be sought for the nature of injuries on the elderly woman’s face, the cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/babul-backtracks-after-beti-paraya-dhan-meme-backlash/articleshow/81264401.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Ranchi||Land collapses in underground fire-prone area of Jharia, woman injured||Sindri: A 35-year-old woman identified as Malti Devi fractured her leg and got bruises all over her body after a portion of her house collapsed at the underground fire-prone area of Bastakola in Dhanbad’s Jharia on Sunday. The underground fires here have been raging for more than 100 years now. Although the Dhanbad district administration and the Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority (JRDA) claimed to have expedited the process to shift the affected families to a safer location, till date, only around 4,700 families of the proposed 1.04 lakh have been shifted to the Belgaria Township. Malti was admitted to a private nursing home. According to reports, the land collapsed around 1am when Malti was on her way to the bathroom in the courtyard of her house. By the time she could scream for help, the wall of her toilet came crushing down and she found herself stuck in the debris. Luckily for her, her family members and neighbours heard her screams for help and rushed to rescue her. In protest, residents of Mallah Patti blocked the Jharia-Baliapur Road for nearly two hours on Sunday demanding to shift them to a safer place and compensation for the losses. The blockade was lifted after Jharia circle officer Rajesh Kumar assured to provide them houses under government schemes and compensation from Bharat Coking Coal Limited. When asked, BCCL area GM Somen Chatterjee said, “While some of the families have been shifted to Belgaria, those who settled after 2004 are not moving despite several notices. We have offered them to shift to a building nearby where six families can reside, but they demand permanent allotment for which JRDA alone can take a call.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/land-collapses-in-underground-fire-prone-area-of-jharia-woman-injured/articleshow/81261890.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 1, 2021||Business||Covid-hit tourism industry sees happy summer this time||Kolkata: With the Covid-19 situation having considerably improved across the country, the travel and tourism industry is pinning hopes on a happy summer. Domestic leisure travel, which has already touched 75% of its pre-covid business mark, would fetch more bookings year-on-year in the next two-three months as summer vacation begins, feel travel operators. Sanjiv Agarwal, chairman of Fairfest Media, said he is expecting “business as usual” this summer. He was talking on the sidelines of TTF, one of the oldest travel and tourism roadshows in eastern India which was inaugurated by Nandini Chakraborty, state principal secretary, tourism. Agarwal, who is the organiser of TTF, pointed out that the year 2021 has begun on a positive note for the travel and tourism industry. “With the vaccination drive underway, travellers seem to have gained confidence Air travel has exceeded 85% of its pre-covid levels. There is already a strong revival of demand for domestic leisure travel,” he stated. According to him, international travel may restart later in the year, while business travel within India has recovered almost half-way (50%) and is soon likely to reach the levels of previous year. Agarwal argued that as outbound travel from India has not started yet, high-end tourist traffic are opting for domestic locations. “Inbound loss was compensated by reduction in outbound traffic,” he added. This year’s TTF is the first major physical post-pandemic event for tourism in the region. Over 140 participants from 14 states participated in the fair. Some of the states include Rajasthan, Gujarat, J&K, Nagaland, UP along with others. West Bengal Tourism has joined as the ‘Host State’ of the show while Gujarat is the ‘Premium Partner State’. Uttarakhand and Rajasthan are ‘Partner States’. Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Nagaland, Tripura and Jharkhand have come onboard as ‘Feature States’, alongside key private players from DMCs, the hospitality sector, aviation and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-hit-tourism-industry-sees-happy-summer-this-time/articleshow/81263293.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Business||Cost accountants play big role in making India self-reliant: ICAI||Kolkata: A country can make itself self-reliant through cost-effectiveness and sustainable development, feels Biswarup Basu, president of the Institute of Cost Accountants of India (ICAI). Addressing the National Corporate Law Summit, he emphasized the contribution of the institute in economic growth of the country, the role and positive approach of the institute towards the ever-emerging corporate laws scenario. He believed that in order to make India self-reliant and cost-effective, the role of cost accountants is immense. “The institute, for around 76 years, has been continuously putting its efforts to make the country cost-effective. The members of the institute are the driving force in the team of management while in employment, and as cost auditors, internal auditors, and under other statutes/regulatory requirements, advisors and consultants in practice,” he added. Speaking on the occasion, CMA Ashish P Thatte, chairman (corporate laws committee), shared that February, 2021, is being celebrated as ‘Corporate Law Month’ and various efforts are being taken towards awareness of our members towards capacity building in this area of practice. The chief guest of the evening, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Union minister of state for parliamentary affairs and heavy industries & public enterprises, praised the institute for organising the National Corporate Laws Summit with the theme of ‘Corporate Excellence in Atmanirbhar Bharat’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cost-accountants-play-big-role-in-making-india-self-reliant-icai/articleshow/81263312.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||Government gives Rs 10k loans to 29,000 street vendors in a single day||NEW DELHI: At least 38,000 applications from street vendors were received across the country on Saturday even as highly subidised loans of Rs 10,000 each was disbursed to nearly 29,000 beneficiaries. The number of beneficiaries were the highest ever for a single day with the government launching a special drive to hold special weekly camps across districts and municipal areas to provide these loans to 30 lakh beneficiaries under the PM Street vendors Atmanirbhar (PM SVAnidhi) scheme by March end. “We had the first such camps on Saturday and two more will be held in March to sanction and disburse all pending applications. We are confident of achieving the target,” said an official. Till Sunday, 38.18 lakh street vendors had submitted their applications for the PM SVAnidhi scheme and loans for 21.77 lakh applicants were sanctioned. So far 16.16 lakh beneficiaries have got the loan amount.Union housing and urban affairs secretary D S Mishra had last week written to banks and all state governments to mobilise eligible street vendors and complete all for malities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-gives-rs-10k-loans-to-29000-street-vendors-in-a-single-day/articleshow/81264917.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Mumbai||Message links Jaish-ul-Hind to Ambani scare, denial follows||MUMBAI: Three days after an explosive-laden vehicle was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s bungalow on Carmichael Road in Mumbai, a message purportedly from the Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced on Sunday taking responsibility for the action and demanding transfer of funds from the Ambani family into their bitcoin account.  However, late in the evening, a denial was issued in the name of the same group denying their role in the case. The earlier message said, “We are the same “Akhlaq” you killed. We are people you massacred in the Delhi pogrom…” Akhlaq was apparently a reference to Mohammaed Akhlaq who was killed by a mob in Dadra in 2015 over the issue of cow slaughter. The denial said, “By this poster we want to clear that ‘Jaish-uI-Hind’ has no relation with the incident… The alleged telegram account and poster has no link with JaishuI-Hind, we condemn Indian intelligence agencies for morphing and making fake poster… We are fighting for shariyah not for money, we are fighting against secular democracy not Ambani.” Read AlsoExplosives left near Mukesh Ambani's residence: CCTV footage reveal route taken by vehicleNEW DELHI: More details have emerged about the modus operandi behind a vehicle with explosives being abandoned near businessman Mukesh Ambani's Mumbai house. Retrieving CCTV footage from various spots, police have been able to piece together the route taken by the vehicle. The vehicle was firstBoth messages were transmitted through the Telegram app. The name ‘Jaishul-Hind’ first surfaced following a blast near the Israel embassy in New Delhi in January this year. A message claiming responsibility was circulated on Telegram even then. A Maharashtra antiterror squad officer said that was the first time they heard the name of the outfit. Reacting to the claim, deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya said, “No comments. Mumbai police is investigating all angles.” Police said if there was any truth in it, there was a strong possibility of the National Investigation Agency taking over the probe. “We suspect that such claims are an afterthought. Terror organisations usually take responsibility for the attack in 24 hrs,” an official said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai crime branch is still trying to trace the Innova which was seen accompanying the vehicle carrying the gelatin sticks. Its location was the Kalyan-Bhiwandi Road. Crime branch units have fanned out and are questioning petrol pump owners, scanning CCTV footage of toll nakas to identify the drivers of the two vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/message-links-jaish-ul-hind-to-ambani-scare-denial-follows/articleshow/81265621.cms||S Ahmed Ali
March 1, 2021||India||Message links Jaish-ul-Hind to Ambani scare, denial follows||MUMBAI: Three days after an explosive-laden vehicle was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s bungalow on Carmichael Road in Mumbai, a message purportedly from the Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced on Sunday taking responsibility for the action and demanding transfer of funds from the Ambani family into their bitcoin account.  However, late in the evening, a denial was issued in the name of the same group denying their role in the case. The earlier message said, “We are the same “Akhlaq” you killed. We are people you massacred in the Delhi pogrom…” Akhlaq was apparently a reference to Mohammaed Akhlaq who was killed by a mob in Dadra in 2015 over the issue of cow slaughter. The denial said, “By this poster we want to clear that ‘Jaish-uI-Hind’ has no relation with the incident… The alleged telegram account and poster has no link with JaishuI-Hind, we condemn Indian intelligence agencies for morphing and making fake poster… We are fighting for shariyah not for money, we are fighting against secular democracy not Ambani.” Read AlsoExplosives left near Mukesh Ambani's residence: CCTV footage reveal route taken by vehicleNEW DELHI: More details have emerged about the modus operandi behind a vehicle with explosives being abandoned near businessman Mukesh Ambani's Mumbai house. Retrieving CCTV footage from various spots, police have been able to piece together the route taken by the vehicle. The vehicle was firstBoth messages were transmitted through the Telegram app. The name ‘Jaishul-Hind’ first surfaced following a blast near the Israel embassy in New Delhi in January this year. A message claiming responsibility was circulated on Telegram even then. A Maharashtra antiterror squad officer said that was the first time they heard the name of the outfit. Reacting to the claim, deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya said, “No comments. Mumbai police is investigating all angles.” Police said if there was any truth in it, there was a strong possibility of the National Investigation Agency taking over the probe. “We suspect that such claims are an afterthought. Terror organisations usually take responsibility for the attack in 24 hrs,” an official said. Meanwhile, the Mumbai crime branch is still trying to trace the Innova which was seen accompanying the vehicle carrying the gelatin sticks. Its location was the Kalyan-Bhiwandi Road. Crime branch units have fanned out and are questioning petrol pump owners, scanning CCTV footage of toll nakas to identify the drivers of the two vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/message-links-jaish-ul-hind-to-ambani-scare-denial-follows/articleshow/81264928.cms||S Ahmed Ali
March 1, 2021||Vadodara||Conman posing as finance executive siphons off money||Vadodara: A 50-year-old man working at a pharmaceutical wholesaler lost money in a cyber fraud. The complainant, Dhanji Rohit, who lives in Kapurai, told police that he received a call in July last year from the accused posing as an executive from a private finance company. The caller told Rohit that he got his number from the record as he had purchased a mobile phone on a consumer durable loan from the finance company. Rohit was told that the 1.5% interest that he had paid for the loan has to be credited back to his account. He shared his debit card details with the caller and also the one-time password (OTP) which he received as SMS. When Rohit told the caller that the money was not credited, the accused told him to share two more OTPs and assured Rohit that the money would be credited. Rohit went to the nearby ATM to check balance and realized that he had been conned when his account balance was reduced to Rs 468. The caller had siphoned off Rs 12,999 from Rohit’s account. Based on Rohit’s complaint, an offence of cheating was registered at Varnama police station on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/conman-posing-as-finance-executive-siphons-off-money/articleshow/81261651.cms||---
March 1, 2021||India||Western and Eastern Naval Commands get new chiefs||NEW DELHI: In two top-level military appointments, Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar took over as the new chief of the Western Naval Command at Mumbai on Sunday, while Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh will assume charge of the Eastern Naval Command at Vizag on Monday. Vice Admiral Kumar, who was commissioned into the Navy in January 1983 and has commanded the Western Fleet earlier, succeeded Vice Admiral Ajit Kumar on his superannuation on Sunday. Vice Admiral Singh, who was commissioned in July 1983 and has commanded the Eastern Fleet earlier, will replace Vice Admiral Atul Jain, who in turn will be the new chief of the integrated defence staff in New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/western-and-eastern-naval-commands-get-new-chiefs/articleshow/81264942.cms||---
March 1, 2021||Nagpur||Braving Covid, dentists at GDC treated over 12k in 2020||Nagpur: The Government Dental College (GDC) in city has served more than 8,500 patients in OPD, about 1,000 in casualty, and performed 2,800 surgeries in 2020 — during the Covid-19 time. This number matches the average of past several years, despite 2020 being a pandemic year. Dentists were at more risk of contracting Covid-19 as they have to work very close to the patients. Still, the GDC maintained the average apart from its students serving in Covid care centres and some of them collecting swab samples during Covid-19 peak in August September. “GDC is one of the leading dental hospitals in Central India and we have been receiving patients from four states for years. GDC Nagpur is the only government college in Maharashtra where corrective jaw surgery is done,” said Dr Abhay Datarkar, HoD of oral and maxillofacial surgery at GDC. In the year 2020, total 8,635 patients visited the OPD of the GDC which is on an average equal to the total OPD footfall in the last two years. While less patients visited in April (151) and May (318), footfall came back to normal in June (1,105), and July (1,047). During the peak of the Covid-19 in August (178), and September (314), the number of OPD visits reduced again, but it bounced back as soon as the Covid-19 situation came under control in November (1,195) and December (1,905). According to earlier statistics, average footfall to the GDC’s OPD is around 9,000 yearly. Dr Mangesh Fadnaik, dean of the GDC, said jaw correction or orthognathic surgery is a highly specialized procedure done with the help of orthodontists and maxillofacial surgeons. “This surgery which costs over Rs4 lakh in private set-up is done for just Rs2,200 in the GDC. It’s a 2-3 hour-long surgery and later it takes 2 years to ensure complete set-up of the jaw,” he said. Dentists doing private practice in Nagpur said the number of patients reduced during Covid-19 lockdown, but now the footfall is increasing. “Clinics were closed and regular appointments were postponed during the lockdown. Dental treatments were made available in phased manner post lockdown in private sector. In such situation, GDC was preferred option which eventually maintained the average in OPDs and surgeries,” said Dr Anvita Patel, a dentist. Dentists On Duty: GDC Stats In 2020982 | Casualty patients include fracture of jaws, soft tissue injuries, facial space infections, and emergency dental extraction 171 | Supra major surgeries including pan-facial trauma, oral pathologies, oral precancerous cancer, rhinoplasty, cleft surgery, distraction etc 2,767 | Minor surgeries including extractions, oral surgical procedures, dental implants, cyst and tumours, oral biopsy, wisdom tooth surgery 8,635 | Patients visited OPD of GDC — highest 1,905 in December, lowest 151 in April 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/braving-covid-dentists-at-gdc-treated-over-12k-in-2020/articleshow/81275643.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
