March 2, 2021||Business||IGL raise CNG price by 70 paise/kg, PNG by 91 paise||NEW DELHI: Indraprastha Gas Ltd on Monday raised price of CNG (compressed natural gas) by 70 paise per kg and PNG (piped natural gas) by 91 paise per unit (scm), marking one of the steepest hikes in recent times that is bound to make taxi and bus operators clamour for higher fares and put additional burden on households. CNG would now cost Rs 43.40 per kg in Delhi and Rs 49.08 in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. PNG will cost Rs 28.41 per unit in Delhi and Rs 28.36 in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. The revised CNG price in Rewari would be Rs 54.10 per kg and Rs 51.38 per kg in Karnal and Kaithal. In Kanpur, Hamirpur and Fatehpur, the revised CNG price would be Rs 60.50 per kg, while in Muzzafarnagar and Shamli the fuel would cost Rs 57.25 per kg. The revised price of PNG in Rewari and Karnal would be Rs 28.46 per unit. The price in Muzzafarnagar, Shamli and Meerut would be Rs 32.67 per unit. An IGL statement said the increase was required to cover higher input costs and additional spendings incurred to ensure uninterrupted supply throughout the pandemic, particularly during the lockdown. The impact of the revision in CNG prices would be marginal, IGL said, adding for autos it would translate into an increase of "just over" 2 paisa per km and for taxi 4 paisa per km. Even at revised prices, CNG would offer 65% savings towards the running cost when compared to current petrol prices and 46% for diesel. Watch IGL raises CNG price by 70 paise/kg, PNG by 91 paise||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/igl-raise-cng-price-by-70-paise/kg-png-by-91-paise/articleshow/81280130.cms||Sanjay Dutta
March 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Alert guard helps nab burglars; lauded by police commissioner||BENGALURU: Prompt action by a 46-year-old security guard helped police catch two burglars with the cash they had stolen from a shop in the city recently. C Narayanaswamy, 46, of Cottonpet, was on regular night vigil at a private watch showroom in AM Lane, Chickpet on February 7. Around 3am, Narayanaswamy heard the sound of a door being broken and shutters being lifted. The sound was coming from the adjacent lane. “I realised burglars had struck. Slowly, I walked in the direction from where the sound was coming. As I had suspected, the shutters of a cloth shop had been broken and burglars were inside,” Narayanaswamy told TOI. “I rolled down the shutter and tied it to the ground, leaving a small gap. From the gap, I saw two men inside the shop and they too spotted me. Breaking the ventilator, they jumped out and ran in different directions,” he said. Narayanaswamy, meanwhile, alerted police control room by dialling 100. “In no time, one Hoysala patrol vehicle arrived. I ran behind one person, who went to the top of a building, while police chased another suspect. As I watched, the man jumped from the first floor of the building. I ran and caught him. I realised that he had fractured his leg. By then, police managed to grab the other suspect too. From his pocket, they recovered Rs 4 lakh that they had stolen,” added Narayanaswamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/alert-guard-helps-nab-burglars-lauded-by-police-commissioner/articleshow/81280139.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
March 2, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka SSLC exams to be held from June 21-July 5||DHARWAD: The SSLC exams for the academic year 2020-21 will be held from June 21 to July 5. Announcing the timetable here on Monday, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said the latest timetable supersedes the tentative one issued on January 27. The government released the final timetable after inviting objections to the tentative one by February 26 (one month to air objections). He said care has been taken to ensure that students will get at least a day’s gap between the exams of core subjects. “This time, the exam will be different from the previous ones as the syllabus had to be shrunk due to the lockdown and the closure of schools till January,” he said. The syllabus has been shrunk in such a way that the students do not feel the pressure of the exam. To conduct the exam and improve the passing percentage, a workshop for headmasters will be held in each district, and best practices will be adopted, the minister said. On reopening of schools for classes 1 to 5, the minister said that if everything had gone right, primary schools should have started on Monday. But considering that there is a surge in Covid-19 positive cases in six states, including Karnataka, the department has decided to take a final call in the next seven days, after consultation with the health department, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sslc-exams-to-be-held-from-june-21-july-5/articleshow/81289254.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Wife, son hire gang for Rs 4.5 lakh to kill businessman in Bengaluru; held||BENGALURU: The mystery behind the death of a businessman was cracked within two days of Rajagopalnagar police receiving an anonymous letter hinting that he could have been murdered. Police said Mohammed Hanjala, 52, a resident of Hegganahalli and owner of a footwear manufacturing unit in Peenya industrial area, was murdered by three contract killers hired by his wife Sarvari Begum, 42, and son Shafi-Ur Rehman, 20. The duo had given supari to Aftab, 21, of Thanisandra, Mohammed Saif, 20, of Hegganahalli and Syed Avez Pasha, 23, of Peenya 2nd Stage. Police have seized three mobile phones and Rs 98,000 from them. Begum and Rehman told police that domestic disputes, Hanjala’s habit of casting aspersions on his wife’s character and also his suspicious behaviour with his daughters prompted them to eliminate him. Begum got Rehman to contact the killers. Police said Hanjala’s friends, relatives and neighbours were informed that he had died of cardiac arrest on February 10. All of them believed it and his final rites were conducted at Tigalarapalya cemetery the same day. Upon receiving an anonymous letter on Saturday, a team headed by sub-inspector Basalingappa rushed to Hegganahalli. Probe revealed that Begum and Rehman had hired three persons to kill Hanjala and paid them Rs 4.5 lakh. The gang planned to kill Hanjala without resorting to violence. He was served dinner mixed with six sleeping pills on the night of February 9. The gang smothered him to death with a pillow at 3.30am on February 10. Three suspects were arrested on Sunday and two on Monday. All the five have confessed to their crime and have been charged with criminal conspiracy, murder and destroying evidence. Police said they would exhume Hanjala’s body soon for further investigation. Aftab has an attempt-to-murder case registered with Rajagopalanagar police and mobile theft cases reported in Tumakuru. Others are first-time offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wife-son-hire-gang-for-4-5l-to-kill-bizman-held/articleshow/81280172.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Safety norms: Karnataka govt told to consider private schools’ plea||BENGALURU: The state government has to consider the representation made by private school managements regarding infrastructure as well fire safety norms, based on the directions issued by the Supreme Court and the high court. Justice R Devdas passed this order while disposing of a petition filed by Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) and others. The petitioners had approached the court against the November 10, 2020 circular which required them to leave one-third space in front of respective school buildings and also install 10,000-litre overhead tank with heavy duty pumping facility. In their representation submitted on December 1, 2020, KAMS had expressed difficulty, citing financial losses owing to Covid-19 pandemic and also inability to pay salaries to both teaching and non-teaching staff. Thereafter, the association moved the high court, seeking a direction to consider their plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/safety-norms-govt-told-to-consider-pvt-schools-plea/articleshow/81280177.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Farmers likely to get budget bonanza despite fund crunch||BENGALURU: The agriculture sector is likely to get a substantial share of allocation notwithstanding the revenue crunch as chief minister BS Yediyurappa has promised a pro-framer budget that he’s set to present next Monday. In line with the Union budget that is focused on building agriculture market infrastructure, Yediyurappa is likely to propose setting up of new farmer producer organisations across the state. A new scheme of giving diesel subsidy to farmers in the wake of rising fuel prices is also on the cards. Agriculture minister BC Patil has reportedly requested Yediyurappa to introduce the scheme to grant a subsidy of Rs 25 per litre (up to 25 litres of diesel) to ryots who own up to 10 acres of farm land. Farmers can utilise the subsidised diesel for either irrigation pump sets or tractors, and a budgetary allocation of Rs 1,300 crore is expected for the scheme. “We have proposed certain schemes which are imperative for growth of the agriculture sector. The chief minister has expressed revenue constraints, but we hope the most important schemes we have proposed will be announced in the budget,” said Patil. He said the chief minister has promised to continue the state’s contribution to the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, minimum income guarantee scheme for farmers. While the Centre gives Rs 6,000 to all farmers with land holding of up to two hectares, the state gives Rs 4,000. Another significant announcement expected is increase in reservation for children of farmers in agriculture universities from 40% to 50%. Yediyurappa had cut the allocation to the agriculture sector from Rs 21,805 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 16,472 crore in the current financial year. However, the trend is expected to be reversed and it may see a hike in the allocation by about 10%. Experts said the allocation to agriculture is expected to be increased for multiple reasons, including the Centre’s enhanced investment in the sector. RS Deshpande, agriculture economist and former director of Institute for Social and Economic Change, pointed out the Centre granted Rs 5,000 crore to the corpus fund of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development in addition to the existing Rs 5,000 crore. The corpus fund is to encourage micro and drip irrigation in states and Deshpande said Karnataka is expected to benefit substantially from the scheme. “Allocation to the agriculture sector is most likely to be higher than that of the present year, though we are not sure about the likelihood of it reaching the 2019-20 level,” said Deshpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/farmers-likely-to-get-budget-bonanza-despite-fund-crunch/articleshow/81280081.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
March 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Congress brass asks DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah to mend rift||BENGALURU: The Congress leadership has reportedly asked KPCC president DK Shivakumar and opposition leader Siddaramaiah to stop squabbling as their fight for supremacy in the party threatens to dent its poll prospects in the 2023 assembly elections. Alarmed by the face-off, some senior party functionaries had sought the leadership’s intervention. Siddaramaiah was in New Delhi on Sunday to attend the wedding of AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala’s son. Some central leaders reportedly held talks with him, asking him to sort out the issue in the party’s interest. The Congress high command has reportedly taken serious note of the fight between Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar over Mysuru mayoral polls and Youth Congress elections. In both cases, minorities, who form the party’s vote base, were given a raw deal. Former minister and MLA Tanveer Sait and his supporters are sulking after he was served a showcause notice, reportedly at the behest of Siddaramaiah, for holding talks with JD(S) over the mayoral polls. Siddaramaiah wanted Congress to be neutral after JD(S) refused to give the mayor’s post as per the agreement. But Sait went ahead and held talks with former CM HD Kumaraswamy to strike a deal. Sait was summoned by Shivakumar to Bengaluru to give an explanation and is likely to meet him on Tuesday, sources said. Sait met party working president Saleem Ahmed on Monday. Shivakumar is reportedly waiting for the report from KPCC working president R Dhruvanarayana, an observer of Mysuru mayoral polls, which is expected to be submitted on Tuesday before the meeting with Sait. Earlier, Siddaramaiah’s camp openly supported Raksha Ramaiah against Mohammad Nalapad in the Youth Congress polls and saw Raksha declared the winner despite Nalapad bagging the highest number of votes. He was disqualified, thanks to a pending case against him. This apart, senior functionary CM Ibrahim has already hinted at quitting Congress to join JD(S). In 2019, former minister R Roshan Baig left the party after he was ignored by the cabinet. These incidents, the party leadership fears, may help JD(S) woo back the minorities and give way to division of votes. “Our leaders in Karnataka know well that JD(S), which is looking to split minority votes and help BJP, will take advantage of the supremacy tussle. We have warned both leaders to be careful and not to give scope to such a possibility in future,” said a Congress leader from New Delhi, who held talks with Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah. The JD(S) brass which is looking to revive the party ahead of 2023 polls is making efforts to take advantage of the infighting in Congress. “Minorities have got to know that Congress has betrayed them after getting their support. Next time, they will back JD(S),” said Kumaraswamy. “If Congress dismisses Sait over the rift after the mayoral poll, JD(S) is ready to welcome him,” said MLA Sa Ra Mahesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cong-brass-asks-dks-andsiddaramaiah-to-mend-rift/articleshow/81280088.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
March 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka tweaking aero policy with focus on space||BENGALURU: The state government has begun the process of revising its aerospace and defence policy with an enhanced focus on the space sector, opening up of which was initiated by the Centre through a series of reforms beginning June 2020. “We already have nearly 20 policies that cater to a variety of industries and are now in the process of revising our aerospace policy, which came out in 2013. Any specific requests or demands from the space industry will be addressed through this as we look to boost emerging hi-tech sectors like aerospace, space and biotechnology,” said industries secretary Gaurav Gupta. As per the industries department, the revised policy will look to create an ecosystem that will allow aerospace manufacturing, research and development and space sectors to work together. Fresh incentives and other benefits will be designed based on industry interactions. Industries commissioner Gunjan Krishna said: “Karnataka is in tune with the reforms initiated by the Centre. From Isro to a host of space tech startups, our state has been in the forefront in this sector and we will continue to leverage that and provide an enhanced framework that will enable ease of business. Space will be an integral part of the new aerospace policy.” While Karnataka’s amended aerospace and defence policy will have increased scope for the space sector, Telangana has already begun drafting a dedicated space policy, which is likely to be the first such policy in the country. A presentation by Jayesh Rajan, principal secretary, IT, electronics and communications, Telangana, reviewed by TOI, shows the policy focuses on making Telangana “the manufacturing and R&D hub for space-related products and technologies, and a testbed for remote-sensing applications”. To achieve this, the state has planned multiple initiatives under four broad focus areas: Infrastructure and material access, skill development, market access and promotion of R&D and innovation. Gunjan, while stating that it was too early to spell out what specific initiative will be included in the new policy to encourage space activity, said: “The new policy will be announced in the budget...It will address all current challenges faced by the industry. We’ll subsume space, defence, aerospace and R&D in one policy.” She said tailor-made incentives will be part of the policy and there will be more clarity once consultations with industries begin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-tweaking-aero-policy-with-focus-on-space/articleshow/81280091.cms||Chethan Kumar
March 2, 2021||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Bride suffers heart attack hours after wedding, dies||MANGALURU: A celebratory atmosphere turned into mourning in Adyar after a newly wed woman died following a massive heart attack hours after the wedding. Laila Afiya, 23, daughter of Abdul Kareem, president of Beerpugudde Jamaath, passed away around 2.45am on Monday. On Sunday afternoon, Laila, who studied till class 12, got married to Mubarak, a wholesale fruit vendor, at Adyar in a plush ceremony. Laila’s elder brother too got married in the same ceremony, which was attended by hundreds of guests. Laila hails from Adyar Beerpugudde and the groom is from Adyar Karmar. The marriage rituals had taken place at the Adyar mosque. Jabbar Karmar, the groom’s brother, said his family, including groom Mubarak, had gathered at Laila’s house for the post-wedding rituals and a get-together. A newly wed Laila was enjoying her share of attention from guests. Around 2.45am, she complained of chest pain and collapsed on the ground. Her father and others rushed to get a vehicle to shift her to a nearby hospital. “She died instantly. The body was later taken to hospital where doctors confirmed she died of heart attack,’’ he added. Laila was buried at Beerpugudde mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bride-suffers-heart-attack-hours-after-wedding-dies/articleshow/81280098.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: Tiger safari coming soon at Belagavi zoo||BELAGAVI: Visitors to Rani Chennamma Mini Zoo will soon get to enjoy tiger safari. The zoo, after having received three lions recently, is all set to welcome two tigers. Unlike lions, which will be displayed in a glass enclosure, tigers will walk freely on the sprawling 20 hectares of land dedicated for the safari. The zoo authorities have readied the safari zone as part of a larger plan of improving the zoo located at Bhutramanahatti off Bengaluru-Pune national highway. DCF M V Amarnath told TOI that the tigers are expected in about 10 days, and they would be sourced from other zoos and after the Central Zoo Authority grants permission for the same. Like visitors, even the zoo staff are excited to experience the safari. RFO Rakesh, who is managing the zoo, said the feeding area for tigers is set up at the safari site itself. A path has been laid for the safari, and the visitors will be taken through that in a bus, which moves slowly so those onboard can get a glimpse of the tigers. ‘Safety measures to be taken’Rakesh said safety measures will be in place. “Visitors are not allowed to get down from the bus, or put their hands outside, shout, scream or wave at the big cats,” he said. The officer said the zoo is also expecting other animals like hyena, jackal and leopard by March-end. Sources said that the zoo authorities have spent nearly Rs 50 crore to build enclosures, develop the safari site and other facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/tiger-safari-coming-soon-at-belagavi-zoo/articleshow/81280103.cms||Shreyas HS
March 2, 2021||Mysuru||Farmers abandon male calves near forest in Karnataka||MANDYA: The anti-cow-slaughter law has created a headache for the farming community as farmers have started to abandon male calves in the forest near Sri Gavi Ranganatha Swamy temple in KR Pete. Farmers consider male calves an economic burden and are urging the government to develop prenatal gender testing for cows so that they may selectively abort the male calves as they cannot afford to rear them due to various reasons. Farmers say they cannot derive any profit from male calves. The male calves could be seen on the forest fringes where leopards prowl. Nagaraju, a farmer in Billenahalli said, “Only male calves of indigenous buffalo are used for ploughing and carting purposes. Those of hybrid breeds such as Jersey and Holstein Friesian (HF) cannot be used for any farming activities. How can we afford expenses of rearing calves which are not beneficial to us? Though it is heart- wrenching for us to leave the calves near the forest and at the mercy of nature, including prowling leopards, we don’t have any choice.” Another farmer Ramanna urged the state government to develop prenatal gender testing for cows so that farmers may selectively abort male calves. Meanwhile, forest officers are afraid that the male calves of hybrid breeds may pose a serious threat to the ecological balance in the forest. The presence of calves will surely attract leopards and their numbers will grow on the fringe areas of the forest. “If the calves are easily available for leopards and they start to prey on them, then a horrific situation is waiting to happen. The leopards may make it a habit to attack livestock,” a forest officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-abandon-male-calves-near-forest/articleshow/81280101.cms||---
March 2, 2021||India||Scorpene submarine Karanj to be commissioned into Indian Navy on March 10||MUMBAI: The Indian Navy on Monday announced that the third indigenously-built Scorpene-class submarine Karanj will be commissioned on March 10 after she completed sea trials for almost two years after it was launched at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited (“MDL”) on January 31, 2018. It was handed over to the Indian Navy on February 15. The submarine is the third out of the six submarines that will add teeth to the Indian Navy. Initially, the submarine was supposed to be commissioned into the Indian Navy by mid-2019 but got delayed. The construction of the submarine began 10 years and five months ago and finally it will be inducted into the Navy. The pressure hull fabrication of the submarine began in October 2010. The pressure hull is the primary structural element of the submarine and is designed to be able to withstand external hydrostatic pressure. It is designed for a particular collapse depth, at which complete failure is expected within a very narrow range. The collapse depth is calculated by multiplying the maximum operable depth (MOD) or service depth with a factor of safety. The hydrostatic pressure at this depth is considered as the design pressure for all the pressure hull calculations. A defence spokesperson told TOI, "Submarine Karanj is going to get commissioned on March 10 after she completed rigorous sea and harbour tests and is fitted with all the armament. The time taken for constructing the sub-sections of the third submarine was lesser than that has been taken in the previous two submarines—INS Kalvari and INS Khanderi." INS Kalvari, the first Scorpene-class submarine was commissioned into the Indian Navy, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 14, 2017. INS Khanderi, the second Scorpene class submarine was launched at MDL in January 2017 and commissioned into the navy on September 28, 2019. The fourth submarine Vela was launched on May 6, 2019, and commenced her sea trials. While the fifth submarine Vagir was launched November 12, 2020, and has commenced her harbour sea trials whilst the sixth submarine Vagsheer is presently in the advanced stage of outfitting. "The Scorpene project would not have achieved the current progress without the unconditional support and active encouragement of the department of defence production (MoD) throughout its various phases," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scorpene-submarine-karanj-to-be-commissioned-into-indian-navy-on-march-10/articleshow/81280402.cms||V Narayan
March 2, 2021||India||Less than 3y space between two births doubles the risk stunting for the second-born: Cornell study on India||NEW DELHI: Data from the National Health Family Survey-5, indicates that 32% of the children below five are stunted in India. While malnutrition is the number one cause for stunting, a new study by Cornell University suggests that increasing the space between two live births can reduce the risk of stunting. Empirical studies have found mostly that second or higher-order children often lag behind firstborns in height outcomes, especially in developing countries. However, empirical investigations of birth-order effects on child height overlook the potential impact that birth spacing can have. The study – Effects of short birth spacing on birth-order differences in child stunting: Evidence from India – demonstrates that the negative association between increasing birth order and child height is driven by the short length of interval between births. Researchers link height-for-age standardized scores (HAZ) of children under five years, recorded in the latest Indian Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) to an indicator of birth order, disaggregated by the length of preceding birth spacing (PBS). “We find that the firstborn height advantage is significant if birth spacing between the higher-order child and its immediate elder sibling is less than three years, and this advantage gets steeper with increasing order of birth,” the researchers note in the study. The height gap between third-born and the firstborn is four times the gap between second-born and firstborn. However, it was observed that if the birth spacing between the higher birth-order child and its immediate elder sibling is three or more years, the firstborn height advantage disappears and becomes insignificant. For example, the average HAZ deficit for second-born, relative to firstborn, is 0.1, without adjusting for preceding birth space. After adjusting for spacing length, the deficit more than doubles for second-born with birthing space less than three years. Although India’s family planning programme has always promoted the message of keeping a gap of 3 years between two children, the study noted that about 85% of the women aged 15 to 19 years and 60% of the women aged 20 to 29 years have birth spacing of less than 32 months. A World Bank study found that a 1% loss in adult height due to childhood stunting is associated with 1.4% loss in economic productivity. It is estimated that stunted children earn 20% less as adults. Furthermore, if stunting is accompanied by excessive weight gain later in childhood, there is an increased risk of developing adult obesity and nutrition-related chronic diseases, including cardiovascular disease, stroke, and type 2 diabetes in adult life. Stunted girls carry additional risk of having adverse pregnancy outcomes and reproductive complications as adults, leading to detrimental intergenerational effects. “The causes of inadequate nutrition can be complex, encompassing biological, economic, social and political issues. The findings on birth spacing highlights the missing link in the literature in explaining slow improvement in child height outcomes in India. It assesses how the effects of birth order changes when spacing is accounted for. The results are quite interesting and produce an important public awareness message,” said Prabhu L Pingali, professor of applied economics and director Tata-Cornell Institute, and co-author of the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/less-than-3y-space-between-two-births-doubles-the-risk-stunting-for-the-second-born-cornell-study-on-india/articleshow/81280574.cms||Shobita Dhar
March 2, 2021||India||Ahmedabad-Vadodara section of NH-48 rated best NH in first ever ranking carried out by NHAI||NEW DELHI: Ahmedabad-Vadodara section of NH-48 is the best rated national highway in the country followed by the corridor from Goa/Karnataka border to Kundapur in Karnataka. In the first ever ranking of NH stretches carried out by the NHAI where toll is being collected, 31 out of 219 such stretches have scored more than 80 marks on a scale of 0 to 100. The scores of all these stretches with a cumulative length of nearly 19,000 km were released by Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday. NHAI officials said this was a move to make the key highway construction authority "accountable" to the users who pay for using the NH stretches. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 had asked the highway ministry to rank NH stretches on quality and safety parameters. While Delhi-Meerut Expressway ranked at 35, the access controlled Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway is at 103. The 63.5 km NH stretch from Delhi/ Haryana border to Rohtak has received the second lowest score. "We will carry out this mechanism of giving scores to all completed highway stretches in every six month. This will put pressure on highway builders, concessionaires and also our own officers to take corrective measures," said NHAI chairman SS Sandhu. The NHAI has included the completed highway and expressway stretches that are of four or six lanes. and the scoring was done based on 39 parameters broadly categorised into three main criteria - highway efficiency (45 marks), highway safety (35 marks) and user services (20 marks) evaluated on a total score of 100 marks. "This entire work has been done by NHAI itself without appointing a consultant. This has been done with the intention to improve the quality of public services. We will cover all the completed stretches under NHAI in the following phases," said a source. Officials also admitted that there is a need to involve a third party or road users to give the score for different stretches. "This is possible through a good app," one of them said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahmedabad-vadodara-section-of-nh-48-rated-best-nh-in-first-ever-ranking-carried-out-by-nhai/articleshow/81280584.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 2, 2021||India||NIA arrests four in Handwara narco-terrorism case||SRINAGAR: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested four suspected drug traffickers from Srinagar over their alleged involvement in the Handwara narco-terrorism case, in which 21kg heroin and over Rs 1 crore cash were seized last year from members of a drug syndicate operating in J&K. Two more accused are yet to be arrested. “Investigation revealed they were involved in cross-border smuggling of heroin in huge quantities from Pakistan and were supplying the drug in J&K and other parts of India. Proceeds of the sale were used to fund terror activities of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in Kashmir Valley. The accused also communicated regularly with LeT and Hizbul Mujahideen operatives using encrypted chat platforms,” an official said. The arrested were identified as Altaf Ahmed from Ganderbal, Showkat Ahmad Parray from Bandipora, Mudasir Ahmad Dar from Shopian and Amin Allaie alias Hilal Mir from Anantnag, an NIA spokesperson said in a statement. “The four were produced before the court of the chief judicial magistrate, Srinagar, and put on transit remand for three days,” the spokesperson added. “Handwara Police initially registered a case in June last year after seizing Rs 20 lakh along with 2kg heroin were from the SUV of one Abdul Momin Peer during a routine check of vehicles at Handwara’s Kairo Bridge,” the NIA spokesperson said. Later that month, the agency took over the case and filed a chargesheet at a special NIA court in Jammu last December against six accused including Peer, four of whom were arrested on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-arrests-four-in-handwara-narco-terrorism-case/articleshow/81280649.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 2, 2021||India||Srinagar to have Metro rly soon: LG Sinha||SRINAGAR: Srinagar city will soon have Metro train services as part of the administration’s smart city project, J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said on Monday. After the administrative council’s nod, the proposal for the project has been sent to the Centre for approval, he said, adding, “I hope the Centre would approve it at the earliest.” Beautification work for the twin smart cities of Jammu and Srinagar is already underway, and spaces for numerous other projects are being identified, Sinha told reporters on the sidelines of an official function in Srinagar. The administration has come up with a parking slot for 315 vehicles here and space will be increased in the coming days to accommodate more vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/srinagar-to-have-metro-rly-soon-lg-sinha/articleshow/81280700.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 2, 2021||India||Cattle smugglers modify means to hoodwink cops||JAMMU: From using modified luxury SUVs to customized water tankers, cattle smugglers in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir are getting innovative by devising new ways to deceive police while transporting bovines. On Monday, Kathua Police foiled a bovine smuggling bid and rescued nine animals cramped inside a water tanker specially modified to aid the illegal activity. On Sunday night, Samba Police had foiled another such bid and rescued 16 animals. Police claimed that bovine smuggling has been on the rise in the area for the last few years, and over 100 FIRs were registered in the past year alone just at the entry point of the Union Territory. Kathua SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra said that smugglers have been using several means and innovating new modus operandi to hoodwink police as there is a sharp gap in demand and supply. “There are instances of attempts to smuggle bovines in private vehicles and now in a modified water tanker,” SSP Mishra said, adding that while this was the first instance of bovine smuggling in a modified water tanker, earlier, alert cops had seized a Mahindra Scorpio carrying three bovines in the rear part of the vehicle. About the latest smuggling bid, the SSP said, “A police team intercepted the water tanker, following which the driver stopped the vehicle far behind the checkpoint and fled. While checking the tanker, nine bovines were found inside.” On Sunday night, a team of Samba Police acted on intelligence inputs about the smuggling of animals to Kashmir and intercepted a truck at Rakh Amb-Tali area. The driver took advantage of the darkness and managed to flee while cops, on checking the vehicle, found 16 bovines inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cattle-smugglers-modify-means-to-hoodwink-cops/articleshow/81280768.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
March 2, 2021||Goa||Churchill open four-point lead on top with win against Kerala||Goalkeeper Shilton Paul’s penalty save proved to be crucial in Churchill Brothers FC’s 3-2 win over 10-man Gokulam Kerala FC at the Kishore Bharati Krirangan in Kolkata on Monday. Luka Majcen put Churchill ahead and soon Kerala were down to 10 men after Vincy Barretto received a direct red card. Churchill coach Fernando Varela made only one change from their 1-0 win over Neroca. The Spaniard opted to field goalkeeper Shilton instead of Shibin Raj Kunniyil. It worked as the experienced goalkeeper denied Philip Adjah from the spot that could give Kerala the equaliser before the break. Kingslee Fernandes doubled Churchill’s lead in the second half but Adjah pulled a goal back in the 80th minute, only for Luka to convert a penalty. Kerala substitute Jithin MS’s added-time strike gave them hope but it was too late. Churchill remained unbeaten in the first phase of I-League. They have 22 points and stretched their lead at the top of the table to four points. Kerala are fifth with 16 points. In the second phase, the top six teams will play each other once with the points from the first phase being carried forward. The team that finishes on top will be champions. Kerala coach Vincenzo Annese had stressed on the importance of scoring first against a side like Churchill. Adjah came close early, but his initial shot was blocked by Vikas Saini and then Shilton made a close save from the follow up. At the other end, Clayvin Zuniga tested goalkeeper Ubaid CK. Churchill pressed high and did not allow Kerala to dictate terms. They attacked in numbers and even when they lost the ball, recovered quickly. Four minutes before the half an hour mark, Bryce Miranda picked up a long ball from Vinil Poojary and laid it in the path of Luka for an easy tap in. Kerala fight back received a blow in the 30th minute when they were reduced to 10 men. It was right winger Vincy who came up with a reckless challenge on Mamit Vanlalduatsanga and was sent off. As the match progressed, Adjah should have done better after Shilton misjudged his clearance. But the Ghanaian striker’s shot was blocked by Mamit. Just before the break, Kerala were handed a lifeline after Saini brought down Denny Antwi in the box. Adjah confidently stepped up, but shot straight into Shilton as Churchill heaved a sigh of relief. Churchill knew they had to double their advantage in the second half and needed a little bit of luck in the 53rd minute. Kingslee looked to send a cross for Clayvin, but it deflected off Kerala captain Deepak Devrani and gave no chance to the goalkeeper. Just after the hour mark, Clayvin was unlucky as his powerful shot hit the horizontal bar. Kerala did pull a goal back with 10 minutes to go after Adjah finished neatly. But there was still drama left with Clayvin winning a penalty in the 83rd minute. Luka’s spot kick was blocked by Ubaid, but the referee asked for a retake after finding the Kerala keeper come out of his line. However, the Slovenian didn’t make a mistake on his second attempt. Churchill were complacent and allowed Jithin to score in added time. But that didn’t matter in the end as they sat comfortably at the top.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-open-four-point-lead-on-top-with-win-against-kerala/articleshow/81280862.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
March 2, 2021||World||UK court rejects KZF member Kuldeep Singh’s extradition to India||LONDON: The Westminster Magistrates’ Court has turned down India’s request to extradite alleged Sikh terrorist and member of the banned terrorist outfit Khalistan Zindabad Force, Kuldeep Singh aka Keepa Singh, presently residing in Britain. He is charged in India with plotting assassinations in Punjab including that of former chief minister Prakash Singh Badal and his deputy Sukhbir Singh Badal, raising funds for and recruiting people to commit terrorist offences, organising meetings to plot assassinations in a gurudwara and arranging arms and ammunition for terrorist offences. District judge Gareth Branston rejected the extradition request on the basis that, if convicted, Singh would face life imprisonment until death without any chance of early release, which is against his human rights, and also because much of the evidence was in his view “inadmissible”. “Whilst clearly very serious allegations, there is no evidence that anyone was actually killed as a result of his alleged activities,” Branston ruled. The allegations against Singh, 44, are that between 2015 and August 2016 he entered into a conspiracy to murder named individuals and carry out serial bomb attacks in the Punjab region and that he was directing these activities from the UK via the internet and WhatsApp. According to the judgment, the conspiracy included a plot to assassinate “the Gagneja chief of RSS”, which was hatched with “chiefs of IS in Lahore”, as well as to murder Manjinder Singh Sirsa (member of Delhi Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee), RSS activists, a person who had a kerosene oil depot in Patiala, and a person called Gurmeet Singh. Singh was arrested on October 15, 2019 at Loughborough Immigration Reporting Centre on an extradition arrest warrant. The court was told that Singh took instructions from KZF head Ranjit Singh Neeta, who is living in Pakistan, and his Belgium-resident associate. It also heard that he had arranged for arms and ammunition to be delivered to individuals involved in the conspiracy as well as directed for funds to be paid to them. The plot also included plans to assassinate Prakash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal and other eminent and political leaders of the state, to revive the Khalistan movement and carry out serial bomb blasts. The court heard that Singh played a significant role in the conspiracy and the activities were being financed by individuals in foreign countries and that he and his co-accused were seeking to recruit youths into the banned outfit. The court heard that on one occasion Singh directed Khalistani activists to meet at a gurudwara in Vaironangal village where they were instructed to kill MLA Bikramjit Singh Majithia, then a cabinet minister in the Punjab government, as well as Sukhbir Singh Badal. Dr. V. Suresh, an advocate of Madras High Court, appeared as an expert witness and said that if convicted in India, Singh would likely be sentenced to life imprisonment and that it “means imprisonment until natural death in India”. Branston said this put Singh “at real risk of a sentence which would be in contravention of Article 3 (of the European Convention on Human Rights)” and “would plainly be grossly disproportionate to the offending alleged.” In addition, he found the evidence of two co-accused Gurpal Singh and Major Singh inadmissible as they were “reports/summaries of out-of-court accusations made by co-accused against this requested person” which were unsigned and not given on oath. “There is insufficient material remaining to find a prima facie case,” he ruled. A spokesperson for the Crown Prosecution Service, which is representing the Indian government, said, “We have appealed the decision to discharge Mr. Singh. We haven’t had the permission decision yet.” Indian advocates submit evidenceArjun Sheoran, an advocate of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, and Dr. V. Suresh, advocate of the Madras High Court, submitted evidence on the condition of Indian jails at the extradition hearing. The court heard that Singh would most likely be held on remand in the Central Jail at Amritsar and in the maximum security jail in Nabha, if convicted. Sheoran told the court that condition of the jails in Punjab were “deplorable” and described the assurance from the Government of India about Singh’s likely prison conditions as “misleading and wrong” and not in accordance with the Punjab Jail Manual. Dr. Suresh gave evidence that all prisons in Punjab are in excess of capacity with high levels of inter-prisoner violence and high rates of custodial death and said that he was “sceptical” the prisons would match the GOI assurances. He also said if a life sentence was imposed, it would mean an irreducible sentence because the conviction would be under anti-terror law and such convicts are in practice not considered for remission by either the state or the central government. The judge rejected the assertions about the conditions in Punjab prison as “speculative” and said the assurances provided by the Government of India were sufficient. But the irreducible life sentence became one of the main reasons the extradition was turned down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-court-rejects-kzf-member-kuldeep-singhs-extradition-to-india/articleshow/81280878.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 2, 2021||India||Hindi lands on Mars, thanks to Perseverance||MUMBAI: Hindi has touched down on Mars thanks to Perseverance, which landed on the Red Planet on February 18/19. This is in addition to the 12 desis who are part of the mission, giving the groundbreaking project an added Indian zing. According to the US-based Planetary Society, on the outer edge of an instrument known as the calibration target aboard Perseverance, there is an inspirational message in Hindi among other languages which says: “Khoj Ki Khushi” (the joy of discovery). A calibration target is used by scientists to fine-tune instruments using materials with known properties. The message reads: “Are we alone? We came here to look for signs of life, and to collect samples of Mars for study on Earth. To those who follow, we wish a safe journey and the joy of discovery”. The phrase “joy of discovery” then repeats in Mandarin, Hindi, Spanish, and Arabic, according to the Society. The Planetary Society, founded in 1980 by Carl Sagan, Bruce Murray and Louis Friedman, helped to design the calibration target as part of its education and public outreach project. The Society is the largest space interest group in the world. This apart, the Society hosted a virtual global watch part on February 18 to commemorate the landing of Perseverance with several special guests including Bill Nye, known as the science guy and the CEO of the society. The watch party was shown on The Planetary Society’s Youtube, Facebook and planetary.org/watch party and the live captioning was in Hindi among other languages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hindi-lands-on-mars-thanks-to-perseverance/articleshow/81280940.cms||Srinivas Laxman
March 2, 2021||India||Golden generation sees silver lining in Covid vaccine||NEW DELHI: It was Day One of the Covid vaccination for the elderly, but it seemed they could hardly wait. No vaccine hesitancy was evident as despite the window being open for only a few hours, the vaccination sites saw high enthusiasm, heavy rush and long queues. The drive began across 303 centres in the capital on Monday, and by the end of the day 15,521 people were vaccinated, around 50% of the target. It included 5,176 people above 60 and 1,009 between 45 and 59 years with 20 specified co-morbid conditions. Only one adverse event was reported. Elderly people and their family members came out in large numbers to get the vaccine shot on the first day. Lack of initial streamlining of the process led to some hiccups and there were heated exchanges at several places though the nodal medical officers assured that the overall process will improve in a couple of days. Brij Bihari Lal Sharma (74), who turned up early in the morning at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, said: “As I am undergoing dental treatment, I have to visit a clinic every month. I have undergone more than 10 RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 in the past one year as a precautionary measure due to my regular visits to the clinic. I tested negative every time but I am relieved after taking the first jab of the vaccine on Monday.” Other neighbouring NCR cities had much lower targets with Noida and Ghaziabad aiming to vaccinate only 300 people on the first day. Gurgaon vaccinated more than its target of 800 and Noida 319. Ghaziabad achieved 96% of its target. Snags in the registration process on the Co-Win portal slowed down enrolment at all three places. But more than the numbers, it was the organic nature of the response that vaccination centres found heartening. Several session sites, especially those at private hospitals in Gurgaon, saw queues through the afternoon while constant enquiries from those who could not turn up kept the phone operators busy. A 64-year-old former Armyman who got vaccinated at Paras Hospital summed up the mood of optimism in an age-group that has been forced to largely remain confined to home. “I feel like I can go for a marathon,” said Col A Mishra (Retd). While the vaccination drive at 136 private and 56 government hospitals in Delhi was scheduled to start at noon, many senior citizens had started arriving several hours before the scheduled launch. Glitches in the Co-Win portal during registration and verification of the self-registered individuals hit the numbers on the first day. Despite waiting in long queues, many senior citizens could not get the shots because their credentials were not verified on the portal. “The registered healthcare workers were getting verified and inoculated, but it was challenging to verify self-registered beneficiaries,” said an official. Many of the self-registered citizens were vaccinated with manual verification while several had to go back disappointed because of the delays. In West district, 937 senior citizens got the jab, highest among all the districts, followed by 809 in South East and 681 in East. Initially, the server was down which delayed the start of the entire process. Many people were unaware that the Co-Win app is only for administrators and struggled to register themselves through it. Most of those registered using the Co-Win portal reported long delays in receiving OTPs. Many of those in the 45 to 59 age group were not clear about the co-morbid conditions, and during verification some of them turned out to be ineligible. “A couple of senior citizens who walked in for inoculation could not get the OTP because the mobile number they were using was not registered with their Aadhaar card,” said a source at Lok Nayak Hospital. In some cases, the system showed the wrong age, leading to the verification failing. Many people reported that they were not getting slots after registering while some reported problems in Aadhaar linking and verification and captcha verification during registration. Health minister Satyendar Jain said the vaccines are free of cost at all the central as well as Delhi government hospitals while the cost of vaccination at the private hospitals has been capped at Rs 250. Jain said that to ensure that the process is smooth and there is no crowding at the hospitals, 2-3 vaccination centres have been set up in each of the 192 hospitals. Delhi government’s largest hospital, Lok Nayak, has two vaccination centres. “According to the updated voters list, over 12 lakh people in Delhi are above 60 years. Around 2-3 lakh Delhiites are between the age of 45 and 59 years with co-morbid conditions,” Jain said, adding that registration for the vaccination is simple and can be done through the Co-Win portal and people can easily choose the vaccination centre and time slot according to their convenience. “We did above 770 shots at various centres on Day 1 despite some teething issues with the online portal and the drive commencing only by noon,” said Max Healthcare in a statement. Dr H S Chhabra, medical director and chief of Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, said the hospital was carrying out vaccinations with all precautions, including proper sanitisation, thermal check, social distancing and mask discipline Watch 99-year-old takes Covid-19 vaccine in Mangaluru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/golden-generation-sees-silver-lining-in-vaccine/articleshow/81283060.cms||---
March 2, 2021||India||SC refuses to extend bail of prisoners freed due to Covid||NEW DELHI: Prisoners who were released last year to decongest jails in Delhi due to the outbreak of Covid-19 will now have to return to prison as the Supreme Court on Monday refused to extend their bail. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said the situation is now improving and the pandemic seemed to be under control and prisoners can go back to jail. It granted them 15 days to surrender before jail authorities. There are over 2,600 prisoners who were granted bail by the Delhi high court or lower courts in view of the pandemic and their bail was extended from time to time. Though the prisoners contended that jails in Delhi are still overcrowded as there are 17,000 inmates against the sanctioned strength of 10,000, the bench, however, said it would examine how to deal with the problem of overcrowding in future while refusing to grant them relief. The trial court had granted bail to 2318 undertrials and the high court had released 356 inmates last year on interim bail. The apex court passed the order on a petition challenging the Delhi HC order which had in October directed the prisoners to surrender by November 13. Earlier, the SC stayed the HC order and agreed to hear the prisoners’ plea for more time to surrender. The court, however, said the prisoners are at liberty to move the respective courts for getting bail and the court will decide their plea on the merits of the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-refuses-to-extend-bail-of-prisoners-freed-due-to-covid/articleshow/81283407.cms||---
March 2, 2021||India||West Bengal assembly polls 2021: Still no call on BJP’s CM face, it’s a Modi vs Mamata battle||New Delhi: As BJP gears up for its first big battle for West Bengal as the main challenger to Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress, it is unlikely to declare a chief ministerial face to take on ‘Didi’, who seeks a third consecutive term in office. The saffron party, which got three seats in 2016, added to its heft winning 18 parliamentary seats in 2019. Trying hard for names to fit a ‘bhadrolok’ face to lead its charge in the state so far, BJP may actually have an array of leaders to pick from, especially with a procession of new entrants who crossed over from TMC in the run-up to the polls. Read AlsoWest Bengal assembly polls: BJP looks east, hopes for Southern swingThe poll date announcement on Friday has set the stage in Bengal for an exciting end-game. Three large blocs are in the running but the gradual post-2016 decimation of the Left Front Congress combine indicates a straight fight between Trinamool Congress and BJP. The battle may finally be won or lostThe names doing the rounds in party circles in Kolkata and Delhi include a whole range. But cricket icon Sourav Ganguly is the only name that BJP seems to be aspiring for. Even after his recent health condition relating to heart, the buzz on Ganguly is only getting stronger by the day.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, a former RSS pracharak known for his street-fighting image, has survived infighting in the state and made inroads in rural pockets with an image to take on the TMC. Moving to Kolkata-bred names, one of the first ones to throw his hat into the ring was 75-year-old party veteran and former Meghalaya governor Tathagata Roy. An engineer by training Roy is also brother of TMC leader Saugata Roy.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Delhi-based columnist and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta is a regular now on BJP’s Bengal beat. He is tasked by the party to involve himself with the state’s politics. RSS functionary Jishnu Basu’s name is talked about only in closed circles. A scientist from Jadavpur University, Basu was an active proponent of NRC and CAA policies in the state. Read AlsoWest Bengal elections: Lalu has decided to support Mamata Banerjee to stop BJP, says TejashwiRJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and pledged his party's support to Trinamool Congress in the upcoming assembly elections. "It is Lalu Ji's decision to provide full support to Mamata Ji. Our first priority is to stop BJP from coming to power inThe entry of former TMC strongman from Midnapore, Suvendu Adhikary, into BJP means the ambitious ex-state minister’s name will have to be included in the shortlist. For now, the party is pitching for Bengal polls as a ‘Modi Vs Mamata’ battle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-mamata-vs-modi-in-bengal-but-bjps-cm-aspirants-list-growing/articleshow/81283927.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
March 2, 2021||---||West Bengal assembly polls 2021: Still no call on BJP’s CM face, it’s a Modi vs Mamata battle||New Delhi: As BJP gears up for its first big battle for West Bengal as the main challenger to Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress, it is unlikely to declare a chief ministerial face to take on ‘Didi’, who seeks a third consecutive term in office. The saffron party, which got three seats in 2016, added to its heft winning 18 parliamentary seats in 2019. Trying hard for names to fit a ‘bhadrolok’ face to lead its charge in the state so far, BJP may actually have an array of leaders to pick from, especially with a procession of new entrants who crossed over from TMC in the run-up to the polls. Read AlsoWest Bengal assembly polls: BJP looks east, hopes for Southern swingThe poll date announcement on Friday has set the stage in Bengal for an exciting end-game. Three large blocs are in the running but the gradual post-2016 decimation of the Left Front Congress combine indicates a straight fight between Trinamool Congress and BJP. The battle may finally be won or lostThe names doing the rounds in party circles in Kolkata and Delhi include a whole range. But cricket icon Sourav Ganguly is the only name that BJP seems to be aspiring for. Even after his recent health condition relating to heart, the buzz on Ganguly is only getting stronger by the day.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, a former RSS pracharak known for his street-fighting image, has survived infighting in the state and made inroads in rural pockets with an image to take on the TMC. Moving to Kolkata-bred names, one of the first ones to throw his hat into the ring was 75-year-old party veteran and former Meghalaya governor Tathagata Roy. An engineer by training Roy is also brother of TMC leader Saugata Roy.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Delhi-based columnist and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta is a regular now on BJP’s Bengal beat. He is tasked by the party to involve himself with the state’s politics. RSS functionary Jishnu Basu’s name is talked about only in closed circles. A scientist from Jadavpur University, Basu was an active proponent of NRC and CAA policies in the state. Read AlsoWest Bengal elections: Lalu has decided to support Mamata Banerjee to stop BJP, says TejashwiRJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and pledged his party's support to Trinamool Congress in the upcoming assembly elections. "It is Lalu Ji's decision to provide full support to Mamata Ji. Our first priority is to stop BJP from coming to power inThe entry of former TMC strongman from Midnapore, Suvendu Adhikary, into BJP means the ambitious ex-state minister’s name will have to be included in the shortlist. For now, the party is pitching for Bengal polls as a ‘Modi Vs Mamata’ battle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/its-mamata-vs-modi-in-bengal-but-bjps-cm-aspirants-list-growing/articleshow/81283555.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
March 2, 2021||Business||Spectrum sale: Government gets bids for over Rs 71,000 crore||NEW DELHI: The government was assured of the second highest haul from spectrum auctions as it got bids worth Rs 77,146 crore on the opening day of the mobile airwave sale that saw participation from Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, and Vodafone Idea. In all likelihood, the auctions may come to a close on Tuesday with companies taking a clear position on their purchase, sources in the telecom ministry said. The total revenues that the exchequer may earn this fiscal through upfront payment requirements will be around Rs 12,000-13,000 crore, communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, while calling the auctions satisfactory in their outcome. The money will come handy at a time when the government is looking to raise resources. The financially-stretched telecom companies have been mainly buying spectrum to make up for the expiry of some of their mobile holdings, but decided to stay away from any bids in the lucrative 700 MHz band, which they had dubbed as “highly expensive”. Even the 2500 MHz band did not get a bid on Day 1. The biggest interest was in the 800 MHz band, which will be contribute nearly 50% to the sale kitty so far, telecom secretary Anshu Prakash said. The highest amount that the government has fetched from spectrum auctions historically was in March 2015 where it had managed a record revenue of Rs 1.1 lakh crore amidst fierce competition between Jio (that started services more than a year later in September 2016), Airtel, and Vodafone India and Idea Cellular (the last two were still to merge into a single entity). Prasad appeared satisfied with the first day kitty. “We had estimated that the bids (for the spectrum) would be around Rs 45,000 crore. But it’s a matter of assurance that they went up to as much as Rs 77,146 crore. Today’s bidding represents a sale of 37% of the total spectrum that was put for auction, and 19% in terms of the value at reserve price,” he said. The government had put for sale a total of 2308.80 MHz of spectrum, out of which it has received bids for 849.20 MHz so far. At reserve price, the value of the spectrum – auctioned across 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz – stands at nearly Rs 4 lakh crore. The government belives that companies may buy only “essential spectrum”, while saving funds for participation in the 5G spectrum sale where they would look at aggressive bidding. The present spectrum that they will win will be valid for 20 years, and the government will charge 25% as upfront fee in the 700 MHz, 800 MHz and 900 MHz bands, while charging 50% on the higher frequencies. The balance amount will be payable in 16 equated annual instalments after a moratorium of two years, as per the telecom department’s condition. According to Prakash, around 65% of the total spectrum in 800 MHz got sold, and the same was 38% in 900 MHz, 41% in 1800 MHz, 9% in 2100 MHz and 89% in 2300 MHz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spectrum-sale-government-gets-bids-for-over-rs-71k-crore/articleshow/81283884.cms||Pankaj Doval
March 2, 2021||India||Senior citizens fight tech trouble, anxiety||NEW DELHI: Anjana Murali, 70, from Sarakki in south Bengaluru, was thrilled when her registration for a shot of the Covid-19 vaccine was accepted on the Co-Win portal on Monday. She turned up at the nearby healthcare centre of her choice in Jayanagar around noon on Tuesday, only to discover that the portal had assigned her to one in Bommanahalli, almost 9km away. Anjana pleaded to be inoculated at Jayanagar, but it wasn't to be. "I waited until 3.30pm before returning home. I got tired," said Anjana, whose children live abroad. Vijay Shenoy, in his 60s, said he could not even register. He visited Jayanagar General Hospital hoping to get the jab as a walk-in recipient, but was told prior registration was mandatory. "I could not register despite repeated attempts. On-site registration wasn’t happening, although the government had said it would," said Shenoy, who is keen to get back to swimming once he is inoculated. In Kolkata, senior citizens stepping out of their homes for the first time in a year grappled as much with the challenges of Co-Win as with the fear of being exposed to the virus while waiting with hundreds of others for their turn to get a jab. Those who visited select private hospitals were luckier. Omprakash Kajaria, who got inoculated at AMRI Mukundapur, was among scores of people who had failed to register on the portal. "I then decided to go the hospital and ask for help. The authorities tried to get me registered online but couldn't. Finally, they manually registered my name and gave me a shot," he said. At the state-run RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, the verification process was carried out like clockwork until the Co-Win portal crashed just after 79-year-old Lalit Mohan Chakraborty of Nagerbazar, the first vaccine recipient, got his shot. The vaccination officer failed to enter the data in the portal even after repeated attempts. Surya Shaw, a 65-year-old from north Kolkata's Shyambazar, had reached the hospital around noon. Two hours later, he was still waiting for his turn, with several ahead of him in the queue. In Mumbai, Akshay Modi managed to register his 56-year-old uncle after multiple attempts. At the time of registration, the portal didn’t ask for any supporting certificate to be uploaded. But when he reached the vaccination centre at Nesco Goregaon, the staffers said they couldn’t upload the relevant certificate as it had to be first transferred to a mobile or computer. Akshay was asked to reschedule, which he said would be taxing on his mentally ill uncle, who has to be conditioned for days before he can step out of home. The officials later cleared the registration after verifying the hard copy of a document confirming the recipient's mental condition. Many others were in for a rude shock when the nearest inoculation site shown on the Co-Win portal turned out to be beyond city limits. Some of these sites were up to 50km away in other towns. Jaipur resident and retired PWD official Mahendra Kumar Verma, 66, had successfully registered on the portal on Monday, but his name was missing from the list of recipients when he reached the Bani Park Satellite Hospital there. "I thought my chance was gone, but health officials registered me on the spot based on my Aadhaar details. I got the vaccine," he said. In Chandigarh, the Co-Win database didn't go live until 11am, leaving doctors and health workers struggling to pacify restless senior citizens who had long been waiting for this day. "I have been here since 9am. I was handed a token like many others who hadn't registered and kept waiting for three hours before being told to come next time," said Veena Sambyal, a resident of Sector 45. "We should not be disturbed this way. We could have been informed that the portal wasn't working and not made to unnecessarily wait for our turn. It feels uneasy to wait in hospitals for long hours at this age," said an elderly resident of Sector 44. Nagpur resident Kaustubh Paunikar had a frustrating day trying to register his parents for a shot. Tejinder Singh Renu from the Vidarbha Taxpayers' Association had the same experience. "My entire day was wasted," he said. Activist Shashank Gattewar said a blank page greeted him after he keyed in the OTP, In Lucknow, elderly members of the Baijal family had to wait two hours to get themselves registered at the civil hospital. Their anxiousness disappeared only after they got their vaccine shots. "We can finally breathe easy," said Usha Baijal, a retired faculty member of a state-run university. "We had feared there would be no vaccination when the portal wouldn't accept our valid ID proof. Fortunately, the problem was sorted in two hours." Thiruvananthapuram resident Neelakandan Pillai, who has co-morbidities like asthma and was desperate to be vaccinated, missed out on a shot despite getting registered. "My son had booked an afternoon slot at the Nedumangad taluk office. On reaching there, my details were verified in the Co-Win app and I was given a token. Inside the vaccination room, they asked for my mobile number and again verified it in the app. But despite confirmation, the staff there said I was not eligible for vaccination today as government employees were still getting their shots," he said. Watch Covid-19: Server glitches forced senior citizens to wait for hours in Chandigarh, Panchkula||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/senior-citizens-fight-tech-trouble-anxiety/articleshow/81283967.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Business||NSE glitch will cost us, says finance minister; Sebi meet today||MUMBAI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said that last Wednesday’s tech glitch on the NSE that nobody anticipated would “cost us” and “lessons are being learnt”. On that day, the glitch forced India’s largest exchange to halt trading for about five hours and — after hectic consultations between the finance ministry, markets regulator Sebi and exchanges — the trading session was extended by one and half hours till 5pm. “May be that was an issue of interoperability between the two exchanges, but that is the kind of thing where seamless digital payments is the goal we have to aspire for,” Sitharaman said. Sebi has called for a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the issue of interoperability of exchanges. This will be with top officials of the exchanges as well as clearing corporations and depositories, sources said. Interoperability is a process to trade between multiple exchanges, which was launched in 2018. The FM was speaking at the annual meeting of the Controller General of Accounts. “That (the NSE outage) is also an example that tells us what seamless payments modes or technology-driven platforms can face. Taking lessons from that, I would think a seamless digital payments (system) is something that you have to have a roadmap for,” she said. Last Wednesday, the system failed to kick in seamlessly when the NSE faced that major technical glitch. If the interoperability system between exchanges is robust, one could, for example, buy on the BSE and sell on the NSE without any extra cost or time delay. Last week, even the pan-India brokers’ body ANMI had petitioned Sebi to move to a system of trading where derivative contracts on the Nifty and the sensex too could be traded on all exchanges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nse-glitch-will-cost-us-says-fm-sebi-meet-today/articleshow/81284176.cms||---
March 2, 2021||India||‘G-23’ leader slams Congress tie-up with ISF||NEW DELHI: The dissenting ‘G-23’ bloc’s showdown with the Congress leadership sharpened significantly on Monday with deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma slamming the party’s alliance negotiations with Indian Secular Front (ISF), a Muslim outfit headed by a firebrand cleric, in West Bengal, saying it went against the “Nehru-Gandhi secularism”. Sharma’s strong comments, coming a day after another leading ‘G-23’ member, Ghulam Nabi Azad, praised PM Modi for being “upfront” about his roots, dealt an embarrassing blow to Congress in the middle of seat-sharing negotiations for the election campaign in five states. Referring to the joint Kolkata rally of Congress, Left and the ISF of Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui, Sharma tweeted, “Congress’s alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC.” He added, “Congress cannot be selective in fighting communalists but must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. The presence and endorsement of the West Bengal PCC president is painful and shameful, he must clarify.” In Jammu over the weekend, where G-23 leaders attended a function to felicitate Azad, the J&K leader said though he and Modi were opposed politically, the PM did not "hide his reality". The comments are a spoiler for Congress which was optimistic that the massive show in Kolkata would help it position itself credibly in the polls that have otherwise turned bipolar between Trinamool Congress and BJP. This also came after the letter writers, at a public rally in Jammu, expressed concern that Congress was weakening by the day. Sharma’s barb suggested that tensions between Congress and the G-23 may be coming to a boil. “It may explode if the leadership does not become inclusive and listen to dissenters who are being blocked by a coterie,” a letter writer said. While Congress and Left announced a deal among themselves last month, the ISF emerged as a late entrant in the alliance talks as the former were encouraged that its presence would consolidate Muslim votes in favour of the combine. The two parties also put a condition that the ISF should not join hands with the AIMIM of Asaduddin Owaisi. Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was quoted as saying, “We are in charge of a state and don’t taken any decision on our own without any permission.” It implied that the state unit was going by the nod from the headquarters. Interestingly, Congress and ISF have not held talks and only the Left has negotiated seats with Siddiqui. The red flag from within Congress may hurt the party’s morale in Bengal and Assam as Sharma’s denunciation rings close to the campaign theme of BJP that Congress is partisan towards “minority communalists”. It also came on a day Congress’s Bihar ally RJD, led by Tejashwi Yadav, junked the ‘grand alliance’ to throw its lot with Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and urged “Biharis” to vote for TMC. While G-23 members refused to react on the issue, Punjab MP and dissenter Manish Tewari said, “My foremost objective is to defeat BJP. Like earlier, wherever the party asks me to campaign, I will be more than eager and willing to do so.” The back-to-back comments from Azad and Sharma triggered unease in the dissenters’ bloc even as Congress wrestled with how to react to the developments. A senior letter-writer said negotiations with “minority or majority communalists” could be questioned but “the timing was bad and could not be supported”. There was talk about Sharma spoiling for disciplinary action from the party and also resigning as deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/g-23-leader-slams-congress-tie-up-with-isf/articleshow/81284207.cms||---
March 2, 2021||---||‘G-23’ leader slams Congress tie-up with ISF||NEW DELHI: The dissenting ‘G-23’ bloc’s showdown with the Congress leadership sharpened significantly on Monday with deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma slamming the party’s alliance negotiations with Indian Secular Front (ISF), a Muslim outfit headed by a firebrand cleric, in West Bengal, saying it went against the “Nehru-Gandhi secularism”. Sharma’s strong comments, coming a day after another leading ‘G-23’ member, Ghulam Nabi Azad, praised PM Modi for being “upfront” about his roots, dealt an embarrassing blow to Congress in the middle of seat-sharing negotiations for the election campaign in five states. Referring to the joint Kolkata rally of Congress, Left and the ISF of Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui, Sharma tweeted, “Congress’s alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC.” He added, “Congress cannot be selective in fighting communalists but must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. The presence and endorsement of the West Bengal PCC president is painful and shameful, he must clarify.” In Jammu over the weekend, where G-23 leaders attended a function to felicitate Azad, the J&K leader said though he and Modi were opposed politically, the PM did not "hide his reality". The comments are a spoiler for Congress which was optimistic that the massive show in Kolkata would help it position itself credibly in the polls that have otherwise turned bipolar between Trinamool Congress and BJP. This also came after the letter writers, at a public rally in Jammu, expressed concern that Congress was weakening by the day. Sharma’s barb suggested that tensions between Congress and the G-23 may be coming to a boil. “It may explode if the leadership does not become inclusive and listen to dissenters who are being blocked by a coterie,” a letter writer said. While Congress and Left announced a deal among themselves last month, the ISF emerged as a late entrant in the alliance talks as the former were encouraged that its presence would consolidate Muslim votes in favour of the combine. The two parties also put a condition that the ISF should not join hands with the AIMIM of Asaduddin Owaisi. Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was quoted as saying, “We are in charge of a state and don’t taken any decision on our own without any permission.” It implied that the state unit was going by the nod from the headquarters. Interestingly, Congress and ISF have not held talks and only the Left has negotiated seats with Siddiqui. The red flag from within Congress may hurt the party’s morale in Bengal and Assam as Sharma’s denunciation rings close to the campaign theme of BJP that Congress is partisan towards “minority communalists”. It also came on a day Congress’s Bihar ally RJD, led by Tejashwi Yadav, junked the ‘grand alliance’ to throw its lot with Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and urged “Biharis” to vote for TMC. While G-23 members refused to react on the issue, Punjab MP and dissenter Manish Tewari said, “My foremost objective is to defeat BJP. Like earlier, wherever the party asks me to campaign, I will be more than eager and willing to do so.” The back-to-back comments from Azad and Sharma triggered unease in the dissenters’ bloc even as Congress wrestled with how to react to the developments. A senior letter-writer said negotiations with “minority or majority communalists” could be questioned but “the timing was bad and could not be supported”. There was talk about Sharma spoiling for disciplinary action from the party and also resigning as deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/g-23-leader-slams-congress-tie-up-with-isf/articleshow/81284200.cms||---
March 2, 2021||India||Hashtags should be treated as political ads, says panel||NEW DELHI: ‘Hashtag’ trends on Twitter – a place for ‘highly-polarised political narratives’ – may be treated as political advertisements during the election process and subjected to media certification and monitoring committee (MCMC) regulations of the Election Commission, an expert committee set up by Election Commission last year has recommended. The panel, set up under ex-IRS officer Harish Kumar last year to review poll expenditure limits and expenditure monitoring mechanisms, in its interim report submitted to the EC recently, has also called for creation of a separate social media monitoring cell in the district election officer’s (DEO) office to track political advertisements on the social media during polls, and report them to the expenditure observer. It recommended that the DEO’s office be permitted to engage external consultants or software development companies to develop and deploy suitable social media monitoring solutions to minimise the lapses in monitoring and build a dashboard to track the progress of action taken on the discovery of social media expenditure. According to sources, the EC has accepted the recommendations made in the interim report, in principle and asked an internal group comprising senior EC officials Umesh Sinha, Dharmendra Sharma and Chandra Bhushan Kumar to work out the modalities for appropriate action. The new norms will however not apply to the current polls in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, an officer told TOI. Times ViewIT cells of different political parties often use ‘bots’ to create trends on social media. Hashtags used for this purpose are part of a manufactured campaign where expenditure is involved. It won’t be easy to figure out how much. Nonetheless, they must be considered as part of election expenses as suggested by the expert panel.As per the expert committee, three key social media platforms are used for political campaigns – Google (including Google ads and YouTube), Facebook (including Facebook and Instagram) and Twitter. Though Twitter had explicitly forbidden carrying out political advertising in November 2019, the panel said there was a thin line between political advertisements and issues that are permitted. Noting that Twitter is a place for “highly-polarised narratives”, the panel in its report said this made it an important forum for campaigning by candidates and parties. It emphasised that Twitter, with around 3.4 crore active users in India and the presence of a large number of politics-related personalities, was a useful target for expenditure monitoring. With hashtags trended periodically on Twitter to attract attention of the users in the country, trends were often targeted by the opposing political groups for showcasing their control on the narrative. Noting that trending a hashtag indicated “enormous” coordination among party workers and candidate’s sympathisers, the panel said this was not possible without an elaborate social media cell or ‘illegal’ hiring of bot accounts. Pitching for examining of the hashtags endorsed by candidates and party functionaries, the panel suggested that Twitter hashtag or trend be treated as a political advertisement in practice and may be covered under the MC&MC regulations of EC. It suggested that open source tools like botometer be used to check a Twitter account that is supporting the campaign hashtag. This would help the expenditure monitoring team in discovering use of underground services for campaigning under the guise of hashtags over Twitter. The panel added that with Facebook, Google and Twitter publishing the ad spend and the total views of the video ads, a rough estimate of political campaigns on these platforms could be calculated. As for fake news or misrepresenting issues ads as political ads, the committee said even if banned after detection, these fully paid-for ads must be accounted for in the expenditure. The panel also suggested that use of platforms like Instagram, Bing Ads and Whatsapp Business be also accounted for in expenditure with the help of their estimated rates or rate cards in the public domain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hashtags-should-be-treated-as-political-ads-says-panel/articleshow/81284234.cms||Bharti Jain
March 2, 2021||India||PM Modi takes the shot, gives vaccine process a booster dose||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here around 6.25 am on Monday, the first day of India opening immunisation for those above 60 years of age and those over 45 who have co-morbidities. The government hopes that given Modi’s public presence and his large social media following, his decision to take the shot will boost the vaccination drive by increasing public trust in Covid vaccines. The PM, who is 70, was administered Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This decision too seemed deliberate as it is seen as a vote of confidence in the vaccine that has been criticised by some experts for lacking efficacy data. “Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against Covid-19,” Modi tweeted about an hour after taking the jab. “I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India Covid-19 free,” he added. This assumes significance as India has started the second phase of vaccination targeting a larger population at a time when it is at a very crucial juncture with many states reporting an upswing in Covid-19 cases. Wider coverage of vaccination can help India stay ahead of the curve. “Since daily case numbers from many pockets across India indicate a possible silent spread over the last weeks, we need to aggressively vaccinate now to prevent these numbers from swelling, and getting converted to deaths. Let’s also keep in mind that it takes many days to develop immunity even after the shot. We are at a key juncture,” Oommen C Kurian, senior fellow, health initiative at ORF, said. Apart from the PM, many ministers and chief ministers are likely to get vaccinated in this phase. Health minister Harsh Vardhan is expected to get the shot on Tuesday. Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, told TOI that he received information about the PM’s visit for vaccination on Sunday. “As there is a lot of rush in the OPD on Monday and the PM didn’t want to hamper patient services, he offered to visit early in the morning,” Dr Guleria said. He added that no special arrangements were made. “We asked two nurses, Sister P Niveda from Puducherry and Rosamma Anil from Kerala, who are part of the vaccinating team, to come early. They didn’t know about the PM’s visit. They thought it was for some VIP, possibly the health minister or home minister,” the AIIMS director said. Modi arrived at AIIMS around 6.15 am. He was administered Covaxin by Sister Niveda around 6.25 am. Niveda, who has been working at AIIMS for three years, said the PM asked her where she was from. The PM also joked with the AIIMS staff to lighten the mood. “Are you going to use a needle meant for veterinary purposes?” he asked the two nurses. The nurses apparently did not understand the question but said “no”. The PM then explained that politicians are known to be “very thick skinned”, and hence, he was asking if they planned to use some special thick needles for him. On hearing this, the nurses laughed. After vaccination, Modi told to the nurse, “Laga bhi di, pata hi nahi chala (already done, I didn’t even feel it).” The PM will be administered the second dose of the vaccine in 28 days. Besides the PM, Union ministers S Jaishankar and Jitendra Singh took the first dose of the vaccine at AIIMS on Monday. K Vijayraghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government, also took the first dose. Watch PM Modi brought 'sanjeevani booti' like Hanuman to eliminate COVID-19: Ashwini Choubey||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-takes-the-shot-gives-vaccine-process-a-booster-dose/articleshow/81284287.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 2, 2021||India||Scorching summer looming for north India: IMD||PUNE: Most parts of north India, particularly Delhi-NCR, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are likely to have a scorching summer ahead, says the India Meteorological Department. In its outlook for the months of March to May, IMD said the mean maximum temperatures in Delhi and Haryana could be 0.71 degree Celsius higher than normal, the highest predicted deviation from normal in the country after Chhattisgarh, where temperatures are likely to be 0.86 degree C above normal. West UP could be almost as hot with 0.61 degree C higher-than-normal maximum temperatures during the season. The summer in most of Maharashtra, and parts of south peninsular India like Rayalaseema, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka may see cooler day temperatures. Warmer nights are also in store for many regions, including Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh, Punjab, east Rajasthan, Madhya Maharashtra and other places. El Nino and La Nina conditions over the Pacific Ocean control temperatures in India. During a La Nina year, the severity of heat waves is generally less in comparison to an El Nino year. However, higher temperatures in many parts of the country have been forecast despite moderate La Nina conditions currently observed over the Pacific. These conditions are likely to sustain during the upcoming season, IMD said. “Temperatures are higher during El Nino years when more heatwaves are expected than a La Nina year, when the case is the opposite. The actual picture will be clearer as the season advances,” IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said. Last year, summer was not that severe due to frequent thunderstorms and fewer heatwaves, Mohapatra added. The weather bureau’s seasonal outlook for temperatures from this March to May said above normal maximum temperatures were likely over many subdivisions. These include subdivisions in the north, northwest and northeast India, a few in eastern (Chhattisgarh and Odisha) and western (Gujarat region and Saurashtra and Kutch) parts of central India, and coastal subdivisions of Konkan and Goa and coastal Andhra Pradesh. On the other hand, most subdivisions in south peninsular India and adjoining central India are likely to experience below normal maximum temperatures, the outlook said. The probability forecast indicated that above normal minimum temperatures were likely over most of the subdivisions of north India along the foothills of the Himalayas, northeast India, western part of central India and southern parts of peninsular India. Most subdivisions in the east and adjoining central India and a few subdivisions in the extreme northern part of the country are likely to experience below normal minimum temperatures, the outlook said. O P Sreejith, a scientist in the Climate Monitoring and Prediction group at IMD, Pune, told TOI that the global warming signature has been apparent in the last few years. “It is one of the reasons why some regions are likely to have higher temperatures during summer. Some regions of Maharashtra and peninsular India are likely to see cooler day temperatures as per model forecasts probably because of clouding and rain,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scorching-summer-looming-for-north-india-imd/articleshow/81284328.cms||Neha Madaan
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: STF seizes heroin worth Rs 25 crore; one arrested||KOLKATA: The Special Task Force (STF) of the Kolkata Police has seized over 5kg of heroin, worth Rs 25 crore in the international market, from Bengal’s Purba Burdwan district and arrested a person in this connection, a senior officer said on Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, the STF sleuths conducted a search operation at Rasulpur Bazar in Memari on Monday night and recovered the contraband from the drug peddler’s vehicle, he said. The police are investigating if the accused — identified as Sunil Howladar (38), a resident of Ausgram in Burdwan — has any political connections after locals claimed he was known to be close to a few local politicians and was often spotted travelling to Kolkata’s central business district. “We had information about the person that he would come to deliver the drugs to his associates. We recovered around 5 kg of heroin from his possession and seized his vehicle around 11.25 pm. We questioned the accused and finally arrested the accused around 3.30 am in the wee hours of Tuesday morning,” said DC (STF) Aparajita Rai. A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, she said. Meanwhile, the detective department of Bidhannagar Police has busted a gang that smuggles illegal drugs into the city from Manipur and have seized 40kgs of marijuana from them in an overnight raid last week. The gang used to supply marijuana stashed in heaps of luggage in long-distance trains from north Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stf-seizes-heroin-worth-rs-25-crore-one-arrested/articleshow/81298724.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Landfill waste to pave way for road||New Delhi: East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) plans to construct its first road using legacy municipal waste at a 1km stretch in Kalyanpuri. The pilot project will be implemented under guidance of Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), in which 25,000 tonne waste from Ghazipur will be used, said an EDMC official. The project will be implemented under the Centre’s Waste to Wealth Mission. “A senior technical team from the office of principal scientific adviser to Government of India, along with senior representatives of EDMC and CRRI, visited three sites on Monday to finalise the location. After the survey, decision was taken to implement it in Kalyanpuri,” EDMC said. According to the plan, EDMC will provide segregated waste from the landfill and CRRI will help with end-to-end technical support and design. The civic agency had earlier attempted to use the landfill waste for filling embankment at Delhi Meerut Expressway, and also signed an MoU with NHAI, but the project could not be concretised. “We are making all efforts to use and reuse municipal and other waste generated in our areas,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/landfill-waste-to-pave-way-for-road/articleshow/81300208.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Patna||Constitution bench to decide on police power||PATNA: A constitution bench of the Patna high court was the first to start functioning from the newly inaugurated centenary building on Monday by hearing arguments and reserving its judgement on an important matter. The court is to decide if police have power to register FIR, make arrest and investigate the case of recovery of prohibited, spurious, misbranded or adulterated imported drugs meant for sale, exhibition or distribution, or only a drug inspector has the power to file a complaint case in such scenario under The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940. The Constitution bench judgement will clear the ambiguity in law and decide the fate of more than 500 pending criminal writ petitions filed in the high court for quashing of FIR. March 19 has been fixed for pronouncing the judgement. The issue was earlier heard by a full bench of Justices Hemant Kumar Srivastava, Aditya Kumar Trivedi and Birendra Kumar. However, all three differed in their views in the judgement delivered on July 24 last year and directed that the matter be placed before the Chief Justice with request for formation of a larger bench. Hardly a month after the full bench’s judgement, the Supreme Court ruled that only drug inspector has the power to file complaint before court and police have no power to register an FIR, make arrest or investigate under Chapter-IV of the Act which deals with manufacture, sales and distribution of drugs. However, the SC ordered that all existing police cases be transferred to drug inspectors. In that context, the Constitution bench of the high court confined itself only to Chapter-III of the Act which deals with imported drugs and cosmetics. The bench of Justices Ashwani Kumar Singh, Vikash Jain, Ahsanuddin Amanullah, Rajendra Kumar Mishra and Chakradhari Sharan Singh heard the case in the Constitution courtroom, which was not available earlier in the high court. Additional advocate general Anjani Kumar, assisted by Vinay Kirti Singh and Rajeev Roy, appeared for the state government while senior counsel Jitendra Singh assisted by Harsh Singh appeared for the petitioner Vijay Kumar Shahi. No one appeared for petitioners Rajesh Kumar alias Bablu and Chotelal Singh. Senior counsel Singh has been appointed as amicus curiae by the high court. Both counsels for the petitioner argued that police have no power even in Chapter-III of the Act and only drug inspector can file a complaint before court. AAG Kumar submitted that if any other offence committed beyond the one under the Act, police have the power to take action. He also submitted that if only a drug inspector has the power, then power of custom officers to take action as per Customs Act on the recovery of imported drugs violating the law would also become void.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/constitution-bench-to-decide-on-police-power/articleshow/81279186.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 2, 2021||Patna||Man held for duping people by promising them jobs||PATNA: The Danapur police on Monday arrested one Anjani Kumar on charges of duping people in the name of providing them job in the Indian Army. Police said that Anjani was wanted in connection of a case lodged with the Danapur police station on the statement of Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Charpokhri in Bhojpur district, for duping his brother in the name of providing him job in the Indian Army. Police recovered Rs.55,000 in cash besides certificates and seal of different schools during a raid at Anjani and his accomplice Abhishek Kumar's hideouts. Toll rises in spurious liquor case: Manoj Rai, who was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Muzaffarpur after consuming spurious liquor on Thursday, died late on Sunday night. With his death, the toll in hooch tragedy under Maniari block in Muzaffarpur district has gone up to three. Muzaffarpur ASP Syed Imran Masood said that one more victim is admitted to the hospital for treatment. Manoj, a resident of Madhopur Susta village in Muzaffarpur district, was involved in sale of illicit liquor in areas falling under Sakra and Maniari blocks of the district. Political activist traceless: Patna police are conducting raids to trace Ranjit Kumar Pandey, a functionary of Bhartiya Sablog Party, who was allegedly picked up by a group of people travelling in an SUV near the IT roundabout on Sunday evening. Police said the incident took place when Pandey, stated to be a resident of Obra in Aurangabad district, was returning after attending a meeting of the party at Chakaram under the Buddha Colony police station area. His accomplice Ravi Ranjan, however, managed to dodge the anti-socials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-held-for-duping-people-by-promising-them-jobs/articleshow/81279191.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Varanasi||Oppn making false claimsto mislead people: Nadda||Varanasi: Sharing tips for the online political battle while gearing up for the panchayat and assembly elections ahead, Bharatiya Janata Party president J P Nadda told party’s IT and social media cell to give a befitting reply to the Opposition’s bid of misleading countrymen with false claims on various issues against government. Addressing the IT and social media cell workers after offering floral tributes to party ideologue Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya at his memorial at Padao on Monday afternoon, Nadda said, “The Opposition is now resorting to false and fabricated claims to mislead people. Our social media cell is brilliantly tackling the baseless claims and presenting correct information before people.” Nadda cautioned the social media team members to be careful in choice of words and to rebut wrong claims and share truth in disciplined language as their posts impact the party’s image. Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership and decision-making for combating Covid-19 pandemic effectively, Nadda said, “Today entire world looks at our PM as a strong and able leader. This increases the responsibility of social media cell in playing an effective role to spread proper information about all welfare schemes of Union and state governments.” “You are working on the fastest medium of communication and should keep trying various options to use it more effectively,” he said before concluding his two-day visit to the PM's parliamentary constituency. Referring to the start of second phase of Covid-19 vaccination in the country on Monday, Nadda said, “We are fortunate to have the leadership of PM Modi and are also extremely thankful to scientists, doctors, health workers and industrialists who played a key role in combating Covid-19.” Earlier, Nadda started his day by visiting Kashi Vishwanath temple where he did ‘Rudrabhishek’ and inspected the KV Dham (corridor) area to see the progress of work. He proceeded to the Kaal Bhairav temple where he offered prayers. After visiting the temples, Nadda had breakfast with UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, state in-charge Radhey Mohan Singh, Sunil Bansal and Sunil Oza. Nadda and party leaders stopped at an eatery in the lane and relished ‘kachori’ and ‘jalebi’ and then headed to Booth 251 unit president Rajesh Yadav’s home in Madhyameshwar circle unit of the party where he addressed booth level workers. “BJP runs on ideology and not on dynastic politics. In our party, any worker can become leader. Our organization and workers are our strengths because of which we win elections. We need to strengthen our booths to win elections. The booth level workers take the welfare schemes of governments to the last man of society,” Nadda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/oppn-making-false-claimsto-mislead-people-nadda/articleshow/81278610.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
March 2, 2021||Patna||‘Will ensure uninterrupted power supply in Patna’||PATNA: The Patna Electric Supply Undertaking (PESU) has claimed to have strengthened its power distribution network to ensure round-the-clock electricity supply during the peak summer days. PESU general manager Dilip Kumar Singh on Monday said the installed electrical capacity is twice the demand in the city. “Last year, the power consumption was low during summer as commercial establishments were shut down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But when we look at the maximum power consumption during the peak summer season of 2019, it was 700MW. The total installed electrical capacity of the city as of now is 1780MW, which is twice the power demand,” Singh told this newspaper. PESU is also undertaking repair and maintenance work such as marking of high-tension wires, covering overhead wires, tightening of loose wires and trimming of obstructing tree branches before the peak summer days to ensure smooth power supply in the city. According to PESU officials, three more substations at Guru Gobind Singh Hospital (Patna City), Jogipur (Kankarbagh) and Karbigahiya will be operational this month, while eight substations are under construction and likely to be made functional in later half of the year. “Four out of the eight sub-stations under construction are gas insulated, while the rest are e-house substations which are customized, pre-assembled and pre-tested modular power substations. They are ideally suited for the situations in which interim solutions are needed or in locations that are difficult to access,” Dilip said. Citizens hope the power supply would remain normal without major complaints. Rohit Kumar, a resident of Kankarbagh, said, “Having lived in the city for over two decades, it’s evident that load-shedding has been taken care of and life has consequently been made a little easier during the cruel summer.” Ramesh Kumar of Buddha Colony said load-shedding during summer time used to be really difficult for everyone n the city. “The problem has definitely been worked on and the progress can be seen, taking the experience of the past few years. It is only a matter of time till we completely solve the load-shedding problem altogether,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-ensure-uninterrupted-power-supply/articleshow/81279450.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Business||Twitter usage in India grew 74% YoY in Oct-Dec 2020||Chennai: India was among the fastest growing markets for Twitter in the October-December quarter of 2020 as monetizable Daily Active Usage (mDAU) of the social media platform grew 74% year-on-year in the country during the period. “In order to achieve our ambitions, we need to grow Twitter in developing markets where there are millions of potential customers, but where we have very nascent adoption today. Regions like India and Africa are great examples, where we see promising growth rates,” Twitter product lead Kayvon Beykpour said, speaking at an analyst event. Twitter recorded 84% YoY growth in mDAUs in Nigeria. Earlier this month at the company’s earnings call, Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey said that over 80% of the platform’s audience is outside the US. At 192 million, Twitter’s total mDAUs grew by five million in the December quarter. The user base was up 26.3% compared to a year ago. Dorsey noted that accelerating product development, reaching at least 315 million mDAU in the fourth quarter of 2023, and more than doubling the company’s total annual revenue to over $7.5 billion in 2023, were its key three priorities. Given its recent engagements with governments in India and the US on requests for banning accounts and taking down posts, Dorsey addressed a growing trust deficit against the company from a section of users. “We agree many people don’t trust us. Never has this been more pronounced than the last few years,” he said. This isn’t just about our actions to promote healthy conversation, it goes broader and deeper, down to how we use technology like machine learning algorithms.”Noting that every institution worldwide is experiencing a significant trust deficit, he said Twitter is working to earn the trust. “We intend to make our content moderation practices more transparent, give people more controls to moderate their interactions, enable a marketplace approach to relevance algorithms, and fund an open source social media standard we call @bluesky,” he said. Twitter is funding a small independent team of open source architects, engineers, and designers to develop an open and decentralized standard for the public conversation on the Internet called Project Blue Sky. Reaching a target mDAU would involve Twitter compounding growth at about 20% per year from the base of 152 million mDAU it reported in the fourth quarter of 2019, and the company is actively targeting emerging markets where it has a small base to achieve this goal. In 2021, Twitter plans to grow its headcount by greater than 20% and expenses by 25% or more. The expansion in team will be disproportionately focused on engineering, Twitter said, noting that increasing the engineering scale will help them achieve their growth targets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/twitter-usage-in-india-grew-74-yoy-in-oct-dec-2020/articleshow/81280846.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||‘Extortion gang’ kills 20-year-old, 1 held||Kolkata: A 20-year-old youth who operated an electrical shop on behalf of its owner was allegedly stabbed to death and his two friends injured after a group of men attacked them late on Saturday night. The incident was reported from Ramnagar Lane in the Garden Reach police station area. Cops have arrested one of the accused, but the prime accused — Rakib and his aide Asif — are absconding. Cops claimed victim Sk Sobrati alias Basu was a victim of personal rivalry with accused Gholam Ansari, 21. Locals insisted Sobrati was murdered as he refused to pay protection money to the group to which Gholam belongs. The victim’s brother, Sk Jahangir, 32, alleged that the accused murdered Sobrati around 11.20pm on Saturday. They also tried to murder Md Shahzada and Md Sajjad, both friends of the deceased, who were injured but managed to escape into Ramnagar Lane. The cops have lodged a case of murder and attempt to murder. Locals claimed Rakib and Asif had previously demanded money from Sobrati as the shop was illegal. “On Saturday morning, they came back and claimed money. Sobrati told them that the owner was not in the shop. The accused then roughed him up and threatened him. That very night, when Sobrati was speaking to friends outside the shop, the gang came and demanded money again. When he refused to pay, he was attacked. The gang members fled when locals rushed in after hearing the cries. Cops took the victim to a hospital where he was declared dead,” said Sk Ziauddin, a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/extortion-gang-kills-20-year-old-1-held/articleshow/81279856.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Central Vista: DDA will change land use of three plots||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which has approved the change in land use of plots spread over nearly 100 acres in Lutyens’ Delhi for the implementation of the Central Vista redevelopment project, is now proposing to change land use of three plots spread over total 31.5 acres. The authority has put in public domain a proposal for modification in the Master Plan for Delhi 2021 and invited objections and suggestions. The proposal entails changing the land use of two plots measuring 9.5 acres each from recreational (district park) to government office. While one plot is located between Motilal Nehru Marg and K Kamraj Marg, the other plot is located near Dalhousie Road. Apart from this, the land use of a 12.5-acre plot located between Dalhousie Road and Tyagraj Marg has been proposed to be changed from government office to recreational (district park). A senior DDA official said that the proposal to change the land use of these plots was made by the land and development office (L&DO), which falls under the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA). “The land use is being changed for the Central Vista redevelopment project but I am not sure which office would exactly come up here. The plot for which land use is being changed from government office to recreational use is vacant at the moment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/central-vista-dda-will-change-land-use-of-3-plots/articleshow/81284195.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Degree college student in Vizianagaram found unconscious||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 20-year-old woman was found unconscious, with her hands and legs tied, on the outskirts of Gurla in Vizianagaram district on Monday. Based upon information received from locals, Gurla police led by sub-inspector Neelavathi and her team rushed to the spot and rescued the woman and shifted her to the government hospital in Vizianagaram town. A preliminary investigation into the incident has revealed that the woman is from a village under Terlam mandal in the district and a student of a degree college in Vizianagaram. The police said that the woman is responding to treatment but is not yet in a position to explain what happened. Vizianagaram police chief B Raja Kumari also visited the spot where the woman was found and the hospital, and inquired into the health of the woman with doctors at the hospital. Meanwhile, police have pressed into service a clues team and a dog squad at the spot. Police said they are waiting for the statement of the woman before they intensify their investigation into the incident. Police have also visited the hometown of the victim in the meantime to check for possible reasons behind the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/degree-college-student-in-vzm-found-unconscious/articleshow/81279369.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||As Vizag goes to polls, locals seek a lasting solution to water woes||VISAKHAPATNAM: A chronic shortage of water ails Vizag city. Existing water sources, storage facilities, infrastructure and distribution network are hardly enough to meet the water needs of this ever-expanding city. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) currently supplies a combined 64 MGD water to both industries and households. This, is significantly less than the actual combined demand of nearly 90 MGD. The demand for water is likely to increase further, to 150–200 MGD, as the city’s population is projected to touch the 40 lakh-mark by 2040. Vizag’s water sources are rain-fed, placing additional burden on supply and use regulations in low-rain years. Water is supplied for between 45-60 minutes a day. But the lack of metering and other technical parameters makes it difficult to evaluate service delivery and efficiency. In recent years, GVMC has mooted several new initiatives to address the water crisis. However, there has hardly been much progress on those fronts. Pumping of water from Godavari to Yeleru reservoir through the newly-developed Purushottam Lift Irrigation Scheme is the only project to have materialised over the last few years. This project can keep Yeluru reservoir, the reservoir that meets most of the city’s water needs, at its maximum level round the year. Further, the GVMC is preparing a detailed project report (DPR) to lay a 220km-long separate pipeline from Polavaram to Vizag. But the high costs of the project, estimated to be around Rs 4,600 crore, could be a major deterrent. Additionally, the GVMC is also working on diverting around 50 MLD water from the canal near KBR pumphouse to Madhurawada and its surroundings through a pipeline. The GVMC is also planning to optimise water storage capacity of several tanks. The civic body seeks to improve the storage capacities of Tummidigedda reservoir near PM Palem and Gambheeram reservoir to address water shortage in the suburbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/as-vizag-goes-to-polls-locals-seek-a-lasting-solution-to-water-woes/articleshow/81279341.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cabby protest pushes fare through the roof||KOLKATA: A section of app-cab operators staged a protest on Monday against the heavy loss they have been incurring because of the rising diesel price. Though only a section of cab operators took part in the strike, there was an immediate impact on the fare. It turned out to be a nightmare for commuters who faced unnatural surge pricing of app cabs with the demand far exceeding the supply. Because of the unnatural rise in fuel price, many car owners opted for public transport, particularly app cabs. But most commuters were horrified to see no cab in their vicinity while booking. Many found they had been connected with cabs 11km-12km away and the expected fare was extremely high. “The fare was nearly five times the usual when I tried to book an app cab. It was Rs 570 instead of the usual Rs 120,” said Bratin Sarkar, a marketing executive. “Many cab operators supported us, though they were not our members. It is because our demands matched theirs,” said Arnab Giri, a executive committee member, joint council of luxury taxi association. Ola, Uber and App Cab Operators’ and Drivers’ Union general secretary Sheikh Manu said, “We held a meeting with the Uber authorities. They promised to give us some relief in view of the diesel price rise. We have told them that we will not switch on the AC with the current price per km. If they revise the fare, only then will we use the AC.” When one spokesperson of the two major app-cab aggregators was contacted, he said, “We will be looking into it. There is a cap on the surge price. We have to see the rationale behind such abnormal surge pricing. Generally, when the demand exceeds supply, the surge pricing acts as an incentive for cabbies to hit the road. The entire exercise is system driven and has no human intervention.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cabby-protest-pushes-fare-through-the-roof/articleshow/81279813.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Rakesh Singh denied bail; Pamela Goswami might have been framed, say Kolkata police||KOLKATA: An Alipore court on Monday turned down BJP leader Rakesh Singh’s bail plea after police told the court that his aides may be involved in framing the party’s Yuva Morcha leader Pamela Goswami and her friend Prabir Kumar Dey. Singh later rubbished this as a “concocted story cooked up by police”, alleging that he was being “framed-up”. Police said the arrest of Suraj Kumar Shah on Sunday has led to several revelations. The court remanded Singh, and the other accused Shah, in police custody till March 9. Goswami had on several occasions claimed she was a victim of a larger conspiracy and the cocaine had been “planted in her car”. She had accused Singh for this, a charge which Singh had constantly been denying. The cops told the Alipore court that there were five persons in the car which had reached New Alipore on February 20. They included Goswami, her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and her security guard Somnath Chatterjee. The car driver and a fifth person — Amrit Singh — were also present. Police said the driver was the first to step out to take a tea break. Amrit told the three others that he needed to change his jacket, said police. Goswami and two others then got off the car. On CCTV footage, Amrit was seen stooping down and changing the jacket. After that he stepped out. Cops claimed the 90 grams of cocaine was found exactly where Amrit had stooped down. The public prosecutor said they also have a footage showing Amrit travelling in an expensive car on February 18. “This is the same car that was used as a getaway vehicle by Singh when he was arrested at Galsi in Burdwan a few days later,” claimed a police source. The cops said once Amrit was out of the car, he crossed over to the opposite side of the road and escaped riding a Scooty that was arranged for him by Shah, who was arrested on Sunday. “Shah was instructed by Rakesh Singh to wait with a Scooty near the spot. Amrit, who is wanted in this case, escaped from the spot on the same Scooty with help of Suraj,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. The Scooty has been seized too. Police appealed to court to add Section 27 (A) of the NDPS Act along with the other charges against Singh, which deals with financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders. Francis Samson Correa, Singh’s lawyer, rubbished the charges in court. “Police have failed to find anything against Singh. They have seized two vehicles but found no iota of evidence. It is clear that he is being framed as they had not made any headway in investigations. We have cited Supreme Court orders that show that when nothing has been found on him, he is fit for bail. We said that if he gets bail, he can at least fight the elections. We also highlighted how he was assaulted in what the police said,” Correa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rakesh-denied-bail-pamela-might-have-been-framed-say-police/articleshow/81280681.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 2, 2021||Patna||RJD not to contest West Bengal elections, to support Mamata Banerjee||PATNA: ‘Disowning’ its Bihar ally Congress, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday announced his party’s “unconditional support” to Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress for the ensuing assembly elections in West Bengal. RJD has also decided not to field any candidate in the West Bengal elections. A day after ‘skipping’ a joint rally of CPM and Congress at Kolkata, Tejashwi met Mamata on Monday and appealed to people of Bihar domicile in West Bengal to vote for her party to “to defeat BJP”. “I appeal to all people from Bihar to support Mamata Ji and we will also use all our strength to support her. This election is about protecting Bengal and its culture and a fight to save its values. Our leader Lalu Prasad Ji wants this,” Tejashwi told reporters at Kolkata. RJD’s national principal general secretary and former minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui, who accompanied Tejashwi in the meeting with Mamata, told TOI that the party has decided not to field any candidate in order to “avoid any confusion”. “The party initially wanted to contest five to six seats but the proposal was dropped in order to avoid any confusion regarding our support to TMC for defeating BJP. The kind of politics being done by BJP in West Bengal can lead to dangerous situation, if it wins the election. RJD has been fighting and defeating such communal forces and will continue to do so in West Bengal,” Siddiqui said. He added: “It is not important to field candidates. It is important that we fight together. That is the reason we have extended support to TMC. They have welcomed our support and Mamata Ji has showed faith in Tejashwi in the fight against communal forces at national level.” RJD’s West Bengal election incharge and former Bihar minister Shyam Rajak said party functionaries and workers from Bihar will campaign for the TMC candidates. “It doesn’t matter whether the candidate is of TMC or RJD. Our common motive is to stop communal forces. Our leaders, including Tejashwi Ji, will campaign in this crucial election,” Rajak told TOI. When asked about “distance” with Congress in West Bengal, RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said: “The political scenario in every state is different. The party is of the view that Mamata Ji is strong enough to defeat BJP in West Bengal. Hence, we have extended our support to TMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-not-to-contest-bengal-elections-to-support-mamata/articleshow/81279374.cms||Piyush Tripathi
March 2, 2021||Patna||Stringent action against liquor ban violation, says Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday reiterated that there was no question of rollback on prohibition in the state and said more stringent action would be taken against the bootleggers. Talking to the media on the sidelines of his 70th birthday, Nitish said he has asked the DGP to identify those who were engaged in sale and consumption of liquor. “I think it is not impossible to identify such people. I have told the DGP to ensure proper action against such people,” Nitish said. The CM said such people both in and outside the state would be identified and brought to book. The process of ascertaining their identity is already underway, he asserted. Nitish said it was beyond doubt that majority was in favour of the liquor ban. Some people were trying to create hurdles, but they would not succeed in their ulterior motive. “Majority of the people still feel that liquor is a bad thing,” he said. The CM said he has asked the DGP to inspire people to get rid of the bad habit of consuming alcohol. If required, awareness campaigns should be launched for the purpose, he added. When told about the involvement of some policemen in bootlegging, he said, “Such people have to be kept under strict surveillance.” Nitish has made a former top cop-turned-MLA, Sunil Kumar, the minister of prohibition and excise department. “Now action is being taken not only against the carriers and dealers, but also against big liquor suppliers from outside the state. The minister has directed the police to go hammer and tongs against those violating the prohibition law,” a senior police officer posted at the state police's prohibition cell said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stringent-action-against-liquor-ban-violation-says-cm/articleshow/81279353.cms||Ramashankar
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||KMC removes concrete base from 4k trees after activists move court||Kolkata: Concrete structures built around the base of 4,128 trees in Kolkata have been demolished, the civic authority has told Calcutta High Court. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has, in its affidavit filed to the court, also stated that it has retained the concrete base around 510 trees since the trees were weak. The KMC affidavit followed a PIL moved by green action group PUBLIC after the base around trees along major roads in the city were paved with brick and mortar and then ceramic tiles were installed in a “beautification drive” that was led by civic councillors and supported by corporate houses that then advertised their brands on those tiles. In the PIL, Pradeep Kakkar of PUBLIC had contended that the construction around the trees was harmful and could cause serious injury to the trees, including the possibility of the them perishing. “The natural flexibility and balance of a tree is destroyed when a portion of the trunk is concretized. At these instances, it was being done to make space for advertisement,” he said. Seeing merit in the case, the court had admitted the PIL and thereafter ordered the demolition of the structures. It had also asked KMC to submit an action taken report. The civic body submitted two reports, one in March 2020 and another on January 27, 2021, in which it stated that construction around 4,128 tree bases had been removed. It also stated that the structures around 510 trees had been retained as the trees were vulnerable and could get uprooted if attempts were made to remove the structures now. Disposing the case, the bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee noted that, if necessary, further requisite action be taken. “Anything detrimental to the trees must be removed. We grant full liberty to the petitioner to approach the commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and apprise him if the petitioner comes across any such acts in future. If the commissioner is so approached, we are sure, holding a high public office, the commissioner will do everything necessary to redress the grievance of the petitioner, which will also be in public interest,” the bench observed. The court also placed on record its sincere apprecia-tion for the efforts taken by the petitioner to bring to the notice of this court an issue of “critical environmental importance”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-removes-concrete-base-from-4k-trees-after-activists-move-court/articleshow/81279831.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 2, 2021||Patna||Over 18L beneficiaries got aid under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana: Minister||PATNA: State rural development minister Shravan Kumar told the legislative council on Monday that the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme is being implemented properly in the state, and its progress monitored. The minister said staffers have been roped in on a contract basis to encourage beneficiaries to avail of the facility, and panchayats observe Awas Diwas every Wednesday. He was replying to a starred question raised by MLCs Radha Charan Sah and Ram Chandra Purbey on the issue of incomplete houses under Indira Awas Yojana and their report not available on the portal. Shravan told the Upper House that the Indira Awas Yojana was renamed Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin in 2016-17. He said from 2012-13 to 2015-16, the construction of 19.03 lakh houses were approved, and 18.03 lakh beneficiaries have got the first instalment. He said 13.67 lakh units are complete. He further said as per a letter from the Union ministry dated November 2017, there's a ban on giving the first instalment to new beneficiaries under the Indira Awas Yojana and only those houses which have received the first instalment will be completed. This means 4.35 lakh beneficiaries will not get money. Minister further said beneficiaries have to construct their houses themselves and they get the second or other instalments only after completing a certain determined level. Acting chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh told the Upper House that the video clippings of the proceedings will be made available to them the same day, which they could use on their social media. BJP MLC Rajneesh Kumar thanked the acting chairperson on behalf of all members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-18l-beneficiaries-got-aid-under-pradhan-mantri-awas-yojana-minister/articleshow/81279321.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||No compelling case to raze IIM-A dorms, say alumni||Ahmedabad: After architects, conservation experts, Indian and international organizations and academicians, a group of 350 alumni have backed the cause of conservation of the students' dorms of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A). The alumni, largely from the IIM-A’s flagship PGP programme, have dismissed any talks of bringing down these rare structures built by American architect Louis Kahn and have stepped forward to provide pro bono support to catalogue campus-wide issues such as falling ceiling slabs and provide/facilitate urgent repairs to ensure student safety in the near term while options are being reviewed. Some of the alumni members have in fact visited the campus recently to review the situation on ground and get first-hand information about the dorms and other rare structures built by architect Louis Kahn at the campus. The alumni have also reached out to top level Indian experts with domain and contextual knowledge who are willing to undertake a detailed review of the buildings and disclose the full report to the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-compelling-case-to-raze-iim-a-dorms-say-alumni/articleshow/81281354.cms||Maulik Pathak
March 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Five-day-long Urs-e-Shareef festival begins||Guntur: The annual Urs-e-Shareef festivities of renowned Sufi saint of the region, Hazrath Kale Mastan Sha Vali, commenced in Guntur city on Monday. Thousands of pilgrims of different faiths from across the state thronged the dargah from the early hours to offer prayers. The dargah management headed by trustee Raavi Rammohan Rao had made arrangements for one of the biggest religious events of the city. City police placed traffic restrictions on the highway passing through the dargah road by diverting vehicles entering and exiting the city. “This urs celebration of Hazrath Kale Mastan Sha Vali is an example of social unity and brotherhood. The harmonious coexistence of various religions, sects and beliefs is a magnificent heritage of our country,” said senior BJP leader and former minister Kanna Lakshminarayana. “Urs celebrations started with decoration of the tomb of Baba with sandalwood and procession of holy sandalwood to the dargah,” said trustee Rammohan Rao. Holy prasadam will be distributed on Tuesday, along with feeding the needy, Quran recitation and Gyarmi Sharif will be held on Wednesday and annadanam for fakirs on Thursday. Celebrations will come to an end on Friday with the installation of Baba’s chair in its place, the trustee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/five-day-long-urs-e-shareef-festival-begins/articleshow/81279562.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Business||NSE, BSE, deny tech glitch on Monday||Mumbai: The NSE and the BSE issued statements on Monday afternoon saying trading was uninterrupted after some traders went into a panic mode in the morning session following a tweet from HDFC Securities, which said it was halting trades due to a technology glitch on the NSE’s cash segment. Market players said they were extra cautious after last Wednesday’s tech glitch on the bourse that had halted trading for about five hours, leading to losses for a large number of day traders. After the initial panic situation, markets stabilised and the sensex closed with a gain of 750 points at 49,850 points with HDFC, HDFC Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank contributing the most.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nse-bse-deny-tech-glitch-on-monday/articleshow/81281127.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Patna||Primary classes witness good attendance on Day 1||PATNA: The primary classes (1 to 5) resumed on Monday after remaining closed for almost a year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Several schools registered good to moderate attendance on the first day. Patna district education officials said several schools in urban areas registered good attendance, but the turnout was low in rural schools. Baldwin Academy principal Rajiv Ranjan Sinha said around 90% of the scheduled students turned up on the first day. “I’m delighted that we have gained the parents’ trust. They saw all the safety arrangements we have made on the school premises,” he said. Some schools allowed students not only after checking temperatures, face mask and sanitizing their hands, but also offered them flowers and balloons.  Kids at Litera Valley School were greeted with balloons at the school gate. Principal Sharat Kumar Singh said, “It is our achievement that the parents have shown faith in school management because of which we saw 80% attendance in classes from 1 to 5 on the first day. We are expecting good turnout even on Tuesday as most of the parents have sent the consent letters for their wards to attend physical classes,” he said.  Secretary of Krishna Niketan and Patna Central School, Coomar Arunodaya, said there was 70% attendance but it would improve in the next few days. “Both the schools would take feedback from parents and students to further decide about the measures to be taken,” he said. Many private schools are yet to complete their arrangements for students, whereas some would start the primary classes from the new academic session. Headmistress of St Michael’s Primary School, Vishakha Sinha, said the primary classes would resume from March 8 as the exams of other classes have been taking place. Classes for primary students at Notre Dame Academy would resume on March 2 while classes for 1 to 5 at Mt Carmel High School would start in the new academic session from April 6. Several other missionary schools have also decided to take online exams for primary classes for the current session and reopen in the upcoming academic year only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/primary-classes-witness-good-attendance-on-day-1/articleshow/81279133.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 2, 2021||Patna||J&K terror outfits hiring youths from Seemanchal region||PATNA: Some J&K-based terrorist outfits are hiring youths from Seemanchal region allegedly for terror funding. Initial investigation revealed that the youths were paid handsome money as 'commission' for transporting counterfeit Indian currency notes from Nepal to J&K. The startling fact came to light during interrogation of one Md. Parvez (20), who was arrested by the SSB from Leti border outpost area along Indo-Nepal border in Araria district. Counterfeit currency notes in denominations of Rs. 200 and Rs. 500 worth Rs.1.65 lakh were seized from his possession. During interrogation, Parvez revealed that he used to deposit the money in the bank accounts of some people from J&K and Maharashtra with the help of incharge of customer service points of private banks. The account numbers were obtained from his mobile phone, which was seized by the police. Brajesh Kumar Singh, the second in command of the 52nd battalion of the SSB, said that Parvez was caught while trying to enter Indian territory from Nepal on a motorbike. Though he tried to fee after seeing the cops, he was arrested after a hot pursuit, he added. Parvez, a resident of ward number 13 under Sikti police station area in Araria district, was handed over to the district police after initial questioning. The Sikti police lodged a case against him for being involved in circulation of fake currency notes in the state and outside. Sikti police station SHO Om Prakash said that Parvez used to obtain the consignment of fake Indian currency notes from a jeweller of Rangeli in Nepal. His elder brother Md Tavrez was involved in the trade for a long time, the SHO quoted Parvez as saying. The SHO said that IB officials and other security agencies also quizzed Parvez. “The details of transaction of money from the bank accounts are being obtained from the banks concerned,” Om Prakash said. Parvez also disclosed the names of about half-a-dozen youths who are engaged in the deal of counterfeit notes in Seemanchal region. A senior police officer said that some documents related to the two brothers' travel to J&K were also seized by the police. DIG, SSB, Purnia sector, Sanjay Kumar Sarangi told the media that vigil on Nepal border has been intensified after the recovery of fake currency notes from a resident of Araria district. Mukesh Kumar Singh Munda, second in command of SSB's 56th battalion deployed at Jogbani, said that round-the-clock patrolling was being carried out in the areas considered to be sensitive from security point of view. This is not an isolated case. Earlier, Md Javed, a resident of Saran district, was arrested last month for his connections with some arms dealers of J&K and also for supplying weapons to Jaish-e-Mohammad, a terrorist group. In addition, six Afghan nationals were also arrested from Katihar district on charges of hawala racket. Authoritative sources said that the Union ministry of home affairs recently sent a letter to the state government asking the latter to keep a strict surveillance on the districts close to Nepal border. Reliable sources in the state police headquarters said that alert has been sounded in border districts in the wake of upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jk-terror-outfits-hiring-youths-from-seemanchal-region/articleshow/81279207.cms||Ramashankar
March 2, 2021||Allahabad||HC: Unless acquitted, murder accusedwoman can’t get custody of her child||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has held that a mother accused of killing her husband cannot be given custody of her minor daughter, considering the welfare of the child, unless she is acquitted in the case. While dismissing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Gyanmati Kushwaha and another, Justice JJ Munir observed that if the mother is acquitted in the murder case by the concerned court, she would have the right to move court for her daughter’s custody, which would then be decided in accordance with law. The court passed this order in a habeas corpus writ petition filed by a woman residing in Mumbai, who had alleged that on May 11, 2018 her husband came to his native place at Jhansi while she stayed back in Mumbai. Later, she received a call from one Kamal Kushwaha, her husband’s maternal uncle, on May 13, 2018 that some unknown person had killed her husband. However, when she reached Jhansi with her daughter, she was falsely implicated in her husband’s murder case and was arrested while her daughter was taken away by her husband’s maternal uncle. Since then the child was in his custody. Hence, she filed the present habeas corpus writ petition seeking custody of her minor daughter, Drisha Kushwaha, aged about two years. The court while deciding the petition considered the issue that whether in the interest of the child, mother can be denied her custody only on possibility that she might be involved in the murder of her husband. After hearing rival submissions, the court observed, “This court assumes that the possibility of conviction may be remote or not so remote, but the possibility is there. The existence of this possibility and the adverse impact of the event, if it were to come to pass, would far outweigh the transitory benefit the minor would derive from her mother’s care and company.” “This facet of the matter apart, the possibility that the mother might truly be a conspirator in her husband’s murder, predicates a personality which would not be beneficial for the minor in grooming her about her moral values - a very important aspect of a child’s welfare. On the other hand, if the mother is innocent and she is acquitted, the loss, the minor would suffer on account of deprivation of her mother’s care and custody, cannot be re-compensated, but nevertheless, it is a reverse that must be accepted for the minor’s surer welfare, in preference to a contingent better, fraught with risk,” the court further observed while denying custody to the mother. The court gave this decision on February 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-unless-acquitted-murder-accusedwoman-cant-get-custody-of-her-child/articleshow/81279226.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Patna||Brace for summer as temp set to soar over next fortnight||PATNA: The summer, called pre-monsoon season in meteorological parlance, started on Monday and the weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre claimed that above normal temperature readings are expected over the next fortnight. The mercury is already several notches higher than the normal levels. For instance, the maximum temperature at Patna on Monday was 33.2 degrees C, which is five notches higher than the corresponding normal. The minimum temperature was also recorded five notches above normal, and it is now nearing the 20-degree mark, 18.6 to be precise. Shailendra Kumar Patel, a meteorologist at the Patna centre, said, on Monday that the maximum temperature in the state is likely to be between 32-34 degrees C, which is 2 to 4 degrees C more than the long term average temperature. "Similarly, the minimum is also likely to be in the range of 14 to 16 degrees C, which is again two notches higher than the average temperature," Patel said. He has, however, predicted some respite from high temperature with the occasional thunderstorm. The onset of summer was also preceded by higher temperature readings last winter. "Mean maximum and minimum temperatures in February were 26.9 and 12.8 degrees C, which were higher than the corresponding readings in February last, which stood at 25.1 and 11.6 degrees C respectively. Thus, February 2021 was a bit warmer than February 2020," Patel said. Bhagalpur and Rohtas remained the warmest places in February. The reason for higher temperature is attributed to the absence of western disturbance, which brings rain or thunderstorm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/brace-for-summer-as-temp-set-to-soar-over-next-fortnight/articleshow/81279169.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Forest dept on alert after Nainital residents spot knots severed from trees near Tiffin Top||Nainital: Residents of Nainital out on morning walks on the trail leading to Tiffin Top have been noticing deep gashes on centuries-old trees, the knots on them appeared to have been sliced off using electric saws. Saying it was the first time they had seen damaged trees on the highly-frequented trail (Tiffin Top being a popular tourist destination of the lake town), residents said they suspected smugglers and had alerted the forest department. Dhruv Sah, a resident of Nainital, said, “I go on daily morning walks to Tiffin Top. The last time I went, a shopkeeper told me Kimau (lime) trees near the trail have been cut by smugglers. I took photos and informed other residents.” Anup Sah, a Nainital-based environmentalist, informed the forest department. “Knots of Kimau trees sell for over Rs 2 lakh, which is why smuggling of these is very common in higher reaches but it’s the first time we are seeing it here. The trees have been cut near a busy tourist spot. We suspect more such trees have been cut inside the forest,” Sah said. Sah added that being over 100 years old, almost all of the trees are heritage. “These trees are very old and sturdy and therefore we have urged the forest department to look into this issue on priority. We have also requested them to search other areas and see if any trees have been harmed there,” Sah said. The forest department assured that it had received the complaint and was working on curbing the practice. Nainital divisional forest officer (DFO) TR Bijulal said, “Several residents have brought the complaint to us and our team has already visited the spot. We are investigating the issue and the entire forest staff in the area is on alert.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-dept-on-alert-after-nainital-residents-spot-knots-severed-from-trees-near-tiffin-top/articleshow/81298722.cms||Prashant Jha
March 2, 2021||Bhopal||Schools can’t bar students from exam over fees: Madhya Pradesh government||BHOPAL: No student can be denied appearance in examinations if his or her school fee were not paid during the Coronavirus-induced pandemic period. This was specified by minister of state for school education Inder Singh Parmar while answering a question by BJP MLA from Mahidpur constituency Bahadur Singh Chouhan in the state assembly on Monday. Parmar also said that district collectors will once again be sent an order on Monday to take action against schools that are forcefully taking fees from parents of students for the months during which schools were shut. The minister of state said, “Whether CBSE or state board, the government has given orders that if online classes have been held then only tuition fees can be taken. No other additional fee can be charged. We will send a letter to all district collectors again today for action against such schools that are forcefully extorting fees.” During Question Hour on Monday, Bahadur Singh Chouhan raised the issue of two schools in his constituency — Ji Maa Vaishno Convent School in Jharda and Bharatiya Madhyamik Vidyalaya in Banbana. The MLA asked the minister to end recognition of the schools because the parent of a student was beaten-up since he could not pay the fee. “Not only was he beaten, he was also locked up,” the MLA alleged. He claimed there are many irregularities committed by the owner of these two schools and one of the two schools is hardly nine feet away from a petrol pump. “There is only a boundary separating the petrol pump from the school,” Bahadur Singh Chouhan told the House. He said the petrol pump was set up much before the school. Hence, there should be action against officials who permitted the construction of the school. Bahadur Singh Chouhan’s question was supported by MLAs from the Opposition Congress. Former finance minister Tarun Bhanot said, “In the whole of Madhya Pradesh, schools are forcing parents to pay fees for the Corona affected months.” Another former minister and MLA from Bhopal South-West constituency PC Sharma said, “Children are not being permitted to appear for examinations if their fees have not been paid.” BJP MLA from Timarni assembly seat Sanjay Shah pointed out that even the big corporate schools are demanding fees for Corona affected months when the school was closed. Speaker Girish Gautam told the minister that many MLAs are concerned with the fee extraction of schools and asked the minister to look into the matter. Regarding the two schools in Mahidpur, minister of state Inder Singh Parmar said that the department has found many irregularities in the schools. Bahadur Singh Chouhan asked for suspension of the officials who gave permission for construction of the schools. The minister said action will be taken but the department will follow set procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/schools-cant-bar-students-from-exam-over-fees-govt/articleshow/81278863.cms||Suchandana Gupta
March 2, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM to flag off eight electric buses today||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar would flag off electric buses on four different routes in the state on Tuesday. The Bihar State Road Transport Corporation Ltd (BSRTC) will run the zero emission e-buses on pilot basis. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said eight eco-friendly buses will be inaugurated by the CM. The trial run of the e-buses was held in Patna on Sunday, he added. Four buses will ply from Bankipore bus depot near Gandhi Maidan to Danapur via Bailey Road (route number 111A), two from Gandhi Maidan to airport (route number 100) and one each to Rajgir and Muzaffarpur. Agarwal said the minimum and maximum fare on route number 111A would be Rs20 and Rs45, respectively. “While Rs150 would be charged for a single trip to and from Rajgir via Bakhtiyarpur and Muzaffarpur via Hajipur. Patna-Muzaffarpur bus would depart at 8am whereas the one for Rajgir would leave Patna at 8.30am,” he said. For the e-buses between Gandhi Maidan and airport, the passengers have to shell out Rs100. The department has set the target to procure 25 e-buses, of which 12 have delivered by the firm. “The remaining 13 buses would reach Bihar by March-end. The selected firm would provide trained drivers for e-buses and also look into the maintenance of vehicles,” the secretary said. The charging infrastructure with the capacity of 1,200KW for the e-buses has been created at the upcoming Transport Complex in Phulwarisharif near Patna airport. Altogether eight charging points have been installed by the firm, including six of 120kW and two of 240 KW. Agarwal said one each charging point will also come up at Rajgir bus stand, Dangi Tola and Muzaffarpur bus depot. The 45-seater airconditioned e-buses are equipped with the modern technology, including panic button, mobile charging points, CCTV cameras, public address system, speed governor and fire safety device among others. There will be 65% seat reservation for women in e-buses. The BSRTC has procured 25 e-buses on the basis of a tripartite agreement signed by the central government, Patna Smart City Limited and the state government. The central government has provided funds under the FAME II scheme (Fast Adoption and Manufacture of Electric Vehicles). Transport department would also launch 70 deluxe, semi-deluxe and luxury buses on the occasion to connect the state capital with all 37 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-to-flag-off-eight-electric-buses-today/articleshow/81279229.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 2, 2021||Patna||Private hospitals in Bihar ready to roll out vaccine drive||PATNA: With the state government announcing to bear the cost of Covid-19 vaccinations at private hospitals in Bihar, the 50 selected private health facilities are going all out with online and offline registrations for the vaccination drive that began on Monday. Around 40 people in the 45-59 age group with comorbid conditions, registered at Mahavir Vatsalya Hospital in Patna on Monday. Hospital director Dr SN Sinha said for spot registration, a separate counter has been opened for the vaccination drive. Those seeking registration have to produce their contact number and the photocopy of one of the identity card- the Aadhaar card and PAN card. “An I-T team has also been set up by the state health department at hospital premises to assist people for the online registration for the vaccine drive. People who have registered on Monday would get the first dose of vaccine on Tuesday,” Sinha said. Altogether 50 private hospitals and clinics have been selected by the health department for the new phase of the vaccination drive, including 12 session sites in Patna. Dr Shashwat Kumar, neurosurgeon and owner of Medipark Healthcare Pvt Ltd told this newspaper that on-the-spot registration at the counter would likely begin on March 3 as the necessary arrangement has been made. “People who wish to be vaccinated have to produce the self-attested photocopy of their Aadhaar card and they would receive a one-time password on their registered contact number for the vaccine registration,” he said. He added, “The online self-registration has started on Co-WIN 2.0 portal from Monday and more than 200 people have registered for the vaccination.” Sachin Kumar, an executive of KP Sinha Memorial Super Speciality Hospital, said a government recognised identity card and mobile number are required for spot registration at the hospital from March 3. “We are waiting for more information from the state health department to start the registration for the vaccination drive for people above 60 years of age and people between 45 and 59 with specified 20 comorbidities,” he said. Aditya Shekhar, administrative officer of Netaji Subhas Medical College and Hospital, Bihta, said people have to register themselves on Co-WIN 2.0 portal for the vaccination on which they can free to choose the health centre. “We have not started offline registration so far, however, the hospital administration with the help of its marketing team would start the awareness camp for the vaccination. Our target is to vaccinate 100 people per day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-hospitals-ready-to-roll-out-vaccine-drive/articleshow/81279117.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 2, 2021||Business||SBI, Kotak cut home loan rates to new lows||MUMBAI: In a bid to grab as many home loan customers as possible before the fiscal year ends, State Bank of India (SBI) and Kotak Mahindra Bank have sweetened their offer in this segment by cutting interest rates by up to 10 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). SBI now offers home loans of up to Rs 75 lakh for as low as 6.7% (to women salaried borrowers) — the cheapest rate ever offered by the bank. SBI also continues to waive processing fees on all home loan applications. Kotak Mahindra Bank said that it would offer home loans for rates starting at 6.65% for both new purchases and balance transfers — also its lowest rate ever. Home loans are the only drivers of credit growth for banks and lenders are expecting a jump in the last month as some of the schemes offered by state authorities, such as relaxation on stamp duty, end in March. While Kotak Bank’s rate is lower than SBI, it has a much smaller distribution footprint compared to the country’s largest bank and is a relatively smaller player in home loans. “The earlier best rate was 6.8%, and now it is 6.7%. Earlier, there were three slabs, including one for loans up to Rs 30 lakh. Now we have one rate for loans up to Rs 75 lakh and another for larger loans,” said SBI deputy MD (retail business) Saloni Narayan. “A person with a credit score of 775 will get home loans at 6.8%. If they source the loan through Yono, there is a further 5bps discount. If the borrower is a woman, the rate will be a further 5bps lower at 6.7%,” she said. These rates are applicable to salaried borrowers, and there is a small premium for non-salaried borrowers. SBI announced its offer on the day it crossed the milestone of Rs 1-lakh-crore disbursement of home loans in FY21. The total home loan portfolio was Rs 5 lakh crore as on January 31. “We should end the year at Rs 5.12 lakh crore. Year on year we have grown 10%, and the number of loans disbursed month on month have increased with up to 1,300 proposals a day being processed,” Narayan added. The bank plans to increase disbursement of home loans by reducing the current turnaround time of five days where there is a builder tie-up, and also reduce the 12-day timeline for when there is no such tie-up. “We are rolling out a retail loan management system next month and improving the strength of loan-sourcing teams,” said Narayan. She added that the bank was going the omni-channel way to distribute home loans by giving customers the option to seek loans through missed calls, through branches, online or through representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-kotak-cut-home-loan-rates-to-new-lows/articleshow/81281081.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Business||Star Thermal offers Rs 1,200 crore for power company||MUMBAI: Three weeks after JSW Energy terminated its offer for the bankrupt Ind-Barath Energy (Utkal), a Middle Eastern group with diversified businesses has evinced interest in the asset. Star Thermal, a part of SFG International Group, has quoted Rs 1,200 crore for Utkal — 26% higher than JSW’s Rs 950-crore offer. Utkal owns a 700MW under-construction thermal power plant in Odisha. Of the total bid amount, Star Thermal plans to infuse Rs 500 crore in Utkal within a year of the deal closure to complete the development of the first phase of the plant. In its letter to Utkal’s resolution professional, Star Thermal said that it is part of a group having presence in energy, infrastructure, mining and trading, but it does not have a major play in India. “We would like to enter into the Indian market by taking over large stressed assets and turning them around,” read the letter signed by Star Thermal’s director S Kamban. “Our aim is to play a vital role in the stressed assets sector, especially in power generation and steel. The proposed acquisition would be the first step in conjunction with our India goals and post-acquisition will release synergies with our international operations,” stated Kamban. Utkal’s resolution professional declined to comment on the report, while Star Thermal could not be reached for immediate comments. The insolvency process against Utkal is admitted to the Hyderabad bench of the NCLT. Besides JSW, Vedanta had also shown interest in Utkal. JSW subsequently terminated its offer for Utkal, invoking the material adverse change clause. The under-construction Utkal power plant has raw material linkages from Mahanadi Coalfields, a Coal India arm, and has power purchase agreements with Odisha and Tamil Nadu states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/star-thermal-offers-rs-1200cr-for-power-co/articleshow/81280866.cms||Reeba Zachariah
March 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Vaccine drive phase II starts but technical glitches mar day 1||VISAKHAPATNAM: Technical glitches with one-time-passwords (OTP) and slots, lack of awareness over registration and confusion over vaccination centres hampered phase II of the Covid-19 vaccination process that commenced for those aged 60 and above and persons with comorbidities (aged between 45 and 59) in Andhra Pradesh on Monday. In fact, the registration process only started after 9 am on Monday, leading to a sudden burden on servers. Many, who were waiting in line for the jab, had to return home as technical issues halted the process in the afternoon in cities like Vijayawada. However, health officials said the response from senior citizens was encouraging as several people had lined up for the mass inoculation drive. Several private hospitals designated as vaccination centres did not start the inoculation process for the two categories on Monday. Private hospitals have been asked to pay upfront an amount of Rs 15,000 to avail 10 vaccine vials. They can charge a maximum of Rs 250 per dose from recipients. The state health department has identified 432 government hospitals and 92 private facilities, empanelled under the Aarogyasri scheme, for the vaccination process. But, onsite registration for the vaccine was not allowed in the state on Monday on account of the ongoing vaccination drive for medical personnel and frontline staff. Meanwhile, several users complained of technical issues with the CoWIN online portal and the Aarogya Setu app, which prevented them from registering for the vaccine. Moreover, persons with comorbidities had to produce a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner to get the vaccine. State health officials said the process will be streamlined within a day or two as registration for vaccination started only Monday morning. “There were some initial technical issues. However, they have been sorted out in a few hours. Lack of awareness over registration has also led to the poor response,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vaccine-drive-phase-ii-starts-but-tech-glitches-mar-day-1/articleshow/81279316.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Reshuffle of corporator candidates creates stir||VIJAYAWADA: A decision by a few political parties to change candidates with days left for the municipal polls has come as a shock to those who had already filed nominations and were waiting to receive B-forms to confirm their candidature. In several divisions in the city, two or more candidates had filed nominations on YSRC, TDP or Jana Sena tickets. Candidates had been announced in March 2020 but elections were put on hold with the Covid-19 outbreak. When the election process resumed this year with the withdrawal of nominations, many candidates were hoping to receive the B-form. However, corporator candidates were shuffled at the last moment. Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu supported the candidature of the wife of deceased YSRC candidate Murthy Mahavishnu from the 30th division. But the party high command changed the candidate and instead gave a ticket to senior leader Jana Reddy, sparking a controvery. Meanwhile, some TDP aspirants staged a protest outside MP Kesineni Nani’s office in the city, demanding they be given B-forms. Several TDP candidates filed nominations in divisions allocated to the CPI and are pressurising the party high command for B-forms. In contrast, a number of candidates from the Jana Sena and BJP are yet to start their campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/reshuffle-of-corporator-candidates-creates-stir/articleshow/81279582.cms||Venu Lanka
March 2, 2021||Patna||‘Punitive action against farmers burning stubble’||PATNA: State agriculture minister Amarendra Pratap Singh told the assembly on Monday that punitive action would be taken against farmers who resort to stubble burning as it causes pollution, and remains of the burnt stubble lead to soil degradation. Singh also said the state government has given its sanction to the new agriculture investment promotion policy (2020) to attract private investors to the food processing sector in areas such as makhana, fruits, vegetables, honey, medicinal plants, maize, tea and seeds farming. The government has provided for 15% subsidy on the project cost of private investors and 25% subsidy to farmers' producer organisations (FPOs), he added. The agriculture minister dwelt at length on environmental pollution and soil degradation caused by stubble burning. Citing the case of Punjab, Singh said the depletion of underground water resources, the cultivation of water-intensive crops, use of chemical inputs and stubble burning together for the last several decades have reduced the strength of the soil in Punjab. “There are indications that if corrective measures are not taken, then aridity will develop in the land of Punjab,” he also said. Singh was giving the government’s reply to the House debate on the Rs 3,335.47 crore budgetary demand of the agriculture department which the House passed by voice vote. The opposition members walked out of the House. Earlier, Congress member Vijay Shankar Dubey had moved the cut motion to initiate the debate. Singh also said the abrogation of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act by the Nitish Kumar government had resulted in increased income for farmers as they had increased the production of cereals, maize and pulses multi-fold in the last 15 years. It helped the state win the Krishi Karman award from the Centre five times. “It is a big deal,” he said, adding the state government has also provided support to the farmers to tide over the crisis caused by floods. Since 2005-06, the production of rice had increased from 37.08 lakh metric tonne to 69.53 lakh MT in 2019-20, that of wheat from 28.23 lakh MT to 55.79 lakh MT during the same period, and the maize production increased from 15.20 lakh MT to 34.95 lakh MT. During the same period the productivity of the three crops had also nearly doubled, Singh also said. As to providing support to farmers, Singh said agriculture input subsidy worth Rs 2,741.47 crore had been given to 61.93 lakh farmers in three years during 2018-21 through the DBT method, coupled with diesel subsidy of Rs 444.07 crore to 40.39 lakh farmers and input subsidy worth Rs 10.45 crore for organic farming to 20,000 farmers who have formed their groups, while Rs 7,503.79 crore has been given to 80.68 lakh farmers under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. “They add up to Rs 10,699.78 crore,” Singh added. As the climatic conditions had adversely affected the farm sector, Singh said climate compliant farming activities was introduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/punitive-action-against-farmers-burning-stubble/articleshow/81280010.cms||Abhay Singh
March 2, 2021||Patna||Patna University to start first semester PG classes from March 5||PATNA: Classes of PG first semester students in all the faculties of Patna University (PU) shall start on March 5 with 50 per cent attendance and full Covid protocol. According to a notification issued by PU on Monday, all the postgraduate departments would be organizing induction meet of new entrants before starting their classes. Some departments have already held such meets, said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha. PU has also notified that all pending admissions in its undergraduate and postgraduate courses would be completed latest by March 10. At present, some PG departments are busy admitting students against seats reserved for those having proficiency in sports and fine arts and also for the wards of teachers and non-teaching staff of the university. Jha said the allotment of hostel accommodation to the new students would also be finalized within a week. While the allotment of hostels to the undergraduate students is being done by college-level hostel allotment committees, the process in PG hostels is being done by the university administration itself. The university had asked the students to apply online for hostel accommodation. Now all the applications have been scrutinized and the allotment of hostels has been started on merit-cum-choice basis. PU provides hostel accommodation to hardly 15 per cent of its students. It has got nearly 20,000 students on its roll, but not more than 3500 of them are accommodated in hostels meant for undergraduate and postgraduate students, said the dean. Jha further pointed out that the principals of the colleges have been asked to renew the allotment of hostels to second and third year students as their classes have already started. They have also been asked to allot hostel accommodation to the new first year undergraduate students on the basis of merit, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-to-start-first-semester-pg-classes-from-march-5/articleshow/81279204.cms||B K Mishra
March 2, 2021||Business||Companies may get new rules on independent directors||MUMBAI: Sebi is proposing to make the process of appointment and resignation of independent directors more transparent. The markets regulator plans to make it mandatory that minority shareholders should separately approve such appointments. Additionally, in case of exits, the entire letter of resignation by those directors should be made public. Sebi is also proposing that instead of profit-linked commissions, independent directors should be remunerated through long-duration stock options. On Monday, Sebi published a consultation paper on the issue and invited comments from the public by April 1. The paper noted that an independent director should be appointed and also removed through a process of dual approvals where a majority of all shareholders should agree. Then, the ‘majority of minority’ shareholders should also approve the same. Currently, an independent director is appointed if a majority of shareholders, which include the promoter and non-promoter shareholders, give their approval. Under the proposed structure, minority shareholders should separately also approve such an appointment. The same process should be followed in case of removal of an independent director, Sebi said. The consultation paper also proposes that in case an independent director resigns, the full text of the letter of resignation should be disclosed to the stock exchanges. At present, although companies are bound to disclose the resignation of an independent director, revealing the full text of the letter is not mandatory. The consultation paper further proposes that if a company wants to appoint an independent director, it should take prior approval of shareholders for the same or within three months of such an appointment. Currently, companies could make such an appointment and wait till the next general meeting to get shareholders’ approval. According to J Sagar Associates partner Arka Mookerjee, some of these suggestions may increase the compliance burden on companies. But, Mookerjee added, Sebi’s move to increase the relative involvement of the independent director in a listed entity will ultimately help broad-base corporate governance norms in Indian entities. “Read together with the qualification requirements for independent directors brought in by Sebi previously, these moves have the capacity to increase the independent oversight of Indian listed entities,” Mookerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-may-get-new-rules-on-independent-directors/articleshow/81281385.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Business||All engines of demand starting to fire, says RBI||MUMBAI: The RBI’s state of the economy note has said that there is economic recovery with drop in Covid cases and “all engines of aggregate demand are starting to fire”. The central bank has also said that the only thing missing is private sector investment as even bank credit has started to pick up steam. “Economic activity is gaining steam as Covid incidence recedes and the ongoing vaccine rollout releases pent-up optimism,” the RBI said. One of the indicators of improved demand was the rise in power consumption. Peak power demand touched a new high, hitting 189.6GW on January 30 and surpassing all previous records. Electricity consumption continued to expand through January and February this year for the fifth and sixth successive months, growing at 4.8% and 7.3%, respectively. The household survey of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) finds that employment conditions improved through January 2021, with average employment rate inching up to 37.9% from 36.9% a month ago.  “Sectors like real estate, construction and services, which suffered employment losses during the lockdown, have evidently recovered to pre-Covid levels,” the report said. “In terms of nominal GDP, 96% of pre-pandemic economic activity has been restored, assuming that the National Statistical Office’s first advance estimates hold,” said the report co-authored by RBI deputy governor Michael Patra and his colleagues. On the external front, India’s merchandise exports held on to their upward trajectory, growing by 6.2% (year-on-year) in January 2021 — the second consecutive month of expansion. Non-oil exports grew 11.5%, marking the fifth straight month of expansion. Noting that in the race between infections and injections, vaccinations are gathering pace, the RBI has said that India is taking the road less travelled in three ways. First, there has been a drop in the number of infections. Second, there is a view gaining ground that crowded cities and towns may be in the early stages of herd immunity. Third, age is on the side of the country with 95% of the population below the age of 65.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/all-engines-of-demand-starting-to-fire-says-rbi/articleshow/81280834.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Patna||Maoist sub-zonal commander surrenders in Gaya||GAYA: An active sub-zonal commander of the Maoists, Sanjay Singh Bhokta alias Rakesh (30), surrendered before senior police and the administrative officials at the CRPF headquarters in Gaya on Monday. Rakesh was active in Maoists’ organization in Chhakarbandha area of Bankebazar area of the district for the last five years. He has been made named accused in at least five cases lodged with different police stations in Gaya and Aurangabad districts. He is also an accused in the killing of chowkidar of Amas police station in 2018, IED blast at Pachrukhiya under the Madanpur police station area of Aurangabad district in 2019 in which a CRPF SI was killed. During interaction with the mediapersons after his surrender, Rakesh said, “After joining the Maoist organization, my life was under constant threat and problems for my family members had increased manifold. I was also a victim of misbehaviour in the organization. However, I was promised a house. But nothing came true. Hence I decided to abandon the organization and contacted the security personnel with a request for safe exit.” CRPF director general (DG) Hemant Priyadarshi, who was present in Gaya during Rakesh’s surrender said, “All help as per the rehabilitation policy of state government would be provided to Rakesh and his family. Regarding the charges levelled against him in the cases lodged, a transparent trial and investigation would be conducted to ensure justice to him.” On this occasion, Magadh range IG Amit Lodha, CRPF Patna range DIG Sanjay Kumar, CRPF 159 batallion commandant Nishit Kumar, COBRA 205 battalion commandant Dilip Srivastava, Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, SSP Aditya Kumar besides other police and administrative officials were also present. It is worth mentioning here that security personnel had recovered 83 IEDs planted under the ‘kuchcha road’ in Chhakarbandha area on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maoist-sub-zonal-commander-surrenders-in-gaya/articleshow/81279180.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Varanasi||2 die after consuming hooch in Mirzapur||Varanasi: Two persons died after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in Nevadhiya village under Dehat Kotwali limits in Mirzapur district on Sunday night. “After the incident came to light on Monday morning, massive raids were carried out and an illegal hooch manufacturing unit was also unearthed with the arrest of its operator,” said ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan. After taking stock of situation in Nevadhiya village, divisional commissioner Mirzapur, Yogeshwar Ram Mishra said on the basis of initial investigation, local outpost in-charge and beat constable have been suspended while district magistrate Mirzapur has also ordered a magisterial probe into the matter. Officials were also asked to check the role of excise department in this episode. According to Mirzapur police, Dehat Kotwali was alerted about the deaths of Mahesh Nishad (35) and Chhedi Nishad (55) of Nevadhiya village on Sunday night after consuming spurious liquor on Saturday evening. This news of alleged hooch killing brought the officials on their toes, as apart from Dehat Kotwali cops and circle officer Sadar, many senior officers including commissioner, DM Pravin Kumar Lakshkar and SP Ajay Kumar Singh also reached the spot. During initial investigation of police, the family members of killed persons including Ramchandra Mallah said both of them had consumed liquor on Saturday evening after which they fell ill. Following deterioration in their health condition on Sunday morning, they were rushed to the hospital but they died during the treatment. ADG said after getting these details, police lodged an FIR in this connection and sent the bodies for postmortem. After the incident, police carried out massive raids during which an illegal hooch manufacturing unit was found operating at the place of one Gopinath Mishra, who has old history sheet with Mirzapur police. After it was found that hooch manufacturing continued at this unit, cops seized all the articles and arrested Mishra. As the hooch was manufactured by the same person, who had old criminal history with local police, including cases of his involvement in trade of hooch in the past, the local outpost in-charge Shyam Narain Singh and beat constable Manjay Kumar were suspended, said ADG. After taking stock of the spot, the commissioner said magisterial probe has already been ordered following suspension of two cops while postmortem examination was conducted by a panel of senior doctors. He said that postmortem report will clear whether the deaths had been caused due to consumption of hooch or not. The role of the excise department officials in this episode was also being probed. In view of tension gripping the area, heavy police force was deployed in Nevadhiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/2-die-after-consuming-hooch-in-mirzapur/articleshow/81278601.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Patna||PM, Shah among others greet Nitish on birthday||PATNA: Greetings and birthday wishes poured in from politicians as well as common people as chief minister Nitish Kumar turned 70 on Monday. “Best wishes to Bihar CM @NitishKumar Ji on his birthday. Under his leadership the NDA Government in Bihar is undertaking numerous measures for developing the state. Praying for his long and healthy life,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted in the morning. JD(U) members marked the day as ‘Vikas Diwas’ and distributed milk, sweets and stationery on the occasion. Members of both Vidhan Parishad and Vidhan Sabha also extended their greetings to Nitish, who thanked everyone with folded hands in both the Houses. Bihar Vidhan Parishad acting chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh expressed his desire to celebrate Nitish’s birthday as ‘Vikas Diwas’ every year. “It is a thing of pride for all of us that the respected CM is a member of this House. I wish his birthday to be celebrated as Vikas Diwas every year,” said Awadhesh after which members thumped their desks. BJP MLC Sanjay Mayukh made a proposal to name an auditorium in either of the House after Nitish. RJD MLC Ram Chandra Purbey, in a lighter vein, asked Nitish for a return gift while his party colleague Sunil Kumar Singh requested the CM to offer the members a slice of cake. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary replied that the CM has already taken Covid-19 vaccine on his birthday and Purbey too should take it as a return gift. Big posters dotted the state capital with birthday greetings for Nitish. At JD(U) office, the party’s women cell celebrated the day by cutting a 70 pound cake and praying for Nitish’s good health. The programme was convened by JD(U) women cell incharge and spokesperson Suheli Mehta. Some of the senior leaders who extended their greetings included home minister Amit Shah, deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, JD(U) national president RCP Singh, Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Piyush Goyal, Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha and RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha. Leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap also wished Nitish good health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-shah-among-others-greet-nitish-on-birthday/articleshow/81279126.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 2, 2021||Patna||Protesters, cops injured in clash near Gandhi Maidan||PATNA: At least half a dozen protesters trying to remove the barricades near Gandhi Maidan were injured when police resorted to baton charge on Monday. Three police personnel, including ASP (law and order) Swarna Prabhat and Gandhi Maidan police station SHO Ranjeet Vats, also received injuries in the stone pelting by the protesters owing allegiance to AISA and Inqilabi Naujawan Sabha and demanding government jobs and waiving off the application fee charged from the job aspirants. The battle between the police and the protesters continued for nearly two hours. The bricks and stones strewn on the road bore testimony to the hooliganism. Some CPI(ML) legislators, including Sandip Saurabh, Ajit Kushwaha, Manoj Manjeel, Mahanand Singh, Gopal Ravidas and Rambali Singh Yadav, had also reached the spot to lend their support to the agitation. Localities near Ram Ghulam Chowk, Golghar and Gandhi Maidan, Bank Road and New Police Lines witnessed traffic jam for nearly two hours. The police earlier used water cannons and fired tear gas shells to disperse the mob, but in vain. A 55-year-old sub-inspector, who received head injuries, said the protesters suddenly got agitated and started removing the iron barricades. They pelted the cops with stones, causing injuries to at least three officials, he added. Despite repeated attempts, neither the SSP nor the City SP (central) could be contacted for their comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/protesters-cops-injured-in-clash-near-gandhi-maidan/articleshow/81279144.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Patna||653 senior citizens, 45+ with comorbidities get vax shots||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar, his deputies Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi and several other ministers and legislators took the first dose of Covid vaccine on Monday. Total 653 beneficiaries falling in the category of either senior citizens or those above 45 years with comorbidities took the vaccine on the first day of the second phase of vaccination in Bihar. As per the information shared by the state health society, 447 of the beneficiaries were above 60 years and 206 above 45 years with comorbidities. “I am sure beneficiaries in Bihar will get themselves vaccinated. This will help us in getting rid of Covid-19. I am feeling very glad,” said Nitish after receiving the shot at IGIMS. He said the legislators will also be vaccinated at IGIMS, instead of Vidhan Sabha or Parishad, as was planned earlier. “This decision has been taken because a person has to remain under observation by a doctor for 30 minutes after getting the vaccine,” he said. Among the other beneficiaries were retired bureaucrats and judges, who took the dose at IGIMS after getting themselves registered on the spot. Retired IAS officer Sunil Kumar Singh, 61, presently a member (administrative and technical) at real estate appellate tribunal, was accompanied by his wife and a lawyer by profession PL Gautam. One Bhavesh Chandra Choudhary, 68, of Nepali Nagar was happy after getting vaccinated. “I did not want to wait any more. So I rushed to the spot. I will also get my wife vaccinated,” he said. Anjali, a nursing officer who had attended to CM and deputy CMs at the IGIMS observation room, said the process was smooth and no side-effect was reported. Accompanying her was Dr Siddhartha Singh, who said the elderly were confident about vaccination. Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said they were expecting the number to rise on Tuesday as only those who had come for on-spot vaccination got the shots on Monday. The department will be vaccinating till district hospital level on Tuesday. From Wednesday, it will start this facility at primary health centres, too, which will then be expanded further depending on the need. However, people having a date of birth in 1960 had trouble getting themselves registered on Co-WIN 2.0 as it was not being accepted. Amrit said it was due to some technical glitch and will be resolved soon. Apart from elderly citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities, 1904 other beneficiaries got the first shot and 1562 the second shot on Monday. Meanwhile, the state witnessed further dip in Covid-19 cases with only 22 people testing positive for the virus and no deaths reported in Bihar for the second consecutive day. Though the state had 368 active cases on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/653-senior-citizens-45-with-comorbidities-get-vax-shots/articleshow/81279154.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 2, 2021||Patna||Undermining child budget a matter of concern: Drèze||PATNA: Noted economist Jean Drèze on Monday said undermining of child budget and ongoing economic crisis may have resulted in declining child nutrition indicators. Speaking at a webinar organized by International Growth Centre (IGC) and Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) on ‘Strengthening social protection’, he said, “Budget allocation of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) scheme is 40% lower in real terms to what it was several years ago. The economic crisis since 2016 has also been impacting the welfare programmes. The two factors may have together resulted in declining child nutrition indicators.” Commenting on the choice between ‘Take Home Ration’ (THR) and cash in ICDS programme, Drèze said THR is not just a transfer program but it is an activity that is delivered through anganwadis. “It recognizes community and brings women into discussion,” he said. The panel was moderated by Priya Nanda from Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Other panellists included Sudha Narayanan from International Food Policy Research Institute, principal secretary (rural development) Arvind Kumar Chaudhary and Maitreesh Ghatak from London School of Economics (LSE). Sudha said a combination of a cash and in-kind transfer, including ‘wet’ meals, could be a way forward in cash versus THR in the ICDS programme. Emphasizing on the three key concerns, she said: “First concern is the retreat of commitment towards social security by central government, whereas there is a need for expansion and strengthening of social security schemes. Second, the issue of Centre and state finances and who shares the burden. Third is less of interstate learning and exposure and not much evidence being generated in this space.” Ghatak said the NFHS5 indicators on nutrition is alarming and poverty numbers have been deteriorating, which can be due to many factors like policy shocks, demonetisation and Covid. “During pandemic, there is a need for additional expenditure for social welfare and the extra expenditure done by government of India doesn’t stand out as per the recently published International Monetary Fund report on country comparisons,” he said. Elaborating on the conditions during Covid-19 pandemic in Bihar, Chaudhury said construction and many other works were not permitted in the initial days, but basic framework of MNREGA was allowed. “We focused on individual and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana works. Then, we went into the massive exercise of how to be ready for the reverse migration. One of the strategies was to meet them at the first point of interaction at quarantine centres. Here, we facilitated registration of Aadhaar and job cards for the migrant workers. Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan was launched. Works were expedited to meet the needs of the population,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/undermining-child-budget-a-matter-of-concern-drze/articleshow/81279087.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Patna||‘There should be no fear about vaccine’||PATNA: Deputy CM Renu Devi, 62, was among the first few dignitaries in Bihar to take Covid-19 vaccine on Monday. She tells TOI’s Sheezan Nezami that others should also take the shot. Excerpts: Were you nervous? Not at all. In fact, I was feeling very happy and proud for our scientists who toiled hard to develop vaccines. We are all proud of PM Narendra Modi under whose leadership our country managed the entire crisis well. Who inspired/asked you to take the vaccine? I was in Bettiah on Sunday when I got a call from state health minister Mangal Pandey. He told me that I was eligible and should take the vaccine. Since the vaccine is made in India, I came forward to take it. Who else in your family has taken the vaccine? My younger sister Ruby Kumari, who lives in Delhi, took the vaccine a few days back. She is a mental educator and comes in the category of frontline workers. What will you tell others? All those who are eligible should come and take this vaccine. There should be no fear. Believe me. After waiting for 30 minutes in the observation room at IGIMS after receiving the shot, I went straight to Vidhan Sabha and attended the session. It is just like any other day. How will you ensure that people in your native place take the vaccine? Why only native place? I will ask people across the state to take this vaccine. I will motivate people wherever I go. In fact, I will do whatever is possible through the disaster management department, which I am handling, to ensure that even students of backward and extremely backward classes get the vaccine. Almost a year back, Covid-19 was at its peak in the country. How do you feel now? That was a tough time indeed. But thanks to our PM, healthcare and frontline workers, India managed things in a much better way. Since the vaccine is available, that fear has vanished. In fact, our lifestyle and culture has played an important role. People residing in villages eat healthy and simple food and lead a good lifestyle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/there-should-be-no-fear-about-vaccine/articleshow/81279172.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 2, 2021||Patna||Face masks to be distributed in Bhagalpur schools||BHAGALPUR: The district education department is set to provide face masks to nearly five lakh schoolchildren of state-government run schools in the district. On Monday, 40,000 schoolchildren were provided face masks in schools under the Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC) areas besides Nathnagar, Kahalgaon and Pirpainty blocks out of 16 blocks in the district. The face masks are being manufactured by JEEViKA. District education officer (DEO) Sanjay Kumar said that each child will get two face masks. “Two face masks are being provided to each student enrolled in government schools from Class I to VIII. The total enrolment is more than 4,75,000 lakh in the district. Therefore nearly 10,00,000 face masks have to be distributed as soon as possible,” the DEO said. He added: “Acknowledging that distribution of nearly 10,00,000 face masks to approximately 5,00,000 schoolchildren is a challenge, we have geared up our machinery both for procurement of face masks and distribution among the schoolchildren in the district.” Urging the guardians to motivate their wards to wear face masks, carry tiffin and water bottles while attending the classes, the DEO said: “We have also directed the headmasters (HMs), class teachers and other school staff to make sure that children attending classes and participating in other activities in the schools should wear face masks.” Schools from Classes I to V reopened across the state from Monday after almost a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/face-masks-to-be-distributed-in-bhagalpur-schools/articleshow/81279245.cms||Kumar Rajesh
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||NCW seeks EC nod for DGP report on Nimta case||Kolkata: The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Monday sought the Election Commission of India’s nod to ask for a report from the Bengal DGP on the Nimta case, in which images of a bruised and swollen face of an ailing 82-year-old was shared on social media alleging she and her son — who is a BJP worker — were assaulted by Trinamool workers in North Dum Dum on Saturday night. Police said they are probing a complaint lodged against five persons, but none has been arrested. BJP and Trinamool have been involved in an escalating war of words on the issue that continued on Monday. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said, “We have taken the case on our own. I saw the video on Twitter, in which someone tagged me. We have written to the EC with a copy to the DGP and we are waiting for their response.” Senior Trinamool leaders dubbed the allegations as “fabricated and false” and shared a video of the woman’s grandsons Gobindo and Bhola Majumdar. “She has been bedridden for the past three years. There can be no question of pushing and shoving. If she has been attacked, it is by BJP workers, not Trinamool,” said Gobindo. “The bruises on her face have been there for a long time,” said Bhola. Senior state minister Partha Chatterjee and several senior Trinamool leaders shared this statement. On Monday, Trinamool MP Nusrat Jahan Ruhi said, “This is a perfect example of BJP being unapologetically shameless yet again.” BJP’s Mahila Morcha leader Agnimitra Paul met the woman on Monday. “They are known for their allegiance to Trinamool. No wonder they are trying to divert attention by speaking rubbish. We would like to take care of some of her treatment if the family agrees. Assailants banged her head against the wall and she has blood clots under her eyes and bruises,” Paul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ncw-seeks-ec-nod-for-dgp-report-on-nimta-case/articleshow/81279870.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: How these snatchers in love funded their need for a high||NEW DELHI: It was love at first sight for Sidharth Malhotra and Simran when they saw each other across their terraces a few years ago in southwest Delhi. Sidharth had returned from Dehradun after passing his Class IX from a school there, while Simran had completed her Class X from Kendriya Vidyalaya in Janakpuri. What started with bunking school to watch movies and smoke marijuana eventually turned them into drug addicts. Their habit soon made them quit school and take to crime to fund drug procurement. The pair started by stealing from their homes, but with their increasing drug requirement beginning to cost around Rs 100, they started committing street crimes. A snatched mobile phone or necklace was easy to dispose of and fetched quick money. After getting stoned, the two would carry out dry runs and experiment with sure shot ways to snatch and flee. Then, Sidharth, an expert biker, would wriggle through crowded traffic with ease and Simran would divest unaware people of their phones and chains. However, two back-to-back incidents in Vikaspuri in February, caught on CCTV cameras, led the 20-year-olds into the police dragnet. After arresting them, the cops have contacted their families and are trying to help them with their addiction. A police officer said, “With the help of their family members, we are making efforts to rehabilitate them.” The cops started tracking the duo when a woman approached them with a complaint on February 28. She reported that she was waiting for an e-rickshaw near Reliance Mall in Vikaspuri when two bike-borne persons approached her. They rode right up to her and the pillion rider, whom she realised seconds later was a girl, grabbed her mobile phone. The two then zoomed away. “An FIR was registered and a team formed under SHO Mahender Singh Dahiya to investigate the matter,” disclosed Urvija Goel, DCP (West). “The teams scanned the footage from around a dozen CCTV cameras installed around the scene of crime.” The cops finally spotted the duo in the footage from some of the cameras and developed local intelligence about them. An informer tipped off the cops about their movements after which cops kept them under scrutiny and arrested them while on a crime run. The phone the two had snatched on February 28 was recovered from them. Their involvement in another case of snatching reported on February 5 was also confirmed. The cops have contacted other police stations nearby and shared the details of the boy-girl suspect to find out if there were more snatchings involving them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-these-snatchers-in-love-funded-their-need-for-a-high/articleshow/81284198.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||International Yog festival kicks off in Rishikesh||Rishikesh: The week-long International Yog Festival organised by the state tourism department began on Monday along the banks of Ganga at GMVN Ganga Resort in Rishikesh. Over 400 participants took part in the sessions on the inaugural day. Addressing yoga teachers and learners, Patanjali Yogpeeth general secretary Acharya Balkrishna said that yoga has helped in making lives disease-free during the pandemic while adding that the whole world is accepting Yoga irrespective of caste and creed. The morning session witnessed yoga guru Kapil Sanghvi conducting a well-attended, enlightening session on pranayam (breath control exercises) and Usha Mata holding a session on Iyengar Yoga. During the event, a young yoga practitioner Nitin — from Uttarakhand Sanskrit University — performed Shatkarma Yoga (a process to purify body) . Addressing the gathering, cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal said that Rishikesh is the motherland of Yoga and across the globe one can find Yogis and Yoginis who are either natives of Rishikesh or have been trained here. "Yoga is the identity of Rishikesh and is a bridge spanning global boundaries and bringing people together, connecting them to our culture and roots along with their inner self. Yoga is also providing excellent economic growth opportunities to our youth too. The International Yoga Festival is growing from strength to strength each year," he added. Meanwhile, Mahant Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, said that one needs to distinguish between the physical aspects of yoga and the high order truths and the spiritual aspect of yoga. “The practice of yoga must extend from the physical to the divine. I wish everyone a happy and healthy life,” said the seer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/international-yog-festival-kicks-off-in-rishikesh/articleshow/81280076.cms||MS Nawaz
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Goonda control bill passed||Lucknow: The UP prevention of defacement of public and private properties bill and Goonda control (amendment) bill were passed by the assembly on Monday amid opposition’s demand to refer them to the standing committee. The bill was tabled by parliamentary affair minister Suresh Khanna who said it was meant to stop people from de-facing and de-shaping public or private property. Leader of opposition and SP MLA Ram Govind Chaudhary, however, said that the bill was an attempt to squeeze the ambit of activities of political parties. “The party flag is the soul of any political party. Pasting posters on walls and wall writing happen to be one of the key public campaign activity of any political party. How can you stop it,” he asked. BSP legislative party leader Lalji Verma said that the bill arms the ruling party to act whimsically against its political opponents. The Goonda control (amendment) bill envisages giving magisterial power to police whenever the need arises like in case of police commissioner system which has been made applicable in case of Lucknow and Gautam Budh Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/goonda-control-bill-passed/articleshow/81283594.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Woman’s body found at home in Bareilly, dowry death suspected||BAREILLY: A 22-year-old woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her residence in Khadana area under Majhola police jurisdiction in UP’s Moradabad on Monday. Her husband and in-laws are at large, police said. The deceased was identified as Armana, a resident of Majhola, Moradabad. She was married to one Mahboob Ali, a carpenter, in June 2020. In his complaint with police, Armana’s brother alleged that she was being tortured by her husband and in-laws for dowry. At the time of marriage, her family had given a motorcycle and Rs 1 lakh cash to Ali’s family but they wanted a four-wheeler. SHO of Majhola police station said an FIR has been registered against five people, including the woman’s husband, under IPC section 304(b) (dowry death). Her body has been sent for a post-mortem following which, cause of her death will be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/womans-body-found-at-home-dowry-death-suspected/articleshow/81278887.cms||Maria Khan
March 2, 2021||Nashik||Schools in Nashik city to remain closed till March 15||NASHIK: In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav on Monday ordered the closure of all schools and junior colleges in the city till March 15. The educational institutes in the city were allowed to start physical classes for students of Classes IX to XII from January 4. Classes for students from Std V to VIII began on January 27. Although the attendance in these educational institutions was encouraging, it started dropping after the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. Jadhav said the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) could give permission to students of Classes X and XII to attend special classes in their education institutions and preapre for the board exams. “Only mathematics, science and English should be taught in these special classes. Moreover, students interested in attending these special classes have to mandatorily obtain written consent from their parents,” said Jadhav. A few days ago, six students of a city-based junior college tested positive for Covid-19. Two of the 51 students who came in contact with the six junior college students also tested positive for the contagion. There are 425 schools — both private and civic — running classes for Std V to VIII with more than 1.1 lakh students in Nashik city. Similarly, there are more than 75,000 students studying in about 200 schools with higher classes and junior colleges across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/schools-in-nashik-city-to-remain-closed-till-march-15/articleshow/81281587.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Court issues bailable warrant against Kangana Ranaut in Javed Akhtar case||MUMBAI: A magistrate court on Monday issued a bailable warrant against actor Kangana Ranaut in the defamation complaint submitted by veteran Bollywood lyricist Javed Akhtar. The warrant was issued after the actor failed to appear before the court. “For wilful absence of the accused without any justified reasons, despite service of summons, issue bailable warrant of Rs 1,000 against accused Ms Kangana Ranaut,” said Metropolitan Magistrate R R Khan. Akhtar’s lawyer Vrinda Grover sought issuance of a non-bailable warrant against her. The court, though, said, “However, keeping in view the nature of the litigation, it appears to me a harsh step.” Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said he will soon move the appropriate court challenging all actions taken by the magistrate court so far and seek a stay. “The magistrate court has grossly erred in taking cognizance of the matter and issuing summons to my client, without even verifying the complainant’s (Akhtar) four witnesses on oath, as mandated under Section 200 of CrPC (Criminal Procedure Code),” Siddiquee said. He submitted the same before the magistrate too. The magistrate court said right now, in the absence of any orders from higher courts, her remaining absent despite receipt of summons shows her conduct. “Furthermore, mere intending to challenge the proceedings would not absolve her liability as an accused from attending this court. Definitely, today the accused was having the option to file an exemption application for today’s attendance. However, she has not preferred to opt for the same,” the court said. The matter will come up for hearing on March 26. On February 1, the court in Andheri had issued summons to the actor. Akhtar’s complaint alleged defamatory statements were made by her to a news channel in the aftermath of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death last year. Juhu police had earlier submitted a report that offences relating to defamation were made out against Ranaut. Following this, on February 1, the court had issued a process against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-issues-bailable-warrant-against-ranaut-in-akhtar-case/articleshow/81278895.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: This 51-year-old had a close call just a day before Adarsh Nagar snatching-murder||NEW DELHI: Fifty-one-year-old Suman Gupta was targeted by a snatcher just a day before Simran Kaur was stabbed to death by another snatcher in Adarsh Nagar on Saturday. However, she was a lucky woman who could have met Kaur’s fate but had a narrow escape. Gupta, along with her daughter, was targeted by a snatcher when she was entering her society in Bharat Nagar. A man snatched her gold chain and started running. The mother-daughter duo tried to nab him but he stopped, pointed a knife and told them he would kill them if they chased him. According to police, a case was registered based on the statement of Suman Gupta. She stated that she was walking towards her house with her daughter Ruhi Gupta when a boy came from the rear side and snatched her gold chain. When they followed him, the snatcher threatened them by showing a knife. An officer not authorised to speak to the media said: “Initially, a case under Section 327 (voluntarily causing hurt to extort property, or to constrain to an illegal act) was registered. During investigation, it was converted to robbery under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code.” “Around 2.30pm, a boy came from behind, pushed me and snatched the gold chain from my neck. As he started running away, I along with my daughter chased him but he pointed a knife at us. He said he would kill us and we did not follow him further. My chain weighed around 12-15 grams,” Gupta said in the FIR. No arrests have been made in the case so far. Investigations are under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-51-yr-old-had-a-close-call-just-a-day-before-adarsh-ngr-snatching-murder/articleshow/81284199.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath greets kids with candy as they return to school||LUCKNOW: As primary schools reopened on Monday after remaining shut for almost a year due to Covid-19 pandemic, campuses wore a festive look as teachers and staff welcomed children with balloons, flowers and chocolates. To instill confidence in students, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited a primary school in Narhi, Lucknow, to take stock of arrangements. During his 20-minute stay at the school, the CM offered chocolates to children and asked them if they would attend the school regularly “You all should study well and stay happy,” he said. Yogi enquired about the progress of work under Operation Kayakalp, and inspected two smart classrooms. He also asked students about the mode of learning during lockdown and informed them about the importance of wearing masks. “Uncle (CM) also asked my name, my class and about my family. It was so special for me,” said Rachna Rawat, a Class 5 student. “The entire atmosphere changed with the CM’s presence on the campus. It was a unique experience for children,” school’s principal Rachna Pandey said. Basic education minister Satish Dwivedi also visited a primary school in Pokhar Bitwa in his home district Siddharthanagar where he even tasted the midday meal. “The school campus was clean. The children were happy and courteous,” Dwivedi said. Children, who were excited to be back on the campus, greeted their friends and teachers. “We welcomed the children by applying ‘tilak’ on their forehead, and showering flowers on them. Children were allowed entry only with face masks on,” said Snehil Pandey, head mistress at primary school, Sohramau, Unnao. At a primary school in Saharanpur, teachers wrote welcome message for children on blackboards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-greets-kids-with-candy-as-they-return-to-school/articleshow/81283626.cms||Isha Jain
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After 10-year wait, Pali Market vendors move into their space||MUMBAI: Over 60 vendors from Pali market at Bandra finally moved into the redeveloped market space on Monday. While the shifting process began last week, all vendors — including those dealing in groceries, fruits, vegetables, meat and fish — moved into the multi-storey structure on Monday. This relocation of vendors comes almost over a decade after they had been sitting along the street outside as the market was being redeveloped. Work on the redeveloped building is still in progress and currently only those vendors licensed by the BMC have been moved into the space. Besides the BMC market, the building will also house parking space, BMC offices and additional saleable space. Times ViewThe redevelopment of Pali market has been languishing for 15 years; the builder got preliminary sanctions in 2006 but delayed the project. Instead of issuing a show cause notice to the developer, BMC extended the deadline from time to time. Now that the market building is ready, the civic administration must relocate hawkers soon and ensure such delays are not condoned in future.Dinesh Gupta, secretary, Pali Market Shopkeepers Association, whose family has been operating from the space for the past 50 years said that for now everyone has been accommodated on the redeveloped market premises. “There were several vendors who did not have licences but have been operating from the market for the past many years. We have ensured they were accommodated too by getting them space on rent from shopkeepers who are now elderly and stopped operating their business,” he said. The relocation of vendors has brought much relief to locals. Madhu Poplai, secretary of Pali Hill Residents Association, said they had been pushing for the market to be redeveloped for the past many years. “Now that the vendors have moved into the redeveloped market space, we want to ensure that the road is not taken away for parking, considering that generally it is noticed that any additional space created on the road has cars being parked,” she said. Congress corporator Asif Zakaria said that they plan to put up ‘No Parking’ signs along the street so that the road stays open for free movement. “We have already had discussions with the locals and shopkeepers to ensure that those coming into the market do not crowd the area,” he said. BJP corporator Swapna Mhatre from Pali Hill said that she was happy the redevelopment of the market was completed during her tenure as a civic representative from the area. “After much back and forth, work has been completed at least to get the vendors to move into it. It has been too long that they had been evacuated,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-10-yr-wait-pali-market-vendors-move-into-their-space/articleshow/81281854.cms||Richa Pinto
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Two men who fired at cops at picket arrested in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Days after two criminals shot at policemen in outer Delhi, cops tracked them down and shot at in their legs after they opened fire while being caught. Both were taken to hospital and are doing fine. The duo are carjackers and were riding a stolen bike when constable Sandeep had stopped them for checking at barricades in Bhalswa Dairy on February 25. One of the accused has turned out to be a month short of turning 18. The other criminal has been identified as Yogesh Verma, a resident of Bakhtawarpur who has been involved in eight cases of motor vehicle theft. Police have solved four cases of Arms Act and theft with this action. A countrymade pistol each was recovered from Verma and the juvenile. According to police, Sandeep was checking vehicles at a picket in Bhalswa Dairy. Around 6.15pm, he had spotted three suspicious men riding on the same motorcycle with a defective registration numberplate. When he tried to stop them, they attempted to speed away. When police tried to catch them, one of the men took out a pistol and opened fire on the police team. “While one bullet hit constable Sandeep, constable Bhupender escaped another bullet fired by the accused,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh. A case of attempt to murder was registered. “Data of all active criminals were analysed and technical surveillance was also used. Information was received during the early hours on Monday that the accused will come to Sector 30 in Rohini,” the DCP said. A trap was laid and two suspects were spotted on a Pulsar bike, Singh added. They were signalled to stop but they again tried to escape, the DCP pointed out. As the police team started chasing them, one of them took out a pistol and fired at the cops. “One bullet hit the bulletproof jacket worn by sub-inspector Sandeep Kumar while another filed by the second suspect hit the bulletproof jacket of constable Ravikant.” On this, police retaliated and both the men were shot in their legs, the DCP said. Both accused were taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital for treatment, a cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-men-who-fired-at-cops-at-picket-arrested/articleshow/81284203.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kanpur||STF arrests six for assisting gangster Vikas, aides||(With Pic) Kanpur: The Special Task Force (STF) of Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday arrested six persons on charges of providing shelter and financial aid and also disposing of a semi-automatic weapon of slain gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides from his native village Bikru where he and his more than 50 aides trapped and killed eight policemen, including a DySP, on the night of July 2, 2020. A Bhind Madhya Pradesh resident, who had purchased a semi-automatic 30 Springfield American rifle from them, has also been arrested. The STF sleuths also recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition, including a semi-automatic 30 Springfield American rifle, an automatic carbine, a revolver, a single barrel gun and two country-made pistols, huge number of cartridges including of AK -47, 7.62, 30.06, 12, .38 and 315 bores, besides charger clips of 30.06 cartridge and an Apple phone of Vikas, seven android phones belonging to his aides Amar Dubey and Prabhat Mishra, two four-wheelers including an Omni car, besides a PAN and Aadhaar card and Rs 2.5 lakh in cash from their possession. “Vishnu Kashyap, Aman Shukla, Ram Ji, Abhinav Tiwari, Sanjay Parihar and Shubham Pal, all natives of Kanpur Dehat, and Manish Yadav of Bhind district of MP were arrested when they were planning to dispose of the remaining arms and ammunition of the slain criminals,” said IG STF Amitabh Yash. Vishnu Kashyap, a resident of Shivli in Kanpur Dehat and a childhood friend of slain criminal Prabhat Mishra, had played a major role in providing shelter and facilitating escape to Vikas. “He had borrowed a Swift DZire car from his friend Chotu and used it to transport Vikas, his nephew Amar and co-villager Prabhat to his brother-in-law Ramji’s house in Tulsinagar where they took shelter in the basement. They had also carried with them several arms and ammunition,” the IG added. On July 3, Ramji took Amar Dubey to an orchard of one Sanjay Parihar in Kariyajhala village from Rasoolabad on his motorcycle. “There Amar Dubey asked Puttu Mishra to arrange for a safe hideout following which he had arranged their stay at the pump house. Amar was later joined by his uncle Vikas and Prabhat Mishra. However, on finding the place unsafe, Vikas again asked Puttu Mishra to arrange for a safer hideout. Subsequently, one Shivam Pal of Mangalpur had arranged a room for Vikas, where he stayed for two days,” he added. “Shivam had also made arrangements for the gangster’s snacks, lunch and dinner, besides newspaper and TV for latest update on Bikru massacre,” said the official further and added, “After staying there for two days, one Shubham Pal had arranged an Omni car and dropped Vikas, Amar and Prabhat to Auraiya and from where the trio later escaped to Delhi.” On Monday, the STF team got specific input about the assembly of criminals involved in giving shelter and facilitating escape to Vikas and his aides near Bhauti Panki Padav underpass, where they were to dispose of the remaining arms and ammunition of Vikas and his aides to some unidentified people. “STF arrested them with arms and ammunition and a case under relevant sections has been registered against them,” The IG said. To recall, eight policemen, including DySP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Vikas and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 2. Dubey was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area in Sachendi, the police had said. Prior to Dubey’s encounter, five of his alleged associates were killed in separate encounters with police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/stf-arrests-six-for-assisting-gangster-vikas-aides/articleshow/81279560.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 2, 2021||Aurangabad||Protestors lock ZP school demanding maths teacher||Aurangabad: Angry with the fact that the Khandala-based zilla parishad school in Paithan has not got a full-time teacher for mathematics, the villagers on Monday locked the school gate. Protestors have threatened to repeat the action if their demand is not addressed in the next couple of days. However, the school has claimed that the mathematics syllabus has already been completed using online and offline modes. Villagers, whoever, say that this lackadaisical approach of the education department is set to take a toll on the overall performance of the students in the upcoming SSC examination. Sunil Gaikwad, who took the lead in locking the school gate, said, “There are 72 students in Class X in this Khandala-based school. In the absence of a mathematics teacher, we fear some of the students’ academic year will be wasted.” Echoing his thoughts, other villagers said that they were compelled to take the extreme step as their pleas with the education department had fallen on deaf ears. Vijay Patil, a village resident, said even when the online classes were on, the demand was being raised for a mathematics teacher. But none of the officers paid any heed. Many parents, who could afford to do so, opted for private tuitions. Those who could not, were left out. Villagers even said that the school has not had a full-time mathematics teacher for quite a while. When contacted, ZP CEO Mangesh Gondawle said: “We have already issued directives to appoint a full-time mathematics teacher at this school. As far as we know, there were other teachers who have been covering the mathematics syllabus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/protestors-lock-zp-school-demanding-maths-teacher/articleshow/81278121.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: In Covid war, Gandhi Hospital was medical, emotional epicentre||HYDERABAD: State-run Gandhi Hospital, which was turned into the nodal Covid centre, has remained the heart of pandemic management in the state. The hospital has so far treated over 1.1 lakh Covid patients, of which 35,000 were critical cases, requiring admission for 15 days to two months. For nearly seven months, Gandhi Hospital was the only place where suspected as well as confirmed Covid patients underwent treatment. Since the sudden influx of pandemic activity, the hospital has witnessed many firsts. Early into the pandemic, the 1,800-bedded hospital laid down treatment protocol and was one of the first in the country to begin use of Remdesivir drug. It decided to take part in the solidarity trial for the drug in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The hospital also took part in plasma trials and gave plasma treatment when it looked like the only life saver. “Every week we used to have experts from private and government hospitals sit together and discuss what was going on in the world and what our treatment should be. From treatment modalities for mild, moderate and severe cases to what investigations should be run on patients — we deliberated and decided for ourselves. The virus was new and we had hundreds of patients flock to us,” said Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent Gandhi Hospital, who had taken over the post a month after the pandemic started. More than just a medical emergency, the pandemic also brought on an emotional crisis for doctors and staff. “On June 29 last year, every single bed in the hospital was occupied. We had eight ambulances waiting outside the gate, each having four critical patients. We could only make space if another patient died. That night I called it a day at 3am after taking in all patients,” said Rao, sharing how scenes of people gasping for breath left the entire staff shaken. Apart from going into the war with less than average infrastructure, the hospital also faced its share of hurdles with sanitation workers, PG students and nurses going on a strike in the middle of the pandemic. Despite that, and numerous complaints from patients about facilities, the hospital went out of its way to help patients, including providing special diets for those fasting during Ramzan. “The situation that the state has seen should be a reminder to the government that they need to focus on strengthening government hospitals,” said a resident doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-covid-war-gandhi-hosp-was-medical-emotional-epicentre/articleshow/81281878.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||UP to connect 14k panchayats with broadband internet in two months||Lucknow: The UP government will be linking 14,100 gram panchayats with an optical fiber network to provide broadband internet services in the next two months. The project has been undertaken under the national broadband mission to digitalize every village in the country. The state government has already linked 31,149 gram panchayats with the optical fiber network and has set a target of linking a total of 58,000 gram panchayats with broadband connections by December 31, 2022. “Under this mission launched by the government of India, 50 lakh kilometer of optical fiber cable is to be laid to ensure the availability of high-speed broadband services in rural and remote areas of the state. Tower density is also to be increased from 0.42 to one per 1,000 population, so that access to government schemes can be facilitated in rural areas,” said a government spokesperson. The spokesperson said that there was a greater urgency in implementing the work as due to the Covid-19 situation classes were being held online and many students in villages were facing a problem with internet connectivity. On directions from chief minister Yogi Adityanath, chief secretary RK Tiwari constituted a state-level broadband committee under his chairmanship. In the meeting, it was decided to run the mission in three phases. In the first phase, 17,903 gram panchayats in eastern UP and 10,481 gram panchayats in western UP were provided broadband access till December 31, 2020. The spokesperson said that in the second phase of implementation, 17,032 gram panchayats in eastern UP and 2,195 gram panchayats in western UP will be linked with the optic fiber network till March 31, which could be extended to April 30. After this the third phase will start. The national broadband mission was launched in 2019 by the central government to set up a large-scale digital infrastructure in rural India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-connect-14k-panchayats-with-broadband-internet-in-two-months/articleshow/81283627.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Varanasi||Man strangles toddler daughter, arrested||Gorakhpur: A man strangled his two years old daughter and handed the body to his elder daughter on Monday morning in a village under Chiluatal police station area of Gorakhpur district. Police registered a case against the man on the complaint of his wife, who works at a brick kiln at Baijnathpur, and arrested the accused who was caught and thrashed by locals. Police said the accused Ramesh of Mahatbarwa Jangli Tola under Gulriha police station had married Indu, daughter of Vijayi of Peeru Shaheed, Manbela Tola. Ramesh was a drunkard and used to beat Indu, so she went to her father, who works at a brick kiln at Baijnathpur, with her children Kajal (8), Prince (5), Shreya (2), and started working there. Kajal was unwell on Sunday and when Ramesh got to know, he came and took Kajal, Prince and Shreya with him on a motorcycle. They returned on Monday morning, with Kajal carrying the body of Shreya. The villagers caught and thrashed Ramesh and handed him over to police when Kajal told them that he had strangled Shreya. Kajal told police that Ramesh took them to several places on motorcycle, and then to an orchard to sleep at night. Ramesh strangulated Shreya using the scarf of Kajal who woke up on hearing her cries. Kajal also told police that Ramesh used to say that Shreya is not his daughter. “The accused Ramesh has been arrested and booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) IPC and the body has been sent for postmortem,” said SHO Chiluatal Neeraj Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-strangles-toddler-daughter-arrested/articleshow/81279051.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Kanpur||2 beaten to death over alleged affair in separate incidents||Kanpur: Two persons were beaten to death over alleged affair in separate incidents in Kanpur Dehat district. under the jurisdiction of Rasoolabad police station. In the first incident, a 21-year-old youth was allegedly beaten to death by the family of his girlfriend in Lakshmanpur village of the district. The girl’s family was against their relationship and had warned the youth to stay away from her. The incident apparently occurred while the victim, Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Madarpur village, had gone to meet his girlfriend at a neighbouring village on Friday. He remained untraceable since then. His body was found with serious injuries in Laxmanpur village of the district on Monday morning. Police have detained a few members of the girl’s family. According to the family of Mukesh, the deceased was in a relationship with the girl. The girl had called him to meet her. He was caught and brutally beaten by the girl’s family members. His body was later found with grievous injuries. “As per his family members, Mukesh was called by the girl and beaten to death by her family members who have been detained and are being questioned,” said ASP Ghanshyam. In a similar incident, a 45-year-old man was beaten to death allegedly by the family members of his alleged paramour with whom he was caught in a compromising position on Sunday night in Narkhurd village in Rasoolabad police area. The police identified the deceased as Badan Singh Rajput, a resident of Narkhurd. The incident came to light on Monday morning when the police recovered the body of the victim with grievous wounds from the woman’s house. A heavy deployment of police was made to avert any untoward incident in the village. The woman’s three family members have been arrested following an FIR under relevant sections of IPC, said ASP Ghanshyam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-beaten-to-death-over-alleged-affair-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/81282859.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Electric vehicle subsidy: Carmaker struck off Delhi govt’s list||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Monday suspended Tata Nexon EV from the list of vehicles that were eligible for subsidies under its Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy based on complaints from vehicle owners regarding its performance. Stating that the Nexon EV meets stringent EV norms, Tata Motors said the order was unfortunate. “Delhi government has decided to suspend subsidy on EV car model, pending final report of a committee, due to complaints by multiple users of sub-standard range performance. We are committed to support EVs, but not at the cost of trust and confidence of citizens in claims by manufacturers,” state transport minister Kailash Gahlot tweeted on Monday. The transport department had earlier issued a showcause notice to Tata Motors after complaints that, while the vehicle model was specified to provide 312km range in a single charge, it doesn’t provide more than 200km. The government had directed Tata Motors to depute a representative to appear before deputy commissioner of the department on February 15 for failure to provide the promised optimal range, but the order issued on Monday mentioned that the reply furnished by the company was found non-satisfactory. A committee has been formed comprising representatives from the department, Tata Motors, DIMTS, and any reputed organisation. Pending the report of the panel, the listing of Tata Nexon EV has been suspended. “The range at single full charge (312km) for Nexon EV is on the basis of the certification received from the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), which is the official body that independently tests all mass-produced vehicles under standard/defined test conditions before they can be offered to customers,” said a spokesperson from Tata Motors. “As with conventional vehicles (with IC engines), the actual range achieved in EVs is dependent on AC usage, individual driving style and the actual conditions in which it is driven. The range achievement is also a function of familiarity with the new technology, and customers report improvements upwards of 10% within 4-6 weeks of familiarity,” he said, adding that Nexon EV is India’s largest selling EV with several positive testimonials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ev-subsidy-carmaker-struck-off-govts-list/articleshow/81284205.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 2, 2021||Allahabad||Nishads will have right over river, sand and soil: Tiwari||Prayagraj: In an attempt to strengthen its vote bank, particularly among the Nishad community voters ahead of 2022 assembly polls, Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and senior party leader Pramod Tiwari flagged off the “Nadi Adhikar Pad Yatra” at Baswar village here on Monday. The Yatra launched by Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (OBC Cell) will pass through around 600 villages dominated by Nishad community in Prayagraj, Mirzapur, Varanasi and Ballia districts. Speaking on the occasion, Tiwari said, “People of Nishad community will have rights on nadi, balu and mitti ( river, sand and soil). The party will help the Nishad community to get their traditional rights. The Nishad community has a strong relationship with rivers and the BJP-led state government was making an abortive bid to break this relationship.” Tiwari also claimed that the state government machinery reached Baswar village only when the Congress leadership raised the issue, and claimed that “the Union government will also arrive at the doorsteps of Nishad community before the end of the yatra”. Congress leaders said that people of Nishad community will be giving befitting reply to BJP-led state government in 2022 assembly polls. They claimed it would be a revolutionary yarta. Congress leaders and around 300 activists attended the ‘pad yarta’ (foot march) on the first day and claimed that the yatra will also play a decisive role in many assembly seats of Prayagraj, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Mirzapur and Chandauli districts. The yatra started from Baswar village (Ghurpur) in Prayagraj and will pass through Mirzapur and Bhadohi districts. It will reach Varanasi on March 10 and activists will be attending Ganga Aarti on the ghats. The yatra will resume for Ballia on March 11 and will pass through Chandauli and Ghazipur, before culminating at Manjhi Ghat on the UP-Bihar border on March 20, the local leaders added. They alleged that atrocities on the people of Nishad community had come to light in February first week after 17 boats were allegedly damaged inaction against illegal sand mining by authorities at Baswar village. AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had offered Rs 10 lakh assistance to 19 families whose boats were damaged. Prominent leaders who attended the yarta included former MP Rajaram Pal, PCC member Mukund Tiwari and youth leader Haseeb Ahmad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/nishads-will-have-right-over-river-sand-and-soil-tiwari/articleshow/81279247.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Parties strain every nerve for grad MLC election win||Hyderabad: With two more weeks left for polling for graduates MLC constituencies — Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar (HRM) and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda (WKN) — all parties are sweating it out for every vote. Leaving no stone unturned, the parties — for the first time — have appointed incharges to ensure they get more votes in the assembly constituencies, divisions and even wards. High-pitched campaigning has already begun in the districts covering the graduates constituencies after the withdrawal of nominations has ended. “Till 2015 elections, elections to the elders’ house (MLCs), campaigning was confined to holding meetings with intellectuals, lawyers, groups meetings and addressing employees and organisations. Now, it has now reached to every colony and every village. Even during filing nominations, big rallies are being taken out and flexis installed by candidates,” Ch Venkateshwar Rao, who is in politics for 30 years and associated with a political party from Secunderabad, told TOI. Generally for major elections like assembly and Lok Sabha, political parties appoint incharges. Since the March 14 polls are crucial for all major parties TRS, Congress and BJP, senior leaders and strategists have been drafted as incharges. The pink party has appointed ministers — T Harish Rao, Gangula Kamalakar and Vemula Prashanth Reddy — as incharges for Rangareddy, Hyderabad and Mahbubnagar districts. Congress made party working president A Revanth Reddy as incharge for HRM constituency while CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka is incharge for WKN constituency. Interestingly for the first time, star campaigners have been appointed by Congress for the MLC polls. Renuka Chowdary and Komatireddy Venkat Reddy are campaigning for the party candidates. The BJP has appointed incharges for every 25 to 30 voters to ensure that its candidates get winsome votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parties-strain-every-nerve-for-grad-mlc-election-win/articleshow/81281911.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kamala Mills pub booked for flouting Covid norms||MUMBAI: BMC on Monday filed an FIR at N M Joshi Marg police station against a restaurant and bar at Kamala Mills Compound (Lower Parel) for flouting Covid-19 norms. BMC said teams were on the lookout for violators. Assistant municipal commissioner (G South ward) Sharad Ughade said, “We filed an FIR and served YOUnion a show-cause notice, asking why its licence should not be suspended. We are writing to all restaurants in the area to ensure they follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.” BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said despite CM Uddhav Thackeray’s orders, pubs in his son, Aaditya’s constituency (Worli) were operational beyond midnight. A video clip was circulated by Raj Thackeray-led MNS’s former corporator Santosh Dhuri alleging that norms were being flouted in Worli. Dhuri told TOI he was shocked to see youngsters crowding the pub on Sunday. “Is Covid restricted to koliwadas and chawls of Worli? Why should BMC not act against such spaces, where rules are not being followed, and people without masks are dancing?,” said Dhuri. APMC police cracked down on two cafes in Sector 19, Vashi, for violating Covid norms. (Inputs by Clara Lewis & George Mendonca)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kamala-mills-pub-booked-for-flouting-covid-norms/articleshow/81283713.cms||Richa Pinto
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Etawah lions will now live in Gorakhpur: Akhilesh||Lucknow: Taking a jibe at UP government’s decision to shift a pair of lions from Etawah Safari to Gorakhpur zoo, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said: “Etawah ke sher ab Gorakphur mein rahenge (Etawah lions will now live in Gorakhpur)”. He went on to add that the lions will have to be fed properly else they would come out of their enclosure. Akhilesh’s statement is being seen in the light of the fact that Etawah is the bastion of SP’s first family and Gorakhpur happens to be the home district of CM Yogi Adityanath. “The chief minister has ordered for shifting of two lions from Eatwah Lion Safari to Gorakhpur zoo. The animals that are used to living in open and jungle will be caged. Probably the chief minister is not aware of the difference between a Safari and a zoo,” he said responding to a query at an event organised by a private news channel in Lucknow on Monday. When Akhilesh said that lions from Etawah will live in Gorakhpur, he was reminded that they would be caged in the Gorakhopur zoo. “They will have to be fed properly … else anyone can imagine what will happen if they come out of the cage,” he said. Earlier in the day, Akhilesh had questioned the government’s decision to shift the lions from Etawah safari on grounds that it will take its toll on the tourists visiting the Safari and thereby take its toll on the livelihood of the people who rely on these tourists. Speaking at the event, SP chief lambasted the ruling BJP for raising questions over his visits to temples. “I have never publicised how religious I am. I never publicised that as chief minister I got a temple made inside the chief ministers’ residence … but if I visit a temple the BJP raises a hue and cry …. BJP naqli Hindu hai … (BJP is fake Hindu),” he said. The government has failed to clear the dues of sugarcane growers. When farmers talk of MSP for paddy, the chief minister talks of black carrot cultivation. When Punjab farmers talk of MSP, the chief minister talks of strawberry cultivation …. How can anyone compare the two products?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/etawah-lions-will-now-live-in-gorakhpur-akhilesh/articleshow/81283656.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
March 2, 2021||Kanpur||UP: Tenant burns alive 2 kids, injures woman||KANPUR: A woman suffered serious burns while her two kids died after being set ablaze allegedly by their tenant in Nehru Nagar locality under the limits of Akbarpur Kotwali police station in Kanpur Dehat district on Sunday night. The accused, Avneesh Prajapati (25), who is husband of a lady constable Usha, also sustained serious head injuries after being hit by a truck while fleeing after the crime, police said on Monday. Avneesh allegedly poured petrol on Archana (39), wife of corporator Jitendra Yadav, her five-year-old daughter Akshita and 15-month-old son Hanu and set them on fire. The two children succumbed while the woman and the injured accused are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Kanpur. Police said the incident took place when Archana was cooking food. Her two children were also sitting with her while Jitendra was in some other section of the house. Suddenly, Avneesh arrived at the spot, doused Archana and the two children with petrol and set them afire. After hearing screams, Jitendra and his neighbours alerted the police after rescuing them. The police admitted the woman and the two children to Ursala Horseman hospital in Kanpur. Avneesh, who was being chased upon by locals, was hit by a speeding vehicle on the highway and sustained serious head injuries. He too was admitted to a hospital in Kanpur. The two kids succumbed to burns. SP Kanpur Dehat Keshav Kumar Choudhary said, “It has come to fore that Avneesh has been reeling under depression. We are trying to find out as to what actually prompted him to commit the crime.” “At the time of the incident, Usha was on duty at Akbarpur Kotwali police station,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/tenant-burns-alive-2-kids-injures-woman/articleshow/81282885.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Eatala takes vaccine in Huzurabad||Hyderabad: Health minister Eatala Rajender took the vaccine against Covid-19 in his constituency Huzurabad on Monday. The minister was administered the vaccine at Huzurabad area hospital. Karimnagar collector K Shashanka also took the vaccine. The health minister said while the vaccination was free in government hospitals, in private specified hospital the charge was Rs 250. “Taking the vaccine is safe and I encourage everyone to get vaccinated,” the minister said. He said vaccination drives were taking place across the world and no one should have hesitation. “Covid cases are coming down. We will be completely safe from the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatala-takes-vaccine-in-huzurabad/articleshow/81281929.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 2, 2021||Goa||After 11 months, city Inox reopens||Panaji: After a gap of nearly 11 months, the Inox multiplex in Panaji opened to public from March 1 onwards. Sources said that ticket prices have been slightly enhanced from earlier and day one started at a rather slow pace due to unawareness about the reopening. “We have not advertised about the reopening of the multiplex due to the pandemic. In the initial stages we will go slowly and then let it pick up by itself. In another month’s time, the auditoria are expected to be full,” said vice chairman of the Entertainment Society of Goa , Subhash Phaldesai. The multiplex had closed its curtains owing to the lockdown in March last year and thereon continued to remain shut awaiting government guidelines. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued new Covid-19 guidelines in September, paving way for cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes to operate at a higher seating capacity. In June, the Inox Panaji started to undergo major renovation works only to be opened for Iffi delegates in January this year. “The new strain of the virus reported in UK during Iffi had led to some countries shutting their airlines, looking at which we were also waiting,” Phaldesai said. However, the periphery works that were yet to be completed post-festival, like water harvesting, installation of self-disposal garbage mechanism and other background aspects have been accomplished last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-11-months-city-inox-reopens/articleshow/81283774.cms||Nida Sayed
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Racing ahead: 1 year on, 46% work done on Bundelkhand e-way||LUCKNOW: On February 29 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the prestigious Bundelkhand expressway project. Merely a year has passed and the mega project, having potential of triggering a major economic boom in the parched region, has already achieved 46% of targeted work. “I can confidently say that we would complete this project much before the scheduled timeline of 2022,” reiterated Awanish Awasthi, chief executive officer, UPEIDA, while addressing his team members on the completion of one year of the project here on Monday. Despite the fact that under the project 14 major bridges are to be constructed over mighty rivers in Chambal region, including Yamuna, Betwa and Ken, the Bundelkhand expressway is going to set a precedence of quality construction and punctuality, Awasthi added. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has been giving special attention to Bundelkhand Expressway not only because it entails a huge investment, but also because the project has potential to revitalise the socio-economic landscape of the vast geographical area described as the most backward region so far. Besides, the Bundelkhand Expressway will also give an excellent connectivity to the defence corridor which has already attracted several major firms involved in the defence manufacturing. The CEO said that special technology is being used in the construction of bridges, offering full safety and security to people using the e-way. Explaining finer points, chief engineer, UPEIDA, Manoj Kumar Gupta said that ribs have been created over thermoplastic linings on roadsides which will create vibration on vehicles and alert the driver about his vehicle sliding off the road. This safety measure is entirely different from ones that were used in Agra and Poorvanchal expressways, Gupta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/racing-ahead-1-year-on-46-work-done-on-bkhand-e-way/articleshow/81283691.cms||Subhash Mishra
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 116 new covid cases, no deaths for fourth time in month||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded 116 new cases of Covid-19 and zero deaths for the fourth time in the past one month. With the latest numbers, the total count of cases has reached 2,98,923 and the death toll stands at 1,634. While the number of active cases in the state stand at 1,902, a total of 2,95,387 patients in the state have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection. The recovery rate currently stands at 98.81% against the average recovery rate in the country of 97.1%. The case fatality rate (CFR) currently stands at 0.54%. The country average CFR is meanwhile 1.4%. On Monday, a total of 20,375 samples were tested for the virus. Telangana has now completed conducting 87.2 lakh tests and has reached 2.34 lakh sample testing per million population. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation recorded 26 new cases on Monday. This was followed by 11 cases each in Ranga Reddy and Medchal Malkajgiri while most other districts recorded new cases as well except 8 districts. Jangaon, Jogulamba Gadwal, Kamareddy, Komarambheem Asifabad, Mulugu, Narayanpet, Nirmal and Wanaparthy districts did not record any new case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-sees-116-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-for-fourth-time-in-month/articleshow/81282041.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Man booked for sexually assaulting daughters in Almora||Almora: A man has been booked for allegedly sexually assaulting his two daughters at a village in Bhasia Chana block of Almora district. The two sisters had filed a complaint along with their mother on Sunday. A case has been registered. In the complaint, the mother accused her alcoholic husband of molesting the two daughters - aged 17 and 14. One of the girls said that her father used to molest her after getting drunk and it continued for the past six months. The girls reported the abuse to their mother after their father continued with the heinous act. Revenue sub-inspector Kubera Singh Mehra said that after the complaint, both the girls were sent for medical treatment on Monday. A case has been registered against their father under relevant sections of the IPC and the Pocso Act. The man will be arrested soon, Mehra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-daughters-in-almora/articleshow/81280161.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||4,500 get vax, rollout hit by CoWin glitches||Hyderabad: Covid vaccination drive for those above 60 years and people with comorbidities in the 45 to 59 age bracket on Monday saw 4,558 beneficiaries get vaccinated. This, even as disruptions in CoWin software version 2.2 marred the roll out. State health authorities realised that the ‘online only’ mode would make the soft launch a failure and gave orders to vaccination centres to allow ‘on-site’ registration. The on-site registration was to be introduced after at least a week. As the CoWin app went live around 9am, beneficiaries faced delays in registering. Several beneficiaries could not find a single slot. “I first downloaded the CoWin app and registered, but it wasn’t showing the option of a user name and password. Then I went to the website www.cowin.gov.in which was slightly better but it still took me half an hour to understand how it works. None of the hospitals listed around my area showed a single slot except the Golconda Hospital where I booked one for my mother,” said Sudarshan Bhattacharya, from Shaikpet. Although he got a slot of 9am to 4pm, at the Urban Health Centre, Golconda Area Hospital, vaccines hadn’t reached even at 4pm. At Nampally Area Hospital too there were delays. “The app has several glitches and it did not show slots despite all slots being empty. We had less than 10 people turn up in the first half,” said a on-duty staff member. The ‘on-site’ registration orders were issued by Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health. As a result of delays most government hospitals saw less than 50 people turn up, even as they had a capacity of vaccinating 200 people in a day. At the Gandhi Hospital 22 people were vaccinated. People however flocked to private hospitals with hospitals like KIMS and Care seeing between 150 and 200 vaccinations. By the end of the day, vaccination for the priority group of elderly and people with comorbidities reached 68% of target. “All priority groups will be vaccinated across the state in designated government and private Covid vaccination centres through online registration or on spot registration," said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4500-get-vax-rollout-hit-by-cowin-glitches/articleshow/81281985.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Fire on bus near pump, none hurt||Mumbai: A fire broke out on a private bus near Wadala Truck Terminal around 8.30 pm on Monday. The vehicle was completely gutted, but no one was hurt. Fire officials said a tragedy was averted as the bus was parked near a petrol pump. The fire was possibly sparked by some inflammable substance kept on the bus said officials. was put out after an hour. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fire-on-bus-near-pump-none-hurt/articleshow/81282053.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: National shooting trials, kayaking championship postponed due to Covid-19 surge||BHOPAL: Amid the rise in Covid cases, two important national championships, which were scheduled to be organised in Bhopal, were postponed after players refused to travel. National shooting trials for the Indian team and the senior national kayaking and canoeing championship have been postponed. Both the events were supposed to be organised in March. Organisers of the national kayaking and canoeing championship said that the decision has been taken as a few teams were not able to participle due to Covid. “Cases in Maharashtra are on the rise. In such a situation, several deserving players will not come. As the championship’s objective was to provide equal opportunity to every player, it has been decided to postpone the championship to next month,” said a senior official. Around 450 players were to participate in the championship. “This is a situation where a single mistake could land anyone in trouble. We wanted safety of both players and officials. This decision has been taken as a precaution,” added the official. The kayaking championship was to be organised at Lower Lake. Organisers have decided to organise the championship at the same venue from April 1. “This championship is important as we have to select the Indian team for several international events. We have kept a close watch on the Covid cases to decide about the next date. As of now, April 1 will be the next date,” he said. It was a similar case with the national shot-gun shooting championship, which was to be organised from March first week. “"Almost all top shooters of the country had to participate in the championship as it was to select the Indian team. As shooters refused to travel, the chmapionship has been postponed,” said organisers of the championship. The championship was to be organised at MP Shooting Academy. “No one wants to take any chance in such a situation. It was better to postpone the championship. I hope fresh dates will be announced soon,” said an official of the sports department. Sources said shooters are willing to contest at the MP Shooting Academy due to modern facilities and amenities available at the venue. “Shooters are keen to come and practise. The academy has attracted the eye-balls,” said a sports department official. MP shooters said that the championship and selection should be organised regularly in Bhopal. “This will give us an opportunity to get important tips from renowned shooters. I hope the new dates will be organised in the near future,” said a junior shooter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/natl-shooting-trials-kayaking-cship-postponed-due-to-covid-surge/articleshow/81278962.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Man arrested for cheating people||Pithoragarh: Champawat police arrested a man allegedly involved in a chit fund scam worth crores from Lucknow. More than 40 complaints were registered against him in four districts of Kumaon. Pradeep Kumar Asthana, 56, ran a non-banking finance company and had its branches in Almora, Bageshwar, Champawat and Pithoragarh districts, said Lokeswar Singh, Champawat SP. "The company started work in this area from 2014 and invested money in company schemes. But, after 2019, the company failed to return the money to investors," he added. In 2020, an FIR was lodged in Lohaghat police station against the company for cheating people. Similar complaints were lodged in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Almora and Champawat districts and the number of cases were over 40. Police arrested him on Monday. He was produced before the magistrate and sent to 14 days of judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-arrested-for-cheating-people/articleshow/81280156.cms||Prem Punetha
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Gairsain protest: Don’t be misled by ‘professional andolanjivis’, truth will come out in magisterial probe: CM||Gairsain: A after around 3,000 locals marched towards the Assembly building, protesting over 'failed assurance to broaden a 19-km road' on the first day of the Budget session at Uttarakhand’s summer capital Gairsain, opposition Congress in the Assembly on Tuesday decried the alleged “brutal use of force by police” on women and young children. Opposition Congress staged a walkout in protest. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the truth would come out in the magisterial probe that has been ordered and urged people not to be misled by “professional andolanjivis”. A case has been registered against 40 protesters and 250 unidentified persons for Monday’s violence, in which both police personnel and local residents were injured. Addressing the media outside the Assembly, Rawat said he had already approved the broadening of the 19-km road from Ghat to Nandprayag in Chamoli district. “As per the Motor Vehicles act, a single road can be made 1.5-laned only when the traffic of the road is of 3,000 vehicles per day. On this route, the vehicle movement is only 300 per day. During a visit to Almora and later to Chamoli, I have announced the widening of this road, as we intend to have broader roads from all 95 blocks to their respective district headquarters. Roads with less traffic movement will be made 1.5-laned while those with heavy traffic will be made double-laned.” Referring to the Opposition, CM Rawat said, “They want to create instability and an atmosphere of uncertainty for their own benefit.” During Monday’s session, opposition Congress moved a notice for debate on the issue of use of force on protestors in the House under rule 58 of the Uttarakhand Assembly Rules Manual, 2005. Congress state chief and Chakrata MLA Pritam Singh said that residents of Ghat Block have been protesting peacefully for broadening of the Nandprayag- Ghat road for three months. “On January 10, the locals made a 19 km long human chain and started a hunger strike, but it failed to draw the attention of authorities concerned. The brutal use of force by police on the protestors, including women, is unfortunate and reminiscent of the British rule. There were even reports of male police personnel using force on women protestors,” Singh said. Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh termed Sunday’s incident a “shameful act” and demanded the resignation of the state government. “Women of Uttarakhand have been on the forefront of all movements and rather than talking with them the police resorted to cane charge. Why did senior administrative officials not meet the protesters?” Hridayesh said. In his reply, parliamentary affairs minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “The protest was peaceful till protesters reached Jungle Chutti. Here, police used water cannons but the protestors broke the barricading and marched towards Diwalikhal, where a police team tried to stop them. However, some of the protesters resorted to stone pelting and some even threw bottles at police personnel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gairsain-protest-dont-be-misled-by-professional-andolanjivis-truth-will-come-out-in-magisterial-probe-cm/articleshow/81298868.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Massive protest by locals over broadening of road on 1st day of Gairsain session; 350 held, cops hurt||Gairsain: More than 3,000 local residents of Ghat and Nandprayag held a massive protest on Monday over "failed assurance to broaden 19-km road from Nandprayag to Ghat" leaving several injured and many arrested. The protesters were stopped by police on their way to the assembly building near Gairsain, on the first day of the session. At least 25 people, including some cops, were injured in the ensuing scuffle, sources said, adding that locals pelted stones and police resorted to cane charge. Around 350 people were detained in a temporary jail, officials said. Director General of Police Ashok Kumar told TOI, "Two police personnel - one circle officer and a constable - suffered injuries during stone pelting by the protesters. A constable suffered injuries in the head and received stitches. Both were admitted to a health centre in Bhararisain." The agitated locals who were in a fleet of 300 vehicles, parked them on the highway route – which connects Karnprayag to the summer capital Gairsain – leading to a 7-km long traffic jam extending from Diwalikhal to nearly Aadi Badri. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat around three months ago had announced the broadening of the 19-km road from Nandprayag to Ghat. Previously too, the locals had been given assurances. The locals had recently formed a 19-km long human chain, but the authorities reportedly remained unmoved. Following which, around 3,000 locals staged the violent protest on the first day of the assembly session. The locals were stopped at a police barricade at Jungle Chatti. Cops resorted to water cannon, but they broke through the barricade and marched towards the assembly building at Bhararisain. The 35-odd police personnel at Jungle Chutti were outnumbered. At Diwalikhal – which is four-km from the assembly building – the protesters were stopped by the police force again. After a heated round of verbal exchanges, police resorted to cane charge and use of water cannons. Avataar Singh, a protester and resident of Ghat bock, said that locals have been sitting on stir for two months but “several appeals and agitations fell on deaf ears”. He pointed out that it was a peaceful protest. “We will not sit silent till our demand is met. This is not a political rally or event. The protesters are elderly women, youth, locals and people who are feeling cheated.” Another resident Hari Krishan Bhatt said, “There has been a long pending demand to broaden the six-metre road to nine metres. Our request was accepted by the CM, but even after his assurance and order, there is no progress.” District magistrate (DM) Chamoli Swati Bhadoria told TOI, “People need to have faith in government and administration. The CM has already made the announcement and the project is not being delayed. It takes some time. So, people need to be a little patient.” She pointed out that around 300 to 350 people have been arrested and taken to temporary jail. “There were no lapses. We had to take action when all efforts failed," the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/massive-protest-by-locals-over-broadening-of-road-on-1st-day-of-gairsain-session-350-held-cops-hurt/articleshow/81280190.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Oppn making false claimsto mislead public: Nadda||Varanasi: Sharing tips for the online political battle while gearing up for the panchayat and assembly elections ahead, Bharatiya Janata Party president J P Nadda told party’s IT and social media cell to give a befitting reply to the Opposition’s bid of misleading countrymen with false claims on various issues against government. Addressing the IT and social media cell workers after offering floral tributes to party ideologue Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya at his memorial at Padao on Monday afternoon, Nadda said, “The Opposition is now resorting to false and fabricated claims to mislead people. Our social media cell is brilliantly tackling the baseless claims and presenting correct information before people.” Nadda cautioned the social media team members to be careful in choice of words and to rebut wrong claims and share truth in disciplined language as their posts impact the party’s image. Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership and decision-making for combating Covid-19 pandemic effectively, Nadda said, “Today entire world looks at our PM as a strong and able leader. This increases the responsibility of social media cell in playing an effective role to spread proper information about all welfare schemes of Union and state governments.” “You are working on the fastest medium of communication and should keep trying various options to use it more effectively,” he said before concluding his two-day visit to the PM's parliamentary constituency. Referring to the start of second phase of Covid-19 vaccination in the country on Monday, Nadda said, “We are fortunate to have the leadership of PM Modi and are also extremely thankful to scientists, doctors, health workers and industrialists who played a key role in combating Covid-19.” Earlier, Nadda started his day by visiting Kashi Vishwanath temple where he did ‘Rudrabhishek’ and inspected the KV Dham (corridor) area to see the progress of work. He proceeded to the Kaal Bhairav temple where he offered prayers. After visiting the temples, Nadda had breakfast with UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, state in-charge Radhey Mohan Singh, Sunil Bansal and Sunil Oza. Nadda and party leaders stopped at an eatery in the lane and relished ‘kachori’ and ‘jalebi’ and then headed to Booth 251 unit president Rajesh Yadav’s home in Madhyameshwar circle unit of the party where he addressed booth level workers. “BJP runs on ideology and not on dynastic politics. In our party, any worker can become leader. Our organization and workers are our strengths because of which we win elections. We need to strengthen our booths to win elections,” Nadda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-making-false-claimsto-mislead-public-nadda/articleshow/81283728.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
March 2, 2021||Nashik||13 women rescued from prostitution den in Nashik||Nashik: The city police rescued 13 women from a prostitution den in the Vinay Nagar area under the Mumbai Naka police station on Saturday night. The police have also arrested two operators of the place and six customers. The raid was conducted by the central crime branch unit. DCP (crime) Pournima Chaugule had received information about two people — Philomena Sharma and Arjun Singh Chauhan — were clandestinely operating a prostitution den in the Vinay Nagar area. The two operators were luring girls and women from other states by promising them good income only to force them into flesh trade later. Chaugule instructed the officials of the central crime branch to target the prostitution den. Officials and personnel of the central crime branch unit with additional force from the control room then formed a team. After sending a decoy customer, the police raided the place where they found a total of 13 women and girls. The victims were sent to the government women’s hostel. Two operators and six customers arrested were booked under sections of IPC and the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. On Sunday all the arrested persons were produced before a city court, which remanded them in three-day police custody. Philomena Sharma has two more cases of the same nature registered against her. The raid was conducted on the instructions and guidance of police commissioner Deepak Pandey and DCP Chaugule. The case is being investigated further by API Sachin Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/13-women-rescued-from-prostitution-den-in-nashik/articleshow/81278150.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 2, 2021||Aurangabad||1 killed in bike-car collision near industrial corridor||Aurangabad: A motorcyclist was killed and two others sustained serious injuries in a bike-car collision that took place on the Bidkin-Nilajgaon road in the vicinity of the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor on Monday afternoon. The bike involved in the accident had skid for several metres before catching fire. It was completely charred. The car, meanwhile, turned turtle and fell in a roadside ditch. Residents of the neighbouring villages were amongst the first to reach the spot and start the rescue operation. The deceased has been identified as Harishchandra Gorde, a resident of Balanagar in Paithan. Bidkin police said the man, along with his wife Geeta, was heading towards Bidkin on a bike (registration number MH-20-EB-9363) when it collided head-on with a (registration number TN-78-X-8525). The car was going towards Balanagar from Aurangabad. Assistant inspector Pankaj Udawant said Geeta as well as the person driving the car have sustained injuries and have been taken to the rural hospital. Harishchandra was thrown several metres away from the bike and had sustained serious head injuries. When taken to the hospital, he was declared brought dead. The identity of the injured car driver could not be ascertained. Bidkin police said a case of causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving has been registered against the car driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1-killed-in-bike-car-collision-near-industrial-corridor/articleshow/81278139.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Auto and taxi ridership hit 15-20% on 1st day of hikes||Mumbai: The ridership of autorickshaws and taxis was hit by 15-20% on the first day of a hike in fares, sources said. The minimum auto fare has risen to Rs 21 while that for taxis is Rs 25 for 1.5 km. Drivers, however, said that business will eventually pick up as it was the first day of a “huge” hike. At many places, drivers charged old fares on Monday as they did not have the revised tariff cards and some decided to charge new fares after the meter is recalibrated. At some auto stands outside railway stations, drivers were seen offering share rides to commuters. As per Covid norms, this is illegal and no auto can ferry passengers on share basis. However, in a bid to woo commuters, autos were seen plying three passengers on share basis. Commuters preferred this as it saved them a lot of money by paying just Rs 9 for a ride, and saving Rs 12 in the bargain. Mumbai Autorickshawmen Union leader Shashank Rao admitted that share services, though not allowed, are functioning in some places. He said initially there will be a dip in customers as many are financially hit by the pandemic, but people will shift to autos as it is the most convenient mode of transport. An auto driver in Mulund said: “I am not charging new fares yet as my meter is not recalibrated and I don’t have the RTO tariff card showing equivalent fares. Instead of getting into arguments with passengers, I prefer to charge old rates.” Unions plan to distribute tariff cards on Tuesday to most drivers. Mumbai Taximen’s Union leader A L Quadros said most taxi passengers were those who would not mind spending Rs 2-3 extra for a ride. “During the Covid crisis, some passengers had sympathised with our drivers who went rfaced a tough time, and now passengers will pay hiked fares without complaining,” he said, adding that the hike of Rs 3 was justified as drivers had not got a single paise hike for five years despite cost of living expenses, fuel prices, overhead costs, taxes and insurance costs going up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/auto-and-taxi-ridership-hit-15-20-on-1st-day-of-hikes/articleshow/81282183.cms||Somit Sen
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Unaided school students get fee reprieve in view of Covid||MUMBAI: Unaided schools, which challenged a government resolution (GR) to curb fee hikes in academic year 2020-21, have agreed not to debar students whose parents have not paid the ‘increased component’ if any, over the preceding year. Such students will be allowed to attend classes, online or offline, and exams in the ongoing academic year, in the light of disruptions caused by the pandemic. The Association of Indian Schools and other petitioners including the Unaided School Forum had challenged the May 8, 2020 GR which barred private unaided schools from hiking fees for the year 2020-21. Government had cited the Covid-19 crisis and resultant economic slowdown as justification for the GR. Last June, the Bombay high court had stayed the GR and the Supreme Court had on a plea by the state sent back the matter for expeditious disposal. The association said its members had already fixed and implemented the fees for 2020-21 before the issuance of the May 2020 GR. The HC bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni disposed of the petitions saying it would vacate the stay in its order now. A detailed order will be made available later. The GR is to operate prospectively, the court was told on Monday by the state. Counsel Harish Salve, Milind Sathe, Pravin Samdani, Prateek Seksaria and Nivit Srivastava for unaided schools argued that the GR, “being prospective” cannot apply to them. However, the state argued that it is at liberty to conduct an enquiry, either suo motu or on a complaint against a school if fees for 2020-21 are not determined under provisions of the fee law. The state said the schools are relying on an August 2019 amendment to the law, giving them wider powers on fee fixation, which they could not have as by then the academic year for 2019-20 had already begun. While staying the GR last year, the HC had said it was “mindful of the difficulties faced by parents in these testing times” and had asked school managements “may consider providing option” to pay fees in “reasonable” instalments and online. During the hearings later, the HC had directed private unaided schools who are members of an association that challenged the decision to curb fee hikes in 2020-21 to inform when exactly had they increased or set fees for this academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unaided-school-students-get-fee-reprieve-in-view-of-covid/articleshow/81283769.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Vaccine drive yet to take off in Cantt||Secunderabad: The vaccine drive did not take off in the Secunderabad Cantonment area on Monday, even as other areas witnessed the roll out for certain categories of the public. “After completion of drive in the city, the state government might take a decision to start the drive for the general public in the Cantonment limits,” said Rajkumari, deputy district medical health officer. “We have enough staff and infrastructure like health centres in the Cantonment to ensure the vaccination drive is a success. The venue and timings will be decided once the DMHO announces the drive,” she said. The DMHO in coordination of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) will choose the centres, time and day. The SCB will extend assistance at centres in the Cantonment, a senior SCB official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccine-drive-yet-to-take-off-in-cantt/articleshow/81282144.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||100-year-old Hyderabad resident takes vax, shows the way||HYDERABAD: Dispelling misconceptions and fears associated with the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, a 100-year-old city resident Jaidev Chowdhry got himself inoculated on Monday. The centenarian, who is a retired entrepreneur, was one amongst the first to visit hospital for the vaccine. After getting vaccinated, Jaidev Chowdhry urged everyone above 60 years and those between 45 years and 59 years with comorbidities to get inoculated as it is more difficult for people of these ages to fight infections with their immune systems becoming weak. “Due to the pandemic, senior citizens in Hyderabad had to remain indoors for a long time which in turn had a lot of impact on their mental and physical health. I was waiting for this day to be vaccinated so that I can go back to my old routine and lead an active social life. I also see this as the only way to end the pandemic,” said Chowdhry. “People must come forward and get themselves vaccinated not for their own benefit but for the benefit of the entire society,” the centenarian added. The 100-year-old was wheeled into the hospital by his family members and experienced no side-effects after being administered the vaccine, doctors who were monitoring him, said. Speaking to TOI, Dr G Anil Krishna, managing director of Medicover Hospital, said: “He is an inspiration to all the people who have doubts about the vaccines or vaccination process. Either it is a second wave or spurt in a number of cases, it seems like we already are in it. Especially with cases going up in states like Maharashtra. By voluntarily coming forward to take the vaccine, this 100-year-old is sending a clear message that this is the only way to overcome the pandemic. If it is safe for a 100-year-old man, it is safe for everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/100-year-old-city-resident-takes-vax-shows-the-way/articleshow/81282109.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh reaches out to Mamata, extends support||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party has reached out to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Bannerjee extending support to All India Trinamool Congress in the assembly elections to be held in April. SP national president has also offered to campaign for Didi and her party in West Bengal.“Our party president has spoken to Mamata Didi on phone extending our party’s support to TMC in the assembly elections in West Bengal slated to be held in April. Party has also sent a letter formally extending support to TMC,” said SP national spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary. Akhilesh Yadav has also assured TMC chief that he would campaign for her party in West Bengal, Chaudhary said. As per sources in SP, Akhilesh Yadav will finalise his campaign schedule once he gets the dates on which TMC wants him to campaign in West Bengal. Akhilesh had announced his support for TMC in December 2020 stating that SP has traditionally backed Mamata Banerjee in the past and that he continues to enjoy very cordial relations with Didi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-reaches-out-to-mamata-extends-support/articleshow/81283767.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
March 2, 2021||Nashik||Decades-old banyan tree catches fire in Nashik, 2 fire tenders help douse blaze||Nashik: A decades-old banyan tree caught fire in the Gadkari Chowk area on Sunday evening. It took the fire department close to one-and-a-half hours to douse the fire with the help of two fire tenders. Chief fire officer Sanjay Bairagi said about 25-30% of the tree was damaged in the fire. The fire brigade personnel were quick to reach the incident spot and start dousing the fire. The tree is located close to the office of the deputy commissioner of police Zone II. The head office of the fire department at Shingada Talav got a call at 7.45 pm that the banyan tree had caught fire. As the fire office was informed that only the shoots of the tree had caught fire, initially a water bowser was rushed to the spot. However, after the firemen noticed that the fire was spreading upwards, a fire tender was sent within a matter of a minute or two since the fire office very close to the spot. Eventually, it took the firemen more than one-and-a-half hours to douse the fire completely. Bairagi said the cause of the fire could not be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/decades-old-banyan-tree-catches-fire-in-nashik-2-fire-tenders-help-douse-blaze/articleshow/81278177.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||With no bus connectivity, students school commute an ordeal||HYDERABAD: For a class 9 student P Harika from Keshvapur village, around 40 kms from Hyderabad, going to school in Keesara every day is a herculean task. After walking for nearly 2 kms through a deserted area to hire an auto, a long wait ensues for 8 to 10 passengers to get the auto going. “The route from our village to Thumkunta main road is very deserted. Even if we somehow manage to walk 2 kms and reach the main road, my parents are spending Rs 200 every day for me and sister just on auto fares. If we have a bus, the bus pass will cost us Rs 100 for 3 months,” P Harika said. Similarly, villagers who travel regularly from Keesara, Ramlingampally, Bandakarpalli, Usharupalli and Uddamarri have been deprived of bus connectivity, despite submitting representations to the transport authorities. Many also raised concerns about safety and said that their village is just 2 kms from Hajipur village, where school children used to hitch a ride with strangers due to lack of bus services, leading to a series of rapes and murders. “After the Hajipur incident, we are very apprehensive until the children return home safely from school every single day. Two families who used to stay in our neighbourhood left the village and are now staying close to their daughters’ school due to the same fear,” said P Swati, a resident of Thumkunta. The villagers said that two bus services were cancelled prior to lockdown and have not been resumed till now. “The government is planning to construct a drinking water reservoir at Keshavapur village, but it is strange how there is no bus connectivity,” said Satti Reddy, who submitted a representation to TSRTC on the issue. When contacted, TSRTC’s Kushaiguda depot manager D Sudhakar said, “We received a representation asking for bus connectivity via six to seven small villages nearby instead of a direct bus service to Uddamarri. After the RTC strike, most of these routes were handed over to Private Hired Buses (PHB). We are going to discuss this issue with the PHB owners and try to convince them to go via these villages and see that people have access to the bus service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-no-bus-connectivity-students-school-commute-an-ordeal/articleshow/81282167.cms||Moulika.KV
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Elderly in Doon take the shot on 1st day of 2nd phase of vaccination drive||Dehradun: Suresh Kumar Tonk, 71, had to visit the pension office for some paper work on Monday but after watching PM Narendra Modi taking the vaccine, he changed his plan and landed at Doon Hospital to get a Covid-19 shot for himself, all alone. Similar was the case with 70-year-old Kamlesh Sehgal who got the vaccine shot on Monday. "I had decided that I will first watch its reaction on others of my age and then will get myself vaccinated but after watching Modi ji taking the vaccine, I decided to get it as well. As it was a sudden plan, I couldn't bring my wife but will ensure that she, too, gets the Covid shot tomorrow," said Tonk. According to the health department, total 72 vaccination sessions were held across Uttarakhand and only 25 elderlies or persons with co-morbidities were allowed for vaccination on day one. As per the data provided till the time of filing this report, no elderly was vaccinated in 11 sessions held in Haridwar as the district had the target of vaccinating the frontline workers for Kumbh scheduled in April. Even All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) didn’t inoculate senior citizens and persons with co-morbid illness as the "state health department didn’t share required briefing to the hospital". In the rest of 60 sessions, the health department managed to inoculate 989 elderlies above the age of 65 years while 56 people with co-morbid illness were given the first dose on day one. Doon hospital witnessed technical glitches in registration initially after which a few elderlies were asked to come back after sometime. The issue was resolved later in the day.  “Every centre was allowed to inoculate 25 elderlies on day one. The target will increase gradually as we are still inoculating the second dose to healthcare workers and first dose to frontline workers. Till now, 20,504 healthcare workers have received both doses of vaccine while a total 81,114 healthcare workers received the first dose. We have also vaccinated 66,833 frontline workers with the first dose,” said Dr Saroj Naithani, director National Health Mission. The government has started vaccination for elderlies and persons with comorbid illness at 95 centres across the state, out of which, seven are private hospitals. All the private hospitals are in the state capital. Meanwhile, 27 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state on Monday, taking the tally to 97,019. With 26 people getting recovered from the infection, the recovery tally reached 93,479.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/elderly-in-doon-take-the-shot-on-1st-day-of-2nd-phase-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/81280204.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Two from Hyd stuck in Maldives, MEA offers help||Hyderabad: The ministry of external affairs (MEA) has asked the High Commissioner of India (HCI) in Maldives to look into issue of two Hyderabad men stuck in Maldives. The MEA asked the HCI to take immediate action in the matter. Mohammed Farooq (41) and Syed Aslam (26) said in a video message that they had gone to Maldives on a visit for four days. They went to the airport at the end of their trip and had also got a Covid negative report. “We do not know the reason why we have been sent back and put up in a hotel,” they said. They said they had no money to pay the hotel which was asking them to shell out a huge amount. “We have no means of paying the money. We want help to come back to India,” Farooq and Aslam said in messages to social worker and MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan. Farooq and Aslam said it has been three days since they were kept in the hotel room. “We are being troubled a lot,” Farooq said, breaking down in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-from-hyd-stuck-in-maldives-mea-offers-help/articleshow/81282225.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Grenade found on outskirts of Dharmapur in Mahbubnagar||Hyderabad: A hand grenade was found in the bushes on the outskirts of Dharmapur village in Mahbubnagar district on Monday. Bomb Disposal (BD) squad seized the grenade and a probe has been launched.  According to Mahbubnagar Rural CI Maheshwar Rao, the grenade was first spotted by G Sayamma and her family member Ramesh of Zamistapur village on Sunday evening. “Sayamma and Ramesh have an acre land on the outskirts of Dharmapur. While Sayamma was searching for fire wood in government land near their agricultural field, she spotted an unknown object lying between two boulders,” the inspector said. Sayamma informed Ramesh and initially they thought it could be tractor’s spare part, but later they suspected that it could be a bomb and alerted the village sarpanch. “The sarpanch along with other villagers visited the spot and realised that it was a hand grenade,” the inspector said. A BD squad reached the spot and seized the grenade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/grenade-found-on-outskirts-of-dharmapur-in-mahbubnagar/articleshow/81282314.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||HC rejects plea to transfer Lahoria murder case from sessions court||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Monday rejected a plea by Sandeep Lahoria to transfer the trial in the February 2013 murder of his father Sunil, a real estate developer, from Thane Sessions Judge R R Vaishnav’s court to any other court. But HC directed that to address Sandeep’s grievance, the trial court should “liberally”' consider his plea for CCTV footage to be viewed. If the footage has the section 65-B certificate under Information Technology Act, of authenticity, it may be played towards the trial’s end. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale said a case was “not made out’’ to transfer the trial and to revisit an HC order of August 2019, by which the trial was transferred to Judge Vaishnav. The SC had confirmed that order. The bench directed Judge Vaishnav to complete trial expeditiously “in a fair and proper manner”. Sandeep’s lawyers Himanshu Kode and Amey Lambhate said footage showing his father was alive when he reached hospital was not permitted by the trial court despite a request by the special public prosecutor during trial. Kode had submitted in HC that there were “heated arguments’’ between the Judge and prosecutor, and that “it went to the stage that the Judge left the dais and rejected the applications from his chamber’’. He said, “The sad state of affairs was brought to the notice of the department of law and judiciary through letters addressed by the SPP and that therefore, all this was a matter of record.’’ He questioned how bail applications of two accused were allowed and submitted, and the trial court did not record complaints by witnesses of “threats’’ from accused. Hence, HC recorded that he had “vehemently submitted’’ a transfer of the trial to another court. “Apprehension of bias’’ expressed by Sandeep was “mischievous, deliberate and only to delay proceedings’’, argued senior counsel Rajiv Chavan, appearing for accused Mahesh Bijlani. lodged at Thane Central Jail. Allegations against the Judge were “imaginary and fanciful’’, argued Chavan. He said the transfer plea was only to “further delay proceedings... so that the accused continue to languish in jail’’. He said in December 2018, HC had directed the trial to be conducted on day-to-day basis. SC too said so, “yet it was pending and being dragged at the instance of the petitioner (Sandeep). Advocate Ashwin Thool, appearing for Suresh Bijlani, on bail, advocate Girish Agarwal for Francis Chauri (in Thane Central jail) and advocate D V Sawant for another incarcerated accused, opposed the transfer plea, adopting Chavan’s submissions. The prosecution supported the transfer-of-trial plea before the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-rejects-plea-to-transfer-lahoria-murder-case-from-sessions-court/articleshow/81282512.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Covid blues: Jalgaon, Six-month-old gets permit to cross border, not mom||Nagpur: The list of 40 persons who were supposed to cross the Wagah border and reach India had the name of a six-month-old child, Reyansh Udasi, but not of his mother—Sonya. In Jalgaon, the wait for father Kailash to hold his son for the first time just got longer. These persons were stranded on the other side since over a year after the India-Pakistan borders closed due to Covid. Repatriations that began in July last year continue in batches Kailash is in India as his wife and child remain stranded in Pakistan since last year’s lockdown. Reyansh, who was conceived in India, was born in Pakistan, where he remains separated from his father. TOI had reported their case on October 2020 as a part of stories of stranded persons across the border due to Covid. Kailash and his wife Sonya had gone to Pakistan for a visit in February last year. Both have roots in Pakistan. Kailash, who lives in Jalgaon, has secured Indian citizenship. He married Sonya, a Pakistani citizen, who was living here on a long-term visa (LTV). She has applied for citizenship after marriage. In the meantime, the couple had gone to Pakistan in February last year to attend a marriage and were stranded due to the lockdown. During this period, Reyansh, who was conceived in India, was born in Pakistan on August 24. Kailash was already in India before that. This is because the repatriation happened in batches. First a list of Indian citizens’ which had Kailash’s name was released. Sonya, who was still pregnant and a Pakistani citizen, had to wait for her turn. Like many others, she had gone to Pakistan on a no-objection return to India (NORI) visa. A NORI visa is granted to Pakistani long-term residents in India for brief visits back. In September, when a list which had Sonya’s name and NORI holder’s names was issued, it did not include Reyansh. The answer from the Indian embassy was — Reyansh, who was born in Pakistan, was a Pakistani citizen and not a NORI holder. He could not be part of the list on these grounds. Now, the family has got a Pakistani passport for Reyansh as they wait for another repatriation order. Last week, an order was issued for taking back 40 persons to India. These included Indian nationals and NORI holders. This had Reyansh’s name among the list of Pakistani nationals. He was identified as a new born child. However, this was no good news for Kailash. The new list did not have his mother Sonya’s name. The reparation happened on February 26, leaving Sonya and Reyansh behind. Another couple from Indore who had a similar case could come back. Sagar Bajaj from Indore who was reunited with his three-month-old child and wife said there was no official communication from the Indian embassy in Islamabad. “I first got the list from the social media. It included the names of my wife and son. So, I quickly called up the Indian embassy where an official confirmed that a list was released. My family managed to reach the Wagah border in Punjab from Jacobabad in Sindh,” he said. Bajaj said he asked the embassy official why those named in the list were not informed in advance. The answer was that even they got the list a day go, he said. Kailash’s calls to the embassy went unanswered as he hopes for a new list having names of both his wife and son to be released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-blues-six-month-old-gets-permit-to-cross-border-not-mom/articleshow/81282321.cms||Shishir Arya
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Bengal beset with crime, BJP can set it right: Yogi||Lucknow: A day before he was scheduled to visit West Bengal to campaign for the upcoming assembly polls, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that West Bengal was beset with state-sponsored crime and only BJP could clear it up. The CM told a private news channel on Monday that people in Bengal desired the kind of development that could be seen in all the BJP-ruled states. “They want the benefits of the Kisan Samman Nidhi, of Ayushman Bharat, one nation-one ration card, housing, employment etc. Unfortunately, the TMC government in Bengal has not implemented any of these central schemes,” the CM said. He said that at one point, Bengal’s economy was as strong as Maharashtra’s but the state was in a mess now. Saying that he was going to campaign there as a party worker and not a leader, the CM said that BJP had conquered states like Tripura, Manipur, Assam etc and was now headed for Bengal. “People in TMC are suffocated and we will definitely form government in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bengal-beset-with-crime-bjp-can-set-it-right-yogi/articleshow/81283775.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Leopard deaths jumped by 139% in 5 yrs in U’khand||Dehradun: Leopard deaths have more than doubled in Uttarakhand over the past five years. In 2015, 54 leopard deaths were recorded in Uttarakhand. The number increased steadily and the hill state saw 129 leopard deaths in 2020, the highest in five years. Data accessed exclusively by TOI from the forest department shows a surge of 139.89%% from 2015 to 2020. In all, 1,404 leopards have died in the state since its formation in 2000. What is disturbing is that as many as many as 39 deaths in 2020 were attributed to “unknown” reasons. The other reasons such as natural deaths accounted for 32 deaths, mutual fights (23), accidents (12) and 11 were shot dead after being tagged a man-eater. According to wildlife activist Sangeeta Dogra, who had opposed the killing of man-eater tigress Avni in Maharashtra last year, the government should provide evidence to justify putting so many leopard deaths under “unknown” category. “Leopards fall under Schedule 1 of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, so nothing can be ‘unknown’ about their deaths. Uttarakhand has a rich population of leopards and if reasons behind their killings are unknown, it amounts to encouraging poaching,” she said. Dogra added that “natural death” should be counted for only, “those leopards which are above 13 years and cubs should not be counted in it at all as their survival chances are 50%.” Last year, 63 carcasses were of females, 48 were males and 18 were labelled “unknown”. The authorities claimed that the remains had decomposed so much that they were unrecognizable. TOI also learnt that a maximum of 21 leopards died in Almora forest division, followed by Pithoragarh forest division where 20 leopards were killed while Pauri Garhwal forest division saw 19 leopard deaths and Haridwar 10. Chief wildlife warden of forest department JS Suhag said all the mortalities are verified and only then categorized, “There are times when death happens but the entire body is intact and that’s when we tag it as ‘unknown reason’ while for natural deaths even cubs are added in it. The viscera of each dead animal is sent to the authorized national laboratories for final results and then the file of each case is compiled.” On the trend of rising leopard mortality in the state over the past five years, Suhag said, “Uttarakhand is a haven for leopards and their population is constantly rising so the human-leopard conflict is also increasing. There are over 800 leopards in our two tiger reserves while all the remaining 50 plus forest divisions are also teeming with leopards.” In 2015, the state lost 54 leopards, followed by 88 in 2016, 102 in 2017, 105 in 2018, 111 in 2019 and 129 leopards in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-deaths-jumped-by-139-in-5-yrs-in-ukhand/articleshow/81298964.cms||Shivani Azad
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Domestic help, friend held for 77-year-old Worli woman’s death||MUMBAI: Worli police, probing the murder of a 77-year-old woman at a Worli Sea Face bungalow, on Monday arrested two persons, including her domestic help, for killing her and running away with jewellery. A team led by Dnyaneshwar Chavan, additional commissioner of police, arrested Amarjit Nishad (22) and his friend, Abhijit Joria (22), both from UP. They were nabbed within 48 hours of the crime. Joria was a domestic servant at a flat in Walkeshwar. Police recovered all the stolen jewellery, worth over Rs 4 lakh, from the accused. The prime accused, Nishad, had recently taken up the job at the bungalow. The Dolwanis, who reside in the two-storey Prasana Kutir, is into the manufacture of automobile radiators. Police said Vishni lived on the first floor with her husband, in a joint family with her son, his wife and two children. Around 12.15am on Friday, when there was no response from their room, Vishni’s 82-year -old husband opened the door with duplicate keys to find her lying unconscious with her hands and legs tied and her mouth gagged with a piece of cloth. The family rushed her to hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. Prima facie it is a case of strangulation, an officer said on Friday. The Dolwanis had told police that their domestic help was missing and their safe was open, with jewellery missing. Mateen Hafeez||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/domestic-help-friend-held-for-77-yr-old-worli-womans-death/articleshow/81283817.cms||Mateen Hafeez
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Woman, 60, found dead, leopard attack suspected||Pithoragarh: An elderly woman's body was found 500m away from her home at Suraili village of Kanalichhena block on Sunday night. She was supposedly killed by a leopard. Identified as Tulsi Devi, the woman, 60, was reportedly attacked and dragged by the leopard to the forest when she was out to collect firewood. Her family found blood stains and a slipper, said Naveen Pant, Pithoragarh SDO. "Villagers informed the forest officials and police. They also started looking for her and found the body 500m away from home," Pant added. This is the second incident of leopard attack in two weeks. On February 17, a leopard killed Kalawati Devi, 45, at Bachet village - 2 km away from Suraili, Pant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-60-found-dead-leopard-attack-suspected/articleshow/81280243.cms||Prem Punetha
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Working to make gains in UP: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: The AIMIM has decided to strengthen the party in various parts of the country. “We worked in Gujarat and won seven corporator seats in Ahmedabad. Inshaallah, we will become successful in Bhuj, Godhra and Modasa also. We are working to strengthen the party in Rajasthan and are also working to make gains in Uttar Pradesh,” said party chief Asaduddin Owaisi. He said he will visit Utraula in UP along with Om Prakash Rajbhar, president of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia chief Shivpal Yadav on March 14. When reporters addressed him as a friend of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, he called himself ‘Laila’. Earlier also, Owaisi said that he is the ‘Laila of Indian politics’ and called others as ‘majnus.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/working-to-make-gains-in-up-asad/articleshow/81282382.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Surat||AAP takes malpractices in garbage collection to street||Surat: Within days of winning the civic body election, AAP councillor Dharmendra Vavaliya from Kapodra Hirabaug (ward 3) was seen out on the road addressing people’s issues. On Saturday, he went around instructing shops and offices in Hira Baug area to stop paying extra money to garbage collection vans. Videos of Vavaliya raising the vexed issue in the area also went viral on the social media. “I received complaints that the employees of garbage collection vans make illegal demands for amounts between Rs 300 and Rs 1,000 every month from commercial establishments as per the size of the business. People already pay tax to get this service,” Vavaliya told TOI. Vavaliya not only instructed shopkeepers to avoid bribing the garbage collectors but also shared his contact details asking them to inform him about the garbage collection van employees demanding money. Noticing waste thrown on the road at a few spots, he also also encouraged shops to throw garbage in vans only and not litter roads and surrounding areas. While visiting his ward Vavaliya was also told that the garbage van visits at different hours and so people have to keep the waste on the road. The van employees collect it directly from the road. Vavaliya then called up the garbage collection agency as well as Surat Municipal Corporation officials from the spot and talked about the issue and instructed them to regularise the collection process. Formerly an automobile consultant, Vavaliya is also known for his adherence to rules related to vehicles and traffic. “Once the containers of the van get filled up, they collect waste in plastic gunny bags hanging these on both sides of the van to maximize garbage collection per trip. This leads to accidents besides littering on the road,” he said.Health department officials in SMC’s Varachha zone claimed that carry out inspections of garbage vans at regular intervals and penalise norm violators. “We have penalised the garbage van operators for violation of rules. For money being demanded by the van staff people should complain to the SMC immediately. We will take strict actions,” said Kinjal Patel, deputy health officer, Varachha (East).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aap-takes-malpractices-in-garbage-collection-to-street/articleshow/81279142.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 2, 2021||Meerut||Government primary schools reopen after pandemic break||Bijnor/Agra: After a break of almost one year, primary schools reopened in the state on Monday amid restriction on the number of students. The state government has put in place a new plan under which students of only two classes will be allowed on any given day. So on the first day, students of Class I and Class V were allowed entry and rest were given the timetable and told to return home. Basic education department officials had also sought the consent of the parents of the children whether they wanted to send their wards to the schools or not. They were told to send their children with masks and sanitizers. Head master of Chandpur Feru school in Bijnor, Rajendra Singh, said “The students were very excited and happy to attend their classes after an year. However, parents of some children were under dilemma. They were worried about the ongoing pandemic. We allayed their doubts and asked them to follow Covid-19 guidelines. In addition, we also gave knowledge to the students about Covid- 19. All children followed the guidelines. They were wearing masks.” Most children were happy to be back in school. In Agra, Class V student of Pratapura primary school, Mehak Kushwaha, said, “I was missing school. Now I am happy to meet my friends and teachers after so many days. We enjoyed our midday meal.” Basic Shiksha Adikari Rajveer Kumar Yadav said, “Teachers have been strictly directed to ensure that students maintain social distancing. Classrooms will be regularly sanitized. Arrangements are being made for thermal screening and face masks. Students with Covid-19 symptoms will be sent home immediately. Very soon, Covid-19 testing of students will also be conducted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/government-primary-schools-reopen-after-pandemic-break/articleshow/81279073.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Rejecting claim of biological parents, Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court retains 6-yr-old’s custody with adoptive couple||NAGPUR: Ending an interesting legal battle over a 6-year-old boy’s custody between two couples, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court allowed the child to remain with his adoptive parents while dismissing the case filed by his biological parents, who are from “poor background”. The child was born out of an extramarital affair of his biological parents on August 30, 2014. Upholding the Nagpur Family Court’s decision, a division bench of justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryawanshi ruled that in the interest of child’s welfare, the custody should remain with his Mominpura-based adoptive parents. TOI had reported about the family court’s verdict on February 2, 2016, titled ‘After giving up kid for adoption, couple fights for his custody’ when the boy was just 17-month-old. “There’s sufficient evidence to prove foster parents are in a better position to take care of child’s welfare. They are taking care of his health, education, intellectual development and are giving him favourable surroundings. They are also imbibing moral and physical values in him. They are in a better position to look after his moral and physical welfare and future," the judges ruled. Dismissing the biological parents’ appeal, the bench noted that if the child is handed over to them, it would cause emotional turmoil to him and he would be uprooted from his adoptive parents’ family. “Since the child was suffering from jaundice after his birth and his condition became critical, his custody was handed over to adoptive parents on the fifth day. They spent a substantial amount to provide him expert treatment that led to his recovery. They nurtured him since then and, naturally, he is mentally and emotionally attached to them and developed a bond. They both appear to be in a position to provide adequate facilities in proper and congenial manner,” they said. The biological father, an auto driver, married his first wife in 2012 and had two children. He had an affair with another woman, who is child’s biological mother, and entered into wedlock with her on June 26, 2013. He, however, deserted her after the child's birth. Her father, having no means to maintain the child, handed it over to the foster parents, his family friends. After getting child’s custody, the businessman husband and doctor wife took good care of the child. In the meantime, the biological father reunited with the second wife and took her home where the first wife and children were also staying. Subsequently, they filed an appeal in the family court for child’s custody. Rejecting their plea, then principal judge IM Bohari allowed adoptive parents’ appeal to retain child, which was challenged in HC. Observing that the biological mother recently delivered a girl child, the HC judges clarified that the father needs to look after two wives and three children. “Their financial condition doesn’t appear to be good and they live in a temporary structure. Even their daughter from first wife wasn’t admitted to the school while the biological mother was taking treatment for mental ailment," they observed. What HC said: * Foster parents are in a better position to take care of child’s welfare * They are taking care of his health, education, and intellectual development * Giving him favourable surroundings and imbibing moral and physical values * Biological father needs to look after two wives and three children * Their financial condition isn't good, they live in temporary structure||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rejecting-claim-of-biological-parents-hc-retains-6-yr-olds-custody-with-adoptive-couple/articleshow/81282476.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 2, 2021||Rajkot||Now, savour gathiya made from sabudana!||Rajkot: Farmers in Gujarat have always been enterprising and adaptive to new crops as wells as agriculture technology. One such attempt is being made by farmers of Jamnagar, who have ventured into growing cassava or tapioca, an African native tuberous root, grown widely in Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Though cassava root, as such, does not have a market in Gujarat, its flour and food items like chips, ganthiya and papad, prepared from it has good commercial value. Farmers of Jamnagar plan to tap this market of value-added products and for that, they have decided to increase the cultivation area from this year. Payal Kantariya, a farmer from Arablus village in Lalpur taluka of Jamnagar district had brought cassava roots from Kerala last year and cultivated 70 plants in her farm. She also distributed some among the farmers of her village. “There are over a dozen farmers in our group who have cultivated cassava on a small scale. However, because of lockdown we could not find a market. We used the flour of the cassava in making papad, chips and other food items. But this year we are planning to cultivate the roots in a larger area,” said Kantariya, who along with a group of women also runs a gruh udhyog (cottage industry) making snacks. Akshit Prajapati, a farmer of Juvanpar village of Kalavad taluka said, “I have been cultivating cassava on a small portion of my farm since the last few years, but now I am planning to cultivate it in five bigha land from next year.” Ask him why sudden change in plans, Prajapati promptly replies that products made out of cassava had good demand in the market. Kalpesh Jani, who has formed a farmers’ produce company said, “We have already identified the market for cassava once it is commercially produced. Its starch is widely used in the textile, food and pharmaceutical industry. It also contains ethanol which can be used as biofuel. We are preparing farmers of Jamnagar, Rajkot, Amreli and Kutch district to cultivate this tuberous roots in larger area.” K P Baraiya head of Krushi Vigyan Kendra Jamnagar, under the Junagadh Agriculture University (JAU) said, “Several farmers of Lalpur, Kalavad and Jamnagar talukas, who have started cultivation of cassava. This is a wild crop and can be easily cultivated in Gujarat’s weather. We are providing them guidance and if they get a good market, this crop can be cultivated commercially like other crops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/now-savour-gathiya-made-from-sabudana/articleshow/81279093.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
March 2, 2021||Kochi||CPM praising Mannathu Padmanabhan now because of polls: BJP||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: BJP national executive member P K Krishnadas on Monday came up in support to the NSS which expressed doubts regarding a recent article eulogising Mannathu Padmanabhan published in the CPM mouthpiece Desabhimani. “As the NSS has righty put it, the CPM showers praise on Mannam in view of the assembly election. The CPM leaders never cared to acknowledge the role and contributions of the renaissance leader. Former chief minister V S Achuthanandan did not mention about the role of Mannathu Padmanabhan when he inaugurated the Guruvayur sathyagraha entrance on June 4, 2007. The current chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan too followed the path of Achuthanandan in 2018 when he inaugurated the anniversary celebrations of Guruvayur Sathyagraha Samaram,” Krishnadas said at a news conference here. According to Krishnads, the CPM had come up against Mannam for the role he played in the liberation struggle (Vimochana Samaram) against the EMS government. Krishnadas said that the cases charged in connection with the protest against the attempts to facilitate the entry of women of menstruating age to Sabarimala temple and the protests against CAA should be viewed differently. “The LDF government is using the Sabarimala struggle as a shield to withdraw hundreds of cases filed in connection with the anti-CAA protests staged by anti-national forces with the support of LDF and UDF,” he said. Krishnadas also came out against state finance minister T M Thomas Isaac for his statements against Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “Isaac has no right to criticise Nirmala Sitharaman for speaking up the truth,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-praising-mannam-now-because-of-polls-bjp/articleshow/81279100.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Desi Covaxin gets booster shot with PM Modi taking jab||HYDERABAD: Desi Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, which has been plagued by vaccine hesitancy after it got the EUA (emergency use authorisation) nod in the midst of Phase III efficacy trials, and Atmanirbhar Bharat got a major booster shot after PM Narendra Modi took the first jab of the indigenous vaccine on Monday morning. Bharat Biotech has developed the vaccine from scratch in India, along with the Indian Council Medical Research-National Institute of Virology, Pune.  “This has set a powerful example for all Indians to follow, which will go a long way in reducing vaccine hesitancy and building confidence in immunisation against the ongoing pandemic. We express our sincere gratitude to the PM for reposing his trust in the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin. We urge all fellow citizens to not hesitate from taking part in the Covid-19 immunization program so that the country can bring an end to this public health crisis,” Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella said. Earlier in the day, Bharat Biotech also tweeted its appreciation for the PM. “Inspired and humbled by Hon’ble PM’s remarkable commitment to build an Atmanirbhar Bharat. Yes, we all shall fight #COVID-19 together and emerge victorious,” the firm tweeted. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik alsotook his first dose of Covaxin on Monday. Tweeting about this, Bharat Biotech joint managing Suchitra Ella said: “Namaskar Hon CM of Orissa Sri Naveen Patnaik ji, leading by example of getting vaccinated today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/desi-covaxin-gets-booster-shot-with-modi-taking-jab/articleshow/81282430.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Youth killed in Bageshwar, accused held||BAGESHWAR: A 25-year-old man has been held for the murder of his 23-year-old friend. The accused, a resident of Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh), is under interrogation. Amit Srivastava, SP, said that accused Danish Hasan had been living in the Garuda area for the last eight years. He works as a construction worker. A year-and-a-half ago, his acquaintance Rashid Ahmed, also a Bareilly-resident, came to Garuda with him. The two started working together. However, Rashid started working separately some time ago. This didn't go down well with Danish and thus, he killed Rashid, according to the police. The SP added that the accused has confessed his crime and the rod used to kill the victim has been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/youth-killed-in-bageshwar-accused-held/articleshow/81280255.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Boards must plan alternative to offline Class X, XII exams: Parents, teachers||MUMBAI: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state, the anxiety around board exams has increased too. Parents and teachers have demanded that education boards announce an alternative in case offline examinations are not conducted due to the pandemic. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has announced that the HSC and SSC exams will be conducted from April 23 and 29, respectively. Similarly, the CBSE board exams are scheduled to begin on May 4. The ICSE and ISC exams, the schedule for which was announced on Monday, are expected to begin on May 5. With a growing number of Covid-19 cases in the state over the past few weeks, though, parents and teachers are worried about offline board exams. State school education minister Varsha Gaikwad has said holding Class X and XII board exams online will not be possible due to the large numbers and demographics of the nearly 30 lakh students in Maharashtra. The situation has parents worried. A request from the Teachers’ Democratic Front said the boards must decide at the earliest. “The boards have said that offline exams will be conducted and that has caused panic among parents and students due to Covid-19. The boards must consider the current prevalence of the pandemic and think of a backup plan in case exams cannot be conducted. If they announce other options at the last moment, it will lead to stress among students and eventually affect their performance in the board exams,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of the teachers’ association. Another group of parents and educators has demanded that the boards make provisions for the exams that will help students cope. “Schools have been shut for over 10 months and not all students have access to online education. The boards should consider allowing students to appear for their board exams from their schools itself. They could also consider letting schools evaluate the students based on assignments and practicals. A board exam would mean a lot of students assembling at the same place, which could be risky. A contingency plan must be put in place,” said Anubha Sahai of the Youtube Educators of Maharashtra, a group of educators and parents from the state. Similar demands have been made by other groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/boards-must-plan-alternative-to-offline-class-x-xii-exams-parents-teachers/articleshow/81289059.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccine: Elders score 115% on Day 1 in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: They might be old but turned out to be more courageous than the younger lot. The phase III of mass Covid vaccine drive for elders and comorbid people started with a bang with a record 115% turnout on Monday. Against the target of 900, as many as 1022 elderly aged 60 years or above and people (45-59 age group) with comorbidities turned up to get their first shot of the two-dose vaccine course given four weeks apart. Of these 868 were elderly and 154 co-morbid between 45-59 years. The turnout in the Phase III inaugural round was far ahead of the attendance in the first round of Phase I (70%) and Phase II (64%) in which healthcare and frontline workers were respectively inoculated. “In earlier two phases, the turnout was low in initial rounds because of delay in communication about the schedule to beneficiary due to glitches and hesitancy, but in this round people had to just walk-in at the centres with required documents and hesitancy has also come down because there has been no major side effect in the mass vaccination so far,” said a health officer. “Many in the 45-59 age group who had comorbidity could not get certificates at such a short notice. We are sure, the number of people with comorbidity will increase from next rounds,” he added. Monday’s vaccination was carried out at four centres at nine booths in four centres - four booths in King George's Medical University, three in Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and one each at SPM Civil Hospital and Shekhar hospital. Each booth had the capacity of inoculating 100 each. However, as turnout was more arrangements were made to supply additional dosages. As many as 195 healthcare and frontline workers who missed their phases also came to get their first doses. As a result, total vaccination on Monday was 1,217. “While Covidshield was given free at KGMU, RMLIMS and SPM Civil hospital, covexin was administered at Shekhar Hospital, for which beneficiaries paid Rs 250 and were also asked to fill a consent form first before giving the jabs,” said Chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. "No major side effect of both Covidshield and Covaxin has been reported among elderly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/elders-score-115-on-day-1-in-lucknow/articleshow/81283792.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||As MP, KCR mislead Parl over his signature, alleges Revanth||Hyderabad: Seeking to expose that both TRS and BJP are two sides of a coin, Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Monday sought to know whether BJP state president Bandi Sanjay will prevail upon the Centre to conduct an inquiry against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for allegedly misleading Parliament. In a chat with mediapersons on Monday, Revanth alleged KCR had misled Parliament when he was an MP. “ I will give a written complaint seeking a probe to verify whether the signatures in the attendance register of Parliament against the name of KCR were made by him or some other person. Will Bandi Sanjay get the BJP government to conduct a forensic test into this issue based on my written complaint. Also, there are allegations that KCR misled Parliament about his educational qualifications,” Revanth alleged and dared Sanjay to get a probe conducted. “Why ask Bandi Sanjay? Revanth is also an MP and can directly lodge a complaint with the Lok Sabha speaker to look into the issue. Leave alone KCR, none of the TRS leaders are going to get threatened by Revanth’s tactics,” Telangana state planning board vice-chairman and former MP B Vinod Kumar said. Reacting sharply, Telangana state planning board vice-chairman and former MP B Vinod Kumar rubbished Revanth’s claims and termed it as a political gimmick||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-mp-kcr-mislead-parl-over-his-signature-alleges-revanth/articleshow/81282397.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Commuters shift to EVs amid fuel price hike||Hyderabad: Amid increasing fuel prices and rising environmental concerns due to air pollution in urban areas, commuters seem to be slowly shifting towards electric vehicles in Hyderabad. The data available with the transport department suggests that there has been a steady interest among the public for electric cars as well as two-wheelers with the Greater Hyderabad region now having more than 12,000 electric vehicles as compared to 9,300 vehicles in 2019 and 11,456 vehicles in 2020. In addition, the RTA records also show that 531 vehicles were sold in Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal Malkajgiri districts in just two months this year. G Subash, a resident of Kompally who recently purchased an electric car said, “After driving over 1,000 kms, I realised that I saved about Rs 8,000 in petrol. I don’t think I am ever going back to vehicles with a combustion engine again. There are also adequate charging points in the city these days and it does not contribute to increasing pollution levels.” Transport authorities attribute the rise in purchase of e-vehicles to factors such as increase in fuel prices, reduction in goods and services tax (GST) as well as better affordability due to low costs of ownership. “Along with fuel prices, the reason for increase in people going for electric vehicles is government subsidies and exemptions of taxes are some of the key factors that might be encouraging people to choose electric vehicles over diesel or petrol variants,” said P Ravinder, RTO Uppal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/commuters-shift-to-evs-amid-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/81282416.cms||Moulika.KV
March 2, 2021||Meerut||UP: Government primary schools reopen after pandemic break||BIJNOR/AGRA: After a break of almost one year, primary schools reopened in the state on Monday amid restriction on the number of students. The state government has put in place a new plan under which students of only two classes will be allowed on any given day. So on the first day, students of Class I and Class V were allowed entry and rest were given the timetable and told to return home. Basic education department officials had also sought the consent of the parents of the children whether they wanted to send their wards to the schools or not. They were told to send their children with masks and sanitizers. Head master of Chandpur Feru school in Bijnor, Rajendra Singh, said “The students were very excited and happy to attend their classes after an year. However, parents of some children were under dilemma. They were worried about the ongoing pandemic. We allayed their doubts and asked them to follow Covid-19 guidelines. In addition, we also gave knowledge to the students about Covid- 19. All children followed the guidelines. They were wearing masks.” Most children were happy to be back in school. In Agra, Class V student of Pratapura primary school, Mehak Kushwaha, said, “I was missing school. Now I am happy to meet my friends and teachers after so many days. We enjoyed our midday meal.” Basic Shiksha Adikari Rajveer Kumar Yadav said, “Teachers have been strictly directed to ensure that students maintain social distancing. Classrooms will be regularly sanitized. Arrangements are being made for thermal screening and face masks. Students with Covid-19 symptoms will be sent home immediately. Very soon, Covid-19 testing of students will also be conducted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/government-primary-schools-reopen-after-pandemic-break/articleshow/81279107.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||LPG cylinder price shoots up to Rs 819||Mumbai: The price of an LPG cylinder here crossed the Rs 800 mark on Monday. The price was hiked from Rs 794 for a 14.2kg domestic cylinder to Rs 819, a hike of Rs 25. The price of a 19kg cylinder was also hiked from Rs 1,468 to Rs 1,563 a hike of Rs 95. Prices of CNG, petrol and diesel were not hiked on Monday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lpg-cylinder-price-shoots-up-to-rs-819/articleshow/81283835.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Clinic to pay for actress’ botched treatment||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed Lavino Cosmetic and Laser Clinic at Pragathi Nagar in Srinagar Colony to refund Rs 62,000 to a TV actress for a beauty treatment gone awry. It also directed the clinic to pay her a compensation of Rs 50,000 along with an interest of 9% per annum from October 2012. The actress had gone to the clinic for enhancing her beauty, but she ended up in a darker shade. A bench of Justice MSK Jaiswal and Geetha Ramanathan, member, heard her and confirmed the judgment of the Hyderabad District Consumer Forum II that ordered a refund of her money and compensation. The clinic filed an appeal against the order. The appeal was dismissed by the state commission. The commission’s judgment said the television actress had paid Rs 62,000 to the clinic in 2012 to get through the promised treatment, better colour, laugh line, permanent hair colour, skin, among other procedures The state commission deprecated the beauty clinic’s attempts to brand the television actress as a blackmailer, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clinic-to-pay-for-actress-botched-treatment/articleshow/81282475.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Sharmila to name party on April 9||Hyderabad: YS Sharmila is likely to announce her new party’s name on April 9 as against the original plans to announce it in July, sources said. The new party’s name could be either YSR Congress Telangana Party or YSRC Rajanna Rajyam. Sources said Sharmila is likely to make an announcement during her public meeting in Khammam. She is likely to begin the party activities from May 14 from Lotus Pond. Meanwhile, her follower T Devender said that there was no truth in Telangana Congress working president A Revanth Reddy’s allegations that one of the youths who spoke during her interactions is an evangelist. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharmila-to-name-party-on-april-9/articleshow/81282461.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Develop system to monitor quality of vaccination in private sector: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officials to develop a mechanism to monitor the status and quality of vaccination in private centres on the lines of those available at government facilities. Issuing instructions during the launch of Covid-19 vaccination for the elderly at Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Civil Hospital, the CM said the number of beneficiaries would be much higher than previous sessions and the role of private sector would be crucial for the success of this round. “There is a need for robust mechanism to monitor the quality and progress of vaccination in private sector,” he said. Though the new phase of the programme has been launched, a number of modalities are still not final. “The outline from Union government is clear but UP is customizing it in view of the magnitude of the challenge,” an official said. “In UP, registration for vaccine needs to be diversified on account of local factors such as urban or rural, education of users and so on. Therefore, options like use of common service centres, panchyati raj system and postal department’s network is being explored to facilitate rural population and those who are not tech savvy,” an officer said. UP has a list of over 1.8 crore people in the age group of over 60 years while the number of people in 45-59 years age bracket with co-morbid condition is likely to touch 2 crore. “This number is bigger than the entire population of some countries,” remarked a senior consultant engaged by the state health department. “The government may opt for camp-based approach and facilitate pre-registration and on spot verification for it,” he added. Officials said planning also involved consideration of local event calendar and festivals. “It is highly likely that Covid-19 vaccination is done thrice a week in view of the load. It may take up to 15-20 weeks to vaccinate the targeted population,” an official said. A video conference with district officials has been called to finetune the draft readied on Monday. Other issues that need to be decided are engaging private players and social organisations to facilitate the drive. Public representatives and residents’ welfare societies in urban areas may also be roped in for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/develop-system-to-monitor-quality-of-vaccination-in-pvt-sector-cm/articleshow/81283829.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Male elephant found dead with injuries||Udhagamandalam: A tusker was found dead at a private tea estate in the Bitherkadu range of forests in Gudalur division in the Nilgiris on Monday. According to Omkara Kommu, district forest officer, Gudalur division, the tusker was aged around 15 years. “The tusks were intact. It had sustained a deep injury to stomach. The carcass also had a few other injuries. Prima facie, it looks like the animal succumbed to the injuries that it sustained during infighting,” the officer said. He, however, said the actual reason behind the animal’s death could be ascertained only after the postmortem. “A drone with camera will be deployed to find the other elephant, if any, that was involved in the infighting.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/male-elephant-found-dead-with-injuries/articleshow/81280285.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Shot in the arm for TRS as party membership nos. touch 70 L||Hyderabad: In just 16 days after the membership drive was taken up by the TRS, as many as 70 lakh people have taken the pink party membership, party general secretaries said. With the membership in several places yet to be completed, the general secretaries have urged TRS working president KT Rama Rao to extend the membership drive by another 10 days. KTR held a review meeting with party general secretaries and senior leaders on the membership drive at Telangana Bhavan on Monday. The party had set at least 50,000 memberships as target from each assembly constituency. But in some constituencies, it is likely touch one lakh members. As there were some issues like the ongoing graduates MLC election campaign and MLAs in places like Bhupalpally, Narayanpet and Jangaon indisposed, party leaders have sought more time for the membership drive to be completed. KTR said he would speak to TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao in this regard. KTR asked the party leaders to complete digitisation of new members and start appointing party committees at the village, mandal and district level and complete the exercise by the end of this month. He appreciated the MLAs who had managed to enrol new members more than the target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shot-in-the-arm-for-trs-as-party-membership-nos-touch-70-l/articleshow/81282428.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||French envoy visits vaccine makers||Hyderabad: Less than a week after Ukranian health minister Maksym Stepanov’s visit to Bharat Biotech’s facility, France’s ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain came calling on Covid-19 vaccine makers in Hyderabad’s Genome Valley on Monday. Lenain not only visited Bharat Biotech’s facility but also toured manufacturing facilities of Biological E Ltd along with consul general of France, Marjorie Vanbaelinghem. The French envoy met Biological E’s team led by its MD Mahima Datla on Monday before heading off to Bharat Biotech where he had parleys with the firm’s top brass led by chairman and MD Dr Krishna Ella and joint managing director Suchitra Ella.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/french-envoy-visits-vaccine-makers/articleshow/81282481.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Golden generation sees silver lining in vaccine||PUNE: Widespread confusion and chaos marked day one of the vaccine drive for senior citizens and those over 45 with comorbidities in Pune district. Scores who turned up early on Monday said the authorities had not set aside enough infrastructure for this group of citizens, who are now being vaccinated along with healthcare and frontline workers. In the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), the PMC had four hospital sites, the PCMC eight and the rural parts 20. Despite the confusion, the enthusiasm among the 60-plus recipients to take the vaccine was high. As many as 460 people from this group were vaccinated in Pune district as against just 29 in the 45-plus group. At Sutar Hospital in Kothrud, 97-year-old Pratibha Kulkarni proudly showed off her recipient form. At Aundh hospital, which administered Covaxin, 89-year-old Vanmala Deshmukh, mother of Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune region, was among the recipients. Many others said they were waiting for the early rush to ease. “Of course I’m going to get the vaccine,” said 85-year-old Ashok Kamath, a resident of Kothrud. “I’ll wait for a few days. I’m sure the situation will improve. We’re all eager to get the shot.” Maharashtra registered 3,777 vaccinations in the 60-plus group and 946 in the 45-plus (with comobordities) category. In the 60-plus group, Nagpur saw 544 vaccinations, Nashik 324 and Aurangabad 317. The PMC sites were hit by CoWIN niggles almost immediately. Vaccinations could start only at 3pm at Sutar hospital in Kothrud and at 1.30pm at Sassoon hospital. The other two hospital sites in the PMC, Kamala Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi, also experienced similar problems. At Kamala Nehru, a row broke out between site administrators and citizens who had turned up early for their jabs. Baner resident Niranjan Sinha (63) and wife Gita, who arrived at the hospital at 11.30am, got inoculated only at 3.40pm. The couple's daughter said it was a harrowing experience. “We were the first in queue in the morning. But soon, two other queues of police and PMC staff started forming and they were being let in before us,” she said. CoWIN glitches impacted sites in Pimpri Chinchwad too, even though the PCMC recorded 204 vaccinated senior citizens, the highest in the Pune Metropolitan Region. Pankaj Bheda, a resident of Rahatni who arrived at Jijamata hospital (Pimpri) with his 71-year-old father and 65-year-old mother, said his parents ended up returning without their jabs. “I had registered my parents through the CoWIN website in the morning. Over 15 centres were listed but only Jijamata was operational. My parents’ names were in the system, but a message then stated they cannot be vaccinated.” PCMC commissioner, Rajesh Patil said that it will take a few days for the system to stabilize. “Crowding will no longer be an issue once the number of sites increases,” he said. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune region, said problems will ease once more staff are trained. “Many hardly had two hours of hands-on training. Bear with us for some time. Once private hospitals come into the picture, it will be a different scenario.” Public health experts also expressed disappointment at server glitches. Dr Jayesh Lele, national secretary of the Indian Medical Association said several of his patients who tried to register on the CoWIN website were not able to get through because of a “server down” error. State IMA president Dr Avinash Bhondwe said technical glitches continue to be a concern as many of his patients could not book slots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/golden-gen-sees-silver-lining-in-vaccine/articleshow/81282501.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR, Ramchander Raotrade barbs over govt jobs||Hyderabad: Recruitment in various government departments has become a major campaign issue in the graduates MLC elections. Indicative of this was a war of words exchanged between TRS working president and minister KT Rama Rao and BJP sitting MLC N Ramchander Rao on Twitter on Monday. Ramchander Rao, who challenged KTR to come for an open debate on recruitment and other issues at Arts College earlier, tweeted (at around 11.30 am) asking KTR, “Am at Arts College, Where are you Mr KTR?” KTR immediately replied that “I am busy gathering information on the 12 crore jobs & Rs 15 lakhs in all Jandhan accounts promised by Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Modi Ji. NDA is the answer so far N – No D – Data A – Available. Please share if you have any answers (sic).”  He also commented that Ramchander Rao being an advocate could not do anything for lawyers whereas the TRS government had given Rs 100 crore corpus fund for their welfare. The minister said he had not received Rs 15 lakh as promised by Modi in each person’s bank account so far. Reacting to this, Ramchander Rao wrote an open letter to KTR on February 26 to come for a ‘cool and comprehensive open discussion’ on all the issues of employment and allowances at Arts College on March 1 at 11 am. He said he chose Arts College as it was the epicentre for the Telangana movement and the issue was on ‘udyogalu’ (jobs) in new Telangana. In his letter, he also sought to know how many jobs have been created in the last seven years by the TRS. He asked about non-appointment of VCs in the last two years, notification of 50,000 jobs, unemployment allowance as promised by the TRS and Rs 200 crore grant to OU announced during the centenary celebrations of OU. “If you (KTR) are not coming for discussion, it is evident that you have made malicious campaign against him and should tender an apology to me,” he said in the letter. Government whip and MLC Balka Suman wrote an open letter to Ramchander Rao saying that the government had already provided details about 1.32 lakh posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-ramchander-raotrade-barbs-over-govt-jobs/articleshow/81282510.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 2, 2021||Kochi||Three constituencies in Idukki see decline in number of voters||Idukki: Three constituencies – Peermade, Udumbanchola and Devikulam – in Idukki have witnessed a decline in number of voters. According to officials, around 9,000 voters were removed from the list. Those removed were either dead or migrated from Kerala to Tamil Nadu. “In Devikulam taluk, 6,000 voters were eliminated from the list. Most of the migrated voters are plantation workers of Tamil origin,” said district collector H Dineshan. High range estate labour union (AITUC) president Vazhoor Soman said: “Crisis in plantation sector in the district was cited as the main reason for the migration of plantation workers. Also, the Tamil Nadu government has made it mandatory that only those who exercise their franchise would be eligible for government allowance. Lack of job security and pathetic living conditions are other reasons for large-scale migration”. “Now, Tamil-origin people get better job opportunities and living conditions in Tamil Nadu and it was another reason for the migration.” said Soman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/three-constituencies-in-idukki-see-decline-in-number-of-voters/articleshow/81279123.cms||Sandeep Thomas
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||1kg gold seized at airport||ed:saju Coimbatore: Customs officials seized a 1kg gold bar valued at 47.65 lakh from a man at the Coimbatore International Airport on Monday. Balu of Sivaganga had left for the Gulf on February 21 in search of job, an official said. “When he ran out of money there, someone asked him to smuggle the gold bar in return of 30,000 and free air ticket. Balu had landed here in an Air Arabia flight from Sharjah.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1kg-gold-seized-at-airport/articleshow/81280290.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||2 sickles used by assailants seized||Hyderabad: During investigation into the double murder case, Ramagudam police on Monday recovered two sickles, which were used by assailants in killing the couple last month, from Sundilla barrage. Police called in expert swimmers from Vizag to trace the weapons from the water body, where alleged assailants Kunta Srinivas and Chiranjeevi dumped the weapons before fleeing to Maharashtra. Police said there were no traces of blood on the sickle due to loss of time. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-sickles-used-by-assailants-seized/articleshow/81282496.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||More than 1,200 get the jab as 10 pvt hosps kick off new vax phase||Kolkata: Ten private hospitals in Kolkata vaccinated more than 1,200 recipients in new phase — those above 45 years with co-morbidities and those aged 60 years and above — on Monday even as hundreds registered on the spot were left confused after the Co-WIN app malfunctioned. While some hospitals are planning to continue spot registration on Tuesday for those who are finding it difficult to register online, others have got all their slots booked online for the next few days. Some are planning to increase the number of recipients as the government has promised to deliver more vaccine vials in the course of the week. Even though it had been decided that only online registrations would be allowed, private hospitals were forced to start on-the-spot registration after they were swarmed by thousands of eager recipients who queued up without a registration in the Co-WIN 2.0 app and pleaded for the shot. Many requested hospital authorities to help them register since they were not being able to do the online formalities. At some hospitals like AMRI Mukundapur and Dhakuria, which together vaccinated more than 200 recipients on Monday, the exercise continued till late in the evening. The recipients included more than 150 senior citizens. “We had to help those who had turned up without a registration. So, we set up help desks and inoculated them. But online registration has been working inconsistently and we have all our slots booked for Tuesday. So on-spot registration will not happen,” said AMRI CEO, Rupak Barua. Medica Superspecialty Hospital vaccinated 150, majority of whom were registered on the spot. The hospital plans to scale up the number on Tuesday. “The app should work tomorrow and we expect a smoother run. Since the government has promised more vials, we will be inoculating more people tomorrow,” said chairperson, Alok Roy. Belle Vue vaccinated 55 recipients and has all its slots booked till March 28. Woodlands Hospital vaccinated 59, all of whom registered online. Apollo Gleneagles officials struggled with the registration process. “The app malfunctioned that seriously affected registration and our phase III vaccination faltered,” said an Apollo doctor. Meanwhile, a shortage of syringes has hit the process. “The syringe used for inoculation is a specially-designed one, which has a locking mechanism to prevent extraction of more than 0.5 ml of the vaccine. This syringe is provided by a handful of manufacturers who are currently supplying it only to the government. We have been receiving syringes from the government for vaccination of healthcare workers and other frontliner workers since January 16. We have to procure syringes ourselves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-than-1200-get-the-jab-as-10-pvt-hosps-kick-off-new-vax-phase/articleshow/81280322.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
March 2, 2021||Meerut||Farmers in 3 UP villages stop milk supply to co-op societies||AMROHA: Dairy farmers in at least three Uttar Pradesh villages have stopped supply of milk to the cooperative societies in solidarity with the farmers’ movement. The villages have also announced that from March 6, they will sell milk at Rs 100 per litre. At present, their supply is sold at Rs 35 per litre. On Monday morning, dairy farmers of three villages – Rasulpur Mafi, Chuchaila Khurd, and Shahzadpur in Amroha district – put their milk vessels upside down refusing to supply milk to cooperative societies. No wonder, the tankers of the societies returned empty. According to Anuj Kumar, a dairy farmer, “We are doing this to show solidarity with our brethren who are sitting on the Ghazipur border protesting against the draconian laws. We fully support them and shutting down the milk supply is our way of protesting.” Another farmer Sarjeet Singh said, "Our agitation against the three black farm laws will continue. There is no guarantee of payment and minimum support price for crops in these laws. There is an unwarranted hike in the prices of fuel, pesticide, fertilizers, power tariff, labour wage leading to drastic increase in the cost of production. In such desperate conditions, how can farmers survive? We will not sell milk to the cooperative societies. We will prepare other products from milk, like ghee, sweets and butter for six days instead of selling it to societies.” When contacted, chairman of Parag Dairy, Pradeep Chaudhary said, “It came to my notice that there are some farmers in Rasoolpur who did not sell milk on Monday. However, there is no branch of Parag here in these villages.” State president of BKU's youth wing, Digambar Singh, said, “We have not invoked the farmers to boycott the milk sale. Farmers are doing so of their own to protest against farms law. Agitation is not confined to us, it has reached to ground level and is now getting support from farmers and common men too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dairy-farmers-in-3-up-villages-stop-milk-supply-to-cooperative-societies-in-solidarity-with-farmers-movement/articleshow/81279138.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra relaxes instalments for builders of SRA projects||MUMBAI: Over a year after top builders working with BMC, Mhada and other planning authorities got the benefit, the state government approved the flexible instalment facility to pay premiums for builders under Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA). State urban development (UD) minister Eknath Shinde approved the file, Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary (UD department) said. BJP had threatened to protest if it was not approved by Monday. Officials said a letter will be sent from UDD to SRA. BJP had threatened a protest outside Nirmal building at Nariman Point, “from where key UDD decisions are taken”. BJP state treasurer Mihir Kotecha said the file was stuck with Shinde’s office for three months. “We thank the minister for listening to concerns of SRA builders. The department must take decisions that help eliminate slums and not only help top builders,” he said. UDD had let BMC, Mhada, MSRDC and MMRDA to allow builders to pay in instalments in September 2019, but SRA was left out. Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-relaxes-instalments-for-builders-of-sra-projects/articleshow/81282581.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Film institute to bepart of UP Film City||Lucknow: In a push to set up a film industry in UP, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced that a film institute would also be set up shortly. The institute will come up within the Film City in Gautam Budh Nagar, a mega project announced by the state government which will contain studios, film sets, pre and post production facilities etc. A government spokesperson said that the institute will be set up over a 40-acre plot within the Film City. “Here, training will be provided in various aspects of film and TV production such as directing, production, choreography, editing, screenplay writing and sound recording. One will also be able to learn the nuances of acting,” he said. The CM said that the Film City would become a new destination for the entertainment industry and it would fulfil the dreams of the youth. During a review of the action plan for the development of the Film City by the CM on Monday, CBRE, the consultants selected for the development of the Film City, and officials of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) submitted a report to the CM which had an in-depth study of Infotainment City projects developed in different countries of the world. The CM said that all necessary resources would be made available for the development of the Film City in Uttar Pradesh. “The Film City, which is going to be developed on 1,000 acres under YEIDA, should include all dimensions related to film, TV and OTT production. Other than this, in view of the golden future of VFX, animation and gaming industry, arrangements should also be made for their development. The establishment of theme-based amusement parks will also give popularity to the Film City as a tourist destination,” the CM said. He said that reputed filmmakers, directors, studios, technicians of the world should be consulted for the development of the project and efforts should be made to have it ready in time to start shooting here by 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/film-institute-to-bepart-of-up-film-city/articleshow/81283833.cms||Neha Lalchandani
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong: TRS, BJP turned T into ‘crisis state’||Hyderabad: The Congress has charged TRS and BJP governments respectively of doing injustice to Telangana depriving unemployed youth of lakhs of jobs and pushing the state into a huge debt trap. Giving directions to party leaders and members of frontal organisations to work for the victory of party candidates in the ensuing graduate MLC polls, Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Monday said both TRS and BJP have turned Telangana into a ‘crisis state’ for their political gains respectively. The TRS government’s non-judicious spending of public money has pushed Telangana into a huge debt trap with the state now having debts of up to Rs 3.5 lakh crore. “On an average, TRS government has borrowed loans of Rs 50,000 crore every year at high interest rates. The future generations of Telangana would be forced to repay these loans and high interest for the next two decades, he said. The BJP government at the Centre has aggravated the situation by not releasing adequate funds to Telangana. The neglect of BJP government and financial recklessness of TRS government has turned Telangana into a bankrupt state. The TRS and BJP governments did not take up projects which could have provided lakhs of jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-trs-bjp-turned-t-into-crisis-state/articleshow/81282536.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Row at vocational college over GB appointment||New Delhi: A controversy has erupted at Delhi University’s College of Vocational Studies (CVS) over the appointment of the chairperson for its governing body (GB). The chancellor of a private university has been appointed to the post and teachers allege the previous chairman has been replaced as he was to submit an inquiry report against the principal. However, principal Inderjit Dagar said B C Tripathi was only an interim chairman, and a permanent one had been appointed. Rajan Chopra, the chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University in Meghalaya, was nominated on February 26 for one year by DU. CVS is a university-maintained college. Tripathi, who was appointed as the GB chairperson in May 2020, said his term was to end in May. Confirming the new appointment, Tripathi told TOI, “I got a letter from the principal that I was no longer the chairperson. There are no reasons cited about it.” On the inquiry committee’s report, he said, “I cannot say anything about it. Teachers have been feeling that way.” A teacher said, “How can someone who is a representative of a private university be appointed as the chairperson? Is there no conflict of interest?” He alleged, “The biggest point of doubt is the timing of the change. The report against the principal on charges of corruption was to be presented on March 10.” According to teachers, the chairman before Tripathi was also an interim arrangement, but had completed the full term. “Professor Tripathi is honest and respectable, so he doesn’t deserve this kind of treatment,” said Kumar Ashutosh, a teacher. Principal Dagar claimed, “No chairman has been removed. The post of chairman was vacant and the appointment is against the vacant post. B C Tripathi was a member and still is. He was acting as chairman till further orders.” DU’s dean of colleges, Balram Pani, also said, “No one has been removed, the earlier chairperson was an interim set-up.” Dagar didn’t respond to the allegations of a rushed appointment and the inquiry report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/row-at-vocational-college-over-gb-appointment/articleshow/81300737.cms||Shradha Chettri
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Filling forms for Covaxin major hurdle for elderly||Nagpur: A senior citizen couple from Uday Nagar walked into Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) centre to get Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, but had to wait for at least two hours as they were unable to fill the undertaking and there was none to assist.Among the 11 vaccination centres in city, GMCH is the only one where Covaxin is available. For taking Covaxin dose, beneficiaries have to give an undertaking and also document of adverse event following immunization (AEFI).“We arrived at the centre two hours ago and were asked to fill two forms, which we could not. We requested the GMCH staffers to fill the forms on our behalf, but they refused,” the couple told one of the media persons who was at the centre for covering the vaccination programme. The scribe finally helped the couple by filling the forms.GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande told TOI, “I have directed the concerned department to depute interns for helping senior citizens in filling the forms. We are ensuring no convenience is caused to anyone.”Majority of the beneficiaries had no idea about the need to give an undertaking and AEFI for getting Covaxin jab. Therefore, they did not carry pen. They had to look for and borrow pen from the staffers, delaying the vaccination process. Many senior citizens needed long time for filling the undertaking as the details had to be filled in at least five pages.GMCH was well aware of these procedures, but did not arrange interns for assisting the elderly citizens.At other centres, the beneficiaries did not face this problem as there was no need for filling any form or undertaking for getting Covishield jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/filling-forms-for-covaxin-major-hurdle-for-elderly/articleshow/81279152.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Nigerian held with fake US dollars||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a 44-year-old Nigerian national on Monday for attempting to exchange counterfeit currency notes with a face value of $1,820 at Muthoot Fincorp in Gandhipuram. The arrested person was identified as Nathan Ikechukwu Okubor from Agbor town of Delta State in Nigeria. “He is a garment exporter and used to visit India frequently. On Monday, around 11.30am, he visited Muthoot Fincorp branch with the notes and demanded Rs 1.40 lakh. The firm’s assistant manager, who checked the notes, found out that they were fake and contacted Kattoor (crime) police,” a police officer said. Okubor told inspector Sujatha that he had received the notes from a person while he was at the Gujarat Airport last month. He was remanded in judicial custody and was taken to Puzhal Central Jail in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nigerian-held-with-fake-us-dollars/articleshow/81280321.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Report says cyber attacks behind October blackout: Maharashtra minister||MUMBAI: A preliminary report submitted by the Maharashtra police cyber cell on the massive power outage across Mumbai in October last year has suggested that the incident could be cyber sabotage, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday. Deshmukh said a probe committee has found evidence of suspicious entry into the transmission system through servers of the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB). The report was submitted to the state government on Monday, said Deshmukh. The minister’s statement came hours after reports emerged of a possible Chinese cyber attack on India’s power grid. The minister said a reputed, US-based company Recorded Future has referred to Chinese entities mounting a strike through the net on Indian electricity infrastructure, leading to cascading power failure in Mumbai. The report by Recorded Future, a firm which studies internet usage by state agencies, named a Chinese state-sponsored group called Red Echo. Deshmukh said the state’s probe established that attempts were made from IP addresses traced to ‘foreign’ companies, to log in to the power network and nearly “14 trojan horses” carrying malware are likely to have been planted. “8GB of unaccounted data,” could have been transferred to the system, Deshmukh added. “The committee studied the transmission system and their analysis has thrown up some of these possibilities. At this point we will not be able to say these suspicious attempts were made from which country. A detailed investigation will follow,” he said . On October 12, 2020, a grid failure resulted in a blackout across the city. Trains halted and financial and stock markets were hit. Agencies of the Centre and Maharashtra government have launched probes into the incident. However, a Union ministry of power statement on Monday said there was no impact on functions undertaken by the Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO) due to the alleged threat. POSOCO operates under Central ministry of power and is tasked with ensuring integrated operation of the national grid. No data breach/loss had been detected due to these incidents, it said. Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut, who belongs to the Congress, had expressed suspicion immediately after the outage that plunged Mumbai and parts of Thane district into complete darkness that it could be an act of “sabotage.” The cyber cell panel formed to probe the incident was constituted on his recommendation. Raut on Monday said, "When power went out in Mumbai, I had said there was something wrong and had constituted three committees to probe. I feel media reports regarding cyber attacks are true.” He said he would make a detailed statement after studying the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/report-says-cyber-attacks-behind-oct-blackout-min/articleshow/81283917.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Woman set on fire by father after she refuses to give money for buying liquor||HARIDWAR: A 37-year-old woman sustained burn injuries after she was set on fire by her 60-year-old father on Monday morning as she refused to give him any money to buy liquor. Accused Karan Kumar, resident of Chandi Majra slum area falling under Shyampur police station, poured petrol on the victim and set her ablaze. Deepak Singh Kathait, SHO Shyampur police station, told TOI, “Victim Mamta is widow and she lives in a slum area with her five children while her father, the accused, is a drug addict. We have registered a case and are trying to nab the culprit, who is at large.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-set-on-fire-by-father-after-she-refuses-to-give-money-for-buying-liquor/articleshow/81280325.cms||MS Nawaz
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Multi-level car parking on DB Road nears completion||Coimbatore: The multi-level car parking project that is being implemented on DB Road at RS Puram is nearing completion. A source privy to the project said it would be completed by March-end. “The private company executing the project has completed most of the civil works and is expected to complete the machinery installation at the earliest,” the source said. However, the facility will be thrown open to the public only after the new government takes charge following the assembly election. The project, which was started in 2018, is constructed on 11,600-sqm plot at a cost of Rs 40.78 crore. “The facility has a mechanism which would alert any vacant space in four floors. The vehicles would be lifted automatically from the ground level to the vacant spot. Human intervention is required only at the entry level,” the source added. The city corporation, which had initially planned to procure machinery for the project from a Chinese manufacture, had purchased it from a Coimbatore-based company due to practical reasons during the pandemic situation.The corporation is also planning to level the land adjacent to the project area and provide parking space for about 500 two-wheelers. This in turn would help the corporation to reduce the number of vehicles parked on the road and regulate the traffic congestion. Due to lack of sufficient parking space, at present vehicles are parked on either side of the road causing inconvenience to the motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/multi-level-car-parking-on-db-road-nears-completion/articleshow/81280328.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||CISCE exam dates out; concern over practicals||Kolkata: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations will allow classes X and XII boards candidates to take their seats in exam rooms five minutes before the start. Both ICSE and ISC 2021 theory papers will begin from May 5. While ICSE (Class X) will end on June 7, ISC (Class XII) will be completed on June 16. The results will be published in July. “I waited for the Chief Election Commissioner to make the announcement for the dates of the general elections in the states and thereafter, announced the ICSE and ISC schedule. We did not want any confusion. The candidates will have to get in touch with the school principals to know the date and time of the practical exams,” said chief executive and secretary of the council Gerry Arathoon. Principals of some schools have, however, raised concern over the dates of ISC computer science (Paper II) practical, home science (Paper II) practical and Indian music Carnatic (Paper II) practical, which have been scheduled when the assembly polls in Bengal will be under way. The three practical tests have been slated for April 8 and April 9 from 9am. “The third phase election is slated for April 6, which will be held in South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hoogly. The next phase of the polls is on April 10. So, exams on April 8 and 9 will be a problem if the security personnel are stationed inside the schools, which might be requisitioned as voting centres,” complained a principal. But council sources said it was not possible to accommodate all the practical examination dates beyond the entire eight phases of the election. With the board exams being held during the pandemic, the council has laid down safety instructions to be followed by candidates. Students have been told that they must reach the exam centres well ahead of time to ensure staggered and smooth entry into the premises so that crowding can be avoided. It has been made mandatory for examinees to wear masks, carry hand sanitizer, and avoid touching the face with their hands. The use of gloves is optional. Also, candidates will not be allowed to share stationery or art material. The examinees will have to carry their own water bottles. The school authorities will have to maintain Covid-preventive protocols, as instructed by the council. “There is a requirement of additional space. We will allow more classrooms to be used for ICSE and ISC exams as the candidates will have to be spread out. We will suggest that students and teachers follow preventive steps even outside exam centres,” said the principal of Ram Mohan Mission School, Sujoy Biswas. Another school head added that in case any student was detected with high temperature, the health guidelines would be followed. “They will be put in isolation. We will alert the parents and suggest them to get a test done,” the principal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisce-exam-dates-out-concern-over-practicals/articleshow/81280346.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 2, 2021||Surat||Panic escape: Family hangs outside building||Surat: Onlookers in Sagrampura had their hearts in the mouth seeing four persons including a woman and child hanging precariously from the fourth-floor apartment, nearly 35 foot above the ground, trying to save themselves from a fire in their house, on Monday. The family risked their lives out of panic after fire broke out in the the five-storey Arjun Apartment. As smoke started spreading, the family of Irfan Mandapwala rushed out of the window and decided to get into the adjoining building one by one. Mandapwala stood on the canopy of the third-floor window and helped women and children from his house to come out from the window. “I could not think of any other option but to get out from the window and into the adjoining building window to save the lives of my children and the women of my family. I did what I thought best since there was a lot of smoke in the stairs. The window was the only escape route,” said Mandapwala. The fire was minor and controlled within minutes by Surat Fire and Emergency Services (SFES) but the smoke spread in the building created panic among residents, said officials. The fire was reported to the fire brigade at around 11.15 am and within five minutes a team of Majura fire station team reached there. “The family took the dangerous step out of panic before we reached,” said Nilesh Dave, in-charge fire officer, Majura fire station. “We controlled the fire within 10 minutes. It was a minor fire in the electricity meter box but the smoke spread in the apartment created panic,” Dave added.  Fire team had to struggle to reach the spot due to narrow lanes in Sagrampura. “The haphazard parking in the narrow lanes created hindrance for us to reach there. The building is also a narrow construction,” said SFES officials.  The sight was similar to the tragic Takshashila Arcade fire of May 2019 when those trapped inside the top floor of the building fell on ground from the fourth floor while hanging out from the window.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/panic-escape-family-hangs-outside-building/articleshow/81279194.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress rallies against fuel price hikes with cycles||MUMBAI: Congress protested outside Vidhan Bhavan on Day 1 of the assembly session against rising fuel prices. Congress held a cycle rally outside the assembly to oppose the hikes. State party chief Nana Patole and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat were part of the protest. Congress, which is part of MVA government, and Opposition BJP shouted slogans against each other. Congress blamed the Centre and BJP blamed the state for high taxes on fuel. “The Central government is shameless. It is ignoring discontent among the public about rising fuel prices,” said Patole. He said the cess imposed by the Centre increased prices. “The Centre imposes road cess of Rs18/litre and a cess for farmers of Rs4/litre,” he said. Thorat added that the hikes had caused an additional strain on the state economy. “The state government is struggling with lack of payment of GST compensation of Rs29,000 crore from the Centre.” BJP dismissed the protest as “nautanki”. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said, “Instead of blaming the Centre, the MVA government should reduce high taxes on fuel. The state adds Rs27/litre as tax,” he said. All eyes will be on the state budget, to be tabled in few days. Last year, the state hiked value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by a rupee. From April 1, 2020, this led to an escalation in price of petrol to Rs76.31 and diesel to Rs66.21 in Mumbai. The petrol hike was Rs1.01, while diesel was a rupee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-rallies-against-fuel-price-hikes-with-cycles/articleshow/81282647.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Prepare action plan in 8 days to curb Wainganga pollution: Aaditya||NAGPUR: State’s environment minister Aaditya Thackeray directed officials to prepare an action plan to curb pollution in Wainganga river. In a video conference held on Monday, which included senior cabinet ministers Nitin Raut, Eknath Shinde and state officials, Thackeray said a road map needs to be prepared on how sewage water can be treated before it reaches the river. While directing officials to submit the action plan within eight days, Thackeray added that the road map for clean rivers must also look into less capital intensive ways like bioremediation, SOPs for cleaning of nullahs etc. The environment minister told representatives of local bodies that they must also map sewage outflow in their jurisdiction which comes from residential sources. Thackeray said detailed mapping must be done of nullahs, rivers in Nagpur, Bhandara, Kamptee, Mouda and Pauni. He added that after this a plan must be made on how to treat the sewage water coming from all these sources. Maharashtra Pollution Control Board member AA Shingare briefed the ministers and officials on reasons for pollution in Wainganga. He stated that untreated sewage water from Nagpur, Bhandara, Kamptee, Kanhan and Mouda is the biggest reason for the problem. Energy minister as well as Nagpur’s guardian minister Nitin Raut said the existing action plan does not include all sources of sewage water in Nagpur city, and directed the civic body to revise it. Raut also added that while cleaning nullahs, the garbage/residue must not be dumped at the side but disposed off in a proper way. Urban development minister Eknath Shinde said use of treated sewage water must be made mandatory for industries. He directed officials to discuss the issue with Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), so that there is a reduction in use of normal water by industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/prepare-action-plan-in-8-days-to-curb-wainganga-pollution-aaditya/articleshow/81282609.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 2, 2021||Pune||Satellite designed by Std X student of Prodigy Public School sent to space||Pune: The satellite designed by Rutuja Shejval of Standard X from Prodigy Public School, with 10 students from her group, was recently sent to space from Sriharikota space centre. The event was a part of the programme “Payload Cube Challenge,” jointly organized by APJ Abdul Kalam International Foundation and Space Research India 2021. Workshops on satellite making were organized and students across India had participated. Rutuja’s mother Madhuri Shejval said a total of 100 satellites, weighing 50-70g were launched in a helium balloon. Rutuja said, “It seemed difficult in the beginning, but later as we learnt, we could complete the design easily.” ‘Shikshan Gaurav Puraskar’ for City Pride director Ashwini Kulkarni, the director of City Pride School, recently received the ‘Shikshan Gaurav Puraskar’ from MP Shrirang Barne, among others. The award ceremony was organized by Shreerang Appa Barne Special Foundation to recognize individuals that had contributed to the society during the pandemic. Ashwini Kulkarni was instrumental in implementing best and innovative practices in her school. GK Gurukul School hosts Robocom 2020-21 GK Gurukul School recently organized Robocom 2020-21, a Robotics and IT competition, in association with India First Robotics with a view to enhance the skills and to encourage students to learn coding. Kamal Pratishtan’s Mount Litera Zee School, Wakad won the Robocom 2020-21 trophy. Over 200 students from various schools participated. The competition was conducted in two rounds with four main categories. Students were told to submit their projects for the selection round. Five to 10 students were selected from each category for the final round, which was conducted virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/satellite-designed-by-std-x-student-of-prodigy-public-school-sent-to-space/articleshow/81280352.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: Haveri’s 89-year-old WWII widow waits for benefits||HAVERI: At 89, Puttamma Churi has few needs in life. She lives with her youngest son, her other children are settled and she has been receiving pension for the past 18 years. There is a sense of hurt though: the government is yet to recognise the services of her husband, Hanumanthappa Churi, who fought in World War II, and offer her the facilities she is entitled to. Even the pension, she points out, came after a 27-year battle. “My husband was the only person who participated in World War II from Haveri district. However, I struggled to get pension. The authorities are yet to acknowledge that my husband fought for the nation. I have appealed for a site from the district administration but nobody has responded,” said Puttamma. “Hanumanthappa Churi fought for the nation in World War II when he was just 19 years old. He served for five years (1940-45) and returned after sustaining injuries,” said writer Malatesh Angur. He died at the age of 56, leaving Puttamma to care for their four sons and two daughters. WWII soldier’s widow got pension only in 2002Successive governments, irrespective of the party in office, are yet to sanction a site and land,” said Angur. The Armed Forces Tribunal (ATF) passed a judgment in 2017, saying there should be no discrimination between soldiers injured in conflict before and after Independence regarding benefits. These include living veterans from the time of World War II and their kin. After repeated appeals to authorities, Puttamma began receiving pension only in 2002, over two decades after her husband’s death. She lives with her fourth son, Muneshwar. The others, she said, have settled down too, without receiving any of the ex-serviceman benefits. “I cannot walk anywhere now to ask for benefits, nor do I want all of them. The authorities must consider my appeal for a site though,” Puttamma said. Will initiate action: DCDeputy commissioner Sanjay Shettannavar said, “I am not aware of the matter. I will check and will initiate necessary action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/haveris-89-yr-old-wwii-widow-waits-for-benefits/articleshow/81284508.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
March 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Golden gen sees silver lining in vaccine||BENGALURU: Led by prominent Bengalureans, a centenarian and a cabinet minister, day one of phase II of the Covid vaccination drive took off in Karnataka on Monday with as many as 1,213 elders and those aged 45 years and above with comorbidities taking the jab in Bengaluru. Of the participants in Bengaluru, 938 were from the BBMP limits and the rest from other parts of urban district. Though most enlisted hospitals could not give the vaccine due to glitches in the Co-Win portal, several seniors got inoculated, setting an example for their fellow citizens to shrug off vaccine hesitancy. At Narayana Health, where the vaccination began at 11.30am, Infosys co-founder ‘Kris’ Gopalakrishnan was the first to receive the vaccine. Infosys co-founder NR Narayana Murthy, Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murty and Biocon chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw also took the vaccine at the same medical facility. “I just got vaccinated at @NarayanaHealth — painless no injection related side effects. I guess it’s a booster dose for me since I had Covid 6 months ago. Feel safe & protected. I urge all eligible people to vaccinate themselves. Let’s keep our country safe,” Kiran tweeted. Subramanian KN, 102, a retired army officer and Kammanahalli resident who took the jab at Columbia Asia, Hebbal, said he was not afraid to face minor side effects of the vaccine when he was ready to face bullets. “I took the vaccine for two reasons: To not become a liability as a patient; and to not spread the infection to others. I urge everyone to take the vaccine,” he said. With PM Modi taking the vaccine early in the day, CM BS Yediyurappa said in Shivamogga that he will take the jab soon. A CMO officer said, “The CM is likely to consult doctors before taking the jab. He is yet to schedule an appointment.” Industries minister Jagadish Shettar became the first Karnataka minister to take the vaccine and posed for the cameras at a Hubballi hospital with the ‘I got my vaccine’ frame in the backdrop. At 287, BBMP east zone saw highest turnoutUnder the BBMP limits, the highest turnout was in the east zone, where 287 persons volunteered to take the vaccine, and the lowest was in RR Nagar with just 18 turning up. The vaccination drive for senior citizens is yet start in Dasarahalli and Mahadevapura zones. If any hospital was charging more than Rs 250 for the vaccination, then the public must bring it to the notice of higher authorities, said Bengaluru Urban deputy commissioner Manjunath J. Conceding technical glitches marred the drive on the first day, BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said, “We were unable to log into the vaccinator module. Timings scheduled for sessions were messy, unable to mark beneficiaries as vaccinated. Names of registered beneficiaries were not reflecting on the site. If they did, we were unable to validate them with the registered phone number.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/golden-gen-sees-silver-lining-in-vaccine/articleshow/81284515.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Two art & heritage institutes merged with Ambedkar univ||New Delhi: Delhi government on Tuesday announced merger of College of Arts and Delhi Institute of Heritage Research & Management with Dr BR Ambedkar University of Delhi (AUD). It has also decided to release funds for scholarships to SC/ST/OBC communities, under Ladli Scheme, for aid and equipment for children with special needs and to augment library infrastructure in its schools. The cabinet approved Rs 100 crore for Ladli, which “would benefit school-going girls”. The scheme, being implemented by the women and child development department since 2008, aims at promoting education among girls, reducing their dropout rate and providing financial security. It also decided to release Rs 75.98 crore for SC/ST/OBC communities. These schemes include pre- and post-matric scholarships, and merit scholarships for these three and minority students from classes I to XII. Ten government institutes of technology, Delhi Institute of Tool Engineering (Wazirpur and Okhla campus) and Govind Ballabh Pant Engineering College will be merged and brought under Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University to “streamline skill education in Delhi”. “The council of ministers chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took decisions that will have far-reaching impact on the higher and technical education system in Delhi,” the government stated. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “Delhi government is committed to expand skilling opportunities for our youth. These mergers will make the skilling ecosystem more efficient and raise the employability of our youth.” The government also announced that one more World-Class Skills Centre was being set up at Pushp Vihar, taking the total number to nine. “The cabinet sanctioned Rs 9.9 crore for the new centre and it is a part of the vision of Delhi government to establish 25 World-Class Skill Centres,” the statement pointed out. “To ensure education is accessible and inclusive, the cabinet has also approved Rs 2 crore for Talent Promotion Scheme for Children with Special Needs and Children with Disabilities,” said a statement. Under the talent promotion scheme, funds will be given to the inclusive education branch of the directorate of education (DoE) to help government schools acquire equipment/aids and support services for these students. DoE has been allowed to procure 4,178 steel almirahs for class libraries at a cost of Rs 7.2 crore. AUD vice-chancellor Anu Singh Lather said the courses offered by College of Arts matched with the social science domain of AUD. “The merger will be seamless as we have a school of design and a school of culture. We would like to merge it as a school of the university.” Delhi Institute of Heritage Research & Management will bring “a new idea” to AUD, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-art-heritage-institutes-merged-with-ambedkar-univ/articleshow/81300756.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Police register dacoity case against Marne & 8 aides||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday registered one more offence against gangster Gajanan, alias Gaja Marne, and his aides.This time, the gangster and his eight men have been booked under section 395 (dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code for robbing water bottles and ‘vadapav’ from a food joint near Urse toll plaza on Pune-Mumbai Expressway, when he was returning to Pune in a huge cavalcade of cars following his release from Taloja prison on February 15.Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said, “We have already registered two offences against Marne and his men, one at the Talegaon Dabhade police station and another with the Hinjewadi police, on February 16, for creating a reign of terror.”The Pimpri Chinchwad police have seized 14 vehicles and arrested 36 men in these two cases. “When we checked CCTV footage from the toll plaza, we noticed that Marne and his men did not pay the toll and also robbed bottles and ‘vadapav’ from the food joint,” the commissioner said.Krishna Prakash said that the police will file a charge sheet against him, and also invokethe Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-register-dacoity-case-against-marne-8-aides/articleshow/81280385.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: K Surendran downplays meet with cardinal||Kochi: BJP state president K Surendran and Karnataka deputy CM CN Ashwathnarayan visited the head of Syro-Malabar Church and president of Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) Cardinal George Alencherry on Monday morning. Though Surendran downplayed the meeting as a friendly, non-political visit, the meeting assumes significance in the context of upcoming assembly election. The meeting can be seen as a move to woo Christian voters. Surendran was in Kochi as part of his Vijaya Yatra. The meeting took place at the pastoral orientation centre (POC) in Palarivattom. “We didn’t discuss election-related issues with the Cardinal. It was a private meet and there was no politics. As far as we are concerned, we have a friendly relationship with everyone in Kerala. So, when I came to Ernakulam in connection with Vijaya Yatra, I chose to have breakfast here,” said Surendran said after the meeting. Meanwhile, Ashwathnarayan – who is overseeing BJP’s election campaign in Kerala – called on the Cardinal soon after Surendran left POC. He also shared a picture of the meeting on Twitter. “Had a friendly encounter with the head of Syro-Malabar Church Cardinal George Alencherry at Palarivattom in Kochi,” Narayan wrote on Twitter. He told the media that NDA hopes that there will be cooperation from the Church in the upcoming elections and that there would be candidates from the community as well. Later at a news conference, Surendran said that Ashwathnarayan has a good relationship with Christian organizations in Karnataka. He again downplayed his meeting. Sources said that BJP leaders had plans to meet the leadership of Jacobite Church at Puthencruz as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/surendran-downplays-meet-with-cardinal/articleshow/81279185.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccination likely to begin at 5 pvt hospitals today, not in 30||Nagpur: Covid-19 vaccination is not likely to start in 30 private hospitals empanelled under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) from Tuesday. Inoculation is likely to begin at only five private hospitals empanelled in state’s Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) from Tuesday.The central government on Sunday released list of private hospitals where vaccination of age-appropriate people was supposed to commence on Monday. Vaccination was to be payable at these centres, but vaccination did not kick off at these centres on Monday.NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “Process of paying for vaccine doses by 30 hospitals to government and getting username and passwords for operation of Co-WIN application is pending. Therefore, vaccination will not start at these centres from Tuesday.”Joshi said five private hospitals empanelled under MJPJAY paid for vaccine doses on Monday and are likely to start vaccination on Tuesday. “We received call from MJPJAY asking to provide two vials for each centre to start vaccination on trial basis. But I think these hospitals have not get username and password as yet. If they get it, they can start on Tuesday,” he said.There are some more private hospitals empanelled under MJPJAY but NMC does not have a detailed list.Director of Kunal Hospital Dr Shishir Shrivastav said, “We are yet to get username, so we could not pay the charges for vaccine and move further to begin vaccination. We are keen to serve the people so we will start as soon as the government completes the formalities.”K Pandey, a resident of Jaffar Nagar, said, “List of private hospitals for vaccination went viral on Sunday. All thought vaccination was available at these hospitals and some visited these centres on Monday. Inoculation should be immediately started in private hospitals as centres at NMC and government hospitals might have too much rush.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccination-likely-to-begin-at-5-pvt-hospitals-today-not-in-30/articleshow/81279189.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Turnout boost for drive at govt hospitals||Kolkata: Many senior citizens started arriving at vaccination centres across the 15 government health facilities in the city to get vaccinated on first day of the new phase of Covid-19 inoculation programme much ahead of the official kick-off. The turnout at some government facilities was much higher that what the officials had expected. “All these days I have been waiting for the vaccine. I feel so relaxed after taking the jab,” said Chandra Das, 61, of VIP Bazar who took the shot at Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General (ID&BG) Hospital. Even as the government had asked 15 centres to mobilize at least 50 beneficiaries for the day, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital had 55 senior citizens who had registered for the inoculation on Monday. “Because of the low awareness among the category of patients, who come to government hospitals, we thought we would see a low turnout. But the number was quite impressive on Day 1,” said an official at RG Kar Medical College. Even as most recipients at the government health facilities were pre-registered, some people who had gone to ID&BG were inoculated after spot registration. “I did not know how to register myself. My mother was attached with ID&BG Hospital long back so I came down all the way from Dum Dum to request the vaccination team from my registration. They registered my name on spot,” said 64-year-old Sambhu Mukherjee. “During the pandemic I kept reading about quality of patient care at ID&BG. So I registered myself to be inoculated at ID&BG,” said Ranabir Das (66), who lives near Ruby Hospital. “Since many senior citizens are not app-friendly we will be opening up a help desk to facilitate their spot registration,” said Manju Banerjee, principal at Medical College Hospital Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/turnout-boost-for-drive-at-govt-hospitals/articleshow/81280382.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 2, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Traffic diversion for two moths||Nashik: The city traffic branch has imposed traffic diversion on the stretch from Ramkund (Pandey Mithai shop) to the parking lot beneath the Ahilyabai Holkar bridge from February 27. The diversion will be in place for two months. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (NMSCDCL) will be taking up road development works — like laying underground sewage lines and stormwater lines — along the aforementioned stretch. Motorists going from the Pandey Mithai Shop towards Ahilyabai Holkar bridge parking lot will be diverted via Kalaram Temple East and North gate side, Malviya Chowk to Katya Maruti junction and Sardar Chowk side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-traffic-diversion-for-two-moths/articleshow/81278255.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||NSE glitch will cost us, says FM; Sebi meet today||Mumbai: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said that last Wednesday’s tech glitch on the NSE that nobody anticipated would “cost us” and “lessons are being learnt”. On that day, the glitch forced India’s largest exchange to halt trading for about five hours. “May be that was an issue of interoperability between the two exchanges, but that is the kind of thing where seamless digital payments is the goal we have to aspire for,” Sitharaman said. Sebi has called for a meeting of top officials of the exchanges, clearing corporations and depositories on Tuesday to discuss the issue of interoperability of multiple exchanges that was launched in 2018.The FM was speaking at the annual meeting of the Controller General of Accounts. “That (the NSE outage) is also an example that tells us what seamless payments modes or technology-driven platforms can face. Taking lessons from that, I would think a seamless digital payments (system) is something that you have to have a roadmap for,” she said. Last Wednesday the system failed to kick in seamlessly when the NSE faced that major technical glitch. After hectic consultations between the finance ministry, markets regulator Sebi and exchanges—the trading session was extended by one and half hours till 5pm. If the interoperability system between exchanges is robust, one could, for example, buy on the BSE and sell on the NSE without any extra cost or time delay. Last week, even the pan-India brokers’ body ANMI had petitioned Sebi to move to a system of trading where derivative contracts on the Nifty and the sensex too could be traded on all exchanges. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nse-glitch-will-cost-us-says-fm-sebi-meet-today/articleshow/81283956.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Many people unable to register on app, links||Nagpur: Many citizens from the city complained they were unable to register for Covid-19 vaccination on government’s website, downloaded apps and also links.Kaustubh Paunikar from Raj Nagar told TOI, “I received a link of cowin.gov.in from one of my friends. There was no option for registration there as it required username and password. Then, I searched for Cowin application on Apple app store and could not find it. I could download Co-win Vaccinator App from Google Playstore, where too you require a username and password. Therefore, I could not register my parents for vaccination on Monday.”Tejinder Singh Renu from Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) had the same experience. “Later, I spoke to some of my friends. One of them sent me a link of selfregistration.cowin.gov.in. I could register my parents on this link after a few attempts. But I am unable to proceed forward for selection of centre, date and timing. At this point, a message ‘cannot find centre records’ is displayed all the time. No message was received on mobile number of my parents as mentioned in user manual available on government’s website. Entire day was wasted,” he said.Activist Shashank Gattewar said a blank page is displayed after entering OTP on selfregistration.cowin.gov.in. “Some, including me, were unable to register names. There is an option to get registered by walking into vaccination centre. But senior citizens fear they will have to return from centres so pre-registration is the best option. Government should make registration simple on the website,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-people-unable-to-register-on-app-links/articleshow/81279197.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Rival neta’s letter saved Munde from Rathod fate||Mumbai: Like Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod, social justice minister Dhananjay Munde too was in deep trouble not too long back after a woman lodged a complaint stating she had been criminally assaulted by him on several occasions. However, a letter from Krishna Hegde, who was then with the BJP, to the police, alleging he had also been harassed by the same woman, saved him (Munde). Hegde recently joined the Shiv Sena. In fact the NCP leadership was on the verge of sacking him and a party meeting on the issue was in progress when Hegde’s letter came out on social media. The situation changed unexpectedly in favour of Munde. The woman subsequently withdrew her complaint. Currently, the dispute between them is pending before a former chief justice. In Rathod’s case, BJP leader Chitra Wagh mounted pressure on the government. In fact, she was instrumental in producing specific records of calls between Rathod and the deceased girl. “A conscious decision was taken to accept Rathod’s resignation and wait for the inquiry report,” a senior Shiv Sena minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rival-netas-letter-saved-munde-from-rathod-fate/articleshow/81282714.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chennai||No relief for NHAI, Madras HC asks it to collect only 50% toll fee||CHENNAI: The two toll plazas on the Maduravoyal-Ranipet section of the Chennai-Bengaluru highway will continue to collect only 50% of the toll, as the Madras high court has refused to reconsider its order reducing the user fee citing pathetic road condition. Dismissing review applications moved by the NHAI, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice A A Nakkiran said: “This court has noted with anguish that the NHAI, which is a premier agency for construction and maintenance of all-weather roads, is not even in a position to maintain the road in question and it is full of potholes, without any signage and even the median is not also maintained in proper condition, endangering the lives of the road users.” Though NHAI would submit that patch and repair work of the road has begun in the light of monitoring being done by this court and that the order which is sought to be reviewed causes great financial hardship to NHAI, it is the considered opinion of the court is that such submission lacks merits and substance, the bench said. The stretch between Maduravoyal and Walajah is in a pitiable condition and only due to the monitoring by this court patch work has been done and it is not up to the standard laid down by the Indian Road Congress, the court added. “The only explanation offered is since a six-lane work is going on, there is no useful purpose in relaying the four lanes. It is to be noted at this juncture, even in respect of the six lane work this court in its earlier order noted, there is already a cost and time over which the road users cannot be put to peril and danger. No factual or legal tenable grounds has been made out to review the order, therefore the review application is dismissed,” the bench said. On December 9, 2020, taking a serious view of the pathetic condition of the national highway between Maduravoyal and Walajapet, the court penalised NHAI and directed it to collect only 50% of the user fee in two toll plazas located in the stretch. Aggrieved, by the order, NHAI moved the present review application claiming that the authority is suffering losses of over Rs 16 lakh per day in view of the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-relief-for-nhai-hc-asks-it-to-collect-only-50-toll-fee/articleshow/81282670.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kochi||Anirudhan Sampath to quit as Kerala’s representative||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government’s special representative in New Delhi, A Sampath has decided to step down from the post. It is reliably learnt that he has conveyed the decision to the government. Sampath, a former MP who represented Attingal constituency, after losing the 2019 elections, was appointed as the special envoy of the government in New Delhi in cabinet rank. The appointment of Sampath as the special representative to liaise with the Centre was criticized and seen as an unnecessary and extravagant decision. The appointment of Sampath is first such move made by the state and was cleared when the state already has a resident commissioner, additional resident commissioner and several other officers in Delhi who do the task of liaising with the Centre. He is learnt to have announced quitting as the elections have been announced. Also, the seat allotment in the CPM has also begun, in which he may be considered as a candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sampath-to-quit-as-states-representative/articleshow/81279205.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Price dip boosts gold sales; imports up nearly 387%||AHMEDABAD: The decline in gold prices following the reduction in basic customs duty (BCD) on gold after the Union budget announcement boosted demand for the yellow metal. Some 3.78 metric tonnes of gold was imported in February this year in Gujarat against 1.31 MT in January, suggests data by Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex (AACA). Gold jewellery demand grew due to the ongoing wedding season, however, purchases made through exchange of old gold also continued, which kept volume of imports under check. “Jewellery demand significantly improved in the past few days with the wedding season at its peak. Moreover, reduction in Covid-19 cases since Uttarayan, the rollout of the vaccination, coupled with 200 persons being allowed at wedding occasions and social gatherings, added to the general confidence amongst people who are now organizing weddings,” said Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). “With more weddings taking place and a steep reduction in yellow metal price beneath the Rs 50,000-mark improved the sentiment significantly thus adding to the demand for gold jewellery,” Soni added. Jewellers however were of the opinion that a number of purchases do take place through exchanging old gold and that people come with fixed budgets due to the ongoing recessionary trend. Gold imports rose to a 15-month high in February. The last time gold imports were at this level was in November 2019, when some 4.54 MT gold was imported into the state. Impacted by the lockdown and a weakened consumer sentiment thereafter, gold imports stood at the lowest-ever level of 18.8 metric tonnes in 2020, according to data by Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/price-dip-boosts-gold-sales-imports-up-nearly-387/articleshow/81281581.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 2, 2021||Surat||Panic escape: Family hangs outside building in Surat||SURAT: Onlookers in Sagrampura had their hearts in the mouth seeing four persons including a woman and child hanging precariously from the fourth-floor apartment, nearly 35 foot above the ground, trying to save themselves from a fire in their house, on Monday. The family risked their lives out of panic after fire broke out in the the five-storey Arjun Apartment. As smoke started spreading, the family of Irfan Mandapwala rushed out of the window and decided to get into the adjoining building one by one. Mandapwala stood on the canopy of the third-floor window and helped women and children from his house to come out from the window. “I could not think of any other option but to get out from the window and into the adjoining building window to save the lives of my children and the women of my family. I did what I thought best since there was a lot of smoke in the stairs. The window was the only escape route,” said Mandapwala. The fire was minor and controlled within minutes by Surat Fire and Emergency Services (SFES) but the smoke spread in the building created panic among residents, said officials. The fire was reported to the fire brigade at around 11.15 am and within five minutes a team of Majura fire station team reached there. “The family took the dangerous step out of panic before we reached,” said Nilesh Dave, in-charge fire officer, Majura fire station. “We controlled the fire within 10 minutes. It was a minor fire in the electricity meter box but the smoke spread in the apartment created panic,” Dave added.  Fire team had to struggle to reach the spot due to narrow lanes in Sagrampura. “The haphazard parking in the narrow lanes created hindrance for us to reach there. The building is also a narrow construction,” said SFES officials.  The sight was similar to the tragic Takshashila Arcade fire of May 2019 when those trapped inside the top floor of the building fell on ground from the fourth floor while hanging out from the window.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/panic-escape-family-hangs-outside-building/articleshow/81280432.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Man shot dead in Mulshi||Pune: A 24-year-old man shot his neighbour (40) ded following a quarrel over a petty issue at Valen village in Mulshi taluka, about 30km from the city, on Monday evening. The Paud police identified the victim as Ajay Sathe. The suspect, Bapu Laxman Jori, was arrested under IPC Section 302 (murder). An officer said the victim and the suspect entered into a brawl around 5pm on Monday, when Sathe Jori. “Furious, Jori went home, returned with an airgun and shot Sathe in his chest,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-shot-dead-in-mulshi/articleshow/81280390.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nashik||Gangapur dam water level drops to 55%||Nashik: The water level in the Gangapur dam has dropped to 55% — around 17% less than the level recorded at the same time last year. The water level in the Gangapur dam complex — comprising Gangapur, Kashyapi and Gautami-Godavari dams — has also dropped to 55% compared to last year’s 75%. The complex with a capacity of 9,350 million cubic feet (mcft) is the primary source of drinking water for the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits that has a population of around 19 lakh. Nashik city gets most of its drinking water supply from the Gangapur dam complex and a very small part from the Darna complex. The drinking water is reserved in both the complex on annual basis by the Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) based on the demands by respective water consumption organisations and recommendations by the district collector. According the water chart presented by the water resources department that controls the flow of water from all the 24 major and minor dams with collective capacity of 65,664 mcft, the water levels in Gangapur dam complex is pegged at 5,149 mcft (55%) of its capacity. The water in the district across all the dams was 38,885 mcft (59%) of the total storage capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gangapur-dam-water-level-drops-to-55/articleshow/81278265.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar takes Covid vaccine on birthday, asks others to get shots||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar got the first dose of the vaccine against the Covid-19 virus on his seventieth birthday on Monday and appealed to the citizenry of Bihar to come forward to get inoculated to contribute towards the fight against the pandemic. The CM got vaccinated at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) here at 1 pm. Nitish was accompanied by several dignitaries, including health minister Mangal Pandey and education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, among others. “I am delighted to get the first dose of the Covid vaccine at IGIMS. The process is being carried out at healthcare centres across the state. I have a special attachment with the IGIMS and the vaccination was launched in the first phase, then, too, I came here and oversaw the entire process,” he said. He added: “Even PM Narendra Modi took the first dose of vaccine at 6 in the morning today. We also had a meeting on Sunday evening with the health minister and senior officials, in which it was decided that I will get vaccinated at IGIMS and 1 pm was fixed as the time for the same.” The Bihar CM claimed that as per the norms, he spent 30 minutes at the waiting room after getting the jab, wherein doctors observed for any side- effects. “As the second dose of vaccine is to be taken after 28 days, hence we have decided that we will take the same here at IGIMS on March 31,” Nitish said. On being asked about vaccination in private hospitals, Nitish said: “Our government has already resolved that the government will bear the cost of vaccination at private hospitals as well. Whatever funds will be required for vaccination in private hospitals is being looked into.” Expressing hope that everyone will get vaccinated, Nitish said, “People above 60 and those with co-morbidities in the 45-59 age-group are also being administered the vaccine as per the Centre's guidelines. The entire world must be free from the Covid- 19 pandemic. The infection is comparatively less in our country and even lesser in Bihar.” Nitish also expressed happiness over Covid vaccines manufactured in India that are being sent to other countries as well. “The research for developing the vaccines have been done in our country and now it is being sent to other places,” he said. He added, “I am hopeful that all residents of Bihar will avail this opportunity and get vaccinated. Along with this, we all need to continue following the preventive norms, including wearing face- masks, maintaining physical distancing of two feet and washing hands frequently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-takes-covid-vaccine-on-birthday-asks-others-to-get-shots/articleshow/81280416.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ludhiana||2 masked bikers shoot at bizman in Jamalpur||Ludhiana: Two masked men on a motorcycle shot at a businessman in HE block of Jamalpur on Monday. The accused fired four bullets at Gurwinder Singh, 35, of which one grazed his neck and the others missed their mark. An eyewitness, who is a friend of Gurwinder, rushed him to a hospital and informed the police. Gurwinder runs an automobile workshop and lives near it in Jamalpur. The eyewitness said, “Gurwinder was walking on the road when I heard some noise around 10.30am. At first, I thought someone was bursting crackers, but when I saw Gurwinder falling on the road, I rushed towards him and found him injured. I took him to a hospital and called up the police.” On receiving the information, additional deputy commissioner of police-IV Rupinder Kaur Sra, assistant commissioner of police (detective) Surinder Mohan and Focal Point police reached the spot. Gurwinder’s wife, Sonia, said, “My husband has a property dispute with his youngster brother and a case is also pending in a court. About a month ago, the two had a fight and his brother had threatened him of dire consequences. Guriwnder’s brother might be behind the attack, as he has no rivalry with anyone else.” Focal Point police station SHO Davinder Kumar said, “When Gurwinder was walking towards a nearby market to purchase spare parts for his workshop, two men on a bike, who were wearing caps and masks, crossed by him. They then took a U-turn and fired at Gurwinder. One bullet grazed Gurwinder’s neck. He has received minor injuries and his condition is stated to be stable.” The police have recovered four bullet shells from the spot. “We are scrutinizing the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area. The cameras have captured the accused. We will lodge an FIR after recording the statement of Gurwinder. The property dispute angle will also be probed,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-masked-bikers-shoot-at-bizman-in-jamalpur/articleshow/81279208.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Goa: HC cancels polls to five councils for breach of Constitution, law||PANAJI: In a major embarrassment to the state government, the high court of Bombay at Goa on Monday set aside a recent order on elections to five municipal councils, as it was done in breach of constitutional and statutory mandate. The court also slammed the state election commission (SEC), holding that the silence on the part of a constitutional functionary is “highly detrimental” to Indian democracy. On February 22, the SEC had declared elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji and 11 municipal councils to be held on March 20. Soon after the order, chief minister Pramod Sawant met advocate general Devidas Pangam, party office-bearers and government officials, and decided to move the Supreme Court challenging it. Pangam had earlier asked the HC to stay the order, submitting that the state wanted to test its correctness in the Supreme Court. Since this was not granted, the SEC kept the election process to Margao, Sanguem, Quepem, Mormugao and Mapusa municipalities in abeyance and lifted the model code of conduct with immediate effect. Earlier, the bench, comprising justices M S Sonak and Bharati Dangre, directed that the entire election process for the five bodies should be completed by April 15, and directed authorities to issue a notification for fresh reservation of wards within 10 days, and ensure that not less than a third of the seats are reserved for women. Refuting the government's stance that the court cannot interfere when elections are declared, the high court said, “We have ensured that the election programme which would be notified after rectifying the order issued by the director, thereby prescribing the reservation in different wards of the municipal councils), it is done with utmost promptitude, so that the entire election process is completed on or before April 15, 2021”. Further clarifying that it hasn't interfered with the election, the court said, “In such circumstances, we have in no way interfered with or protracted the election process notified by the election commission, but on noting the infraction of the constitutional provision and of rotation policy, we are advancing the process in accordance with the mandate of law of the election in the wake of the decision in the Mohinder Singh Gill case”. The judges also asked the SEC “to expeditiously notify the election programme, on the order for reservation of seats in the municipal councils being issued by the director”. The SEC shall align the schedule of the election to ensure its completion by fixing its various stages as per the Goa Municipalities (Election) Rules, 1969, the court said. The court also noted that the respective municipal councils’ term had come to an end, that it is under the control of a body of administrators, and that the SEC had granted extensions on two occasions with the outer line stipulated to be April 15, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-cancels-polls-to-5-councils-for-breach-of-constitution-law/articleshow/81282700.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccination for HCWs, FLWs stops in 10 pvt hospitals||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) stopping Covid-19 vaccination of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) at 10 private hospitals, after administering first dose there, has left many baffled and inconvenienced.Moreover, some of the beneficiaries who had received the first dose in private hospital could not get the second dose at the vaccinations centres being run in NMC and government hospitals on Monday.The NMC was running vaccination programme at 20 centres of which 10 were in private and 10 in NMC and government hospitals.A large number of HCWs and FLWs took the first dose in vaccine centres in private hospitals. These hospitals were administering the second dose till February 26.Gynaecologist Dr Lata Meghrajani told TOI, “I had got the first dose at OCHRI’s centre. When I visited OCHRI for the second dose on Monday, I was told to go to NMC hospital. Employees at the NMC’s Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital did not respond when I requested for the jab. They also behaved very arrogantly.”“I have informed about this to Indian Medical Association. I am now confused over the second dose,” she said.General surgeon Dr Dhananjay Kane said, “Two HCWs from my hospital had gone to NMC’s Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya at 2.30pm. The employees there asked the two to visit tomorrow.”NMC’s additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “The government had instructed us to stop vaccination at private hospitals and we complied. Vaccination will continue at NMC and government hospitals till further orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccination-for-hcws-flws-stops-in-10-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/81279210.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||KYC fraud: SIM card dealer held from Kolkata||Mumbai: D B Marg police on Monday arrested a SIM card dealer from Kolkata, Ujjwal Vishwas (35), for his alleged involvement in a KYC fraud. On February 10, a chartered accountant from a legal firm filed a complaint that a caller impersonating as a mobile service provider official asked him to download an app to update his KYC. “Minutes later, the victim got a message that Rs 1 lakh has been transferred to a gaming site,” said an officer. The police traced the money to a bank account belonging to Noorul Islam. They got two of his mobile numbers and tracked them to Nagar Bazar in Kolkata and Jamtara in Jharkhand. While they could not trace Noorul, they arrested Vishwas, an agent of the mobile service provider who had provided the SIM cards. A hunt is also on for one Vikas Mistry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kyc-fraud-sim-card-dealer-held-from-kolkata/articleshow/81283961.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 2, 2021||Kochi||Kaul is new additional CEO of state||Thiruvananthapuram: The government has appointed senior IAS officer Sanjay M Kaul as the additional chief electoral officer (CEO) of the state. He has been posted as the additional CEO on the instructions of the Election Commission of India to the state government. An officer from 2001 batch, Kaul was holding multiple responsibilities of secretary of home and vigilance, finance (expenditure) and ports and also as export trade commissioner. He has been relieved of all the portfolios and been appointed as the additional CEO for the smooth conduct of the upcoming assembly elections. Tinku Biswal, who is currently the secretary of animal husbandry and dairy development department, has been given the additional charge of the secretary of ports department and the export trade commissioner. Another officer G R Gokul, who is currently the officer on special duty holding the charge of secretary of finance (resources) department, has been given the full additional charge of secretary of finance (expenditure) department as well. However, the charge of home secretary has not been given to any other officer as the home and vigilance department already has T K Jose as the additional chief secretary. The government has also transferred P B Nooh, another officer who was recently appointed in the Election Commission as the additional CEO, as registrar of cooperative societies. The commission also have two other officers D Balamurali and V R Premkumar as additional CEOs. Kaul will supervise and coordinate the tasks along with chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kaul-is-new-additional-ceo-of-state/articleshow/81279221.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Poll shadow on Swasthya Sathi, other social schemes||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) authorities on Monday asked ward coordinators not to organize Swasthya Sathi camps in their respective wards till a clarity on such camps was obtained from the Election Commission officials. Sources in the KMC said several ward coordinators on Monday called on the KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) chairman Firhad Hakim to seek a clarification on continuation of various social welfare schemes, including Swasthya Sathi, after the model code of conduct came into force on Friday. Hakim on Monday held a meeting with the municipal commissioner Binod Kumar to seek his opinion on the issue. “We have been asked to make only corrections for those Swasthya Sathi cards which have already been distributed but with errors either in the spellings or figures. We can’t grant permission for holding of camps for inclusion of new applicants or issue health insurance cards,” said a civic official in the KMC social sector department. Besides the Swasthya Sathi scheme, the KMC social sector department has been asked not to process applications for old age and widow pension schemes due to presence of model code of conduct. A KMC official said of 40,000 old age and widow pension applications, which were submitted to the civic body in the past one year, 16,000 could be processed and the cards were distributed to the beneficiaries. “Under model code of conduct we can’t issue new cards and hence the applicants should wait till the election results are declared and the restrictions under the model code of conduct are lifted,” a KMC official said. Swarupa Ghosh, a widow and a resident of Beliaghata, rued that now she would have to wait for over two months or more as the application that she had submitted recently could not be processed. “I was waiting for an approval from the KMC as I badly need whatever amount the civic body grants as widow pension after the sudden death of my husband recently. Now, I will have to wait for a longer period,” she said. This is not all. A section of ward coordinators on Monday expressed their apprehension over the fate of Maa canteens that are running in at least 100 places across the city. “I apprehend that we won’t be allowed to run these canteens in their present format as in some places the canteens portray images of the administrative head of the state. We need to change the format soon,” a Trinamool Congress ward coordinator representing a central Kolkata neighbourhood said requesting anonymity. Similarly, the KMC brass is also worried over several other welfare schemes, one of which is Rupasree. Under the scheme, a girl from a financially backward family gets Rs 25,000 for her marriage. “Keeping in mind the current wedding season, we had approved some Rupasree applications. Several other such applications are pending. We will need to talk to the state on this,” a KMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/poll-shadow-on-swasthya-sathi-other-social-schemes/articleshow/81280450.cms||Saikat Ray
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Govt tables additional demands of Rs 21,000 crore||Mumbai: Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, on the first day of the state budgetary session, tabled supplementary demands worth over Rs 21,076 crore, which are likely to pass within the next two days, after discussion in both upper and lower houses. Of the Rs21,076 crore, the state has set aside Rs 16,200 crore to repay the advances taken under the Special Drawing Facility. An official said the state might have taken a loan to raise funds to fight the pandemic, which it has decided to repay by making provision in the supplementary appropriation of funds. The state has made an additional provision of Rs 826 crore for infrastructure work of Mumbai Metro Rail Project. It has also proposed Rs 2,650 crore for payment of pension and other retirement benefits as the provision made in the current financial year was insufficient and Rs 45 crore provision was made under Integrated Child Development Scheme. The state has proposed Rs 561 crore for the expenditure incurred on concessions given in the electricity tariff for agriculture pumps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-tables-additional-demands-of-rs-21000-crore/articleshow/81282772.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Property registrations drop further due to model code for polls||CHENNAI: Property registrations have plunged after the model code of conduct for the April 6 state assembly election came into force, with sub-registrar offices in the city and its peripheries reporting a significant drop on Monday compared to last month. Revenue through property registrations was facing a deficit of Rs 809 crore in 2020-21 over 2019-20. February 2021 recorded a revenue of Rs 1,386.6 crore, the highest in the past 11 months. Registration department data shows that the Selaiyur sub-registrar office, under Chennai South, barely had 60 registrations against a daily average of 300. Of this, only 10 were land registrations. The office at Red Hills, under Chennai North, had just 65 registrations on Monday against a daily average of 120-140. “Most of the documents registered pertained to memorandums of deposit of title deeds, gift deeds and settlement deeds,” an official said. People with more than Rs 50,000 in cash must show receipts for the source of money when stopped by surveillance teams of the Election Commission of India. Unaccounted money would be seized. From April 2020 to February 2021, property registrations netted revenue of Rs 9,313 crore, a decrease of Rs 809 crore over the Rs 10,122 crore netted from April 2019 to February 2020. But, the registration department remains hopeful that Rs 900 crore will be generated in March. “Revenue will reach Rs 10,200 crore by the end of 2020-21,” a senior official said. The contribution of Chennai zone, comprising the city, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, to the TN’s total revenue fell by 9% this year from the average of 44%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/property-registrations-drop-further-due-to-model-code-for-polls/articleshow/81282741.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
March 2, 2021||Kochi||Brace for warmer nights this summer: IMD||KOCHI: The minimum temperatures in the state will be a few degrees above normal this summer, according to the temperature outlook for the state from March 1 to May 31. According to the India meteorological department (IMD), most of the subdivisions of south peninsular India are likely to experience below normal maximum temperatures. The assessment indicates that summer days may not be very severe, but the nights could get warmer. Meanwhile, dry weather prevailed over Kerala on Monday with no large change in maximum temperature during the past 24 hours. However, it was well above normal in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts and above normal in Kozhikode. The minimum temperatures were above normal in Kozhikode and Kannur districts and remained normal elsewhere over Kerala. The highest temperature was recorded at Vellanikkara with mercury touching 38 degrees Celsius while Punalur recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 21 degrees Celsius. Palakkad recorded 37 degrees Celsius while Kozhikode touched 35 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature is most likely to be above normal by 2-3 degrees in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts on Tuesday also. Weather experts said that the maximum temperature of more than 36 degrees can be expected in many places across the district. With high humidity levels, Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA) has warned people of taking all precautions while stepping out in peak hours. The labour department has already issued directions against workers being out in the sun from 12 noon to 3pm. The probability forecast for maximum temperatures indicates above normal maximum temperatures over most of the subdivisions of north, northwest and northeast India while most of the subdivisions of south peninsular India and adjoining central India are likely to experience below normal maximum temperatures, said IMD. The probability forecast for minimum temperatures indicates that above normal minimum temperatures are likely over most of the subdivisions of north India along the foothills of the Himalayas, northeast India, western part of central India and, southern parts of peninsular India. This probability is based on the February weather scenario which has also seen an interesting development. “The pre-summer months of January-February recorded the highest ever rainfall this year with Kerala getting the all-time highest winter season rainfall in the last 120 years,” said K Santhosh, director, IMD. Kerala got 11cm of rain in the last two months. The earliest highest ever was 9.6cm in 1943. Pathanamthitta received the highest of 27cm rains, followed by Kozhikode (17cm) and Kottayam (15cm). All the districts received large excess rainfall in the last two months. There was an extended winter too in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/brace-for-warmer-nights-this-summer/articleshow/81279246.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
March 2, 2021||Nashik||Highway volunteer campaign launched at Ghoti traffic aid post||Nashik: The highway police of the Ghoti traffic aid post (TAP) on Monday inaugurated the Highway Mrutunjay Devdoot campaign on the instructions of Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, the Maharashtra ADGP (traffic). As a part of this campaign, a force of volunteers would be formed. The volunteers would provide help to road accident victims by giving them first aid, arranging for the ambulance and shifting them to the nearest hospital. The campaign was inaugurated at the Ghoti TAP by Sham Dhumal, the president of a private organisation called Disaster Management in Shahapur taluka of Thane district. Also present were Harish Chaube, the fire safety officer of an Igatpuri-based company, safety officer Jayant Ingle, Kailas Dhakane, APSI Madhav Pawar, Dinkar Pande, constables Rahul Gangurde, Sanjay Shirsagar and others, said API Amol Valzade of the Ghoti TAP. Valzade said the Highway Mrutunjay Devdoot campaign is the brainchild of ADGP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay. As a part of this project, various teams of volunteers would pitch in to take the necessary measures to provide help to the victims of road accidents on the highway. “We have a 45km-stretch under the Ghoti TAP for which we are planning to rope in at least 70 volunteers. People running restaurants, garages, health workers of government facilities and villagers who have their settlements along the highway would be involved as volunteers,” said Valzade. Every year, close to 1.5 lakh people die in road accidents on highways across the country. Most of them die due to the lack of timely medical treatment. The volunteers would be trained in providing first aid to the victims and phone numbers of nearest hospitals, ambulance etc. Moreover, the volunteers would also be given identity cards for providing relief measures. The Highway Mrutunjay Devdoot programme would be set up all across the state. The highway under the Ghoti TAP witnesses a large number of road accidents due to the presence of the Kasara Ghat section as well as the Ghoti-Sinnar highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/highway-volunteer-campaign-launched-at-ghoti-traffic-aid-post/articleshow/81278274.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Central team visits Amravati, directs door-to-door survey||AMRAVATI: A central government team, deputed to find out causes for sudden spike in coronavirus cases in Amravati division, on Monday instructed the administration to declare hotspots as containment zones and conduct door-to-door survey. The team comprising joint secretary Nipun Vinayak, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) deputy director Dr Sanket Kulkarni and expert Dr Ashish Janjan visited different districts in the division to assess the situation. Vinayak held talks with divisional commissioner Piyush Singh, collector Shailesh Naval, Akola collector Jitendra Papalkar, ZP CEO Amol Yedge, Amravati Municipal Corporation commissioner Prashant Rode, civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam and other officers and took stock of the situation in Amravati and Akola districts. Stating that avoiding crowding was essential in Covid prevention, he suggested strict measures for the same. Emphasizing on teamwork for arresting Covid spread, he also stressed on the need for coordination between district administration, health and police departments. After the meeting, Vinayak visited superspeciality hospital and inspected facilities there for the Covid-19 patients. He also visited containment zone in Shrikrishnapeth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-team-visits-amt-directs-door-to-door-survey/articleshow/81282751.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Do your bit to go green & win Rs 1L||Coimbatore: The city corporation has announced a competition for the residents to create awareness about non-recyclable waste. ‘Green Brick Competition’ is being organized as part of Swachh Survekshan 2021. Winners would receive exciting prizes worth Rs 1 lakh. “Participants should stuff non-recyclable dry waste like plastic wrappers and covers in a one-litre plastic bottle until it becomes solid as a brick. Plastic waste that could be carried in a 10kg sack could be stuffed into a one litre bottle. The brick-like bottles will be used to build a toilet under the Swachh Bharat Mission," a corporation official said. Residents who submit at least five such bricks will be recognized by the corporation as an environment warrior. Those who make the most number of bottles will get prizes. The first prize will be a gold coin. Others will be given a wet grinder, mixer grinder, induction stove and a sandwich maker. Those who wish to participate in the competition should handover the bricks to the nominated Swachh Bharat ambassador in their zone on or before March 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/do-your-bit-to-go-green-win-rs-1l/articleshow/81280447.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Surat||61 fresh cases reported in Surat city||Surat: As the latest round of vaccination for high-risk citizens started, 61 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday. So far, the highest 8,114 cases have been reported from Athwa zone in the city, this is with the addition of 16 on Monday So far, 40,734 persons have been infected with the Covid-19 virus of which 39,496 have been discharged. According to figures shared by the health department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), total 4,395 persons are under quarantine at their residence. Total 1,298 teams of SMC are conducting surveys in which 4.24 lakh individuals were surveyed. As of Monday, 70 patients were under hospitalisation, of which 16 were in New Civil Hospital and 11 in SMIMER. State government extended the night curfew from 12 midnight to 6 am till March 15. Due to political, marriage and other social functions, Covid19 cases have been rising in the city, according to SMC health officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/61-fresh-cases-reported-in-surat-city/articleshow/81279248.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Water leak damages city’s 1st model road||Coimbatore: DB Road at RS Puram has turned out to be a fine model for what a model road project shouldn’t be. Inaugurated on February 24 by municipal administration minister S P Velumani, the 1.8km stretch of DB Road that was converted into model road at a cost of Rs 24.71 crore has already reported an underground water pipeline leakage, damaging the road near Mahakaliamman temple. The public, who were happy to see a road of international standards in the city, are now disappointed at the quality of work. Muthu, a local resident, said, “The water pipeline was damaged three to four days ago, when the city corporation workers were carrying out some underground work on the adjacent street. As a result of continuous water leakage, a portion of the road has been damaged. We have informed the corporation about the damage and officials have stopped supplying water through the pipeline and placed barricades on the damaged road.” When the model road work was on, he said, the corporation had assured them set up provisions to carry out repair works without digging the road. Suresh, another resident, said they were happy when the corporation inaugurated the project. “Now, we are disappointed. We didn’t expect the road to get damaged so soon. This shows the (poor) quality of work.” A source with the city corporation said the newly-laid pipeline hadn’t developed any leakage. According to him, it was one of the decades old pipelines that developed a crack, leading to water leakage. “We have been distributing water through both the old and new pipelines until recently. We have now decided not to use the damaged pipeline for water supply, as we don’t want to dig the road to repair it. Henceforth, water will be supplied only through the new pipeline.” The civic body has, meanwhile, blocked the road from Post Office Junction to Arokiasamy Road Junction on a trial basis to see if it could make it a no parking zone permanently. The move hasn’t gone down well with the public. Balraj, a commuter, said, “After two years, the road was relaid only recently. Without allowing us to enjoy the benefits of the new road, the civic body has blocked the stretch. If officials want to implement something new, they should run the trail on a road with less vehicle movement and not on DB Road, which is one of the congested stretches in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/water-leak-damages-citys-1st-model-road/articleshow/81280495.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 2, 2021||Agra||Another farmer in UP destroys crop to show anger against non-payment of MSP, hike in fuel prices||Agra: A farmer in Mathura district destroyed his standing wheat crops on five bighas of farmland to register his protest against non-payment of minimum support price (MSP) and the recent hike in fuel prices. Talking to reporters, the farmer, Sukhbir, a resident of Umraya village in Chhata block, said that the government is not making MSP a legal right of the farmers and they were being forced to sell their crops at lesser prices. “The MSP for wheat had been fixed at Rs 1,975 but we are being forced to sell it in the local mandi at Rs 1,500-1,600 and that, too, at a time when diesel prices have increased manifold. We don’t have any option but to destroy our crops,” he said, adding that their expenses are more than what they earn, leaving them to have a hand-to-mouth existence. The video of the farmer driving a tractor over his standing wheat crop in Umraya village of Mathura later went viral on social media. Chhata sub-divisional magistrate Hanuman Prasad said he didn't have any such information, but he appealed to the farmers not to take such steps and instead submit their demands in writing to the administration. “Destroying crops is not good at all,” he said. Bharatiya Kisan Union Mathura district president Raj Kumar Tomar also said that the farmers should not take such steps. “I appeal to the farmers across the district to not take such steps as there is no need for this at the moment,” he said, adding that farmers might have misinterpreted the statement given by Rakesh Tikait. However, farmers in many districts across UP, Haryana and Punjab have already razed their crops. Last month, some farmers in Haryana’s Karnal, Jind and Ambala districts had destroyed their wheat crops close on the heels of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait making an appeal to them at a kisan mahapanchayat held in Hisar district where he had asked them to be ready to sacrifice their standing crops if their demands are not met by the Centre. Similarly, a 50-year-old farmer from Pakki Tibbi village in Punjab’s Muktsar district destroyed his wheat crop on three acres in protest against the three farm laws. Also a farmer in UP’s Bijnor district had destroyed standing wheat crop on his six-bigha farmland last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/another-farmer-in-up-destroys-crop-to-show-anger-against-non-payment-of-msp-hike-in-fuel-prices/articleshow/81279252.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Flyers from 4 states seek clarity after ‘no check’ of RT-PCR reports at Kol airport||Kolkata: Heading towards Kolkata, flyers from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Telengana, who ran helter-skelter to get their Covid tests done during the weekend, were surprised when some airlines allowed them to proceed just on the basis of their Covid status on Arogya Setu app. This also included those flyers who failed to get their tests done and expected to be stopped at the airport. “I didn’t know the need of a Covid test report to fly back home and by the time I was informed about the matter on Sunday, it was too late to undergo the test and get the report. I took a chance and reached the Mumbai airport where I was only asked to fill up an Arogya Setu form by airport officials and none asked me for any other report. As I reached the Kolkata airport, none sought any test report from me,” said Mangala Bala Sarkar, a 56-year-old homemaker who came back to her Rishra home on Monday. Jayanta Maity, a resident of Howrah, on the other hand, had called up multiple private labs before heading to a government hospital in Mumbai last Saturday only to manage the RT-PCR report by Sunday evening for him, his wife and daughter. He even carried print-outs of all the test reports but he was disappointed as none asked for it while he was entering the airport. “I myself showed the print-outs to the officials both in Mumbai and Kolkata, though none had asked for it,” said Maity. While all airlines TOI spoke to maintained they had been strictly checking the test reports following the instruction of the state government, airport officials in Kolkata said a handful of passengers were stopped at the airport on Saturday and Sunday without the reports. But, there were also examples where a passenger from Pune, who was not allowed to board an Air Asia flight on Sunday, bypassed the stricture by taking a SpiceJet flight from Pune to Patna, from where he took another flight to Kolkata. Some confused flyers took to social media and sought clarity from Kolkata airport authorities about requirement of RT-PCR reports. “We had asked the airlines to strictly follow the instructions and check each and every passenger for RT-PCR report. The state health department is also supposed to randomly check flyers,” said Kaushik Bhattacharjee, Kolkata Airport director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyers-from-4-states-seek-clarity-after-no-check-of-rt-pcr-reports-at-kol-airport/articleshow/81280501.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Police seek custody of ponzi firm MD who duped investors of Rs 10cr||Coimbatore: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) here on Monday sought seven days custody of G Ramesh, 31, managing director of Peelamedu-based Universal Trading Solutions (UTS), who was arrested on February 26 for cheating investors.Several residents of Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris, Erode, Salem and even Kerala were lured by the Ponzi schemes offered by UTS, which began operations in 2017, EOW sources said. As many as 1,000 investors in Coimbatore alone had lost Rs 10 crore.After M Ramesh of Sivadhaniyapuram near Bharathiar University lodged a complaint, EOW sleuths raided UTS office in 2019. They seized several documents and registered a case against UTS managing director G Ramesh, directors Kanagaraj and Jaskar, and general manager Sunilkumar. They were booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and section 21 of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act 1997.Preliminary investigation revealed that UTS received Rs 1,103 crore from investors.But Ramesh obtained interim stay from the Madras high court to stop police proceeding against him. The Salem city police arrested him in July 2020 for cheating investors of his company named Universal Trading Enterprises (UTE) and lodged him in the Salem Central Prison. After the HC vacated the stay order on February 8, 2021, EOW arrested Ramesh on February 26.Income tax department officials have identified Ramesh’s properties in Coimbatore. EOW police are expecting petitions about the fraud to the tune of Rs 200 crore from victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-seek-custody-of-ponzi-firm-md-who-duped-investors-of-rs-10cr/articleshow/81280459.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Scientists develop model to estimate dhole population||KOZHIKODE: The first population estimation of endangered dholes (Asiatic wild dog ) – using next-generation genetic sequencing techniques to identify individuals from scat samples and combining it with spatial capture-recapture (SCR) models – was done at Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS). The study done by scientists from Wildlife Conservation Society- India, National Centre for Biological Sciences, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, University of Florida and Stanford University has estimated that WWS is home to 50 dholes with densities estimated at 12–14 individuals/100 sq km. Dhole population was estimated to be around seven packs with 6 to 8 members on an average. According to researchers, there was no method to reliably estimate the population of Asiatic wild dog, which is an endangered, large carnivore. The new method developed by researchers estimated dhole numbers using genetic information and advanced population models. Scientists conducted field surveys across 350 sq km of WWS to collect dhole scats (fecal droppings). They extracted DNA from the scats and used a novel approach involving Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms to identify unique dhole individuals. Combining this with sophisticated statistical methods called SCR models, the researchers were able to estimate and map dhole numbers and density at WWS. "Ours is the first attempt to estimate dhole populations through targeted surveys designed specifically for this species. The results suggest that Wayanad supports high densities of the animal. Recent nationwide tiger surveys showed that WWS also has a relatively large tiger population, with 11–13 animals per 100 sq km. The fact that two large carnivores can coexist in such high densities is indicative of an abundant prey base and high-quality habitat," said Arjun Srivathsa, lead author of the study. He added that it was difficult to conduct population estimation of dholes using methods like camera traps as dholes don’t have pelage patterns that are distinguishable. “We developed genetic tools to identify individuals from their DNA. We then applied statistical models to estimate their populations. This is the first, statistically reliable and robust population estimate for the species, not just in India but also across its distribution range,” he added. The study titled, “The truth about scats and dogs: Next-generation sequencing and spatial capture-recapture models offer opportunities for conservation monitoring of an endangered social canid” was published in the international journal Biological Conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/scientists-develop-model-to-estimate-dhole-population/articleshow/81279268.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Aurangabad||Bamu VC gets research patent for HIV drug||Aurangabad: Pramod Yeole, the vice-chancellor of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), has received a research patent, the second one, during his tenure at the university. The controller general of patents, designs and trademarks of the Centre has awarded the patent, for which there were two other co-applicants along with Yeole. On Monday, Yeole said the research work could benefit HIV-positive patients taking anti-retroviral therapy (ART). “We have devised an effective combination for a drug used in the treatment of HIV. The derivative used in the combination is more soluble in nature and can offer relatively quicker onset of action,” he said. Along with Yeole, Aarti Belgamwar and Shagufta Khan were involved in the research. Yeole said he has prepared an action plan to promote research activities among faculty members. “I have identified a group of 20 faculty members who are active in the field of research. We will further train them in getting patent for research work. Patenting is as important as the research,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-vc-gets-research-patent-for-hiv-drug/articleshow/81278305.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Centre owes Maharashtra Rs 29,000 crore in GST dues, says governor||MUMBAI: While outlining the MVA government’s measures to control the pandemic, Governor B S Koshyari, in his address to the state legislature on Monday, cautioned that people still need to take precautions because the “possibility of a second Covid wave is imminent.” He said Maharashtra had become a model for other states in tackling the pandemic and had brought down active cases, including in challenging settlements like Dharavi. However, the battle against Covid was still on. Koshyari saluted the frontline workers in the fight against the pandemic. Koshyari stated the Centre owed the MVA government GST compensation worth Rs 29,290 crore and that the pandemic had severely impacted the state’s revenue collection. The state’s revenue collection by the end of January was Rs1.8 lakh crore, 35% of the annual target and 21% of the collections last year. He also said the MVA government was pursuing other Central funding, including grant-in aid, in accordance with the recommendations of the central finance commission. Despite the economic crunch, the state had given priority funding to departments which provided crucial resources during the pandemic, including health, medical education, food and civil supplies, and relief and rehabilitation, he said. “To stimulate the economy, the government has provided 75% of the budgetary provision for capital expenditure and 100% to the DPC scheme, Local Development Fund and Dongri Vikas Karyakram,” Koshyari said. He also said that during the lockdown, the state had provided facilities for migrants including temporary accommodation as well as food and medicines at the cost of Rs 816 crore. On the issue of the border dispute between Maharashtra and Karnataka, Koshyari said the state had presented its views in the SC and was determined to give justice to Marathi-speaking people on the border. He also said through various schemes, the MVA government had provided Rs 15,000 crore to 13.3 lakh farmers in the state. Koshyari also said despite the slowdown, the government had attracted investments worth Rs 1 lakh crore and 66,000 permissions were granted to start various industries. Responding to the speech, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said allegations that the state had not received GST compensation were unfair. “GST dues are tabulated for the July to July period and not within the financial year,” he pointed out. He also said the Centre had provided over Rs3lakh crore for various infrastructure projects in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-owes-state-rs-29000cr-in-gst-dues-says-governor/articleshow/81282821.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 2, 2021||Agra||Body of 17-yr-old Dalit girl found in agricultural field in Aligarh||AGRA: A 17-year-old Dalit girl's body was found in a semi-nude state in an agricultural field in Aligarh’s Akrabad area on Sunday night, sparking protests by local residents, who alleged that she had been raped and killed. The protesting villagers also clashed with police and indulged in stone-pelting, in which one policeman was injured, police said on Monday. Around noon on Monday, family members and locals laid the girl's body on the road and blocked traffic at the Sasni Gate area, demanding compensation for the victim’s family. After intervention by police and administrative officials, the last rites were performed by the family. Though the postmortem report did not reveal any injuries on the girl’s private parts, police have sent her vaginal and rectal swabs to the forensic lab to ascertain whether the girl was sexually assaulted. “According to the postmortem report, the cause of death was by strangulation and smothering,” said SSP Muniraj G, addingthat physical injuries were found on the victim’s body and her skin was peeled off as the body was apparently dragged in the field. The SSP also said that a preliminary examination by a team of doctors who conducted the post-mortem did not find any internal injuries. have registered an FIR under sections 376 and 302 of the IPC and the POCSO Act against an unidentified person on the basis of a complaint filed by the victim’s family member. Three youths have been detained by the police for questioning. The SSP said five teams have been formed to investigate the case. According to the girl's grandmother, the victim had gone to collect fodder for animals around 12 pm on Sunday. When she did not return home till 2:30 pm, they started searching for her and found her body in a semi-nude state in the evening, claimed the grandmother. The girl had been staying with her maternal grandmother for the past 10 years. Former BSP MP Munquad Ali said, “Our main objective is to get this family justice and compensation. We condemn this incident.” This state government has failed to provide security to women and that is the reason for increasing such incidents across the state, he added. Bheem Army’s mandal (division) president Sikandar Baudh, who reached Aligarh to meet the victim’s family, said the organisation has demanded financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh for the family. “President's rule should be imposed in the state as the government is unable to control crime,” he said, adding that this is the only state across the country where such incidents are increasing with each passing day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/body-of-17-yr-old-dalit-girl-found-in-agri-field-in-aligarh/articleshow/81279267.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Not consulted on allotment of funds to corporators: BJP||Mumbai: Days after it hit out at the Shiv Sena for usurping a large chunk of the BMC’s corporator funds, BJP group leader Prabhakar Shinde on Monday said his party was not consulted before allocation of funds. The BJP said though it is the second largest party in the civic body, it got only a trifling portion of the funds. “The Shiv Sena is making bogus claims that the BJP was consulted. By giving lesser funds to the BJP’s 83 corporators, they are making 40% of Mumbaikars suffer. This is nothing but indiscrimination and misuse of power,” Shinde said, adding that contrary to the Shiv Sena’s claims no group leaders’ meeting was held to discuss distribution of funds. “We had demanded Rs 237 crore based on our strength of 83 corporators. Sena should answer if this is the BMC’s budget or standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav’s fund,” Shinde said. Of the Rs 650 crore funds passed by the civic standing committee, the Shiv Sena, which has 97 corporators, has bagged around Rs 340 crore. The BJP is crying foul that they have got a raw deal with only Rs 143 crore. The BJP has alleged that despite the massive controversy over the arbitrary use of funds in his Byculla constituency, Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav, who is standing committee chairman, again got Rs 30 crore. “The Sena is alleging it is because of the BJP that funds have been slashed this year, but the fact is funds were cut due to misuse and distribution of freebies. This is not the Shiv Sena’s money but the taxpayers’ money and we will not let this loot continue,” said BJP corporator Vinod Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/not-consulted-on-allotment-of-funds-to-corporators-bjp/articleshow/81283966.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Golden generation sees silver lining in vaccination||JAIPUR: Frequent glitches in Co-Win app slowed down the inoculation process in the 2nd phase of Covid-19 vaccination that began on Monday for senior citizens above 60 years and those above 45 years with specific comorbid conditions. Across the state, 55,250 beneficiaries above 60 years and 3,768 above 45 years with comorbid conditions were vaccinated. In Jaipur, 1,331 above 60 years and 98 above 45 years got vaccinated. “We have 87 lakh people of above 60 years, we have started the process of vaccinating them. In the coming days, we will scale up the drive by increasing sites across the state,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunisation), health department. Majority of the elderly beneficiaries got the jab by registering on the spot at vaccination centres. Many reached the centres with their Aadhaar card for identification. Many were also surprised when they did not find their names in the list of beneficiaries when they reached the centres. A 66-year-old retired employee of PWD, Mahendra Kumar Verma, had registered on the Co-Win app on Monday morning. But when he reached Bani Park Satellite Hospital for his dose, he did not find his name in the list of beneficiaries. Some centres were unable to complete online formalities“I was surprised that even though I had registered, my name was not there in the list. The team deployed by the health department registered me on the spot again on the basis of my Aadhaar card and I received the jab,” said Verma. Besides, the elderly faced difficulties in getting OTP numbers and had to make repeated efforts to get registered on the app. Those who went directly to vaccination centres got themselves registered on the spot for the jab. “I just walked in and they registered me. It was quite simple. I got vaccinated in an hour,” said S S Bhandari, a 77-year-old practising chartered accountant, who got the jab at Mahila Chikitsalaya in Jaipur. Some of the vaccination centres complained that they were unable to complete the online formalities for beneficiaries successfully. Chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I) Dr Narrottam Sharma said, “I have directed the staff at centres where they faced problem with online registartion to vaccinate beneficiaries and feed the data later before midnight.” In other parts of the state too issues related to the app slowed down the process. “Beneficiaries came to the vaccination centres directly, got themselves registered on the spot rather than doing it online," said Dr Sukumar Kashyap, chief medical health officer, Bikaner. Churu, which has not had any active case since January 25, also witnessed frequent tech issues. “We have vaccinated 870 above 60-year-old people. Majority of them were registered on the spot,” said Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, chief medical health officer, Churu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/golden-gen-sees-silver-lining-in-vax/articleshow/81282814.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Security worries after Delhi woman’s purse stolen at Kalighat temple||Kolkata: A woman from Delhi lodged a complaint that her purse, containing four Aadhaar cards, an ATM card and Rs 25,000, was stolen during a visit to the Kalighat temple on Saturday. The incident has raised questions over security at the temple, which has been witnessing visits by several VIPs in the run-up to the polls. The police are analysing CCTV footage to stop such petty cases. “After the lockdown was lifted, more and more people have been visiting the temple. Pickpockets appear to have become active,” said a policeman. According to the FIR lodged by Abhilasha (34), a resident of Kabir Nagar in Delhi, she was visiting the temple for the first time and went there around 7.30pm on Saturday. Her bag was stolen within 10 minutes. She claimed people around her were speaking in English and Hindi. “The pickpockets we know can’t speak in English. This appears to be the handiwork of new entrants, maybe those who also commit theft on Metro,” said an officer from the watch section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/security-worries-after-delhi-womans-purse-stolen-at-kalighat-temple/articleshow/81280527.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Burglars take cash out of stolen ATM, abandon machine||COIMBATORE: A day after a four-member gang stole an automated teller machine (ATM) of Bank of Baroda on Koolipalayam Four Road near Uthukuli in Tirupur district, the machine was found abandoned on a vacant land at Velliyampalayam, some 300 metres away from Salem-Kochi National Highway, in Erode in a damaged condition on Monday. The gang had uprooted the ATM that was fixed to the floor of the booth after tying it around with a crane belt and connecting it to a stolen sports utility vehicle (SUV), which was then pulled away at full throttle around 4.30 am on Sunday. CCTV footage of the incident had gone viral on social media. The gang had then taken the ATM with Rs 1,00,100 away in the SUV, which was found abandoned at Vijayamangalam near Perundurai in Erode district the same day. Tirupur police officials had formed six special teams to nab the gang members. A police officer said the gang had taken the ATM to an isolated place at Velliyampalayam and opened it with a welding machine to steal the cash. “They also consumed alcohol from there and left behind the ATM and liquor bottles. Forensic experts have lifted fingerprints from the bottles and ATM.” The Tirupur rural police said they were probing various angles and would arrest the ATM burglars at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/burglars-take-cash-out-of-stolen-atm-abandon-machine/articleshow/81280529.cms||A Subburaj
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||1,805 sr citizens, comorbid take vaccine in Vid; many upset by Co-WIN glitches||Nagpur: On Day 1 of Covid vaccination of age-appropriate people, 1,805 people in the approved categories took the jab in Vidarbha. Many senior citizens and comorbid did not get the vaccine due to glitches in Co-WIN application, failure in pre-registration and confusion in format of medical certificates. Not a single case of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was registered in the region as per the state’s public health department.In Nagpur district, 749 were inoculated, of which 702 were from 60 and above age group and 47 citizens were 45 and above with comorbidities. In city’s 10 vaccination centres, 607 (575 senior citizens and 32 comorbid) took the jab, and 142 in rural (127 senior citizens and 15 comorbid) at 12 centres.Senior citizens started to line up at centres in city from 8.30am onwards so that they could get the jab from 9am onwards. Six senior citizens reached the centre at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) before 8.30am. This centre is the only in the district for Covaxin dose.RTI activist TH Naidu (72) told TOI, “I am delighted to get the vaccine. I had to visit government offices for RTI information and hearings during the pandemic. Fortunately, I did not contract the disease due to precautions. My wait for vaccine is over today. I will take second dose after 28 days and will feel secure from the disease.”Asked whether he had any idea about Covaxin, Rajendra Dadhe of Rajiv Nagar, said, “I was aware so I came to GMCH to take it. Eminent doctors and IAS officers like municipal commissioner and collector took Covaxin so I had no apprehension.”Vaccination started on time at this centre but that was not the case at few other centres.Majority of beneficiaries on Monday registered by walking-in. Registration at Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR), Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital and IGGMCH could not start till 11am due to glitches in Co-WIN.NMC official said, “Over 100 age-appropriate people came for vaccination, of which 15 could take the jab. System was very slow, taking time for registration.”The staff also took time to fill all details like mobile number registered with Aadhaar card. An OTP comes on the number registered with Aadhaar card, without which further process cannot be completed. This was a major problem with many beneficiaries.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan said, “Senior citizens should bring identity cards and mobile handsets with numbers registered in Aadhaar card. They should also try to bring anyone from their family to the centres. This will help expedite the process.”Though mandatory, there was no waiting room at some centres. With a large number of senior citizens in queue at IGR, Pachpaoli and GMCH, social distancing went on for a toss.Very few people of 45 and above years with comorbidities could take the jab due to confusion. Many turned up with routine medical certificates, but the centres asked for medical certificate in format published by the government. A couple from Mahal returned from GMCH centre complaining nothing was clear in government’s announcement.Due to problems in government website, apps and links, very few were lucky to register and visit centres for vaccination. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “Vaccination of people who registered and turned up at the centre went smoothly as they did not have to wait for registration.”Sureshchandra Vashishtha (77) from Wadi said, “I got registered and selected Hingna Rural Hospital. I travelled from Wadi to Hingna. But the staffer at the centre was unable to find my name in list. I had to return without vaccination.”The NMC also facilitated first and second vaccination dose of healthcare workers (HCWs), first dose of frontline workers (FLWs) and also inoculation of age-appropriate people at all the centres.There was chaos at almost all centres. Some HCWs returned without taking jab after being refused at a couple of centres. HCWs demanded separate vaccination centres for HCWs, FLWs and age-appropriate people. “Vaccination of HCW and FLW needs less time as they are already registered in Co-WIN. There was confusion among senior citizens as HCWs walked-in and got vaccination on priority,” said a couple of doctors at IGR.Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari visited the centre at GMCH. “It was a historic day as people who require vaccination most have started to get the jab. People should plan and avoid coming to centres in large numbers at a time,” he said.Similar problems were also witnessed in other districts of the region. Amravati was only one among 11 districts in the region where vaccination of age-appropriate people did not start on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1805-sr-citizens-comorbid-take-vaccine-in-vid-many-upset-by-co-win-glitches/articleshow/81279271.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 2, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Couples take to social media to celebrate, normalise queer romance||CHENNAI: Just a few months away from celebrating their fifth anniversary, Suresh Ramdas, 39, from Kanyakumari and his partner Soham Sengupta, 29, documented the story of how they met in a Bengaluru cafe on Museum of Queer Swipe Stories, an Instagram account by Gaysi Family and Tinder. The post read, “When we said our goodbyes and hugged each other, it was magical. I wanted to hug him a little longer but I pulled away.” Social media projects on platforms such as Instagram have been featuring simple and poignant love stories of queer couples. Initiatives such as the Museum of Queer Swipe Stories and official Humans of Queer aim to normalize desi queer relationships in the largely heteronormative discourse. Ramdas, an IT employee and Mr Gay World India 2019 winner says, “Being a part of the LGBTIQ+ community, most of us grow up in the shadows. Sharing our love stories, it could be a source of strength for those who are still in the closet.” Founder of Gaysi Family, Sakshi Juneja says, “We talk about all aspects of intimacy, love and queer relationships.” Initiating a conversation on queer relationships, which are not tragic, deeply political or with pop-cultural influences is very rare, she says. “We tend to ignore the beauty and mundanity of queer romances.” The Mumbai-based initiative has received more than 800 entries from couples across the country. For 22-year-old founder of Humans of Queer, Yash Sharma, the lockdown was very special as he came out as gay and also began his Instagram initiative. “While there are so many spaces that showcase heterosexual people, I wanted to create a safe space for my folks,” says Sharma, whose page gained more than 1,500 followers and featured 200 stories within a month of the launch. In the process of conveying happy stories, the negative ones aren’t overlooked, says the student from Delhi. “One such story that inspires me is Vishwa and Vivek’s relationship, which we published recently,” says Sharma. Vishwa Srivastava, 34 and Vivek Patel, 24, a queer couple from Ahmedabad, have been married for four years. Srivastava believes that witnessing a queer couple being themselves in the comfort of their homes is a crucial part of normalizing homosexuality. Deepthi K, founder of the Chennai-based social support group Chennai Queer Cafe, believes that though these stories cater to small strata of the English-speaking, queer people with access to the internet, it is a huge step in creating acceptance. “I follow these pages. Larger issues such as abuse and violence are not usually the themes here, however, being a part of the LGBTIQ+ community, I find these posts relatable and they make me happy,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/couples-take-to-social-media-to-celebrate-normalise-queer-romance/articleshow/81282815.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||774 people take vaccine on day 1; more doses on way||Coimbatore: At least 774 people were inoculated at the 25 government centres in the district on Monday, when the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination started in the district. In this phase, senior citizens as well as those aged above 45 with comorbidities are eligible to get vaccinated.As people couldn’t register on CoWIN app, which developed some technical glitches, hospitals were forced to allow walk-in enrolment. Most private hospitals could not start the vaccination drive on the day, as they were not sure about allowing walk-in registration.“We were not sure if we had to insist on pre-registration or could allow walk-ins. We also hadn’t received the vaccine doses until noon,” said a private hospital administrator, who didn’t want to be named.The district had selected 79 private hospital for the drive. Health department officials distributed 7,980 doses of Covishield to them on Monday afternoon. Each hospital received 100 to 200 doses each.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said the district would receive 81,700 more vaccine doses by Monday night - 77,300 doses of Covishield and 4,400 doses of Covaxin. “With this, we will have 1,01,840 doses of vaccine, including 17,600 doses of Covaxin. Only CMCH and Pollachi district headquarters hospital can administer Covaxin as of now.”With the Co-WIN app developing glitches, health department officials said, they had called up nodal officers in the 79 private hospitals and instructed them to permit walk-ins. “We have instructed 17 private hospitals, which were already administering the vaccine to their staff, to inoculate at least 100 beneficiaries of the public a day for the initial few days,” the officer said.The district also saw 420 health and government staff frontline workers getting vaccinated on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/774-people-take-vaccine-on-day-1-more-doses-on-way/articleshow/81280530.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||3 steal Rs 1.5L worth silk saris, held||Coimbatore: The city police have arrested three people, one of them a woman, for stealing six silk saris from a textile shop in the city . Two more women, who were part of the gang, are on the run. Police said the gang stole silk saris (worth Rs 25,000-Rs 30,000 each) and sold them for Rs 5,000 each to the villagers in Thenidistrict.The arrested were identified as N Murugan, 51, of Thirumangalam in Madurai, S Manivasagam, 41 and L Dhanalakshmi, 40, of Cumbam in Theni district. They stole the saris from the shop of T Mohanraj, 41, on Nanjundapuram Road when his elderly father was alone at the shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-steal-rs-1-5l-worth-silk-saris-held/articleshow/81280526.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||1,456 elected reps urged to become Covid warriors||Nagpur: After an appeal by guardian minister Nitin Raut, the district administration has written to the 1,456 elected representatives of civic bodies like Zilla Parishad and gram panchayat to take up a proactive role as Covid Warriors. Preferring politicians over government teams, district collector Ravindra Thakare has requested elected representatives to take up roles as grass roots Covid warriors to spread awareness and motivate masses to undergo tests through door-to-door campaigns.Thakare said the elected representatives can help in tracing those with symptoms in the backdrop of the probable second corona wave. The programme under which the elected representatives are being motivated to turn Covid counsellors has been labelled as ‘Majhe karyashetra, Majha Pudakar’ (my work area, my initiative).Thakare has undertaken the initiative to ensure that elected representatives take up the role within 768 gram panchayat, 58 Zilla parishads, 116 panchayat samiti and 382 nagar panchayat.“Elected representatives have their contacts and networks in the interior areas where our health and district administration teams may find difficult to reach due to shortage of manpower and time constraints. It would be an ideal situation if elected representatives motivate people to undergo tests,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1456-elected-reps-urged-to-become-covid-warriors/articleshow/81279286.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Provocative pamphlets: Case against five DMK cadres||Coimbatore: Five DMK cadres have been booked for distributing provocative pamphlets at Edayarpalayam near Kuniyamuthur in the city.The Kuniyamuthur (law & order) police said they have registered a case against the area DMK secretary, Loganathan, and the party cadres Nagaraj, Balu, Devandran and Kanagaraj under Sections 153 and of the Indian Penal Code based on a compliant that was lodged by AIADMK functionary R Devaraj, 42, of Edayarpalayam. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/provocative-pamphlets-case-against-five-dmk-cadres/articleshow/81280535.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Agra||UP: After 20 years in jail, man found innocent||AGRA: Vishnu Tiwari was 23 when a trial court sentenced him to life imprisonment. He had been convicted of rape and did not have the means to hire better lawyers. The only thing he could do was assert time and again that he had not committed the crime. After 20 long years, in which time every member of his family died, he has finally been declared innocent by the Allahabad high court. Senior superintendent of Agra Central Jail VK Singh said, “Vishnu will be released very soon. We are waiting for the formal release order. It is unfortunate he had to be in jail for two decades for a crime he never committed.” It all started in the autumn of 2000. Vishnu lived in UP’s Lalitpur village with his father and two brothers. He had dropped out of school and would take up odd jobs that came his way to help his family. In September that year, a woman from Silawan village, about 30km away, accused him of violating her. He was booked for rape, criminal intimidation and sexual exploitation of an SC woman under the IPC and the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. A trial court found him guilty and sentenced him to life imprisonment. In 2003, he was moved to the Agra Central Jail. In prison, he was known as a mild-mannered person, a stickler for cleanliness and a gifted cook. “Besides cooking for inmates, he would also oversee cleanup inside the jail. His conduct was always good,” Singh said. And he was attached to his family, waiting eagerly for his father’s visits. In 2005, he gathered his reserves and decided to challenge the verdict in high court. But it made no headway. As hope started fading, his father’s visits stopped abruptly about six years ago. He realised, correctly, that his father had died. An application for furlough did not go through. He had not been able to attend his brothers’ funeral earlier. He could not be at his fathers’ either. This was around the time he completed 14 years of his term. He was up for a mercy plea. So, the prison authorities stepped in. They approached the State Legal Services Authority and, last year, appealed in HC. On January 28, a division bench of Justices Kaushal Jayendra Thaker and Gautam Chaudhary declared him not guilty. The court observed that the FIR had been lodged three days late, there were no injuries on the private parts of the woman “who is said to have been thrashed”, that there “was a motive on the part of complainant that there was land dispute between the parties” and that it was her husband and father-in-law who had lodged the complaint and not her. “In view of the facts and evidence on record, we are convinced that the accused had been convicted wrongly, hence, the trial court’s judgment and the impugned order has been reversed and the accused is acquitted,” the high court order said. It has also ordered the law secretary of UP to “impress upon district magistrates ... to reevaluate the cases for remission after 14 years of incarceration as per mandate of Sections 432 and 433 of CrPC even if appeals are pending in the high court.” Singh said, “We expect to get his release order in a few days. Once he gets out, he plans on opening a dhaba and making a fresh start.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-20-years-in-jail-on-rape-charges-man-found-not-guilty-by-hc/articleshow/81279278.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Science City honours two TNAU scientists||Coimbatore: Two scientists at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University have bagged awards constituted by Science City Chennai. U Sivakumar, professor of Agricultural Microbiology, has been conferred with the Tamil Nadu Senior Scientists Award. Sivakumar is renowned in the sphere of lignocellulose biomass valorization and evidence of plant-microbe interactions through technologies developed by way of his patents. He has four patients in India and the US and 105 publications. He is an adjunct professor at the University of Tokyo and he has generated funds to the tune of Rs 9 crore from the department of biotechnology, Indian Council of Agricultural Research and department of science and technology. Murali Arthanari, associate professor of Agronomy, received the Tamil Nadu Young Scientist Award and a cash prize. He specializes in weed science, developing integrated weed management technology for rice, maize, sunflower and cotton. He has published more than 55 papers in peer reviewed journals and has presented research work at International Weed Science Congress in China, the Czech Republic, Vietnam, Malaysia and Japan. He also leads the All India Coordinated Research Project on Weed Management as principal investigator. Science City Chennai, an autonomous organization established under the department of higher education of the government of Tamil Nadu, identifies and honours scientists who have contributed immensely in their respective fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/science-city-honours-two-tnau-scientists/articleshow/81280548.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Home marriage under lens, central teams visit Vidarbha||Nagpur: The region’s district and city administrations on Monday started taking a serious view of blatant violation of fresh restrictions imposed last week at wedding ceremonies which are now being organized at home.After the local administrations banned ceremonies at halls and lawns to contain crowding amid rising cases, people have started organizing functions at home without following protocols. Nagpur municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said they are keeping a close watch.District collector Sandeep Kadam has instructed the administration to take strict action as soon as it is noticed that the rules are being violated.The government has banned crowded events and directed that weddings will be held in the presence of 25 people. It is mandatory to follow the rules of marriage at home too, Kadam said.On the same day, Yavatmal district collector extended the 40-hour curfew till March 8 midnight. According to the fresh order, shops will remain open between 9am to 5pm daily. Essential services won’t be affected.Dr Ashish Ranjan, a member of the ICMR central squad of Covid, reviewed the situation in Yavatmal. He held a meeting with the district administration and expressed satisfaction over the low mortality rate (2.7 %) despite the increasing number of patients.Another Central government team visited Amravati to find out the causes for the sudden spike in Covid cases. Joint secretary Nipun Vinayak, NCDC dy director Dr Sanket Kulkarni and Dr Ashish Ranjan visited different districts in the division.After the meeting, Vinayak visited a superspecialty hospital and inspected the facilities for Covid patients. He also checked out the containment zone in Shrikrishnapeth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-marriage-under-lens-central-teams-visit-vidarbha/articleshow/81279281.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolhapur||Wife among 3 held for murder of scrap dealer in Hupari||Kolhapur: Hupari police have arrested three people for allegedly murdering a 50-year-old man who had been missing since February 26. According to the police, the murder was a fallout of an illicit relationship. The deceased has been identified as Mohmmad Bandu Jamadar, are resident of Pattankodoli in Hatkanangale taluka of the district. He was into scrap business and used to stay with his wife and children. Jamadar’s wife Tehsin (39) is one of the suspects. The other two suspects are Suraj Mohmmad Hanif Shaikh (21), a resident of Kagal, and Saurabh Pandurang Patil, a resident of Kolhapur. The main suspect, Sachin Gajanan Magdum, is a resident of Hupari and is absconding. Police said that the four suspects took Jamadar to Kagal under the pretext of arranging a loan for his business and later strangled him. The suspects then put his body in a trunk and threw it in a nullah in Karnataka. The murder came to light when the police came across the trunk during an investigation into another case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/wife-among-3-held-for-murder-of-scrap-dealer-in-hupari/articleshow/81278340.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Senior citizens queue up for jab||Sixty-three-year-old N C Alamedu, who got her first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on the very first day it was opened for senior citizens, is hopeful of returning to her pre-Covid social life after the second dose in another two weeks. She decided to get the jab, as she plans to host and attend a few functions in April and May.Alamedu, from Kovaipudur, was one of the 157 people who came to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) to get inoculated. While 124 of them were above 60 years, 33 of them were aged between 45 and 60 years. The oldest beneficiary was aged 89 years. It was also a day when most people preferred Covishield to Covaxin.Other 24 government vaccination centres, including primary health centres and the ESI Hospital, didn’t see much crowd.“I had tried registering on the Co-WIN app, but in vain,” said a beneficiary from a gated community at Chettipalayam. “Since private hospitals are yet to begin the drive, we had no other option but to throng the CMCH for the first dose.”Savithri Ramakrishnan, a resident of Huzur Road, said, “My plan was to wait for a week, but my daughter called me up from abroad, asking me to get inoculated immediately.”D Sasikala, 67, who took the first dose of vaccine on Monday, was relieved at the thought that she could move around more safely, attending functions and visiting malls, now.None of the senior citizens seemed to be afraid to get inoculated. “We know the side effects of the vaccine. It is better to get vaccinated than getting infected with Covid-19,” said a beneficiary from Nana Nani Homes. “Whether we go out and travel or not, we just want to start feeling safe again,” said another beneficiary, who accompanied him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/senior-citizens-queue-up-for-jab/articleshow/81280537.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kochi||‘Varsities can’t refuse change of name requests’||KOCHI: A university cannot refuse to change a student’s name in degree certificate, citing the reason that application for such change was filed after conferment of the degree, the high court said. Disagreeing to the contention put forward by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), Justice Anu Sivaraman said request for changing name in degree certificate should be considered if documents evidencing the name change are in order. The court was considering a petition by Mathew Anil Parakkal of Chalakkudy through advocate Jeena Joseph. While the degree certificate had the name ‘Mathew Anil’, the petitioner wanted to change it to ‘Mathew Anil Parakkal’. IGNOU contended that as per a notification issued in January, application for change of name will be entertained only before the degree is awarded. In the judgment, the court said, “Having considered the contentions advanced, I find that the petitioner has submitted the request before the IGNOU for recording a change in his name which has already been effected through corrections carried out in all relevant documents including the birth certificate, school records, Aadhaar card as well as PAN card. The petitioner has taken out paper publication of the change of the same as well. In the above factual situation, I am of the opinion that the refusal to consider the request on the ground that it was made after the conferment of the degree is completely unjustified.” IGNOU was ordered by the court to consider the application and correct the name if the documents produced are in order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/varsities-cant-refuse-change-of-name-requests/articleshow/81279280.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Some schools start physical exams, others wait & watch||Kolkata: Some schools started offline examinations for students of classes IX and XI on Monday, while a few others will hold in-person classes only from the new session. “Almost all the parents of our students gave their consent for pen-and-paper examinations. Many said the net connections at their homes were erratic. Some parents pointed out that students might make errors while uploading the answer sheets, and so, they wanted physical tests. We started pen-and-paper exams from Monday for classes IX and XI,” said Richard Gasper, principal of St Augustine’s Day School. After the government allowed schools to hold physical classes for Std IX to XII, most institutes called back the students of classes X and XII—the board exam candidates—on the campus on February 12. On-campus lessons for classes IX and XI at many students started a few days later or will begin shortly. But before calling students back on campus, the authorities of all schools sought consent from parents. At South City International School, in-person lessons for Class X started on Monday. “For the time being, we have no plan of physical classes for students of classes IX and XI. The parents think they still have one year before their boards and so, there is no need to rush,” said John Andrew Bagul, principal of South City International School. Schools, which have not started offline classes for IX and XI, plan to send another set of forms to parents this week to seek their consent. “We have made several videos and given parents tour of the premises, showing them all the safety steps we have taken,” said the principal of a south Kolkata school. The management of Vivekananda Mission School has decided to hold in-person lessons for classes IX and XI from the next academic session. “Though we had planned to hold some classes for them in March, we later decided to start from next academic session. Their exams will be conducted online,” said Sarmistha Banerjee, principal of the school. In the past few weeks, there have been several rounds of talks between parents’ groups and managements of schools over the pros and cons of holding in-person classes. “My son’s school sent us consent forms thrice, but we refused to give permission for offline classes. There have been cases of teachers contracting the novel coronavirus. I feel we should wait for some more time,” said Abhishek Pachisia, whose son studies at a reputable school in central Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/some-schools-start-physical-exams-others-wait-watch/articleshow/81280542.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Nilgiris leads the way||Udhagamandalam: With a rate of 90.9%, Nilgiris district stands first in the state with regard to the number of vaccines administered and the number of people registered for vaccination.On Monday, 500 people took their first shot at primary health centres and government hospitals, besides private hospitals.According to deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy, of the 10,836 frontline workers who had registered for Covaxin, 9,855 have been given the first shot. “On Monday alone, 1,029 people were administered the vaccine. Half of them were above 60 years old,” he told TOI. “It is not necessity for people above 60 years to register online for vaccination. They can walk-in with an ID proof to the nearby primary health centre or government hospital for vaccination.”Those who visit the seven private nursing homes identified for the purpose will have to pay Rs 250 for a shot.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-leads-the-way/articleshow/81280551.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||New enforcement tools to help curb illegal seashell trade in India||Nagpur: The collection and sale of seashells in India has expanded exponentially in recent years, leaving enforcement agencies behind in their capacity to monitor the trade. NGO TRAFFIC and WWF-India have developed new identification (ID) tools to help authorities identify marine mollusc species accurately, in order to strengthen enforcement action against traffickers. India’s seashell market is driven mainly by its demand for curios for making accessories like buttons and combs, lampshades and fashion articles, and other decorative items. But TRAFFIC research into seashell seizures between 2009 and 2019 indicates a sizeable amount of ongoing illicit trade, with the weight of reported seizures across the country during this period totalling more than 97,000kg. Discussions with enforcement agencies reveal that the challenges in curbing illegal seashell trade in India are mainly two-fold. Firstly, only a limited number of seashell species are protected under India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Just 24 of almost 3,400 species of marine molluscs (soft-bodied animals that remain enclosed in their shells) found in India are legally protected from exploitation and illegal trade. The second challenge is related to correct identification of species encountered in the illegal wildlife trade. TRAFFIC’s ongoing analysis of seashell seizures for the period of 2009-2019 found that almost a third of seized seashell species could not be correctly identified to the species level by first-level enforcement officers. This lack of identification can lead to wrongful seizures, faulty case reports, and ultimately, low conviction rates in instances of illegal trade. Saket Badola, head, TRAFFIC’s India office, said, “Seashells are sold openly not just at markets in coastal regions of India, but across the country. Correct identification of seized species is essential to better enforcement as it helps secure commensurate convictions through courts. We are hopeful that the new ID tools, probably one of their kind in India, will aid wildlife law enforcement officers in their initiatives to protect and conserve marine molluscs.” Authored by Deepak V Samuel, Saket Badola, R Ravinesh, A Biju Kumar, and Merwyn Fernandes, these new guides provide vital information about marine molluscs protected under India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, their legal and conservation status, natural distribution, key identification features, and the threats faced by them. Samuel, well-known marine biologist and co-author of the ID cards, said, “Large quantities of shells are obtained as by-catch from bottom trawlers dragged along the seabed gathering whatever is in their path. As the number of trawlers has grown in recent years landing of shells has risen from what was witnessed 30 years ago. Most of the shells gathered end up in trade. Therefore, enhancing knowledge among the fishing community and enforcement agencies about sustainable practices and about conservation of marine molluscs is crucial.” In the form of ID cards and posters, the new ID tools will be made available to wildlife law enforcement agencies, including the forest department, police, border security forces, customs, DRI, and others. They can also be obtained by reaching out to TRAFFIC’s India office at trafficind@wwfindia.net.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-enforcement-tools-to-help-curb-illegal-seashell-trade-in-india/articleshow/81298186.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 2, 2021||Salem||TVK cadres vandalize 2 toll plazas||Salem: Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi (TVK) cadres vandalized Muthampatty and Nathakkarai toll plazas on Salem-Chennai national highway in Salem district on Sunday night. The cadres from other districts were returning after a public meeting organized by the party at Omalur on Sunday. “Different groups of TVK cadres involved in a verbal spat with plaza employees in each toll plaza when they were demanded twice the actual toll since the vehicles of the cadres didn’t have FASTags. Suddenly, they went berserk and started damaging window shields of the cabins in the plazas,” a police officer said. Cases have been registered against TVK cadres for both incidents separately. Meanwhile, at the Sunday meeting, TVK president T Velmurugan said PMK leader Ramadoss had mortgaged vanniyars to chief minister Palaniswami to get 23 seats in the AIADMK alliance. Velmurugan, a former PMK legislator, came out of the party and started TVK in 2012. “The vanniyars could not even get a VAO job using the 10.5% internal reservation. Vanniyars already have 14% quota,” he claimed. The party passed 40 resolutions at the meeting including closing all toll plazas in the state and giving preference to Tamil Nadu youth in the central government jobs in the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tvk-cadres-vandalize-2-toll-plazas/articleshow/81280576.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Parents at more schools ask for online exam option||Kolkata: Calcutta Boys’ may have allowed their classes IX and XI students to choose between online and offline modes to appear for annual exams, trouble is brewing at other schools, where the authorities are insisting on on-campus tests. Some guardians met the Calcutta Girls’ School principal on Monday, requesting her to grant the online option for classes IX and XI annual exams. “We do not want to risk the health of the students. We want the school authorities to provide an option for online exams. We have been assured that the school will take a call on Saturday and inform us about the decision,” said the father of a Class-IX student. School principal Basanti Biswas could not be reached over the phone. She did not respond to messages from TOI. Some guardians of a school in Beniapukur also alleged that the authorities were refusing to offer the online option for classes IX and XI annual exams. “We are being pressured to agree to send our children for in-person exams, failing which the school may refuse to promote the students concerned. This is unfair because both the state and Centre in their SOP have said parents can’t be forced to send their wards to school during the pandemic,” a parent said. Several CBSE schools have started offline annual exams. “Some parents were against sending their children to school, but we counselled them to adapt to the new normal. But those kids who will not take the physical tests now, will not be penalized. We have the option of holding remedial exams later. For now, they will be promoted,” said the principal of a CBSE school on EM Bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-at-more-schools-ask-for-online-exam-option/articleshow/81280600.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 2, 2021||Chennai||CB-CID to probe NEET mark sheet tampering||Chennai: The Madras high court has ordered a CB-CID probe into allegations of mark sheets/ answer sheets tampering in NEET exams. “The CB-CID shall constitute a special team comprising cyber security experts and conduct a preliminary probe into the allegations without registering any case. A report shall be filed in three months,” Justice B Pugalendhi said. “If a prima facie case is made out, we shall decide the further course of action,” he added. The court passed the order on Monday on a plea moved by K S Manoj, a student from Coimbatore, alleging that his answer sheet had been tampered with. The petitioner stated the answer sheet he downloaded from the official NEET website on October 15, 2020, his marks was 594. But as per the answer sheet made available on October 17, 2020, his mark was 248. Additional solicitor general R Shankaranarayanan submitted that the National Information Commission is the competent authority to probe this but the petitioner sought probe by an independent agency. To this, the ASG submitted that the answer sheets could not be manipulated since they were chemically treated, and, in this case, there were signatures of two invigilators and that required a thorough probe. Recording the submissions, the court passed the order and posted the matter to June 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cb-cid-to-probe-neet-mark-sheet-tampering/articleshow/81282875.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Payment gateway issues mar vaccine drive in hospitals||Ahmedabad: Several private hospitals in the city found it difficult to log on to CoWIN software to start vaccination.Dr Bharat Gadhvi, regional director of HCG Ltd, said that they could not vaccinate any person despite steady stream of aspirants and inquiries. “The payment for procuring vaccination was not getting processed despite several attempts. We have made a representation to the higher-ups for the same,” he said. Namisha Gandhi, vice-president of Sterling Hospital, said that they also faced a similar issue and they are hopeful of starting the vaccination from Tuesday. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Monday evening announced that a total of 41 private hospitals will start vaccination where the beneficiaries will have to pay Rs 250 including Rs 100 service charge and Rs 150 vaccine cost.Explaining the process of CoWIN, the experts said that the payment records are necessary to dispatch the stipulated number of vials to a designated vaccination site. “The record at the government end and hospital end should match. As it was the first day of the third phase, some coordination issues had taken place along with connectivity. A few beneficiaries also complained that they could not get the OTP sent by the application necessary for registration. But we are hopeful that the system will work smoothly Tuesday onwards,” said a senior health department official.Aniket Chauhan, a resident of Satellite, said that he had got his parents to a private hospital near their residence. “We were told to come back on Tuesday after half an hour as the system update was taking time. It’s surely a commendable drive to aim at covering the entire population, but such technical issues sometimes mar the intent,” he said, adding that they would surely go back on Tuesday or Wednesday to get his parents vaccinated.On Monday, special arrangements were made at specialized centres such as GCRI and IKDRC on the Civil Hospital campus to encourage the patients with comorbidities to get vaccinated. On Monday, 89 patients including nine with comorbidities were inoculated at IKDRC. “The campus overall has high number of OPDs. Thus, we would appoint volunteers to identify the potential beneficiaries and encourage them to get the shot,” said a senior Civil Hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/payment-gateway-issues-mar-vaccine-drive-in-hospitals/articleshow/81283057.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Fire breaks out in private bank; docus, 40 computers gutted||Salem: Fire broke out in a private bank in Attur in Salem district on Monday morning. According to police, the reason for the fire could be electrical short circuits.Officials of IndusInd Bank, Vinayakapuram branch, said that the office was locked after woking hours on Friday and when they returned to work on Monday, they found smoke billowing out of the bank premises..“We found thick smoke emanated from the bank premises,” said a bank official. He added that they immediately alerted fire and rescue services personnel at Attur fire station who rushed to the spot but struggled for nearly two hours to douse the flames.“Nearly 40 computers and bank documents kept on the wooden tables were completely gutted in fire,” Attur town police said, adding that the cost of the materials was not known.Initial inquiry revealed that one of the air conditioning machines blasted due to an electrical short circuit. “The bank officials may have forgotten to switch off the AC machine when they closed the bank on Friday evening,” they said.A case was registered by Attur town police and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-breaks-out-in-private-bank-docus-40-computers-gutted/articleshow/81280582.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||12 Sharjah flyers quarantined at VNIT centre, 77 exempted||Nagpur: The second Sharjah-Nagpur flight landed in the city with 95 flyers early Sunday morning. The first flight had landed on February 14 after the services resumed for the first time since the lockdown imposed on March 24 last year.Of the 95 flyers, 77 were exempted from institutional quarantine while 12 were taken to Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) where Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is running a quarantine centre for the international flyers. Another six passengers preferred paid quarantine at different hotels.All the 95 passengers who arrived on Sunday were fine and didn’t show any symptoms, as per officials. They would be taking a RT-PCR test on the fifth day and a decision on their discharge would be taken as per the result. None of the flyers from the first flight has tested positive. The flight had brough 60 passengers, of which 23 were quarantined and 37 exempted. Of the 23, 15 were in paid quarantine and eight in VNIT.Authorities had allowed resumption of the international flight on a weekly basis but the second flight was cancelled due to unexplained reason on February 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-sharjah-flyers-quarantined-at-vnit-centre-77-exempted/articleshow/81279295.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||40 Covid-positive cases out of 3,200 tested ahead of budget session||Mumbai: Ahead of the budget session of legislature, Covid-19 tests were conducted on 3,200 people over the past weekend of which close to 40 have tested positive, said officials. The state government has made it mandatory to have a Covid-negative certificate to enter Vidhan Bhavan premises. Those tested include officials, security personnel, journalists, MLAs and their staff, canteen staff and other administrative staff from Mantralaya and Vidhan Bhavan. Officials said since the session is for 10 days, another set of tests will be conducted over the coming weekend. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/40-covid-positive-cases-out-of-3200-tested-ahead-of-budget-session/articleshow/81282896.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||30 teams formed to monitor three constituencies in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: After the model code of conduct (MCC) came into force on February 26, as many as nine flying squad teams, nine static surveillance teams, three video surveillance teams, three video monitoring teams, three accounting teams and three to enforce model code of conduct have been formed in the Nilgiris district as per the norms of the Election Commission of India.Three constituencies in the district Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur shall be going for assembly polls. “A day after MCC came into force, we held a meeting with political party representatives, returning officers and other government officials. Instructions were given to strictly follow the EC norms,” said Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, who is also the district election officer. “So far, we have seized Rs 20.73 lakh in cash and gift items worth Rs 3.30 lakh meant for distribution by political parties. Three cases were registered in this connection.”Residents should contact the control room to report MCC violations. People can also use cVIGIL app.The number of polling stations has been increased to 868 from 683. As many as 4,167 officials, including 2,600 schoolteachers and 250 professors, are involved in the election process. “We are taking steps to deploy two more people in each polling station to provide sanitizer and perform thermal scanning,” said the collector.Of the 868 polling stations in the district, 112 have been identified as critical and vulnerable. A meeting was held with the Nilgiris SP to monitor them, the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/30-teams-formed-to-monitor-three-constituencies-in-nilgiris/articleshow/81280570.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Society secretary, 3 auto drivers arrested for killing stray in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The secretary of a housing society at Seven Bungalows in Andheri and three autorickshaw drivers have been arrested for allegedly killing a stray dog and dumping the carcass in Versova mangroves two weeks ago. Sunil Jaising, secretary of Navnath housing society, allegedly paid Rs 5,000 to auto drivers Yasin Maniyar (38), Arvind Yadav (24), and Raj Singh (23) to clear the area of strays, said Versova police senior inspector Siraj Inamdar. The incident came to light when Tushar Gogia (39), an animal activist, noticed that the community dogs had stopped coming to the area to feed. He made enquiries and a watchman told him that on February 12, he saw two men carry a dead dog into an auto and drive away. Gogia lodged a complaint and based on CCTV footage, Versova police tracked down the autorickshaw. The auto driver spilled the beans on his accomplices and the building secretary. All four were arrested by Sunday night. Gogia said it was ACP Sudhir Kudalkar who took the matter forward and got the case registered. “On Monday, the four were produced before the Andheri court, which granted them bail,” said assistant inspector Sohan Kadam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/society-secy-3-auto-drivers-arrested-for-killing-stray/articleshow/81283986.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Cooking gas gets costlier by Rs 25, now sells at Rs 871 in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Amidst protests by Congress and other parties against the rising prices of gas and fuel, the cooking gas price increased by another Rs 25 on Monday in Telangana. The price of 14.2-kg household gas cylinder has now touched Rs 871 without subsidy — it cost Rs 846 on Sunday. This is the second sharpest rise in the price of LPG cylinders in a single day in the last 40 days. In February, the price of cooking gas had jumped from Rs 796 to Rs 846. Overall, there has been an increase of over Rs 100 in the cooking gas prices between February 1 and March 1. The price of a gas cylinder on February 1 stood at Rs 746. Industry sources said this was the second highest increase in cooking gas prices after the rate touched Rs 1,000 in 2016-17. However, the subsidy offered by the Union government was about Rs 500. In the last few months, the central government has changed the system of fixing the subsidy price. Now, customers get only Rs 41 subsidy irrespective of a rise in the prices of LPG cylinder. “Continuous hike in the LPG cylinder price is hurting the budget of common man. How can we afford the soaring prices of cooking gas,” a customer complained. According to D Ashok Kumar, president of GHMC LPG Distributors Association, continuous fluctuations in the pricing structure cause a lot of stress on them as well as the customers. “If the prices change on a daily basis, we face problems in raising the bills. At the time of delivery, there will be one price and at the time booking a refill, there could be another price,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cooking-gas-gets-costlier-by-rs-25-now-sells-at-rs-871/articleshow/81280617.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Man, 55, kills daughter’s boyfriend||Krishnagiri: In a suspected caste killing, a 55-year-old man murdered his daughter’s boyfriend near Berigai in Krishnagiri district on Sunday evening. He surrendered before the Berigai police on Monday. The accused, Narayana, of Thandarapalli near Berigai, is a vegetable vendor at JB Nagar in Bengaluru. His 19-year-old daughter was seeing K Vasanth, 25, also a vegetable vendor in the same area. Narayana had earlier warned Vasanth that he should leave his daughter, but in vain, a police officer said. “On Sunday evening, Narayana brought Vasanth to his village Thandarapalli and both consumed alcohol together. At a point, Narayana asked Vasanth again to stop seeing his daughter. When he refused, Narayana thrashed Vasanth using a wooden log. Vasanth died on the spot,” the officer added. On Monday evening, Narayana surrendered before the Berigai police. Based on his statements, the police went to the spot. They retrieved the body and sent it to the government hospital in Hosur for postmortem.The police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-55-kills-daughters-boyfriend/articleshow/81280614.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Plea seeks more compensation for death of children in riots, Delhi HC asks govt to reply||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the AAP government to respond to a plea by parents of two children who fell victim to the communal violence in northeast Delhi last year, seeking enhanced compensation. The plea has been jointly filed by the father of one dead child and the mother of another challenging the current assistance scheme in place to help riot victims, saying it provides inadequate compensation for the death of minors. While Ram Sugarat is the father of a 15-year-old boy who died after being hit by a tear-gas shell on February 26 last year in Gokulpuri area, Rihana Khatoon is the mother of a 17-year-old boy who lost his life due to gunshot injury on his head on February 25, 2020 near Jafrabad metro station. Justice Prathiba M Singh issued notice to the Delhi government and sub-divisional magistrate of Seelampur and asked the authorities to file their replies within four weeks and listed the matter for further hearing on April 26. Advocate Karuna Nandy, representing the petitioners, earlier submitted that “fixing the maximum compensation of Rs five lakh for the death of a minor during riots, while the families of adult victims receive Rs 10 lakh compensation is arbitrary and unreasonable.” “The compelling state interest in awarding compensation to riot victims and their families is to provide relief and rehabilitation, from the loss suffered. When it comes to the families of deceased riot victims, compensation must be such that it is somewhat commensurate to the actual damage suffered. Particularly in the case of deceased minors, such damage goes beyond just the loss of income of the deceased family member,” the petition said. The plea seeks direction to the authorities to award an equal compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the families of all deceased riot victims under the “Delhi government assistance scheme for the help of riot victims”, irrespective of whether they are minors or majors. As the two petitioner parents have received Rs five lakh compensation each, the plea sought direction to the authorities to grant an additional amount of Rs five lakh each for the loss of their children in the Delhi riots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-seeks-more-compensation-for-death-of-children-in-riots-hc-asks-govt-to-reply/articleshow/81300927.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cops slam brakes on SUV ‘gifting’ gang, arrest 10||HYDERABAD: A 15-member inter-state gang, which allegedly duped several victims across the country by impersonating as representatives of prominent e-commerce companies and offering sports utility vehicles (SUVs) as gift, was busted. Cyberabad police have arrested 10 members of the gang from Mancherial, Jharkhand and Bihar on Monday. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said the gang had collected Rs 2 crore from the victims. Police arrested Tarun Kumar of Bihar, Prakhakar Kumar Sinha of Jharkhand, Yashwanth Thakur and Saurabh Patel, both from Madhya Pradesh, Kamlesh Dubey, M Venkatesh, G Rakesh, E Prashanth, S Rajender Reddy, L Rajlingu, all from Mancherial, were arrested while five others — Alok, Tiranju, Bajarangi, Kotresh and Sunil — were declared absconding. Officials said Alok and Tiranju used to illegally access customer details of a few e-commerce companies and share it with prime accused Tarun, who in-turn with the support of the other accused, used to send letters in the name of some prominent e-commerce companies to people. In the letter, the accused would send a scratch card. The receiver, when he scratches the card, would come to know they won an SUV. “When the scratch card receivers call the telephone number, given in the letter, depending on the state, the accused make their tele-caller speak in the regional language. The tele-callers will convince the victims by informing them that the SUV, which the victims won as a gift, will be delivered only after paying different taxes. The victims fell in the trap and they paid the money hoping to get the gift,” the CP said. Based on the complaints received from the victims, police went to Bihar and Jharkhand and nabbed a few wanted accused. Police also found the accused had set up a call centre at Ranchi in Jharkhand from where victims in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh were duped. “This is a new trend where tele-callers, speaking regional languages, are being used to dupe the victims,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-slam-brakes-on-suv-gifting-gang-arrest-10/articleshow/81280612.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Overproduction brings cabbage prices down in Salem region||Erode: Cabbage cultivators in Thalavadi and its surrounding villages are in a dire situation as the vegetable prices have fallen to Rs 2 from Rs 12 per kg due to surplus production.Thalavadi and the surrounding areas are situated at more than 2,500 MSL (mean sea level), said K Narayanasamy, a farmer from Thalavadi. “The mercury level hovers around 25-30C. So farmers in the area cultivate vegetables like cabbage, potatoes, carrot, beans, radish and beetroot,” he added. Cabbage varieties like Sandoz and Ganesh Gole were cultivated in more than 4,000 acres in Erranahalli, Thiginarai, Jeerahalli, Kalmandipuram, Arulavadi, Kettavadi, Tamilpuram, Neithalapuram, Thalaimalai, Thoddaganjanur and Thalavadi villages. S Ganesan, another cabbage farmer from Thoddaganjanur village, said a farmer will grow nearly 30,000 plants in an acre. “The crops are harvested three months after planting. During this time, it will take at least Rs 1.35 lakh per acre to maintain the crops. In order to make a profit, the farmer has to sell his produce at above Rs 6 per kg,” he added. Abundant production created a glut in the market leading to a price drop. “While there is no great demand for the vegetable, the merchants are unable to dispose the surplus stock,” said S Kalavathi, a trader at the VOC vegetable market in Salem city.The farmers also send their produce to Coimbatore, Salem and Tirupur districts, besides Kerala and Karanataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/overproduction-brings-cabbage-prices-down-in-salem-region/articleshow/81280597.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Salem||Man, 55, kills daughter’s boyfriend||Krishnagiri: In a suspected caste killing, a 55-year-old man murdered his daughter’s boyfriend near Berigai in Krishnagiri district on Sunday evening. He surrendered before the Berigai police on Monday. The accused, Narayana, of Thandarapalli near Berigai, is a vegetable vendor at JB Nagar in Bengaluru. His 19-year-old daughter was seeing K Vasanth, 25, also a vegetable vendor in the same area. Narayana had earlier warned Vasanth that he should leave his daughter, but in vain, a police officer said. “On Sunday evening, Narayana brought Vasanth to his village Thandarapalli and both consumed alcohol together. At a point, Narayana asked Vasanth again to stop seeing his daughter. When he refused, Narayana thrashed Vasanth using a wooden log. Vasanth died on the spot,” the officer added. On Monday evening, Narayana surrendered before the Berigai police. Based on his statements, the police went to the spot. They retrieved the body and sent it to the government hospital in Hosur for postmortem. The police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-55-kills-daughters-boyfriend/articleshow/81280608.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||India||Centenarians turn up for jab, dispel fears and myths||BENGALURU/HYDERABAD: Dispelling misconceptions and fears associated with the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, a 102-year-old retired Army officer, Subramanian KN, received the vaccine at Bengaluru while 100-year-old Hyderabad resident Jaidev Chowdhry got himself inoculated on Monday. Subramanian, who received the vaccine at Columbia Asia, Hebbal, around 5pm, is perhaps the oldest to be vaccinated in Bengaluru. Meanwhile, Chowdhry, a retired entrepreneur, was one of the first to visit Hyderabad’s Medicover Hospital for the vaccine and suffered no side effects. Chowdhry urged everyone above 60 and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities to get inoculated as it is tougher for people of these ages to fight infections with their immune systems becoming weak. A 70-year-old Bengaluru resident, Naveen Kumar, whose lungs were compromised in a fire mishap four years ago, was the first to receive the jab at Jayanagar General Hospital at 1.20pm. Kumar, who carted a portable oxygen cylinder, said he and his wife had not stepped out of their home since the pandemic broke out. “We follow government instructions scrupulously,” Kumar said. His wife, Manjula, in her early 60s, also took the jab. Both had no side effects. Ramaswamy Parthasarathy (97) got the vaccine at Columbia Asia, Hebbal. “I have not been ill for the past 3-4 years, so getting the vaccine was important for me,” he said. His caretaker told TOI the nonagenarian was perfectly fine post-vaccination and had no side effects. Those in the 45-59 group suffering comorbidities had to carry a letter from a treating doctor confirming the comorbidity. Inder Neel Singh, 54, a Hebbal resident who works in a manufacturing firm, was the first to get the vaccine at Aster CMI hospital. He said registering on the Co-Win portal was a breeze and he completed the task in 15 minutes. “I carried my Aadhaar card and a medical certificate from my doctor on my diabetes condition. I’ve had no side effects so far and am fine,” said Singh. Chowdhry, who was wheeled in by his family members for the jab, said, “Due to the pandemic, senior citizens in Hyderabad had to remain indoors for a long time, which, in turn, impacted their mental and physical health. I was waiting for this day to be vaccinated so I could return to my old routine and lead an active social life. I also see this as the only way to end the pandemic.” Medicover Hospital MD Dr G Anil Krishna told TOI, “Chowdhry is an inspiration to all having doubts. By voluntarily coming forward, he sent a clear message that this is the only way to end the pandemic. If it is safe for a 100-year-old, it is safe for everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centenarians-turn-up-for-jab-dispel-fears-and-myths/articleshow/81284496.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Rajkot||Slow start, teething troubles in major Gujarat cities||VADODARA/ SURAT/ RAJKOT: The first day of the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination kicked off on a slow note in three major cities of Gujarat – Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot – on Monday amid teething issues, especially those related to vaccination at private hospitals. The municipal corporations began registering and vaccinating citizens above age 60 as well as those in the 45-60 year bracket with co-morbidities at both government and empanelled private hospitals from Monday. But there were teething troubles when it came to begin the inoculation drive in private hospitals. In Vadodara for instance, the drive could not be conducted in any of private hospitals in the city. In all only 4,670 individuals in these three cities got the first dose of the vaccine on the first day of the drive. The vaccination target is more than 7.53 lakh individuals considering the earlier surveys that Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) have carried out of individuals falling in high-risk category. Over 2.53 lakh citizens in Surat have registered in high-risk category. On Monday, 92 senior citizens were given vaccines at Surat Municipal Institute of Medical Education and Research (SMIMER) while 15 others were given vaccines at New Civil Hospital (NCH). Vaccination for senior citizens and comorbid patients will continue at 48 government hospitals and SMC health centres. “No major side effects have been reported in those who took the vaccine and those in the high-risk category should come forward for vaccination in large numbers,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, SMC. Those who had walked-in to get the vaccine had faced some problems. Many senior citizens reached NCH without registration but were asked to return as they had not registered. In Rajkot, politicians and priests took the first shot. As per RMC’s survey, nearly 1.98 lakh people are to be vaccinated in this phase. Nearly 30 members of voluntarily organization ‘Chitranagari’ took the dose with placards in support of government. Some priest of Swaminarayan, Arsh Vidhya Mandir and other sects also joined. According to RMC, the number of hospitals and health centers for vaccination will be increased gradually. The government hospital which are authorised to give the dose are PDU civil hospital, Padmakunvarba hospital, Sadar and all the urban health centers. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has identified 1.67 lakh individuals who will be vaccinated in the third phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/slow-start-teething-troubles-in-major-gujarat-cities/articleshow/81279333.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ludhiana||SAD’s Maheshinder Singh Grewal tests positive||Ludhiana: Senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal has tested positive for Covid-19. As he is asymptomatic, he has been advised home isolation.Speaking to the TOI, Grewal said, “My test report came positive Monday evening. As I have no symptoms, I have decided to home quarantine myself. I have been receiving calls from my supporters, party colleagues and friends. I want all my well-wishers to know I am perfectly fine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sads-maheshinder-singh-grewal-tests-positive/articleshow/81279318.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Two Delhi-based fraudsters held for credit card fraud||HYDERABAD: Cyber crime police arrested two fraudsters from Delhi and recovered three debit cards and six cell phones from their possession on Monday. On December 24, cyber crime police received a complaint from Ravi Kumar of Tarnaka stating that he was contacted by unknown persons posing as a private bank official and informed him that his credit card was going to expire. In the guise of helping the accused in extending his credit card’s validity period, the accused collected his card details along with OTPs received on his phone and made a transaction for Rs 50,000 using the details. Based on the complaint, police registered a case and arrested the accused, Vineet Singh, 28, and Deepak Singh Rawat, 32, of Delhi. According to inspector B Ramesh, the accused have been calling victims posing as bank employees. “By promising to extend the validity period of the credit card, the accused collect card details, including the number, name, CVV and start doing online transactions. They keep asking for OTPs received by the victims to finish the transactions till the victim realises about the fraud. The two accused have duped several people in this manner,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-delhi-based-fraudsters-held-for-credit-card-fraud/articleshow/81280630.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Patient gene variants affected morbidity in Gujarat’||AHMEDABAD: A study carried out by a team from Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) along with other Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar-based research institutes revealed that the high mortality in Gujarat in early phase of the pandemic and high morbidity in several patients could be attributed to host gene variants.  In a paper to be published soon, the team mentioned, ‘Three unfavourable alleles (gene variants) that cause higher morbidity and mortality in Gujarat have shown higher frequency in European countries compared to South Asian populations. Likewise, the reverse is true for five variants that reduce morbidity and mortality.’ The present study mentioned that three genomic loci such as AX-11318356, AX-11403743 and AX-11509434 which were found prevalent among the European countries with high mortality were also found among the local population. The researchers carried out entire genomic sequencing for 571 confirmed Covid-19 patients – 94 deceased, 320 recovered and 147 asymptomatic – from 25 hospitals across Gujarat between May and July 2020. ‘TNFSF4, LRRC56 and TUBD1 genes have shown an association in deceased vs recovered,’ mentioned the study. ‘This study will further help to design vaccine and drug strategies against SARS-CoV-2 infection for western Indian population.’ The researchers pointed at the fact that Covid-19 variants and how they connect with the human hosts decide the severity of the infection. Experts believe that thorough study of both the virus and the host is needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patient-gene-variants-affected-morbidity-in-guj/articleshow/81283049.cms||Parth Shastri
March 2, 2021||Goa||Poor start to phase two of vaccine drive, just over 1,000 make it for vax at 37 centres||Panaji: A total of 1,220 people — senior citizens and people in the age group of 45 to 59 having comorbidities — were vaccinated at 37 government-run vaccination sites across the state on Monday as the drive was expanded to cover the public in the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. “One thousand thirty one people above 60, and 189 in the age group 45 to 59 were vaccinated today,” a health official said. It was a slow day for vaccination and most centres saw a poor turnout. Also, CoWin remained non-functional at some centres leading to difficulties in uploading names of beneficiaries who received their first dose during the day. At most other centres, however, vaccination continued online. At T B hospital, Margao, the vaccination site of Hospicio Hospital, doctors ensured that all who showed up got vaccinated, despite the portal not opening even once during the entire day. During the first half of the day, even the North Goa district hospital, where patient turnout is normally high, could vaccinate only 45 due to the low turnout. A health official said that many centres faced difficulties in uploading names. However, names of all those who received their first dose during the day will be uploaded as staff on duty recorded their details. “Since the notice to vaccinate senior citizens and people having comorbidities was too short, on the spot registration was allowed,” he said. At all 37 centres, senior citizens and those having comorbidities were able to get the shots on the basis of their Aadhar card. The officer said that they would continue with spot registration for those who are unable to use mobile phones and have no knowledge of how to use the internet to register on the CoWin portal. There will be three categories for the vaccination — spot registration, Co-Win registered, and those slated to receive the second dose — he said. In the days to come, the government target is to vaccinate 3,700-4,000 people a day. Besides government facilities, there are attempts to rope in 15 private hospitals empanelled under the Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY) and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY). “However, today's vaccination drive was conducted at only government sites. The empanelled private hospitals have been asked to start vaccination, they will be able to only if the portal functions,” he said. The private hospitals will be able charge Rs 250 per head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poor-start-to-phase-two-of-vaccine-drive-just-over-1000-make-it-for-vax-at-37-centres/articleshow/81283997.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Bareilly||2 years since she was gang-raped, woman ‘awaits’ compensation she was promised, NHRC issues notice to UP||Bareilly: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government seeking details on compensation given to a woman who was allegedly gang-raped by six men in Moradabad’s upscale Civil Lines area over two years ago. The rights body has sought a detailed compliance report from the state government on all the recommendations it had made two years ago, which also included disciplinary action against erring police personnel who had refused to file an FIR, within four weeks. According to a state government report, two police personnel were found “negligent as they had not filed the FIR immediately”. So the UP government had sanctioned a relief of Rs 2lakh, as recommended by the commission, for violation of her human rights. The woman was allegedly tied-up and gang-raped by six men who had barged into her house while she was alone, in broad daylight, in the Civil Lines area of Moradabad on November 18, 2018. The woman had then alleged that when she approached police officers to register an FIR she was made to sit in the police station till midnight. And no FIR was registered. The case was later registered after a court’s intervention. The six accused were booked under IPC sections 376 (d) (gang-rape), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint). The rights body had then recommended a compensation of Rs 2lakh to the rape survivor apart from the action against the policemen. The commission said that it had asked the government to submit the proof of payment made to the victim of gang-rape, which was sanctioned by the government on commission’s recommendations. But it is yet to be released, the rights body said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-years-since-she-was-gang-raped-woman-awaits-compensation-she-was-promised-nhrc-issues-notice-to-up/articleshow/81278372.cms||Maria Khan
March 2, 2021||Bareilly||Man sentenced to five years in jail & fined Rs 50k for culpable homicide of his mother||Bareilly: A sessions court here on Monday handed down five years of jail term to a man convicted of culpable homicide (not amounting to murder) of his mother.Delivering judgment, additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) Sunil Kumar Yadav also slapped on him a fine of Rs 50,000. On July 25, 2018, accused Jitendra had bludgeoned his mother Kalawati with a baton after she had refused to sell their ancestral land. Kalawati died during treatment and Jitendra was sent to jail. Divulging details, additional district government counsel (ADGC) Anoop Koharwal told TOI, “Jitendra had hit his mother with a baton in a fit of rage over a property dispute and an FIR was registered under section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) in Bahedi area. After his mother’s death during the treatment, police had added section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) to the FIR and a charge-sheet was filed in November.”“Jitendra’s brother-in-law was both the complainant and eye-witness in the case. During the trials, the ADJ found Jitendra guilty under section 304 and sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment for five years. A fine of Rs 50,000 is also slapped on the convict, who will have to undergo extra imprisonment for one month if he fails to pay the fine. The accused is currently out of jail on bail,” said Koharwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-sentenced-to-five-years-in-jail-fined-rs-50k-for-culpable-homicide-of-his-mother/articleshow/81278380.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad’s air quality worse than that of Delhi||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad city along with Mumbai had the worst Air Quality Index in the country among four Safar monitoring cities.  In the city, Raikhad had the worst AQI of 235 while Lekhawada situated on the outskirts of the city had the highest AQI of 252. Satellite and Airport areas were also among those with worst air quality. The officials said the increase in movement of vehicles in the city has led to high AQI in these areas. The AQI of Ahmedabad city was worse than that of Delhi and Pune. Officials said that Delhi usually had the highest AQI among the Safar monitored cities, but the capital has been left behind in air pollution now by other cities. Officials said that Mumbai and Ahmedabad have been racing with each other for worst air. The Safar data reveals that the AQI of Ahmedabad will be moderate on Tuesday. Very sensitive people should consider reducing longer and heavy exertion and heavy outdoor work. Raikhad, which has heavy movement of buses and traffic has been consistently among the areas with worst air pollution.  However, the AQI of Pirana, which was very high and was nearly 300 before lockdown has now come down to moderate.  AMC officials claim the high level of pollution in Pirana had been caused by constant burning of the garbage which has now reduced due to bio-mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-air-quality-worse-than-that-of-delhi/articleshow/81283016.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Cops crack PhD scholar’s murder case, arrest friend||PUNE: The Chatushrungi police on Monday claimed soured relationship was the motive behind the murder of National Chemical Laboratory’s PhD scholar Sudharshan Baburao Pandit (30) after arresting his 24-year-old friend from Warje, whom he met through a dating app. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said “We have arrested Raviraj Rajkumar Kshirsagar, a BSc degree holder and an interior designer. Hailing from Hingoli district, he had shifted to Pune for work. Pandit, residing at Sutarwadi in Pashan, hailed from Jafrabad in Jalna district. He was pursuing PhD in chemistry.” Deshmukh said, “Pandit and Kshirsagar met over a dating application and were in a relationship for eight months. There was exchange of a series of calls between the two before the murder. CCTV footage from the area showed the duo were together on the evening of February 26.” A team comprising senior inspector Anil Shewale, and inspectors Dada Gaikwad and Mahesh Bhosale traced Kshirsagar’s home and reached there but his parents told them that Kshirsagar had attempted suicide by slitting his throat and consumed sleeping pills. He was admitted to a private hospital in Erandwane. The police waited for his discharge and on Sunday night arrested him. “Kshirsagar attempted to end his life around 10.30pm on February 26 after killing Pandit,” Deshmukh said. “Recently, Pandit’s marriage was fixed. For a fortnight prior to the murder, Pandit and Kshirsagar had frequent quarrels over the issue. Fed up with regular arguments, Pandit wanted to stay away from Kshirsagar and communicated the same to the latter,” Deshmukh said. “On February 26, the two met in Pashan and to Pashan hill, where Kshirsagar first assaulted Pandit with a sharp weapon and then bludgeoned him with a heavy stone,” Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-crack-phd-scholars-murder-case-arrest-friend/articleshow/81280690.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Thieves caught selling TVs for Rs 500 in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Police on Monday caught two persons in the act, selling stolen television sets for a mere Rs 500 at Gauravaram village of Jaggaiahpet mandal in Krishna district. The accused are reportedly from Uttar Pradesh. Police said they received a tip-off from locals about a huge crowd gathering at a spot where two people were desperately looking to sell electronic goods for Rs 500. Upon reaching the spot and verifying the source of the goods, cops found out that the items had been stolen from an electronics showroom at Enkepadu area under Patamata police station limits in Vijayawada. Police said the accused were supposed to load the goods and deliver them to a dealer in Bhimavaram town in West Godavari district. Instead, they decided to steal the goods and head to Hyderabad to sell them. On the way, their autorickshaw ran out of diesel near Gauravaram village. The accused got stranded there without money. Police said the duo tried to sell the televisions for Rs 500 in a desperate bid to raise money. Soon, a crowd gathered at the place and a local tipped-off cops. The showroom confirmed that the goods belonged to them and lodged a complaint. Police seized the goods and auto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/thieves-caught-selling-stolen-tvs-for-just-rs-500/articleshow/81280326.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||FIR against +ve man for flouting quarantine rules||BMC on Monday lodged an FIR against a Covid-positive Chembur resident (37) for flouting quarantine rules, the second in two days. BMC’s M-West Ward lodged the FIR at Chembur police station. Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical health officer, M-West Ward, said it is criminal that positive people are found roaming. “His wife had tested positive too.” On Sunday, BMC had lodged an FIR against another Chembur resident (52). Patil said they have already served appeal letters to buildings in the area citing quarantine rules. — Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fir-against-ve-man-for-flouting-quarantine-rules/articleshow/81278441.cms||Richa Pinto
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Tara Sharma’s mom gets her shot at BKC||Actor Tara Sharma Saluja, who accompanied her mother Susan (74) to the BKC jumbo facility for vaccination, called the experience seamless. “Every senior citizen should get vaccinated as this is the most scientific way to control the pandemic,” she said. The actor first inquired with SRCC Hospital in Mahalaxmi that was yet to start vaccination in the first half of the day due to CoWin glitches. The south Mumbai residents then drove to BKC where Susan’s on-the-spot vaccination was done in an hour. “It was easy and one only needs to carry relevant identity proof documents.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tara-sharmas-mom-gets-her-shot-at-bkc/articleshow/81278415.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Cancer survivor & son ‘lucky’ on Day 1||At 84, Sitadevi Kabra, who has fought ovarian cancer and a heart condition, was eager to get vaccinated. Her son, Suresh Kabra (62), said they got an appointment for March 3. “I tried to reschedule and luckily got an appointment for Monday, but I was given the option of BKC and not a centre near my Malad home... People shouldn’t overtly worry but do their research and take the vaccine,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cancer-survivor-son-lucky-on-day-1/articleshow/81278382.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Statutory bodies after MLC names are cleared, says Ajit||Mumbai: The issue of setting up development corporations for the deprived regions of Vidarbha and Marathwada took a political turn with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar saying they would be formed after Governor B S Koshyari cleared the MVA government’s nominees for 12 MLC posts. Responding to demands from the Opposition BJP to constitute the corporations, Pawar said, “We have agreed to form the development corporations and this will be reflected in the budgetary allocations to the regions. But the development corporations will be announced after the governor clears the names of the 12 nominees the government has sent for appointment to the post of MLCs.” The list had been sent to the governor in November 2020, but four months later, have still not been cleared. This has become a major issue with the MVA government. The Opposition hit back, accusing the government of politicizing the issue. “For the sake of 12 MLC nominees, you are playing politics, and being unfair to the people of Vidarbha and Marathwada. They won’t forgive you,” said Devendra Fadnavis, leader of Opposition in the state assembly. “We are not beggars who are begging for the statutory corporations. It is our legal right,” said Fadnavis. “This issue of MLCs is between you and the Governor. This does not involve the public or the people of Vidarbha and Marathwada,” he said. Earlier in the day, BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar had raised the demand for formation of the statutory development corporations which are meant to address the regional disparity in the state. He said it was important to clarify whether the supplementary budgetary demands were made, keeping in mind the backward regions in the state.“The MVA government had given an assurance in December 2020 that the statutory development corporations of Marathwada and Vidarbha would be constituted but even 72 days later, this has not been done,” he said. State Congress chief Nana Patole demanded that the state place on record the budgetary allocation to Vidarbha and Marathwada over the past five years. “The entire legislature believes there should be no regional disparity. The budgetary provisions for the different regions will reflect this,” Congress leader Ashok Chavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/statutory-bodies-after-mlc-names-are-cleared-says-ajit/articleshow/81283068.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 2, 2021||Goa||Smooth sailing for jab at North Goa district hospital||PANAJI: On Monday, as the vaccination drive opened up for senior citizens, very few turned up for the shot at the North Goa district hospital. The few present were optimistic and upbeat at having taken the first step towards safeguarding against Covid-19. The relief was all the more palpable as the fewer numbers meant they did not have to wait in cumbersome queues. One among them, Suri Surindara, who returned from Europe two months ago, said he was thankful to the government, doctors and other staff involved in the drive. People in some countries, even the advanced ones, can’t even think of getting vaccination at this stage, he said. “Two months ago I was in Europe. I saw people there struggling to get Covid medicines and here we are getting injections. You can imagine, even a country like Germany that produces medicines is facing difficulties,” said Surindara, as he waited in the observation room of the hospital after receiving the first dose. Rajdeep Gupta, who has made Goa his home for the last two years, said he was anxious but happy that he got the shot without any hassle and that he didn’t have to wait in a queue since very few people came for vaccination. Gupta, who retired after practising architecture for 40 years, has undergone kidney transplant and has valid reason to be concerned. However, he did not experience any adverse reaction. “No worries, I’m doing good,” he said. Radhabai Azgaonkar travelled from Mandrem to receive the shot along with her husband. She said that she was informed by her niece who works as a staff nurse in the hospital about the vaccination drive. “So, we are here, and I’m not scared. I did not get Covid while I knew many who got the infection,” said Radhabai, relaxing after receiving the shot. Sashi Gupta not yet sixty, however, had to wait a little longer than the others, as she was told that she would be allowed in only after the doctor had checked her papers and given her the go ahead to receive the shot. “I have comorbidities, so I have to wait till the doctor comes. It is OK because there are hardly any people here for the vaccination,” she said. The government has offered senior citizens the advantage of getting themselves vaccinated for free at government facilities. However, not all senior citizens are willing to take up the opportunity, and have their own reasons for not getting the shot despite the looming danger of Covid-19. Eighty-plus Suresh Naik, a heart patient said the vaccine is not for him. “There’s no way I’m taking the jab. What if I fall sick after that,” he said adding that he has read all about the vaccine. His wife, who has diabetes, is also not enthusiastic about taking the vaccine. She said that she will take a decision only after she talks to her family doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/smooth-sailing-for-jab-at-north-goa-district-hospital/articleshow/81284021.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh sees 58 new Covid-19 cases, no deaths for 3 days in a row||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 58 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,974. The state did not record any deaths from the novel coronavirus disease for the third consecutive day. Altogether 51 patients have been declared cured. There are currently 725 active cases with the 8,82,080 cumulative recoveries and 7,169 fatalities. Chittoor reported 11 new infections on Monday, followed by Kadapa (10) while Vizianagaram did not recorded any new cases. The remaining 10 districts posted single-digit case numbers. Other than Chittoor district, active caseload is less than 100 in the remaining 12 districts. AP tested 20,269 Covid-19 samples on Monday and detected 58 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.3%. Several states continued to report a spike in the daily case numbers, particularly Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 8,293 followed by Kerala (3,254) and Punjab (579).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-sees-58-new-covid-19-cases-no-deaths-for-3-days-in-a-row/articleshow/81280483.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Emergency travel permitted from Maha: Chhindwara collector||Nagpur: The Chhindwara district collector Saurav Kumar Suman has clarified that authorities will not insist upon a Covid negative certificate from people of Maharashtra entering the district in case of emergency.Suman told TOI instructions have been issued down the line too. TOI had visited Saikhedha village that borders Nagpur and Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh the day after curbs were in place. It was seen travellers had a tough time crossing the border. Requests to even attend funerals on the other side were turned down, if they did not have negative certificate.On this, Suman said there may have been delay in the instructions trickling down to the lowest level. However, things have been streamlined now. Suman stressed the purpose was only to create a deterrent so that people do not take unnecessary travel to the district.TOI inquiries revealed Chhindwara was the only district in Madhya Pradesh neighbouring Vidarbha to make Covid negative certificate mandatory for travellers from Maharashtra.“There has been a sudden spurt of Covid cases since last month. Till 10 days ago there were only 29 active cases in the district, but now almost 20 are reported each day. This is alarming and the infections need to be curbed,” said Suman.The numbers are high compared to the district’s population and Chhindwara does not have facilities like Nagpur to tackle an outbreak, he said.The officer said he would expect the Maharashtra to have a check post on their side to control Madhya Pradesh bound traffic. This will help in curbing infections too.Suman said to facilitate the travellers, kits for conducting rapid antigen tests (RAT) have been kept at the border itself. If needed, the travellers can get the test done and proceed. The facility will be available for those from Maharashtra too. Similar checkposts have been set up at the railway stations also, he said.Chhattisgarh, which borders Maharashtra on the eastern side, has also put in curbs. Rajnandgaon district of Chhattisgarh borders Maharashtra. CL Markandeye, an officer of assistant collector’s rank, said travellers of Maharashtra are being allowed to pass after thermal scanning. In case there are evident symptoms, they have to get a RAT done and come although decisions can be taken on the spot on individual cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/emergency-travel-permitted-from-maha-chhindwara-collector/articleshow/81279402.cms||Shishir Arya
March 2, 2021||Pune||2 held, 3 booked in fresh case linked to Army paper leak in Pune||PUNE: The anti-extortion cell of the city police crime branch on Monday arrested two persons and booked three others in a fresh case registered with the Wanowrie police related to the question paper leak that prompted the Army on Sunday to cancel its all India entrance examination for the recruitment of soldiers (general duty). On Monday evening, a magisterial court in Pune cantonment ordered the remand of the arrested duo — Kishor Mahadev Giri (40) of Lakdenagar at Malegaon in Baramati and Madhav Sheshrao Gite (37) of Pune — in police custody till March 4. Of the remaining three suspects, two are from Baramati and the other is from Satara. In a related development, Mahendra Sonawane and Ali Akhtar, the two ex-servicemen, and Azad Khan, a civil defence cook, arrested late on Saturday night in the first case registered with the Vishrantwadi police, were on Sunday evening remanded in police custody till March 6 by a magisterial court. City police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI, “We have secured many leads in the case and our investigation is going on in the right direction. Soon, there will be more raids at different places and there will be more arrests in the case.” Police investigation so far revealed that Sonawane was out on bail in a similar Army recruitment exam paper leak case in 2017 that was investigated by the Thane police. He was among the 24 suspects held in that case and emerged a key suspect this time as he sourced the question paper and circulated the same to the candidates for money, the police said. In the case with the Wanowrie police, crime branch inspector Vitthal Patil and his team had raided a place in Ghorpadi during the wee hours of Sunday, where some of the aspirants whom the five suspects had assured of providing question paper for money, had gathered as their exam centre was also located nearby. The five men had the contact numbers of these candidates and leaked the question paper to them on their WhatsApp accounts, the police said. Patil and his team collected the evidence from the aspirants and got it verified before the second FIR of cheating, criminal breach of trust and common intention was registered, the police said. Crime branch sub-inspector Sandeep Buwa is the complainant in the Wanowrie case. “In Sonawane’s case, the police have seized his cellphone and other documents and are now establishing the person in the Army Recruitment Office (ARO) with whom he was in contact for securing the question paper,” a senior police officer said. The question papers are printed by the ARO before distribution to the exam centres. The police as well as the Military Intelligence (MI) unit have submitted their respective primary reports to the Army higher-ups at the Headquarters, Southern Command, for facilitating further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-3-booked-in-fresh-case-linked-to-army-paper-leak/articleshow/81280686.cms||Gitesh Shelke
March 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Tractor tyre burst claims two lives in AP's Srikakulam||SRIKAKULAM: A tractor tyre burst claimed two lives in Komanapalli village of Jalmuru mandal in Srikakulam district on Sunday night. The deceased were identified as 52-year-old Dasari Suryanarayana, a puncture shop owner, and 45-year-old Govinda Rao, the owner of the tractor. The incident took place Suryanarayana was filling air in the tyres of the tractor. According to sources, Govida Rao brought his tractor to the puncture-repair shop late in the night. Shop owner Suryanarayana was filling air into the tyres of the vehicle while Govinda Rao was watching him. Unobservant of tyre pressure, Suryanarayana reportedly continued filling air resulting in the tyre burst. The impact of the explosion carried both Suryanarayana and Govinda Rao 20 metres in the air before the fatal fall. Suryanarayana died on the spot while a critically injured Govinda Rao was rushed to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) where he passed away. Jalumuru police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tractor-tyre-burst-claims-two-lives-in-srikakulam/articleshow/81280293.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bag with Rs 75,000 valuables left behind in auto, police find it within hours||MUMBAI: Amboli police brought relief to a 25-year-old woman who forgot her bag containing gold bangles and cash traced the auto and returned the bag to the Goregaon resident.rutraced the autoA woman who lost her goldbangle and cash after she forgot in an auto-rickshaw applauded the city policeefforts to get it back to her within few hours on February 25. Amboli policerecovered the valuables worth Rs75,000 after tracking the rickshaw with thehelp of closed-circuit television (CCTV) and called the driver to the policestation with the valuables. Ayesha Khan (25) lost thevaluables—gold bangle worth Rs50,000, cash Rs25000 and identity cards—while shetook a rickshaw to go to her relatives home at Hill Rock Society in Jogeshwari(West) at around 5 pm on February 25. “On reaching her destination, Khan paidthe rickshaw fare and headed towards her relative’s home before she realisedabout the valuables she left behind,” said Amboli police senior inspectorSomeshwar Kamte. On realising that the valuables havebeen left in the rickshaw, Khan approached the Amboli police and complainedabout the incident. “Immediately on receiving the complaint, constable Kedekarfrom the detection team first managed to get hold of the rickshaw numberthrough the CCTV from the locality. He then got the driver’s details from theregional transport office (RTO) and tracked him,” said the police. Kamte said they have handed over thegold bangle, cash and other important documents to Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/01vn-lost-tracked/articleshow/81284023.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Trio thrash dog with iron rod; booked||PUNE: Three men allegedly thrashed a stray dog with an iron rod in Nana Peth in the early hours of February 25. An animal rights activist Neena Naresh Roy (56) of Erandwane lodged a complaint with the Samarth police on Sunday. The incident was recorded by the local CCTV cameras and the footage went viral. The police have invoked provisions of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Section 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc, of any value or any animal of the value of fifty rupees) of the IPC against the trio The stray dog suffered injuries on its back and legs and was admitted to an animal care centre in the city. The residents had found the injured dog and informed the animal rights activists. “We have obtained the CCTV camera footage of the private establishments in the area and are searching for the suspects, who are in the 25-30 age group. We are also questioning the local residents if they have seen the men,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-thrash-dog-with-iron-rod-booked/articleshow/81280704.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Vijayawada||N Chandrababu Naidu sits in 8-hour protest over police action in AP's Tirupati||TIRUPATI: Former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu staged a sit-in protest for nearly eight hours after he was detained by local police at Tirupati airport on Monday. Drama ensued since Sunday night when both Chittoor and Tirupati police wings refused to give permission to TDP to carry out their pre-planned protest programmes on Monday. Both police wings claimed that the denial of permission had been conveyed to the party. Hours before the TDP chief arrived at Tirupati airport, both Chittoor and Tirupati police had placed several key functionaries of the TDP, including former minister N Amarnath Reddy, former Tirupati MLA M Suguna, MLC Dora Babu, ex-TUDA chairman G Narasimha Yadav under house arrest in the early hours on Monday. When the former chief minister arrived at the Tirupati airport, Renigunta police served notices to him and detained him, besides denying him permission to venture out of Tirupati airport. The former chief minister was further upset when the local police refused to allow him to meet Chittoor district collector and Tirupati SP to lodge a complaint. Following this, Naidu started a sit-in protest, condemning what he called were intimidation tactics of the ruling YSRC government. The TDP office alleged that police had seized the phones of Naidu, his PA and medical officers. Naidu demanded an explanation from police as to why they were suppressing his fundamental rights by not allowing him to go ahead with his tour. “I have served as the chief minister for 14 years and today I’m the leader of the principal opposition party. How can the police act in a one-sided manner to favour the ruling party by stifling the voice of the opposition?” Naidu said. After staging a sit-in protest for nearly eight hours, the former CM boarded the last flight from Tirupati to Hyderabad late on Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-sits-in-8-hr-protest-over-police-action-in-tirupati/articleshow/81280280.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh moves court against SEC order||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Monday heard a lunch motion petition filed by the government challenging the orders given by state election commission (SEC), prohibiting ward volunteers from being involved in election duties. Advocate general argued the orders of SEC are beyond its powers and they cannot obstruct duties of the volunteers. He requested the court to withdraw the orders. The counsel for SEC said that the commission had received many complaints on volunteers alleging they were trying to influence voters. The court posted the matter for hearing on Tuesday. JC Prabhakar Reddy also filed a petition seeking the court to continue the SEC’s orders on prohibiting volunteers from election duties. The court also heard a writ petition filed by TDP leader JC Prabhakar Reddy seeking orders to permit him to file nomination in municipal elections. Prabhakar Reddy’s counsel said that a few political forces had earlier obstructed him from filing nomination in Tadipatri. The court directed the SEC to file a counter and posted the matter to March 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-moves-court-against-sec-order/articleshow/81280528.cms||Venu Lanka
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 0007 fan backs out of Rs 34 lakh bid||AHMEDABAD: The fan of 0007 who made history at the Ahmedabad Regional Transport office (RTO) after he pledged to pay Rs 34 lakh for the fancy number ‘0007’, has backed out and retained the number for his second vehicle by paying just Rs 25,000. Not just Ashik Patel, but at least 3% of bidders have a change of heart and do not pay the full amount. Ashik Patel, however, claimed he was not able to pay the amount of Rs 34 lakh online, RTO officials said anyone can pay any amount online and one could even pay in cash at the Ahmedabad RTO. Ashik Patel, a 28-year-old transporter, had in November bid Rs 34 lakh for the fancy number GJ01 WA 0007 for his new SUV, which he bought for Rs 39.5 lakh. Patel later backed out. Patel said “I had decided to get the number for my new car and in the bidding got the number for Rs 34 lakh. I attempted to make the payment online, which is mandatory as per the rules, but the system did not accept any amount more than Rs 4.5 lakh.” “As I could not make the payment, I then got the number for another vehicle of mine and this time since there was no bidding, I got it for Rs 25,000, the base price for the number for the other SUV,” he said. RTO officer B Limbachiya said, “People can pay any amount online and there is even a provision to pay in cash. I cannot comment as to why the person backed out and did not pay.” A senior RTO officer said usually for bids where the amount is Rs 1 lakh, the bidder has second thoughts after the bid and then withdraws, probably after consulting his friends or relatives. In such cases, there is the possibility that someone close to the bidder will get the same number at the base price. For example, in case of 0007 which is a golden number, the base price is Rs 25,000. Usually such backing out is more in two-wheelers where the person will take bid to about Rs 50,000 or more and then back out. “In some cases it is observed that bidders are sometimes in collusion so they can secure number at the base price later,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/0007-fan-backs-out-of-rs-34-lakh-bid/articleshow/81283040.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Remdesivir risky for home isolated patients: Docs||Nagpur: In a disturbing trend, many general practitioners are now rampantly administering remdesivir injection to Covid patients, who prefer to stay at home.Doctors running private Covid hospitals have cautioned citizens against taking the injection at home due to risk of side effects like liver intoxication, kidney malfunction etc.As entire families are now testing positive, doctors say patients are preferring home-based care to ensure all of them get ‘good treatment’ and at the same time don’t have to foot hefty hospital bills in case all are admitted.Remdesivir is given to check viral replication (multiplication) especially when the patient stops showing improvement on OPD basis treatment in early phase of the infection.Respira Chest and Critical Care Hospital director Dr Vinit Niranjane said it is likely remdesivir is given to patient directly from pharmacy counter or distributors. “Ideally, it should be taken only in a hospitalized set-up with proper monitoring as it may have some side effects, which need to be monitored. Treating doctors should also be careful while prescribing this drug to OPD patients,” he said. Chest physician Dr Syed Tarique said in several cases, it came to fore his patients took remdesivir at home. “I also heard some doctors are being asked to give the injection at home. But I feel there is huge risk involved. Yet, many have taken it and fortunately recovered. I strongly discourage anyone adopting this practice,” he said.Dr Tarique added hospitalization cost is biggest reason behind this trend. “I try to convince patients to get admitted. But we also know they may not be able to bear the expenses, which can go up to Rs1lakh for five or six days of hospitalization. At the same time, getting treated at home is costing only one/fourth of this,” he said.Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde too said financial implications is one of the reasons why patients are taking the antiviral drug at home. “I feel there is no harm if they take the medicine at home under proper monitoring by doctors. It helps financially-constrained patients, who may not be able to afford private Covid hospital stay,” he said.Some doctors, who have stopped treating Covid patients at their hospitals, citied rampant use of remdesivir at home as the reason for discontinuing their dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs). There was also some doubts among doctors regarding the availability of the antiviral injection. Remdesivir can’t be sold at medical stores even on a prescription, they say.FDA joint commissioner Mahesh Gadekar explained that there was no such restriction on selling the antiviral drug. “The restriction was imposed only during August-September, when a lot of black marketing of the drug was happening. Now, plenty of stock is available. The treating doctor has to decide where it can be used and on which patient,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/remdesivir-risky-for-home-isolated-patients-docs/articleshow/81279459.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||VTA writes to CBSE, urges it to hold internal exams online||Nagpur: Owing to recent rise in Covid cases, Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) and parents have appealed to the CBSE for shifting all internal examinations to online mode. The association, on behalf of parents, has also written a letter to the board urging it to take an early decision in this regard.Internal exams are conducted for classes up to Std IX and then XI.VTA secretary Tejinder Singh Renu said, “Many parents are still reluctant to send their wards to school for physical exams. Even if the CBSE enforces offline examinations, percentage of students may not appear for the exams which is more likely to defeat the objective of examination.” The letter has been addressed to CBSE chairman Manoj Ahuja, secretary Anurag Tripathi and regional officer (Pune)Mahesh Dharmadhikari. Renu said, “With the month of March on, the time for this academic year to end is near. The CBSE needs to take decision at the earliest so that parents and most importantly students get themselves mentally prepared for the examinations.” A city parent, Shilpi Bagdi, said there is absolutely no need for schools to mandate offline examinations for Std IX and XI. “These are internal examinations which the school can deal at their own level. I just do not see the logic in forcing students to come to school for examinations. Students must at least be given the option of an online exam. This way whoever wishes to appear for it from the safety of their respective homes can do,” Bagdi said. Many schools had planned their internal exams for Std IX and XI in the first week of March. But with authorities directing closure of educational institutes till at least March 7, those plans got delayed. As per the existing rules, physical attendance in school is not mandatory.Regarding safety protocols at schools, Renu said one cannot control what children do. “If the schools open after such a long time, students, who will be meeting their friends after a long time, may go for handshakes and hugs. This will be detrimental for them and society. Schools can’t monitor them continuously,” Renu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vta-writes-to-cbse-urges-it-to-hold-internal-exams-online/articleshow/81279494.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 2, 2021||Nashik||Vaccine given at 20 sites in Nashik dist||Nashik: As many as 332 beneficiaries — aged above 60 years or comorbid patients aged 45 years or more — got the first Covid vaccine dose on Monday. Across the Nashik district, 20 vaccination sites were operational. “We had to carry out certain training sessions for the new CoWIN portal — registration of the walk-in beneficiaries, verification of details and then the vaccination. That is why only 20 sites were made active across the district,” district health officer (DHO) Dr Kapil Aher said. The vaccination was carried out at the two session sites at Bytco hospital in Nashik Road and at Indira Gandhi hospital in Panchavati within the Nashik city limits. The vaccination centre at the civil hospital remained closed. The other 17 vaccine centres were spread across the district in rural hospitals. Aher said the vaccination process was smooth and there were no cases of disorderly behaviour at any of the centres. There has been no report of adverse effects following the immunisation either so far. The healthcare and the frontline workers were also administered the vaccines. The CoWIN app, however, reported glitches. As a result, several beneficiaries stopped the registration process halfway saying they would try their luck later. According to 63-year-old Rajesh Nimse, the portal was not accepting Aadhaar as his identity proof. He tried for half a day before giving up. “I tried to put in my Aadhaar details on the mobile. After many attempts, I gave up,” said Nimse. However, 81-year-old Vishal Patel got his registration done very easily. “I got the registration done and will be taking the vaccine on Friday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vaccine-given-at-20-sites-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/81280705.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Greening disparity puts HAP at stake||Ahmedabad: Before summers saps the life out of the city, public health experts who have been watching heat-related morbidities and mortalities in the city are now insisting on opening up of public buildings and increasing green cover to reduce heat related casualties. In 2016, green spaces accounted for only 3% to 4% of the total AMC area of 466 sq km. According to a senior AMC official, the number of trees planted in the city declined by 40%, from 1.09 lakh in 2017 to 64,912 in 2018 . Additionally, the number of trees cut in these years increased from 2,630 to 3,771 in order to widen roads, to expand metro rail systems, and to develop new residential or commercial areas. A study by Maryam Nastar, an expert in sustainability sciences from Lund University Center for Sustainability Studies has pointed to Ahmedabad’s uneven distribution of green spaces across the city. “The western parts of the city, occupied by high-income groups still have more green space than the eastern parts, where industrial and low-income residential areas are located.” She adds, “Without conducting this research, the effectiveness of the Heat Action Plan (HAP) for different social groups cannot be meaningfully evaluated.” It’s worth pointing out here that Ahmedabad was the first in India to adopt HAP in 2013, which is now being emulated in more than 30 cities across the country. Ahmedabad’s HAP was in response to the devastating May 2010 heatwave, which caused 1,344 more deaths than the heatwaves of May 2009 and May 2011 combined. But now, as the HAP evolves, experts have suggested more measures to strengthen the effort and reduce mortalities. A research paper by Nastar has suggested how the city should increase its distribution of fresh drinking water and make cooling centres, such as temples, public buildings, and malls accessible to the public. “Additionally, they should ensure that night shelters stay open for the migratory population, outdoor workers, slum dwellers, and other vulnerable groups,” suggests Nastar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/greening-disparity-puts-hap-at-stake/articleshow/81283039.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Pune airport wins hygiene award for Asia Pacific region||PUNE: The Pune airport has been adjudged the best in the Asia Pacific region in the category of best hygiene measures by Montreal-based Airports Council International (ACI). The ACI, which brings out the ASQ (airport service quality) survey each year based on interactions with flyers, added the ‘best hygiene measures’ category this year in the wake of the pandemic. The Pune airport has been adjudged among the best in the category of 5 to 15million passengers, Airports Authority of India officials said. A look at the results of the hygiene survey revealed that in the sub-category of effectiveness of safety and hygiene measures in place, the Pune airport scored 4.97 against the world average of 4.30. Similarly, in the sub-category of clarity of signage and instructions to inform about safety and hygiene measures, the airport scored 4.96 against the world average of 4.27. Also, in the sub-category of ability of staff to apply safety and hygiene measures, the airport scored 4.96 against the world average of 4.28. In the sub-category of level of stress based on experience, the Pune airport scored less at 1.66 against the world average score of 1.85. “The Airports Authority of India is proud to state that due to its unwavering thrust on enhanced passenger convenience and unmatched world-class airport services, five of its airports --Amritsar, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Pune and Varanasi -- have been declared among the best in the world in ACI-ASQ Awards 2020. These airports won six awards in two different categories,” the AAI headquarters in Delhi, said in a statement. “While things have definitely improved at the facility, more needs to be done,” said Sanjay Agastya, a frequent flyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-airport-wins-hygiene-award-for-asia-pacific-region/articleshow/81280711.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Mahila Cong holds ‘vanta-varpu’||Hyderabad: The state Mahila Congress has charged the BJP government at the Centre and TRS government in state with playing with the lives of middle class and poor sections of society by increasing the prices of LPG domestic gas, petrol and diesel. Mahila Congress leaders organised a ‘vanta-varpu’ (cooking on the roads) programme against the skyrocketing prices of gas and fuel. While the price of domestic LPG cylinder has crossed Rs 870 per refill, the price of petrol is touching nearly Rs 100 per litre, said Mahila Congress leaders, which included MLA D Anasuya. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mahila-cong-holds-vanta-varpu/articleshow/81280748.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Cong MLA attacks govt over “short” duration of assembly sessions; questions motive behind CM avoiding session on Mondays||Dehradun: Congress legislator from Manglaur Qazi Nizamuddin on Tuesday spoke strongly against assembly session being held only for a few days in Uttarakhand and alleged the state government didn’t give enough time to MLAs to study the budget so they could debate it. Nizamuddin pointed out that Monday was reserved for the chief minister to answer the questions related to the important portfolios, including home, health and PWD. “However, either a session is not started on this day or the CM skips Monday to avoid replying to the queries of legislator,” he added. Under the section 299 of Uttarakhand Assembly Rules Manual 2005, the Congress legislator brought a notice in the House. Addressing the house on the issue, Nizamuddin said, “The rule book of state assembly clearly mentions that the session should run for a period of 60 days a year, but we barely have 20 days of session in Uttarakhand. An exception can be allowed once or twice but not on all occasions.” On the issue of budget, the lawmaker said, “The manuals mention that four days should be reserved for discussion on governor’s address but we are given just two days. After the budget is presented, two days’ time should be given to legislators to study the details. But here, we have discussion for just two days and are not given time to study the budget. The budget is passed in a haste and though it decides the fate of the state, there is no proper discussion on it.” He asserted that though the BJP government has made Gairsain the summer capital of Uttarakhand, “Its leaders are afraid of staying in Gairsain. They want to wind up the proceedings quick and return to their homes as soon as possible.” In his reply, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik said, “The House functions on basis of a rulebook. The proceedings are decided by the Business Advisory Committee, which comprises the leader of Opposition and other Opposition members. If they have any problem, they should raise the issue woih the business advisory committee meeting. Once a decision is taken, then there is no point of any legislator questioning the decision. After the business advisory committee finals the agenda, it is brought before the house, which approves it. All MLAs need to follow the rules.” On the issue of holding a session on Monday, Kaushik said, “Two sessions back, we had a sitting on Monday but the Congress members disturpted the proceedings and did not allow it to function.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-mla-attacks-govt-over-short-duration-of-assembly-sessions-questions-motive-behind-cm-avoiding-session-on-mondays/articleshow/81299428.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 2, 2021||Thane||Thane: Man kills boss’s wife for refusing sexual favours||KALYAN: Manapada police in Dombivli on Monday arrested a 20-year old man for allegedly killing his employer’s wife for rejecting his sexual advances. Assistant police inspector Avinash Vanave said, “Primary probe shows that the accused, Guddikumar Singh alias Ranjan, demanded sexual favours from the victim and when she refused, stabbed her to death He has been booked for murder.” Singh works in a fair price shop in Dombivli. On Sunday night, he joined his employer and his wife for dinner and drinks in the shop. The police said when his boss stepped out for a while, Singh demanded sexual favours from his wife. When she refused and threatened to complain about him to her husband, Singh stabbed her multiple times and fled, said the police. When the employer returned and found his wife dead, he approached the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/man-kills-bosss-wife-for-refusing-sexual-favours/articleshow/81284031.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Rs3,700 from destitutes among Rs40cr collected in Vidarbha for Ram Temple||Nagpur: The Ram Temple being built at Ayodhya has got donations even from the destitutes themselves living on alms.Over Rs 40 crore have been collected from Vidarbha during the 45-day door-to-door campaign conducted by Sangh Parivar constituents like the VHP, RSS and Bajrang dal. This amount includes Rs 3,700 from 55 destitute persons in Gondia.This is being boasted as an example of participation of Hindus even from the lowest rung of the society like the homeless. After getting larger amounts, the focus was to collect funds through coupon sales from the masses. Coupons of even Rs 10 denomination were sold for that.Targeting the destitute was the initiative of the Gondia unit of Bajrang Dal. “The donation drive was not for the rich alone. Rather we wanted contributions from all quarters of the society so even the underprivileged were approached,” said Devesh Mishra, who heads Bajrang Dal’s Gondia unit.“As meetings were held of people from different communities and social strata, we talked to the destitute too. They can be mainly found near the temples seeking alms. We told them if they are Hindus and also sought alms in the name of Lord Ram, they may even donate for the cause,” said Mishra.Mishra claimed they quickly agreed to not only donate themselves but also exhorted others like them to contribute.“They came up with Rs 3,700 which was a day’s alms collected. Instead of asking alms in the name of God, that day they said ‘Bhagwan ke ghar ke liye de’ which meant donate for the temple,”. They were also given coupons in turn,” he said.“They may be seeking alms to make a living yet they are part of the same society and have the same feelings towards the temple,” said Mishra.The first phase of the drive included collecting big amount from the affluent. After February 1, the campaign to contact the public at large was started.Govind Shende, coordinator for the drive in Vidarbha, said the collections were more than expected. The amount is expected to increase after the cheques in pipeline are cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs3700-from-destitutes-among-rs40cr-collected-in-vidarbha-for-ram-temple/articleshow/81279529.cms||Shishir Arya
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rs 400 crore income of pharma co unearthed||HYDERABAD: Income tax sleuths have unearthed Rs 400 crore alleged unaccounted income of MSN Pharma group and seized Rs 1.6 crore cash after conducting search operations. The company has admitted additional income of Rs 350 crore of Rs 400 crore. The search was conducted on February 24 on MSN Pharmachem Private Limited and MSN Laboratories Private Limited, owned by Manne Satyanarayana Reddy. Searches were conducted at Sanatnagar and 19 other locations. The pharmaceutical group, engaged in manufacturing intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients and formulations, exports to the United States, Europe and other countries. During the search, incriminating evidence in the form of digital media, pen drives, documents have been found and seized. “Digital evidence were gathered from SAP ERP software maintained by the company. Income tax investigators also found purchases made from bogus and non-existent entities, artificial inflation of certain heads of expenditure, along with suppression of receipts relating to by-product sale were detected,” income tax department officials said. Evidence of on-money payment for purchase of land was also found. Multiple other legal issues were also identified such as personal expenses being booked in the company’s books and land purchased by related firm and individuals below government value, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-400cr-income-of-pharma-co-unearthed/articleshow/81280751.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 2, 2021||Kolhapur||157 beneficiaries in Kolhapur, 70 in Sangli get first dose||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur health authorities were not worried about the rather low turnout of senior citizens and those above 45 years on Monday, as they have planned a focused approach to reach out to these sections of the population in the coming days. On the first day of the drive for these two categories, 157 citizens were vaccinated. Of them, 94 citizens were in the age group of 45 to 59 years and having co-morbidity and the remaining were above 60 years. Kolhapur district health officer Yogesh Sale said, “We are going to take efforts to increase turnout of the eligible citizens. We are listing a number of senior citizens. On the first day, the turnout was less because we are yet to start registrations on a large scale.” The health authorities said that they were providing training to the staff from the private hospitals empanelled for the drive. As much as 39 private hospitals have been empanelled for Covid vaccination drive for senior citizens in Kolhapur district. Out of 39, 16 are from Kolhapur city alone. Officials claimed that most of the prominent private hospitals have been listed for vaccination and the staff is being trained in giving the vaccine, operating the CoWIN portal and following all Covid-19 protocols. In Kolhapur district, there are around 6.70 lakh senior citizens above 60 years of age. The officials claimed that there are over 60,000 currently available with the health administration and therefore, even if the turnout remains high, each one approaching the centre will get their first dose. In Sangli district, on the first day, 67 citizens above 60 years and three above 45 years got vaccinated. The vaccination for the senior citizens have been started at the government and civic hospitals. As many as 27 private hospitals have been empanelled and the staff there too is undergoing training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/157-beneficiaries-in-kolhapur-70-in-sangli-get-first-dose/articleshow/81280750.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Vadodara||Govt data raises alarm, VMC bulletin gives relief||Vadodara: The state health department and Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) are obviously not on the same page when it comes to Covid-19 data.The daily medical bulletin issued by both has a vast difference in the number of new cases and the Covid-19 websites too are far apart on this front.To a Barodian, the state medical bulletin sets off alarm bells when it is highlighted. And, the local bulletin seems to provide much relief later. The difference in the number of new cases reported is glaring. At times, the state bulletin has double the number of Covid-19 cases as compared to the bulletin issued for Vadodara.In Vadodara, officials issue a common bulletin that adds up the data of the city and district and provides the break up. The difference has been noticed by officials locally for quite some time now. However, it has not been rectified so far. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that the discrepancy had been noticed. “We are trying to identify how this has happened and resolve it,” said Patel.The state medical bulletin mentions the data of the VMC areas and the district separately. On most days, the figure in the state bulletin for VMC itself surpasses that for the entire Vadodara district.There is large difference in the number of total cases reported so far, total number of recoveries and active cases too. While the number of total cases and recoveries in the Vadodara bulletin are lower as compared to the state’s Covid-19 website, the site has lower number of active cases when compared with the data furnished locally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/govt-data-raises-alarm-vmc-bulletin-gives-relief/articleshow/81279557.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Elderly choose safety, show up at village health centres||Bicholim/Valpoi/Calangute/Poinguinim: Villages in Goa recorded a moderate response from senior citizens on Day 1 of the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, with assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar being the first of 149 recipients of the vaccine at the Bicholim community health centre (CHC). Twenty people were immunised at the Valpoi CHC, 11 at the Canacona CHC and 39 at the Candolim primary health centre (PHC). Health officer at the Bicholim CHC, Dr Medha Salkar, said 86 male senior citizens and 44 female senior citizens were vaccinated, while 13 males and six females who were below 60 years of age with comorbidities also received the jab. No adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) were reported. Of the 11 recipients in Canacona, two were women, Dr Classie Furtado said. Abid Khan, a senior citizen from Valpoi, said he headed straight to the town’s CHC without a second thought on Monday. “I was keen on being vaccinated against Covid and took the dose with my wife. I appreciate that the government arranged for a free vaccination drive for us senior citizens who are vulnerable to the virus,” he told TOI. The first person to be vaccinated at the Candolim PHC on Monday was retired medical officer Dr Maria Sequeira. Health officer Dr Roshan Nazareth said the drive was slightly delayed due to a few glitches with the CoWIN portal although people began visiting the PHC at 9am. “We had to make sure everything was working smoothly to avoid any issues,” he said and added that the PHC had been receiving several inquiries from those who were eligible for the immunisation programme and were having difficulties registering online. A vaccine recipient at the Candolim PHC said that although several citizens were sceptical about taking the vaccine due to misinformation, they should come forward for their own benefit. Senior medical officer at the Valpoi CHC Dr Shyam Kankonkar, agreed. “I have heard lot of negativity about the vaccine but it’s all false as none of our staff who took the shot a few days ago have experienced any sort of uneasiness. I appeal to senior citizens and people with comorbidities to get vaccinated and not to fall prey to rumours being circulated on social media platforms,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/elderly-choose-safety-show-up-at-village-health-centres/articleshow/81284036.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Probe into Vakati’s loan fraudcase can continue, says HC||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Monday said the ongoing probe into the alleged Rs 300 crore loan fraud allegedly committed by TDP MLC Vakati Narayana Reddy can continue. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing the legislator’s plea challenging the declaration by banks branding the accounts of his VNR Infra and VNR Infra Metals as fraudulent ones. Assistant solicitor general Namavarapu Rajeswara Rao appeared for the Enforcement Directorate and said the ED probe which initially began in Bengaluru was later transferred and merged with the probe being done by ED in Hyderabad. “But, as of now, no enforcement case information report was registered in respect of the petitioner,” he said and sought deletion of ED as a respondent in the case. The practice of declaring bank accounts of defaulters as fraud accounts started ever since the RBI issued a master circular in 2016 asking banks to declare all suspicious accounts as fraud to prevent further defrauding of member banks and to save public money from slipping into the hands of defrauders. The bench on Monday said that this relief would continue in respect of the petitioner accounts too. SBI, Punjab National Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Bank of Baroda, IFCI and Bank of India are some of the lenders who extended loans to the MLC’s firms and had incurred losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/probe-into-vakatis-loan-fraudcase-can-continue-says-hc/articleshow/81280755.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chennai||Woman cop harassment charge: Madras HC gags parties||CHENNAI: About a week after a director-general of police-rank officer was charged with sexual harassment by a young woman IPS officer, the Madras high court restrained political parties from issuing any statements on the issue. It also said the court would be constrained to initiate contempt proceedings in case of violation of the order. (In deference to the high court order on Monday, TOI desists from revealing the accused DGP’s name as well). “No statements must be given by such parties in the media, touching upon the merits of this case,” said Justice N Anand Venkatesh, who took suo motu cognizance of the sexual harassment complaint made by the woman officer. The name of the victim-officer, the accused person and the witnesses shall not be used or exchanged through any media, pending investigation in the case, said Justice Anand Venkatesh. The judge added: “Any violation of these directions will be viewed very seriously, and this court may be forced to initiate contempt proceedings.” “There is a faulty gene in men which sometimes makes them think that a woman is subordinate to them and that at times she can even be treated like a chattel. History, time and again, shows that it is after a very long struggle, and only in the last 25 years that women have somehow managed to get to top levels at workplaces including public service. That by itself, does not place them at a secure position since they are not seen in their stature as an officer or professional but continue to be seen merely with patriarchal eyes,” Justice Anand Venkatesh said. “If an officer, due to the power he wields, thinks he can get over with his power and connections, from any act, this court is not going to be a mute spectator and this court will step in and ensure that the rule of law is preserved,” the judge added. Persons by virtue of the position they hold should not get the impression that they can do anything and finally escape from the situation with their power. The more the power that is vested in a person by virtue of the position that he is holding, the more stringent must be the punishment if he indulges in sexual harassment, the court said. The judge further added that whosoever may be the person involved and whatever position he holds should never come in the way of the law taking its own course, more particularly when it comes to cases of sexual harassment. The judge then directed the registry to place the order before the Chief Justice and obtain necessary orders and directions to list the matter and to proceed further with the same. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-cop-harassment-charge-hc-gags-parties/articleshow/81283083.cms||Suresh Kumar
March 2, 2021||Pune||Scorching summer in N India, milder temps in Maha, parts of South peninsula||Pune: Summer in most of Maharashtra, and parts of south peninsular India like Rayalaseema, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka may see cooler day temperatures. But, the Konkan, Punjab, Chandigarh and Delhi may have a scorcher of a season this year. India Meteorological Department (IMD) put out its outlook for summer temperatures in India on Monday. Warmer nights are also in store for many regions, including Madhya Maharashtra, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Punjab, East Rajasthan and other places. El Nino and La Nina conditions control temperatures in India. During a La Nina year, the severity of heat waves is generally less in comparison to an El Nino year. Currently, moderate La Niña conditions have been observed over the equatorial Pacific Ocean. The sea surface temperatures are below normal over central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean. La Niña conditions are likely to sustain during the upcoming hot weather season from March to May. IMD’s director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said, “Temperatures are higher during El Nino years when more heatwaves are expected than a La Nina year, when the case is the opposite. The actual picture will be clearer as the season advances.” Last year, summer was not that severe due to frequent thunderstorms and fewer heatwaves, Mohapatra added. The weather bureau’s seasonal outlook for temperatures from this March to May said above normal maximum temperatures were likely over many subdivisions. These include subdivisions in the north, northwest and northeast India, a few in eastern (Chhattisgarh and Odisha) and western (Gujarat region and Saurashtra and Kutch) parts of central India, and coastal subdivisions of Konkan and Goa and coastal Andhra Pradesh. On the other hand, most subdivisions in south peninsular India and adjoining central India are likely to experience below normal maximum temperatures, the outlook said. The probability forecast indicated that above normal minimum temperatures were likely over most of the subdivisions of north India along the foothills of the Himalayas, northeast India, western part of central India and southern parts of peninsular India. Most subdivisions in the east and adjoining central India and a few subdivisions in the extreme northern part of the country are likely to experience below normal minimum temperatures, the outlook said. O P Sreejith, a scientist in the Climate Monitoring and Prediction group at IMD, Pune, told TOI that the global warming signature has been apparent in the last few years. “It is one of the reasons why some regions are likely to have higher temperatures during summer. Some regions of Maharashtra and peninsular India are likely to see cooler day temperatures as per model forecasts probably because of clouding and rain,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scorching-summer-in-n-india-milder-temps-in-maha-parts-of-south-peninsula/articleshow/81280760.cms||Neha Madaan
March 2, 2021||Vadodara||Indian diaspora holds Tiranga, Maple car rally in Brampton||Vadodara: The Indian diaspora in Canada organised a massive ‘Tiranga and Maple car rally’ to celebrate the growing ties of Canada and India. Hundreds of cars participated at the rally in Brampton, following all traffic rules and Covid-19 guidelines. “The Covid-19 pandemic has taken millions of lives around the globe, including many unfortunately here at home,” said Naresh Chavda, a prominent name in the Gujarati community, settled in Canada. “At the time of such a crisis, Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and India’s PM Narendra Modi have come together to save millions of lives by approving and supplying millions of vaccines,” said Chavda, a native of Surendranagar district, who is now closely linked with the Indo Canadian Chamber of Commerce. The diverse group of diaspora thanked India for practicing the ancient vedic value of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ (the world is one family). “Supplying vaccines to Canada reaffirms this value and the friendship shared by the two great democracies. We also recognize India’s efforts of meeting a global demand by sharing its vaccine supply with over 40 countries from around the world,” read a note jointly penned by the diaspora. “We thank the efforts of the Trudeau-led Canadian government for their timely decision to secure Covid-19 vaccines from India. India has promised an immediate supply of 5,00000 vaccines in this coming week followed by another supply of 2 million vaccine doses in the coming months. The action will save the lives of countless Canadians,” it further mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/indian-diaspora-holds-tiranga-maple-car-rally-in-brampton/articleshow/81278434.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||BJP neta among 4 booked under SC/ST Act||Nagpur: City police have invoked Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocity) Act against four persons, including BJP leader Munna Yadav and social worker Panju Totwani, in a case of property grabbing.An offence against property dealer Pramod Dongre, Rajveer Yadav, Ganesh Yadav and Munna Yadav was registered earlier following a complaint by a 40-year-old woman. It’s learnt the woman had made a deal with Dongre to purchase land at Pandurang Nagar for Rs12 lakh. She had also paid Rs6 lakh to Dongre, but he did not transfer the property in her name.In the meantime, Dongre made a deal with Rajveer Yadav for the same plot. When the woman protested, Munna Yadav intervened and asked Totwani to help convince the woman to take some amount and relinquish her claim. It’s learnt Munna and others also threatened and misbehaved with the woman following which she approached MIDC police. An FIR was lodged in February, but the Atrocity Act was invoked only last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-neta-among-4-booked-under-sc/st-act/articleshow/81279566.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 2, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu polls: Allies play hardball, seek more seats from AIADMK||CHENNAI: The deadlock in seat-sharing talks between the AIADMK and the BJP and the DMDK continued on Monday, with both allies playing hardball ahead of the April 6 assembly election. While the BJP’s demand for more seats in the western Kongu belt has delayed a deal, the DMDK has put its foot down demanding nothing less than 25 seats. The AIADMK, sources confirmed, was firm that it would not offer more than 10 seats to the Vijayakant-led party. But a belligerent DMDK has threatened to walk out of the alliance if the AIADMK refused to accede to its demand. On Monday evening, DMDK deputy secretary L K Sudhish in a post on the party’s official Facebook page, said, “Vijayakanth, our chief minister”. The BJP, meanwhile, is sticking to its demand for 30 seats, while the AIADMK is firm that it would not concede more than 20, besides the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat, which would face a by-election on April 6. The AIADMK had closed the deal with PMK on Saturday, allotting 23 seats, a day after it conceded the ally’s demand for 10.5% internal reservation in the MBC quota.  The talks between Union home minister Amit Shah and the AIADMK delegation comprising CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam on Sunday night had remained inconclusive. Yet another round of discussions between the BJP state leaders and senior AIADMK ministers on Monday night too failed to break the deadlock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/allies-play-hardball-seek-more-seats-from-aiadmk/articleshow/81283134.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Sardesai: BJP wanted to win by rigging, cheating polls||Panaji: GFP has said that the high court order has shown that the BJP wanted to win the municipal polls by rigging and cheating. Addressing a press conference, GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that BJP indulged in chicanery and undermined all institutions of democracy to manipulate the election process to show that they will win the mandate. He accused the government of acting “completely ultra vires to the Constitution” and trying to fool the public, and called for resignation of the chief minister. BJP has been proved to be cheaters, he alleged. The government has scant regard for constitutional provisions, Sardesai said, and he called this the complete breakdown of government machinery in the state, terming the administration as “fascist”. “It began with the zilla panchayat elections where the reservation and delimitation notification was issued only one day prior to the election schedule, leaving no room for Goemkars to petition the high court and seek justice for blatant constitutional and statutory violations of the Sawant administration. And to undermine he judgement of high court in Sujay Lotlikar v/s government, the Sawant administration went ahead and tried to prevent any interference and amended Section 10 of the Municipalities Act 1968,” he said. Despite the petitions kept for final hearing on February 22, the government on the same day pulled out the election schedule to “fracture the free and fair election process with a motive to render all these petitions infructuous,” he stated, terming the DMA as the Dhond municipal administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sardesai-bjp-wanted-to-win-by-rigging-cheating-polls/articleshow/81283133.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Shah Kol show on hold, Yogi to kick off BJP poll drive||Kolkata/Lucknow: The BJP brass has put on hold Union home minister Amit Shah’s roadshow in Kolkata on March 2-3 after Bengal unit leaders told Delhi that they couldn’t manage two mega events ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s Brigade rally. “The ‘parivartan yatra’ in Kolkata led by Amit Shah should not have less than a lakh crowd, especially after the Left-Congress Brigade rally experience. It will be difficult for us to mobilise volunteers and crowd for two consecutive days and make preparations for the Brigade rally,” said a Kolkata BJP leader.Instead, BJP’s star campaigner and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath is set to step up the party’s campaign with a rally in Malda on Tuesday.The party is learnt to have drawn up an exhaustive schedule for Yogi’s election tour. Sources said the UP CM is expected to attack the ruling Trinamool Congress over the issues of growing poverty and backwardness while citing the development of UP, its enriching cultural heritage, including construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, and his government strategy of taking on criminals and mafia.“The party looks up to Yogi’s aggressive style of campaigning against the ruling TMC in the most befitting manner,” said a BJP leader. Yogi’s campaigns have been one of the key success points of BJP in the Bihar assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shah-kol-show-on-hold-yogi-to-kick-off-bjp-poll-drive/articleshow/81283160.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 2, 2021||Goa||Cannot ignore ‘fraction’ for calculating reservation: HC||PANAJI: Finally, it was the wrong calculation of a mathematical ‘fraction’ by the government that culminated in the high court quashing the order for reservation of seats in five municipal councils. “The expression used in the Constitution as well as in the Municipalities Act, being ‘not less than’ or ‘no less than’, makes it clear that even a fraction cannot be ignored because by ignoring the same, the reservation would be minimised to less than 1/3rd and if it is done so, it would amount to infraction of the constitutional mandate,” the high court said. Senior counsel S S Kantak, who appeared for one of the petitioners, argued that the Goa Municipalities Act, 1968, makes it imperative to reserve not less than 1/3rd seats for women. He also said that reservation is to be done by rotation in different wards of the municipal council In the Mapusa Municipal Council, out of 20 seats, a minimum of seven seats ought to have been reserved for women, but only six are reserved. In the case of Mormugao, where the municipal council comprises 25 seats, a minimum of nine seats ought to have been reserved for women, instead there are only eight, which translates to 32%, he added. The lawyer said that the government has not adhered to any particular pattern or rational logic in applying reservation and rotation to reserved seats. As per the mandate prescribed, 1/3rd of the 25 seats in Mormugao should have been reserved for women, which calculates to 8.33%. To deal with this fraction, the stand taken by the government is that the rounding off would be done every three terms, by rotation. This was to avoid excessive reservation to women. This way, if no of seats reserved for women was short in 2015 and 2021, then in 2026 it would be adjusted by reserving one extra seat. Advocate general Devidas Pangam said that if 1/3rd of the seats was a fraction, a higher rounding off would have a cascading effect. Therefore, he said that the fraction has been ignored in the Mormugao and Mapusa Municipal Council, which is within legal parameters. “Keeping in mind the aforesaid philosophy in introducing reservation for women by the Constitution and subsequently in the state legislation, we are of the firm opinion that the course adopted by the respondent no.2 (government) violates the mandate of law,” the court said. It said that the solution offered by the government “in taking forward the reservation and to be adjusted within the three terms, is also, according to us defeat of the very purpose”. The court said that the fraction, even if it is created in calculating 1/3rd reservation, cannot be permitted to be rounded off towards the earlier denomination and the normal principle for rounding off, which is based on logic and common sense — if part is one half or more, its value shall be increased to one and if less than one half the value shall be ignored — cannot be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cannot-ignore-fraction-for-calculating-reservation-hc/articleshow/81283157.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Payal woman dies; 4 students, 3 int’l travellers among 64 new cases||Ludhiana: A Ludhiana resident and three patients from Nawanshahr died of Covid-19 here on Monday. Sixty-four residents, including three travellers from Italy and four students, have tested positive.As per the local media bulletin, the Ludhiana casualty was a 56-year-old woman of Payal, who had diabetes and anemia.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll stood at 1,030 and that of outsiders at 509.To date, 6,68,830 persons have been tested.Of the 64 new cases, one was from flu corner, 34 from OPD, 12 through tracing process, one cop, a healthcare worker, three international travellers and four students (two of school and two of college). Seventeen outsiders too tested positive.The local health department officials said the district case count was 27,180 and that of outsiders 4,234.So far, 25,586 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.13% of the total cases.There are 564 active cases.The number of persons home quarantined is 1,079.On Monday, 104 persons were quarantined and 2,427 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government.Five patients, including a Ludhianvi, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/payal-woman-dies-4-students-3-intl-travellers-among-64-new-cases/articleshow/81279206.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||In further relief, Bombay HC allows Varavara Rao out on Rs 50,000 cash bail||MUMBAI: Poet P V Varavara Rao, 82, who was granted bail on medical grounds on February 22, can be released from hospital on furnishing a cash security of Rs 50,000, the Bombay high court said on Monday after hearing a plea that the stipulation of providing two solvent securities was taking time. He is likely to walk out of hospital on Tuesday evening. “We are of the opinion that in the interest of justice, due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, his limited plea can be granted,” said a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale. It added that the activist, arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, must furnish the two solvent sureties for Rs 50,000 each by April 5. The sureties would be persons who would need to produce solvency certificates for the bail amount. The process of completing the formalities by a surety was taking time, Rao’s counsel Anand Grover had submitted last week and sought cash bail to ensure his immediate release. The HC had let Rao’s advocate R Sathyanarayanan to meet him in Nanavati hospital to get his signature on an application to modify the bail order. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) counsel Sandesh Patil had opposed his plea for cash bail. Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, was arrested on August 28, 2018. The trial before a special NIA court for charges also under the anti-terror UAPA is yet to begin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-further-relief-hc-allows-varavara-out-on-rs-50k-cash-bail/articleshow/81284057.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Reservation done to benefit select aspirants: Congress||Margao/Panaji: The Congress on Monday demanded the resignation of chief minister Pramod Sawant and urban development minister Milind Naik in view of the high court order on the reservations done for the forthcoming municipal polls, and said that all the manipulations done by BJP government to reserve wards benefiting their select candidates stands exposed. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that the order of the high court will definitely restore the faith of people in judiciary and this order. He said the CM has no moral right to continue in his chair. In his second demand, he also said that the director of municipal administration needs to be placed under suspension and a thorough inquiry should be conducted in the manipulations noticed in the reservations of wards. He also demanded that the government should appoint a new commissioner Chodankar said that SEC is a constitutional authority and can reject wrongdoings of the government. But by accepting manipulated reservations of wards, the commissioner has become part of the crime, he added. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat on Monday said the high court’s order striking down the notification of the director of municipal administration over the reservation of municipal wards was the “beginning of the end of BJP’s ‘jumla raj’”. “The hidden agenda of the BJP government to not give proper representation to the SCs, STs and OBCs and to deprive women and members of the Bahujan Samaj from emerging as leaders stands completely exposed,” he said. Kamat accused the BJP regime of always trying to bulldoze the democratic process of electioneering by using government machinery. “It is unfortunate that the people have to go to courts to seek justice against the gross violations of the electoral process by the BJP government,” he said. “I congratulate the alert and vigilant former councillors of Margao, Damodar Shirodkar and Doris Teixeira, Manuel Colaco of Quepem, Shraddha Amonkar and Shanti Mandrekar of Mormugao, Sayed Riaj of Sanguem, Michael Carasco of Mapusa and others for showing courage and approaching the court to seek justice against the illegal ward reservations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reservation-done-to-benefit-select-aspirants-congress/articleshow/81283139.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Vasco MLA reiterates demand for Naik’s resignation, says he failed at his job||Vasco: Welcoming the decision of the high court on the municipal elections, Vasco BJP MLA Carlos Almeida on Monday demanded the resignation of Mormugao MLA and urban development minister Milind Naik. “I knew from the beginning that the circular of the directorate of municipal administration on the reservation of seats for municipal elections was wrong. In a letter to the chief minister, I had asked for Naik’s removal or his resignation as he has failed at his job,” Almeida said. Last month, while stating that the reservation was lopsided, Almeida had asked whether it was done to defeat the panel floated by him. The Mormugao Municipal Council’s jurisdiction falls in Mormugao, Vasco and Dabolim assembly constituencies. Transport minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho was one of the first from the BJP to express reservations over the delimitation and reservation done for the municipal polls. Not a single ward falling in the Mormugao constituency was reserved for women. On the other hand, vice-president of the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee Sankalp Amonkar said, “Naik reiterated that his decision was right and there was no injustice in the reservation. The HC order is a good reply to his wrongdoings.” This victory is a victory of democracy, women and justice, Amonkar said. Naik despite being the MLA of Mormugao had not reserved a single seat for women in the wards in his constituency. He said that the government has fooled enough people and that sentiments of women in BJP were also hurt and it was an eye-opener for them. Amonkar alleged that the ex-director of municial administration was transferred before the municipal elections, but only after he had completed the process of reservation and delimitation, so that the minister can do what he wants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-mla-reiterates-demand-for-naiks-resignation-says-he-failed-at-his-job/articleshow/81283189.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Wife booked eight months after man commits suicide||Ludhiana: Eight months after a Ludhiana man ended his life, the police booked his wife for abetment to suicide on Sunday.The police acted after the deceased’s mother lodged a complaint with commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, who marked an inquiry into the case.The accused has been identified as Aditi Khatri of Phase III, Gurugram. She had married Himanshu Bedi, 24, of Ashok Nagar C block, Salem Tabri, in 2019. Himanshu’s mother Neena Bedi said in her police complaint, “In December 2018, we had gone to Rajasthan to attend a marriage function. There, Himanshu met Aditi. They started dating each other and without informing us, tied the knot. After that, Himanshu left our house, saying he has been transferred to Khanna and will live there. But instead of going to Khanna, he started living with Aditi in Model Town Extension, Ludhiana. We came to know about it in December 2019.” On December 13, 2019, the family organised their wedding function.“A few days after that Aditi told us that she was getting modelling offers from Delhi. She took Rs 2.5 lakh from Himanshu and left for Delhi. She also took along gold jewellery. After that, she kept demanding money. When Himanshu refused to give more money and asked her to bring back the gold jewellery that Aditi had given to her parents, she started fighting with him. She told Himanshu that she wanted money and jewellery and would never return. She also threatened to implicate our family if we pressurised her or lodged a complaint against her,” Bedi added.“As a result, my son started remaining upset. On June 17, 2020, Himanshu recorded a video, blaming Aditi for forcing him to take the extreme step. After his autopsy, we lodged a complaint with the police and also submitted the cellphone that had the recorded video. But the police did not take any action. Thereafter, on July 17, 2020, we filed a complaint with the commissioner of police,” she said. The CP marked the inquiry to the ADCP-I.Salem Tabri sub-inspector Tamanna Devi said, “A case has been registered against Aditi under Section 306 (abetment to suicide). She will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wife-booked-eight-months-after-man-commits-suicide/articleshow/81279595.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||BMC to open all 22 centres for new phase from today||Mumbai: Looking at the enthusiastic turnout on Monday, BMC has decided to open all 22 public hospitals for vaccination of senior citizens and those above 45 years old with comorbidities. On Monday, the jumbo facilities particularly saw massive overcrowding, giving rise to fears that the vaccination centres themselves could become hotspots of infection. On Monday, five jumbo centres of the BMC as well as the private hospitals saw hundreds show up, where queues only grew longer post-noon due to the non-functional Co-WIN application. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that all public vaccination centres will cater to the special groups from Tuesday. “We have decided to add more centres and also open more counters within these hospitals for senior citizens and those above 45 years,” he said. Some of the major hospitals that will start vaccination are KEM, Sion, BYL Nair, RN Cooper, Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli and Rajawadi in Ghatkopar, among others. The number of private CGHS empanelled hospitals is likely to stay at three as the BMC said most are at the stage of preparations. On Monday, K J Somaiya, SRCC in Mahalakshmi and Hindu Mahasabha in Ghatkopar could do limited vaccination due to Co-WIN. “We could start vaccinating around noon and managed to vaccinate 56 recipients as against the first-day target of 100,” said facility director Rupesh Chaube. The only change here from the other BMC centres was that recipients had to pay Rs 250 -- Rs 150 for the vaccine that will be sent to the centre and Rs 100 as user fees. “As the payment process was done alongside registration, it didn’t take long,” he added. A state official, however, said that in the next 2-3 days, over 500 CGHS empanelled hospitals across Maharashtra will start vaccinating people. In Mumbai, however, questions have been raised about some of the CGHS hospitals about their capability to vaccinate in some huge numbers. A state official said if the hospitals feels they are incapable, they can pull out of vaccination. Meanwhile, the city’s major trust-run hospitals such as Bombay, Hinduja and Lilavati, who have been kept out of vaccination, said they should be allowed to participate. “There is no money to be made from vaccination, but people need centres they are familiar with,” said physician Dr Gautam Bhansali. Dean of BYL Nair Hospital Dr Ramesh Bharmal said that they are geared to start vaccination from Tuesday and have been told that parents of several IAS and IPS officials could come there. At JJ Hospital, the city’s only centre giving Covaxin, nodal officer Dr Lalit Sankhe said they vaccinated over 100 on Monday and had received many calls from senior citizens wanting to take Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-open-all-22-centres-for-new-phase-from-today/articleshow/81283236.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Summer temperature to be below normal between March & May in Telangana: IMD||HYDERABAD: Summer in Telangana will not be as harsh as it was in the last few years as the maximum temperature is likely to be below normal between March and May, stated the seasonal outlook issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad on Monday. Last year, the IMD in its seasonal outlook for the temperatures during March-May (summer) had predicted maximum temperature to be warmer than normal by 0.5 degree Celsius to 1 degree Celsius with a probability of 43%. This year, the IMD forecast that during the upcoming season (March to May), below normal seasonal maximum temperatures (-0.14 degree Celsius with probability of below normal by 40% to 60%) are very likely to occur over most parts of Telangana. “Below normal seasonal minimum temperatures (-0.06 degree Celsius with probability of below normal, 40% to 60%) are very likely to occur over most parts of Telangana,” read the outlook. Although Telangana falls in the core heatwave zone in India, it is not expected to face the extreme summer heat. This, even as there has been an early onset of summer with the maximum temperature touching 36.8 degree Celsius on Monday, which is two degree Celsius above normal. Even the minimum temperature is on the rise with city recording 22.2 degree Celsius, which is three degree Celsius above normal on Monday. “Maximum temperature is expected to be closer to monthly average. On an average, it will be less than 1.4 degree Celsius. Heatwave days are only expected during April-May, especially in north-eastern districts such as Khammam, Bhadrachalam, Adilabad, Nizamabad which will face severe heatwave conditions,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad. Heatwave is a period of abnormally high temperatures, far above the normal maximum temperature. The mercury levels are expected to touch 40 degree Celsius mark only by the third week of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/summer-temp-to-be-below-normal-between-march-may-imd/articleshow/81280849.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Goa: Pramod Sawant must resign as CM, demands Ramkrishna Dhavalikar||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant should resign from his post and hold fresh elections, or the BJP central leadership should give justice to the people of Goa, MGP’s Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said on Monday. During the zilla panchayat elections, the state government and the State Election Commission (SEC) did not follow due procedure and later BJP declared that they won the elections, Dhavalikar said while reacting to the high court scrapping elections to five municipal councils citing faulty reservation procedures. “HC has pulled up the state government and SEC over municipal elections. For the first time in the history of Goa and India, elections have been cancelled and the state government and SEC have been directed to undertake fresh reservation of wards and conduct elections in five municipalities,” he said. Dhavalikar said that Sawant should sack urban development minister Milind Naik from the cabinet and take responsibility of that particular portfolio. He also said that if Sawant doesn’t resign, then BJP should look into the matter and act against those involved in this case. He alleged that the state government was involved in the reservation of wards and it was done to get their candidates elected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-must-resign-as-cm-demands-dhavalikar/articleshow/81283182.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Surat||Two firemen hurt in textile unit blaze||Surat: At least 17 fire tenders were rushed to a textile processing unit Prerna Processors in Pandesara GIDC on Sunday night after a fire broke out the third floor of the unit. Two fire personnel sustained minor injuries during in fire fighting operation. They were shifted to a hospital for treatment. However, no casualty was reported in the fire incident.Initially three fire tenders were rushed to the factory. But as the fire continued to spread in other parts of the building, more fire tenders were pushed into service.“Yarn is stored in the building where the fire had started. We have started cooling down and our teams have succeeded in entering the building,” said Dipak Makhijani, in-charge chief fire officer, SFES. Fire teams faced a challenge in controlling the fire as they could not find any space to sprinkle water on the burning yarn inside the building. Due to this the fire spread in other portion of the building. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-firemen-hurt-in-textile-unit-blaze/articleshow/81279619.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||After hiccup, vax continues without CoWin 2.0||Panaji: Although some vaccination centres couldn’t log into CoWin 2.0 on Monday, the vaccination continued online at most places. At T B hospital, Margao, the vaccination site of Hospicio Hospital, doctors ensured that all the people who showed up got vaccinated despite the portal not opening once during the entire day. Doctors and staff were seen manually taking down names, dates of birth, Aadhar card details as well as photographs of cards so that these can be logged in when the portal opens. They also made several calls over the weekend informing senior citizens to make the best use of the opportunity to get vaccinated. The hospital vaccinated 331 persons on Monday. It gave the second dose to 121 of its healthcare workers between 8am and 11am, and then vaccinated 210 from the two new categories. In the second category (between 45 to 49 years), only two showed up. They had the required comorbidity certificates, while 208 were all senior citizens. Citizens who tried to log on the portal to register themselves were also unsuccessful. A senior citizen from Panaji who tried to register her husband and herself on CoWin 2.0 said, “It asked me to enter my OTP to verify my phone number. The OTP never came. I tried twice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-hiccup-vax-continues-without-cowin-2-0/articleshow/81284070.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh per capita income down 4.7%, public debt set to rise: Economic survey||BHOPAL: It’s official now, the Covid-19 pandemic has badly hit Madhya Pradesh revenues with its per capita income registering a 4.71% decline. The state economic survey tabled in the MP assembly on Monday, a day ahead of Budget presentation, highlights that the state’s net public debt is expected to be more than Rs 1.5 lakh crore by March 31, 2020. Likewise, the revenue receipts are expected to be down by 8.05%, says the survey. The gross domestic product in the year 2020-21 is also expected to be down 3.37% compared to 2019-20. The per capita income of the state has declined from Rs 1,03,288 in 2019-20 to Rs 98,418 in 2020-21. Similarly, revenue receipts of the 2020-21 budget estimates are expected to be Rs 1,36,596.36 cr, which is 8.05 % less, compared to the last year's figures. In 2019-20, the revenue deficit of MP stood at Rs 18,942.39 crore which is expected to be around Rs 30,899.42 crore this year. However, the survey did not mention the reason for the increasing loss except that there was a 15.85% loss in the mining revenue. On the health indices, too, the state does not look healthy. The survey highlights the infant mortality rate is 48 compared to national average of 32. Similarly, the Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) of Madhya Pradesh was 173 per lakh pregnancies as against the national average of 130. “This is a big challenge to bring down these indices to national level”, the Survey commented. The economic survey said there were over 30 lakh jobless people registered in the Madhya Pradesh including 6,11,000 registered in 2020. Interestingly, the state government sent 11 students abroad in 2020 spending an amount of Rs 508.00 lakh on their scholarship when the number of students sent abroad in 2019 -20 was 40 and Rs 871.57 lakh was spent on their scholarship. The survey said that there has been a 3.26 % increase in the power generation in Madhya Pradesh and the figure rose to 21,220 MW as compared to last year’s figure. The good news is that there has been an improvement in the school dropout rate in Madhya Pradesh. In 2018-19, the dropout rate was 2.86 in primary classes which has dipped to 1.05 in 2019-20. The dropout rate of 4.35 among 6th to 8th standard students has gone down slightly to 4.22 in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-per-capita-income-down-4-7-public-debt-set-to-rise-eco-survey/articleshow/81280867.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Thane||Ward boy arrested for molesting Covid patient in Kalyan||KALYAN: A 34-year-old ward boy has been arrested for allegedly molesting a 28-year-old Covid patient at a hospital in Kalyan on Monday. The accused has been identified as Shrikant Mohite. According to Bazarpeth police, the victim had recently given birth to a child. She was then tested Covid positive. So, she was admitted to the Covid care hospital at Lal Chowk. On Sunday, Mohite entered her ward when she was asleep and sexually assaulted her. The victim informed her husband who approached the police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/ward-boy-arrested-for-molesting-covid-patient-in-kalyan/articleshow/81284073.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 2, 2021||Vadodara||‘Mahisagar pollution risk to lives near Vadodara’||VADODARA: Pollution in Mahisagar river is not only affecting the health of the river but also causing a tremendous risk to villages, towns, lives in Vadodara and neighbouring districts. In fact, toxic froth floating on both the banks of the river has now become a regular feature on new moon and full moon day of every month. City-based Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti (PSS) on Monday issued notices to all the concerned authorities seeking immediate action to save the river from irreversible damage. The confluence of Mahisagar river and the effluent channel project (ECP) at ‘J Point’ in the Gulf of Khambhat is in very close proximity to that of the mouth of the Sabarmati river, which also carries high concentration of sewage and industrial effluents that is dumped into the Gulf. “We fear that the tidal activities in the Gulf of Khambhat, drive the highly toxic and polluted waters inland at the estuaries of the Mahisagar and Sabarmati rivers. This is risking all the settlements in the region,” said environment activist Rohit Prajapati from PSS. “It is possible that effluent discharged through Sabarmati into the Gulf may also be finding its way up in the Mahisagar river. The floating chemical foam entering the Mahisagar with the tides is an indication of that,” he said. PSS believes that continuous discharge of untreated effluents and sewage for more than three decades might have formed toxic sediments in stretches along the Gulf, especially near the mouths of Mahisagar river estuaries. “This might be getting agitated and flow inwards up the river during high tides,” he said, adding that while the effluent is being discharged within the estuaries, the open sea is miles away from the Gulf. While urging the authorities to take investigate the matter, PSS in its notice issued to all concerned officials has also stated that inaction by the authorities will be considered as contempt of court of the Supreme Court order passed on February 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mahisagar-pollution-risk-to-lives-near-vadodara/articleshow/81278464.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nashik||7 private hosps in Nashik soon to start giving jabs||Nashik: The health department has received a list of 10 private hospitals from North Maharasthra, which have enrolled to start the Covid-19 vaccination programme for people above 60 years of age and those above 45 with co-morbidities. Deputy director of health P B Gandal said the actual vaccination would begin in the next two to three days after checking the infrastructure and other preparedness of these hospitals.“So far, we have got a list of 10 private hospitals in north Maharashtra division, which have shown their preparedness to start the vaccination programme. Seven of them are in Nashik district, including three in Nashik city, two in Malegaon and two in the rural parts of the district,” said Gandal.He said they do not want rush into the vaccination programme until the private hospital staff is provided with proper training and instructions about the vaccination. It may take a couple of days.Shashikant Parakh, administrative officer of Namco Charitable Trust in the city, which enlisted for administering the Covid-19 vaccine, “We are completely ready with the infrastructure and manpower to administer the vaccine. However, the process for us to buy the vaccine has not started so far. Once the payment is made for the vaccine, we will be able to procure them.” Parakh added that they were in constant touch with the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials regarding the steps to be followed to start the vaccination. The NMC, on its part, has planned training either on Tuesday and Wednesday with respect to the protocols of administering the vaccine. He said that there were a large number of inquiries from people to know about the vaccination programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7-private-hosps-in-nashik-soon-to-start-giving-jabs/articleshow/81280863.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||What stopped Waqf to take over Hafeezpet land: HC||Hyderabad: Wondering why the Telangana State Waqf Board has shied away from taking possession of 140 acres of land at Hafeezpet in Rangareddy district despite the issuance of a gazette notification way back in 1995 itself, the high court on Monday said it would soon pronounce its orders on the status of this land. A bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Vinod Kumar said this while reserving its judgment in two petitions filed by Katikaneni Praveen Kumar, Sai Pawan Estates Private Limited and others charging the government and the Waqf board challenging the gazette notification notifying 140 acres of land in survey number 80 of Hafeezet village as Waqf land. The petitioners contended that the gazette notification was issued without following the procedure contemplated under the Waqf Act, 1995 and that they are the owners of the land in view of a compromise decree passed in civil suit No. 14 of 1958. Petitioners also contended that the state lost title after contest, right up to Supreme Court and that it now cannot claim title. They relied on the preliminary decree passed in civil suit No. 14 of 1958 on June 28, 1963, to trace title of their predecessors. Senior advocate DV Sitharam Murthy appeared on behalf of Waqf board and argued that the gazette notification was issued following due process contemplated under the Waqf Act, 1995. The land plots claimed by the petitioners form part of the larger extent of 140 acres in survey No. 80 of Hafeezpet, dedicated to the service of Dargah Hazrath Salar-e-Aulia by Muneerunnisa Begum through a Waqf nama issued on January 1, 1955. He contended that the Waqf deed is executed prior to the institution of civil suit No. 14 of 1958 filed for partition of matruka properties of Nawab Kursheed Jahi Paiga and the property acquired the nature of a Waqf. The bench expressed a doubt whether the state and Waqf board connived in declaring survey No. 80 of Hafeezpet as Waqf land in November 2014 because this notification came immediately after the state lost its title at the Supreme Court. As per the contents of the Waqf nama (dated January 1, 1995), 140 acres of land in survey No. 80 of Hafeezpet was owned and possessed by Mohammed Hafeezuddin Khan Bahadur Zafar Jung, who is the father of Muneerunnisa. He later gifted the property to Muneerunnisa who, in turn, executed the Waqf nama in favor of the muthavalli of Dargah Hazrath Salar-e-Aulia. The bench expressed doubts on this alleged Waqf nama also because Muneerunnisa did not specify in it how her father got this land. The advocates representing the state and the Waqf board relied on an earlier judgment passed by a division bench headed by Justice V Ramasubramanium. This bench found that the final decrees passed in respect of lands in Balanagar mandal were obtained by managing the officials of the registry in the high court though the single judge expressly refused to pass any final decree in the matter. Similarly, in this case also, no final decrees were passed and all documents showing such material were obtained by fraud. “It is the Waqf tribunal that can determine the status of the land,” they said. The bench reserved its judgment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/what-stopped-waqf-to-take-over-hafeezpet-land-hc/articleshow/81280864.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||60-yr-old former school vice-principal keeps orphanage afloat even as it struggles for funds||Hyderabad: Leaving his job as vice-principal in a private school, Jose Mathew established an orphanage in Bowenpally that houses 85 orphans, but now Mathew is struggling to pay their school fees. Running without any government aid, the majority of expenses are taken care of by Mathew himself, and funds from some local donors. “I try to take care of most of the expenses with my funds. Thankfully, we have some sponsors who pay fees of children in private schools and colleges,” said Mathew, adding that although no inmate has faced any issues health-wise during the lockdown, they are struggling to pay the fees. He said that several sponsors have withdrawn in the last year and the orphanage had to clear fees of 32 students studying in private schools and 11 in private intermediate colleges. Explaining the reason behind starting the orphanage, 60-year-old Mathew said that he used to see young girls working as sex workers back when he was studying philosophy in Pune. “Seeing young girls working as sex workers disturbed me a lot. I wanted to do something for them,” said Mathew. He said that he used to meet several children at railway stations and used to counsel and send them to children’s homes in Pune and Delhi. “I came back to Hyderabad in 2000. Initially, we started a night shelter for children. By 2007 a society was formed and the orphanage—Thara, was started,” he said. The children are taken on a long trip once a year. Mathew said that several children are also doing vocational courses which will give them a better opportunity in securing jobs. “I did not want them to go out of the orphanage at the age of 18 and take up menial jobs. Students are taught computer programming, tally, among other courses so they can get a decent job,” said Mathew. He said that several of the inmates who left the orphanage are now married. “They do come to orphanage occasionally and lend a helping hand,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/60-yr-old-former-school-vice-principal-keeps-orphanage-afloat-even-as-it-struggles-for-funds/articleshow/81280888.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 2, 2021||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan holds meet with Madhya Pradesh industrialists||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has said that his government would extend all possible help to industrialists if they take initiative towards building an "atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh". Chouhan was talking to a group of industrialists, who called on him on Sunday. He further said that MP has vast potential for investment in the fields of food processing, textiles, solar power and infrastructure development. Chairman of Sagar group, Sudhir Kumar Agrawal, talked to the chief minister on establishing textiles and food processing units at Tamot in Raisen district. There will be investment of Rs600 crore in the projects and 2,500 people would get jobs in the two units, he said. Capt. Ishwar Dholakiya of Goldi Solar Pvt. Ltd. put the proposal to start a unit for manufacturing of solar cells for use in solar panels installed in solar power projects. MD, Pratibha Syntex, Shreyaskar Chaudhary and CEO, Netlink, Anurag Chaudhary also interacted with the chief minister on the occasion. Principal secretary, industrial policy & investment promotion, Sanjay Shukla and principal secretary in the CM secretariat, Manish Rastogi, were present during the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-holds-meet-with-mp-industrialists/articleshow/81280934.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||In 6 years, Hyderabad luxury housing segment saw 26% jump in rentals: Report||HYDERABAD: The growing demand for bigger houses, especially with work-from-home becoming the new normal, has led to Hyderabad’s rental market booming, show market reports. And leading this trend is the city’s primary IT hub: Hi-Tec City. The luxury residential segment here (houses above 2,000 square feet in size), witnessed a 26% jump in rentals between 2014 and 2020 – highest among the top seven cities of India – reveal Anarock Property Consultants’ latest survey. In comparison, the increase in average monthly rentals, for the same period, along Gurgaon’s Golf Course Road, stood at 17%. Apart from the growing need for larger spaces, the rise in commercial transactions in Hyderabad, is another reason for this hike in rents. "The city also saw increased office leasing activity over the year by several large companies who are either looking to establish their base or expanding their already-existing business. This in turn is leading to high demand for residential spaces by the employees migrating to the city,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock predicting a further rise in rentals, growing forward. “These may range anywhere between 3% and 7% over the next one year. As long as office leasing activity continues to grow in the city, demand for residential rentals will only rise,” he added. In fact, this is likely to be true of most leading cities, the Anarock report states, pointing out how the luxury market across Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Pune and even Hyderabad has growth consistently by 3% to 6% per year, post 2014. “After a setback due to Covid-19, it appears to have recovered with demand for rental luxury properties back almost to pre-Covid levels. Monthly rentals in some localities have begun rising. With vaccinations rolling out and positivity returning, these markets will pick up new momentum,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-6yrs-hyd-luxe-hsg-segment-saw-26-jump-in-rentals-report/articleshow/81280923.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||JDA seals 28 flats in separate buildings for flouting norms||JAIPUR: In a massive drive, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) on Monday sealed 28 flats in two separate five-storied buildings in Patel Nagar falling under zone -8. The developers had allegedly violated the setback norms and were carrying out construction without the approval of building planning. An official said, “Out of the two buildings, there are 16 under-constructed flats and 12 constructed ones. Notices were earlier issued to developers under Sections 32 and 33 of JDA Act a month ago before carrying out the drive.” The JDA is taking strict action against violators to curb illegal practices in the city including zero setback construction, covering parking areas and open spaces. In the past one year the JDA has sealed 20 buildings that violated building bylaw norms. This is for the first time the drive was carried out in Zone – 8. The highest number of buildings, seven were sealed in PRN zone –North, followed by PRN zone- South, where three buildings were sealed. Meanwhile, the state government is all set to strip the powers of 217 urban local bodies (ULB), including (JDA), to open illegal buildings which are sealed. While the ULBs will be allowed only to seal the buildings, a third party will be appointed to open them. The proposal is mooted after urban development and housing minister (UDH) Shanti Dhariwal received complaints of official for committing alleged corruption in opening the seal of the buildings. An official said, “The government will introduce the bill for the same after making amendments in bylaws. As per the proposal, the third-party authority will be organised which will have powers to open the seal.”. Once the new law is implemented the violators will be able to raze their illegal construction on their own. “Earlier, after the building was sealed, the owners were not allowed to enter the building or raze any construction. As per the new provision, after removing the illegal construction, the owner can approach the appointed authority, which could later open the seal on the state government’s orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-seals-28-flats-in-separate-buildings-for-flouting-norms/articleshow/81280937.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||After 8,000 Covid cases for five straight days, Maharashtra count drops||MUMBAI: After reporting over 8,000 cases for five days in a row, the state reported a dip in Covid-19 daily detections and fatalities on Monday. Even Mumbai reported fewer than 1,000 cases and single- digit fatalities. Maharashtra reported 6,397 cases and 30 deaths on Monday, taking its total caseload to 21,61,467 and the death toll to 52,184. The cases reported were 23% lower than the cases added on Sunday. Officials said the dip in cases is due to the decrease in testing during the weekend and delay in uploading data over the weekend. The BMC registered 855 cases and four deaths as against 1,051 cases and five deaths the previous day. With this, the total caseload in the city rose to 3,26,772 and the toll to 11,479. All four deaths were of patients who were above the age of 60 years and of the four, three had co-morbidities, said the BMC note. With coronavirus cases going up in the city since last week, the doubling rate has dropped to 244 days andthe rate of recovery continues to be at 93%; the overall weekly growth rate of cases in the last week was 0.28%. The BMC has been carrying out 20,000 tests on an average every day in the last few days, but on Sunday it conducted only 16,441 tests. Dr Pradeep Angre, dean of BMC’s Covid field hospital in Mulund, said until 10 days ago, he had an occupancy of less than 100 beds. “There is a definite rise in number of cases as we now have 299 admitted patients,” he said. While most patients are not critical, he said the admissions are steadily rising. Thane saw a notable drop of nearly 40% in cases on Monday. Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday reported 173 fresh patients and three deaths. Presently the twin city has 1,678 active patients who are undergoing treatment while so far, 60,441 patients have been discharged. The recovery rate there was 96%. At the state level, the highest cases were reported from the Mumbai circle (1,627), while the highest deaths were reported from Akola circle (12), which includes districts like Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola. Active cases are on the rise in the state. A total of 5,754 people recovered on Monday, taking the total number of people recovered to over 20.3 lakh. There are 77,618 people under treatment for Covid-19 in the state, of which 8,294 are in Mumbai. Nearly 47% of the total active cases in the country are from the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-8k-cases-for-five-straight-days-state-count-drops/articleshow/81283359.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Eight peddlers held, ganja seized in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) sleuths on Monday arrested eight peddlers and seized 681 kg ganja. Acting on specific information provided by the Bengaluru zonal team, Hyderabad NCB team intercepted three four-wheelers, including two sedans and a goods carrier, at Pedda Amberpet toll plaza a few days ago and seized the ganja. The contraband was compressed into 335 brick-shaped blocks and wrapped in brown adhesive tape. The offenders concealed the ganja in the boot of the cars and in the goods carrier they covered the sacks containing the contraband with empty cartons. NCB team arrested eight peddlers, including S Pawar, V Pawar, B Ware, M Dhotre, D Deshmukh, R Gunjal, A Gandhi and S Sanap. The accused confessed to having procured the contraband from suppliers in the Andhra-Odisha border. “They wanted to sell the ganja at various places in Pune and Osmanabad districts of Maharashtra,” an NCB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-peddlers-held-ganja-seized/articleshow/81280904.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||BJP chief Nadda’s maiden visit to city today||Jaipur: BJP is all set to host its national president JP Nadda who will be on his maiden visit to Jaipur on Tuesday to address party MPs and MLAs at Birla Auditorium. The visit takes place at a time when the party is grappling with internal squabbles and heading for bypolls in four assembly segments—Sahara, Rajsamand, Vallabhgarh and Sujangarh. “Senior party leaders have messaged all 25 MPs and issued letters to all MLAs to compulsory attend the meet. They were asked to report at the hall by 10 am,” said a party source. Considering the importance of the visit, the BJP party in-charge in the state Arun Singh arrived here on Monday. He held a meeting with the senior party leaders including BJP state president Satish Poonia, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore and former education minister Vasudev Devnani to name a few.Nadda’s visit will last for three hours, said a party source, who added that since he has held meetings with Poonia and former CM Vasundhara Raje in Delhi, he is aware of the developments related to the power struggle and the letters issued by 20 MLAs. “Nadda will address one meeting while the second is expected to be addressed by Arun Singh, who is likely to give a message of zero tolerance on anti-party activities by anyone,” said a party source. Nadda will be given a grand welcome at 9 points from Jaipur airport to Birla Auditorium. At all these nine places, he will come out of the car to be received by party workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-chief-naddas-maiden-visit-to-city-today/articleshow/81280905.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Crane driver dies in freak accident||Hyderabad: In a freak accident, a crane driver got crushed under his own vehicle after it rammed into another crane before turning turtle on the footpath near Wipro circle at Gachibowli on Monday. The deceased was identified as Pavan alias Anil Yadav, 26, a resident of Balanagar. Pavan, a native of Uttar Pradesh, migrated to Hyderabad recently in search of livelihood.At 1 am on Monday, Pavan and his colleague, Shafi, started from Balanagar to an Amazon facility in the Financial District at Gachibowli in two cranes. While Shafi was driving ahead, Pavan followed him in the second crane. “After hitting Shafi’s crane, Pavan’s crane swerved left and overturned after crashing into the footpath railing. Pavan fell out of the vehicle and was crushed to death under the metal sheet of the driver’s cabin,” Gachibowli inspector Suresh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crane-driver-dies-in-freak-accident/articleshow/81280935.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Postal department launches scheme||Hyderabad: In a bid to help those who are under financial distress and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 pandemic, the postal department has come up with a unique scheme ‘Aapke Saath’. One can open new accounts and can settle the loan and death claims in a hassle-free manner. The postal department has initiated the month-long campaign from March 1 to 31. This campaign covers saving banks, recurring deposits, senior citizen savings scheme (SCSS) and all the term deposit accounts. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/postal-department-launches-scheme/articleshow/81280942.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Second phase kicks off on a positive note in Hadoti region||Kota: The second phase of Covid vaccination meant for senior citizens received mixed response at 118 sites, including private hospitals in Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran districts of Kota division.However, technical glitches delayed vaccination at a few sites including six sites in super specialty block of New Medical College Hospital in Kota where a 69-year-old retired Armyman, Shivdan Sharma, was given vaccine after offline registration.“I was inspired to get the vaccine today morning when I saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi getting it. I instantly decided to go to the site for registration,” Sharma told reporters.Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president and ex-minister in the state government, Harimohan Sharma, 82, was the first to receive vaccine at Bundi district hospital. “I am feeling at ease with no complication or trouble and I appeal to the people to get vaccinated to turn the district Covid-free,” Harimohan Sharma said.With 97% vaccination, Bundi district was at number 1 position in the first phase of vaccination, said CMHO, Bundi Dr Mahender Tripathy.At least 15 vaccination centres, including one at a private hospital, were set up for vaccination with the target to 1,249 senior citizens on the first day on Monday, he added.There has been a good response from senior citizens at most of the 50 vaccination sites in the district, particularly in rural areas on the first day on Monday and there is no fear or apprehension among the senior citizens, CMHO Jhalawar Sazeed Khan said. At least 10,000 senior citizens are set to be vaccinated on the first day in the district, he added.Baran district aims at vaccinating 1,29,968 senior citizens in the second phrase and there has been a positive response for at sites particularly in urban areas, CMHO, Baran, Dr Sampat Nagar said.In Kota, 8,600 senior citizens are set to be vaccinated on the first day of the 2nd phase, RCHO, Kota Dr Devender Jhalani said.“I was excited to get vaccinated and along with my elder brother got the first dose of vaccine at Vigyan Nagar government dispensary,” said Premchand Jain, 81, adding he was at ease after the vaccination and started working at his medical store in the city after coming out from medical observation.CAPTIONSPics -1 - A senior citizen waits for his turn to get vaccinated at a site in Kota on MondayPic 2 - PCC vice-president and ex-minister Harimohan Sharma, 82, being vaccinated at Bundi district hospital on MondayPic 3-4- A senior citizen gets the shot at Vigyan Nagar government dispensary in Kota on Monday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/second-phase-kicks-off-on-a-positive-note-in-hadoti-region/articleshow/81280932.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Mayor’s husband held after HC refuses bail plea in assault case||JAIPUR: Former chairman of Karauli Municipal Council Rajaram Gurjar who is also the husband of Jaipur Greater mayor Saumya Gurjar was arrested by Karauli police from Jaipur on Monday. He was arrested after the Rajasthan High Court refused his bail plea in an assault case. The case is related to assault of a health inspector Mukesh Kumar on November 13, 2019 when Rajaram Gurjar was the chairperson of Karauli Municipal Council. The petitioner said the municipal council chairperson wanted him to make payment for 340 sweepers while only 190 workers were employed. When he refused to make inflated bills in fake names, he was allegedly assaulted by the chairman. The petitioner’s counsel said the accused had a criminal history and several cases were pending against him. But the counsel for Gurjar said the case is politically motivated and except one, he has been cleared of all criminal charges. It was argued that after the incident, government suspended him from the post and later revoked the suspension. On February 12 last year, the court had given him interim bail in the case. Mridul Kachawa, SP Karauli confirmed that Gurjar was arrested by the police. “He is accused of beating a contractor after he refused to sign on fraudulent bills,” said Kachawa. Then, the report was filed by SP against him. “After the case was filed, he applied for a bail application in Karauli’s local court in 2019. Thereafter he fled from Karauli. Police raided his residence in Jaipur but did not find him. Meanwhile, he got bail from the high court and since then has been living in Jaipur,” said Karauli police. The state government suspended him from the post of local body chairman on December 7, 2019. He actively participated in the local body polls in Jaipur in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mayors-husband-held-after-hc-refuses-bail-plea-in-assault-case/articleshow/81280957.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||40 new Covid cases in Goa, one death on Monday||PANAJI: Goa reported 40 new Covid-19 cases, 62 recoveries and one death on Monday, taking the tally of active cases to 582. The state’s cumulative case count crossed 55,000. A 48-year-old man from Belagavi, who was admitted to Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, last week with complaints of severe respiratory distress, succumbed to the disease. He was suffering from hypertension. With his death, Goa’s Covid mortality count touched 797. With 1,168 swab tests conducted in the last 24 hours the case positivity rate was at 3%. The recovery rate stands at 97%. Monday saw 12 patients getting hospitalised and 11 opting for home isolation. The centres that have seen a marginal rise in cases over the last few days are Candolim, Chimbel, Panaji and Margao. A fortnight ago, three centres, except Margao, had seen a dip in cases and their individual counts had dropped below 50. In North Goa, the Candolim primary healthcare centre has the highest cases at 43 and in South Goa it is Margao with 86.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/40-new-covid-cases-one-death-on-mon/articleshow/81284100.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Large turnout of elders in Ajmer for vaccination||AJMER: A good number of elderly people in Ajmer turned up on Monday to register themselves for Covid vaccination. At Chandvardai health centre, city police was called to manage the crowd. Since there was a problem in the Co-Win app, officials later registered for the vaccine offline. At 40 centres, the third phase of vaccination started in which elders aged over 60 years were called for registration and vaccination. Even those who are suffering from comorbidities in the age group of 45 years and above were also allowed to get registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/large-turnout-of-elders-in-ajmer-for-vaccination/articleshow/81280945.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Nikita Jacob moves Delhi court for pre-arrest||Nikita Jacob on Monday moved the Delhi court for pre-arrest bail in the ‘toolkit’ case. Her application is scheduled to be heard on Tuesday before the Patiala House court. The Bombay high court had on February 17 given her a three-week transit protection against arrest in the case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nikita-jacob-moves-delhi-court-for-pre-arrest/articleshow/81284105.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Cong protests price hike, Raj Bhawan march halted||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress leaders on Monday made an attempt to gherao the Punjab Raj Bhawan to protest against BJP over the rising prices of essential commodities and fuel. However, the police stopped the march outside the MLAs’ hostel. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar accused the Narendra Modi government at the Centre for “deliberately letting” the prices of essential commodities spiral. “The Modi dispensation is conspiring with and sponsoring this atrocious public loot to benefit his corporate friends,” alleged Jakhar. The Congress leaders were forced to stop by Chandigarh Police outside the MLA Hostel here from marching ahead to gherao Raj Bhawan, along with party MPs and MLAs, and other senior members, said Jakhar. “Price of diesel and petrol was Rs 35 and Rs 45 during the Congress rule, while prices are now touching Rs 100 per litre,” Jakhar said, adding that it had exposed the Centre’s intention to fill its coffers at the expense and pain of the common man. “Likewise, the rate of LPG cylinder was Rs 438 during the Congress rule, which is now selling at Rs 860,” said Jakhar. Training his guns on both SAD and AAP for their “negative politics”, Jakhar said both these outfits now only existed as BJP spokespersons. He also questioned their “silence over rise in prices” under BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-protests-price-hike-raj-bhawan-march-halted/articleshow/81283327.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Save Hindustan Park heritage from destruction, locals urge KMC||KOLKATA: Residents of yet another neighbourhood in Kolkata have written to the municipal commissioner, pleading for Kolkata Municipal Corporation's help to preserve the locality's character and prevent it from destruction. In a letter sent to municipal commissioner Binod Kumar last week, residents of Hindustan Park have called upon the KMC to declare the neighbourhood as a heritage precinct to stop the destruction of bungalows built in the 20th century and prevent the area being swarmed by modern high-rises. Last month, residents of Ballygunge Park had written a similar letter to the commissioner, demanding an end to the assault on old majestic houses. That letter was followed up by a petition from architect Shakuntala Ghosh, chairperson of the Kolkata chapter of Indian Green Building Council, reiterating the demand for the area to be declared a heritage precinct and pointed out that civic infrastructure in these localities, including the roads, drainage and water supply, were already strained as the existing load was far beyond the carrying capacity. In the latest correspondence to KMC, Hindustan Park residents have pointed out that houses in the locality had not only certain features in common like high ceilings, slatted windows, ornate wrought iron grilles, semi-circular verandahs, square ventilators with floral cast iron meshes, they were also architecturally distinct from each other even after some of them have been modernized or renovated to meet the changing needs. All these buildings had been home to upper middle-class and middle-class Bengalis, or some others born or domiciled in Kolkata but culturally integrated. “Many of them are or were professionals, and define or defined the essence of the neighbourhood. There is a need for historians to actively document these neighbourhoods that, and through them, tell the history of the city before the paras disappear altogether,” the letter reiterated. Among the illustrious residents of Hindustan Park were scholar and linguist Suniti Kumar Chatterjee, writer Nabanita Deb Sen and former chief minister Jyoti Basu. Writer Amit Chaudhuri, who has been campaigning for the preservation of neighbourhoods like Hindustan Park for the past several years and had founded Calcutta Architectural Legacies, a pressure group comprising citizens conscious and sensitive about the city's built heritage, said the letter from residents of Hindustan Park following the one from house owners in Ballygunge Park reflects the growing sense of urgency and concern among citizens that what is most architecturally and culturally distinctive about their city's neighbourhoods not be condemned to relentless demolition till nothing is left of that unique history. “House owners from these neighbourhoods have never been as proactive before. It is time they were heard. Why should this city be without heritage precincts when other Indian cities have them? The question is implicit in these letters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/save-hindustan-park-heritage-from-destruction-locals-urge-kmc/articleshow/81279662.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 2, 2021||Agra||Etah police unite deaf, mute woman with family in Firozabad||AGRA: It took three days of intense search by Etah police to locate the family of a 27-year-old deaf and mute woman and unite them. The task was tough as she could not read or write and communicated with signs. The police team took her to various places in Etah, neighbouring district of Mainpuri and finally, Firozabad, where her family was found. According to Etah Kotwali police station SHO Pankaj Mishra, the woman, a resident of Pratap Nagar locality under Ramgarh police station of Firozabad district, went missing in the morning on February 25. She was spotted wandering about in the Kotwali area by the Etah police in the evening. While it is not clear how she arrived in Etah, her family believes that someone took advantage of her disability and brought her to Etah. Instead of sending her to the shelter home, SHO Mishra arranged for an auto-rickshaw and tasked constables Rahul Kumar and Ruchi Yadav to search for her family. Finally, on Sunday evening, this mother of two was united with her family. Senior superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Singh said, “The woman by hand gestures, indicated a Shiv temple and provided some other clues regarding her home. Kotwali police team united her with her family. Her family was overwhelmed by the police action.” Mishra said, “Constable Ruchi and Rahul worked with exceptional dedication in the case. Fortunately, we were able to find her home. We are committed to helping people in distress. That’s our job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/etah-police-unite-deaf-mute-woman-with-family-in-firozabad/articleshow/81278486.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||IIM-C board weighs probe options against director||Kolkata: The board of governors of IIM-Calcutta, which has been on a collision course with director Anju Seth over her style of functioning, is reportedly seeking legal opinion on whether it can set up an inquiry against her. According to sources, the board had passed a resolution against Seth on Saturday. Though it is yet to be officially confirmed, the board is apparently planning to curtail the director's power to appoint or take disciplinary action. Sources said the resolution on Saturday, seeking a probe into the manner in which Seth has been functioning, was passed after faculty members and the director were asked to leave the meeting. Saturday’s board meeting came two months after 75% of faculty members had written a letter to the Union education ministry against Seth, citing “grave concerns about the current state of affairs” that led to a “decline in overall academic and research environment”. The letter had termed the director’s style of functioning as “arbitrary, discriminatory, and, having a very narrow vision” and also alleged “violations of due processes and established norms”. On her part, the director had written to the ministry last month that she was unable to function properly because of interference from the board and that was preventing her from recruiting faculty. This turned into a flashpoint and a special meeting was convened by the board on Saturday, where the resolution was passed against her. “We are yet to see the minutes of the meeting but from what we have gathered about the board meeting, the director will not be able to appoint or take any disciplinary action against any employee now. There was no recruitment for two years and she had been saying that lack of faculty representation on the board was the main issue. That though is incorrect. The tenure of the faculty representatives got over only a month ago,” said a faculty member. “The board resolution is that two vital powers will be taken away from her. But we will have to wait for the minutes to confirm this. She has been taking disciplinary action against top faculty members at the drop of a hat,” said another faculty member. Calls and messages to the director went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iim-c-board-weighs-probe-options-against-director/articleshow/81279670.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||State mulls concessional road travel for govt employees||Jaipur: The state government is planning to provide smart cards (radio frequency identification cards) to all state government employees for concessional travel on roadways buses, said transport minister Pratap Singh Kachariyawas in the assembly on Monday.Kachariyawas was replaying to a question raised by BTP MLA Rajkumar Rout in the assembly. Till now these smart cards are used by police personnel who are given unlimited facility for local travel on roadways buses on payment of Rs 200 per month. This money is deducted from their salary and Rs 100 as subsidy is borne by the state government.The minister said that the roadways has collected a revenue of Rs 2.9 crore from such passes. He added that this facility is offered only on ordinary buses and is not valid for travel in deluxe buses and interstate travel.He said that if the pass facility is extended to state government employees, it would generate an income of Rs 20 crore per month for the roadways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-mulls-concessional-road-travel-for-govt-employees/articleshow/81280976.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Pune||Bajaj Auto’s domestic sales improve||Pune: Bajaj Auto reported a marginal rise in domestic two-wheeler sales and sustained export numbers. The company said its commercial vehicles business remains slow. Year-on-year, the Pune-based company reported a rise of around 1% in its domestic two-wheeler sales in February 2021 as against February 2020. The numbers were lower in February than in January. Its domestic two-wheeler exports also rose by 12% year-on-year to 1,83,629 units. In the commercial vehicle segment, sales were down by around 27% year-on-year at 15,877 units in the month of February. Commercial vehicle exports were also up by about 16% year-on-year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bajaj-autos-domestic-sales-improve/articleshow/81280983.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||State govt has taken concerns of farmers seriously: Governor||Chandigarh: Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore on Monday referred to the state government’s response to the unprecedented situation caused by Covid-19 crisis and the farm laws in his speech on the first day of the budget session of Punjab legislative assembly, adding that the three amendment legislations (to farm laws) were pending for presidential assent. “Though Covid-19 is at present under control, the farmers’ agitation and its resultant effect on the farming communities is causing a lot of anxiety among the common man…You are all aware that the devastation caused by the pandemic Covid-19 and, thereafter the agitation against three new farm laws enacted by the Government of India led to quite an unprecedented situation in the state,” he said in his customary speech. The governor said, “The farmers of the state feel that the three new farm legislations do not address their concerns of stagnating incomes as a result of saturating productivity. They apprehend that these laws would disrupt the time-tested agriculture marketing systems established under the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961. There are also apprehensions about the dismantling of the government procurement of foodgrains at the minimum support price (MSP).” “My government has taken these concerns of the farmers seriously. After discussions with all political parties of the state as also the farmers’ unions, this august House has twice passed resolutions on 28th August 2020 and 19th October 2020, urging upon the Government of India to withdraw these legislations, and continue with the existing MSP systems,” he said. He added, “The House had passed three amendment legislations to mitigate the anticipated adverse impact of the central laws. These legislations are pending for presidential assent under Article 254 of the Constitution.” “My government strongly feels that the enactment of these three central laws is against the principles of cooperative federalism as agriculture is a state subject under entry 14 of List II of Schedule 7 of the Constitution. The state chief minister has time and again also urged the Prime Minister to reconsider these laws, concede to the demand of the farmers, and withdraw these new legislations,” he said. The governor also referred to another amendment legislation titled ‘‘The Code of Civil Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020” passed by the Punjab assembly to provide for non-attachment of agricultural land up to 2.5 acres, so as to secure the livelihood of the farmers. This legislation is also pending for the assent of the President of India,” he said. “..My government is fully alive to the concerns of the farmers in the State as they are the pivot of the State’s economy. We will not let the farmers and the farm workers suffer in any manner. The government is unequivocally committed to continuing the free supply of electricity to the farmers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-govt-has-taken-concerns-of-farmers-seriously-governor/articleshow/81283311.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Patwaris to boycott work till March 4||Jaipur: Rajasthan Patwar Sangh has boycotted work from March 1 to March 4 in protest against the delay in increasing their grade pay to 3,600. Nearly 8,000 patwaris are on strike across the state. “On March 8 (International Women’s Day 2021), all the women patwaris will observe fast in protest against the delay. About 30-40 people are already on fast. Our first demand is that our grade pay should be increased to 3,600 (i.e. from Rs 20,800 to Rs 33,000 for L-5 patwaris). The second demand is that on completion of services for 7, 14, 21, 28 and 32 years, the patwaris should be upgraded to the next payscale,” Rajendra Nimmiwal, president of Rajasthan Patwar Sangh, said. There are12,898 sanctioned posts of patwaris in the state. Of these, 7,849 posts are filled and 4,956 posts are vacant. “The government doesn’t want to listen to us. They are not even ready to have a dialogue with us. Like the farmers’ agitation, which is being ignored by the central government, the Rajasthan government is ignoring the demands of the patwaris. Even revenue minister (Harish Chaudhary) hasn’t contacted us even once. The government had initially given us the permission to erect tents at the protest side (Shaheed Smarak on MI Road), but on Monday, they initially didn’t allow us do so,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patwaris-to-boycott-work-till-march-4/articleshow/81280985.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Vadodara||Tortured for dowry, woman hangs to death||Vadodara: A 25-year-old woman in Savli taluka, who was subjected to harassment by her husband and in-laws, ended her life after being deserted by her own brother too. The woman, Jignisha Rathod, was found hanging from the ceiling fan on Sunday morning at her home in Poicha village near the city. While her husband and in-laws were booked under relevant sections of IPC, Rathod’s brother Mahavirsinh too has been named in the complaint for not supporting her during the challenging times. He had allegedly threatened her not to return to their parent’s or his house even if the in-laws or husband tried to kill her.Police said that since her wedding in May 2018, the in-laws used to harass her for dowry despite her father Mahipatsinh Chhasatiya gifting jewellery and other valuables. When she refused to ask for more money from her father, Rathod was allegedly beaten and tortured. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tortured-for-dowry-woman-hangs-to-death/articleshow/81278501.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Star campaigners for polls reduced to 30||Jaipur: Chief Electoral Officer of Rajasthan Praveen Gupta on Monday said the candidates for bypolls to four assembly seats in the state can file their nomination papers online by downloading ‘Encore app’ or by visiting the web portal - encore.eci.gov.in.In view of Covid situation, the number of star campaigners for candidates has been reduced from 40 to 30 for national or regional political parties and from 20 to 15 for other political parties. He further said a ‘booth app’ will also be introduced to get real-time voter turnout during the bypolls in the state.“Through this, the applicant will be able to fill all information including age, address etc by just entering the Epic card number. The candidates will also be able to choose the desired time slot for submitting original documents at the returning officer’s (RO) office. Through eGRAS portal, a candidate can also get the challan of bail amount issued. This experiment was also adopted by the ECI during the Bihar assembly elections,” said Gupta.Bypolls have been necessitated due to the death of sitting MLAs of Sujangarh in Churu, Rajsamand, Sahada in Bhilwara and Vallabhnagar in Udaipur assembly seats. Postal ballot options will be also given to voters above 80 years and persons with disabilities (PwDS). Even during the counting of votes, only 7 tables will be kept in a counting hall.In view of Covid situation in the state, only two persons will be allowed to accompany the candidates while filing nomination papers and two vehicles will be allowed to enter the campus. During the election campaign, only five people will be allowed for door-to-door campaigning. At the same time a convoy of maximum 5 vehicles will be allowed during poll campaigning.The election department has also increased the number of polling booths by 45%. The number of polling stations in the four districts has been increased from 1,074 to 1,529.Meanwhile, independent candidate Kamlesh Ranwa has been elected as the chairperson of Vidyavihar Nagar Palika for the which the election was held on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/star-campaigners-for-polls-reduced-to-30/articleshow/81280992.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Cancer patients can take the jab between two chemotherapy cycles, advise Jaipur doctors||JAIPUR: City-based oncologists believe that cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy can be administered Covid vaccine. The state health department is providing vaccines to those suffering from lymphoma, leukaemia and myeloma. Also, those diagnosed with any solid cancer on or after July 1, 2020 or currently are on any cancer therapy and those with sickle cell disease, bone marrow failure, aplastic anaemia and thalassemia major are also included in it. Among these, a lot of patients are currently on chemotherapy. However, some precautions should be taken by such patients. According to Dr Jitendra Pehlajani, oncologist at a private hospital, “Cancer patients should ensure that their neutrophil counts are normal before they are vaccinated. If feasible, they can take vaccination during later part of their chemotherapy cycles. They should take healthy diet and despite vaccination they should follow all prescribed Covid precautions. All international guidelines recommend vaccination for cancer patients on priority-basis.” The doctor said, “A patient who has been treated for cancer of any organ except haematological cancers should take vaccine as soon as possible. The patients on active chemotherapy or anti-B Cell therapy may need extra doses of vaccine to attain same efficacy. The patient should consult their treating doctor regarding this.” “According to current information available for vaccine (Covishield), it is safe for cancer patients. If the patient is undergoing treatment for solid tumour such as mouth and throat, ovary cancer, breast cancer, then he/she can go for vaccine in between two chemo cycles or a few days before the start of chemo therapy,” said Dr Ajay Bapna, senior cancer specialist at a private hospital. “According to current guidelines of National Comprehensive Cancer Network, patients being treated for blood cancer should not get vaccinated if their blood count is low. Also, patients whose bone marrow transplant is in process should stay away from the vaccine for three months (starting from beginning of transplantation). However, patients who are undergoing surgery can be vaccinated after two-three weeks of recovery,” said Dr Bapna. Many cancer patients are consulting their treating doctors to clear their doubts on vaccination. “We believe almost all cancer patients can be vaccinated during their active treatment or during follow-up except a few blood cancer patients. A few blood cancer patients and those on immunosuppressive treatment may not have adequate antibody production and protection against Covid-19,” said Dr Naresh Somani, director and head of medical oncology department of a private hospital. Radiation oncology experts believe the vaccine is safe during chemo and radiation therapies. Dr Nidhi Patni, director of radiation oncology department at a private hospital, said, “This vaccine is completely safe for cancer patients undergoing radiation therapy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-vaccine-safe-for-cancer-patients-undergoing-chemotherapy/articleshow/81281000.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: As model code of conduct kicks in for polls, EC veils leaders’ faces||KOLKATA: Public hoardings carrying photographs of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on government schemes and any political references are being removed or covered up in the city in accordance with the model code of conduct that kicked in from February 26, immediately after the announcement of general election schedule in Bengal. Pictures of political leaders have been ordered to be removed even from government websites, an official said. TOI on Monday found photographs of Modi and Banerjee on large hoardings outside the airport covered up with white sheets of venyl. While an entire 30ft X 15ft hoarding displaying Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana that had a large photograph of PM Modi was at the VIP Road-bound exit road of the Kolkata airport was covered up, multiple banners and hoardings displaying state’s welfare schemes as well as road signage with CM Mamata Banerjee’s photos went under the cover as well. “As soon as the election code was enforced, we have removed all hoardings and banners with images of political personalities from the airport premises,” said Kaushik Bhattacharjee, the airport director. A senior official of state PWD department too said they had removed all photographs of the chief minister as well as other political entities from government hoardings and premises. “Multiple bus stops on Salt Lake and VIP Road also had photographs of the chief minister and other political leaders. We have covered them as well,” said a senior official of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. Chapter 6 of Model Code of Conduct manual states: “All the hoardings, advertisements, etc. at the cost of public exchequer, which seek or purport to project the achievements of any living political functionary or political party and which carry his photo or name or party symbol should be removed forthwith as no political functionary or political party can use public resources and incur or authorize expenditure from public exchequer to eulogise himself or itself or enhance his/its own or any political leader’s personal image” The Election Commission had announced the schedule of the general elections in Bengal along with legislative assemblies of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry last Friday, following which the model code of conduct was enforced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-model-code-of-conduct-kicks-in-for-polls-ec-veils-leaders-faces/articleshow/81279689.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Tara Sharma’s mom gets her shot at BKC||Actor Tara Sharma Saluja, who accompanied her mother Susan (74) to the BKC jumbo facility for vaccination, called the experience seamless. “Every senior citizen should get vaccinated as this is the most scientific way to control the pandemic,” she said. The actor first inquired with SRCC Hospital in Mahalaxmi that was yet to start vaccination in the first half of the day due to CoWin glitches. The south Mumbai residents then drove to BKC where Susan’s on-the-spot vaccination was done in an hour. “It was easy and one only needs to carry relevant identity proof documents.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tara-sharmas-mom-gets-her-shot-at-bkc/articleshow/81283392.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cops probe silk, diamond traders’ nexus with Chinese e-gambling||HYDERABAD: Authorities probing the online gambling racket promoted by Chinese nationals said that several diamond merchants, cryptocurrency traders and those in the hair and silk business could have parked crores of gambling money in their accounts at the behest of operators. Separate police teams from Telangana have interrogated these traders in Hyderabad, Bangalore, Kolkata, Mumbai and Gujarat on how crores got transferred to their business accounts from the ones operated by gambling operators. Silk traders who came under the scanner are from Bangalore, diamond traders from Mumbai, hair traders from Hyderabad and Kolkata, while the cryptocurrency traders are from Gujarat. Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials are also probing these traders about these suspicious transactions as it comes under money laundering. In August 2020, Yan Hao, a Chinese national, and three other Indian partners were arrested by police, leading to a huge crackdown across the country that saw many more such units getting busted. “A diamond merchant said someone had bought diamonds worth crores of rupees and in return he had collected Aadhaar card and other documents from the customer,” said a senior officer probing the case. “They are feigning ignorance and denying the charges, but it’s clear that online payments were done into their accounts from a bank account which is actually being probed in online gambling,” said the official. Officials suspect that no product was delivered and money was actually parked by operators of online gambling. “They could be hand-in-glove, but we are investigating more on these lines,” another official added. A Hyderabad-based hair exporter was earlier questioned by ED on the charge of suspicious money laundering. In his account more than Rs 5 crore was reportedly credited. In the export business, though a waybill is given based on the sender’s declaration, there is no mechanism to physically check what is inside every consignment. The ongoing multi-city probe found that Chinese promoted online businesses are Work From Home (WFH) apps, trading apps, loan apps, online gambling and dating apps. “In most of these businesses, the apps are not available on the play store. One can access the app after clicking different advertisements on YouTube or webpages, before downloading it into the user gadgets, which seeks personal information and then financially exploit the users,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-probe-silk-diamond-traders-nexus-with-chinese-e-gambling/articleshow/81284125.cms||Srinath Vudali
March 2, 2021||Delhi||The Untouchables: People’s behaviour hurt more than Covid||NEW DELHI: The last 365 days are arguably the worst the capital has seen. The novel coronavirus claimed nearly 11,000 lives and disrupted our lives, in fact changed the way we live. While Delhi has been among the worst hit states in the country, it also showed resilience and the past year is a story of survival as much as it is of adversity. When Rita Choudhury, 52, who works for a MNC and lives in south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park, started showing symptoms of Covid-19 in the first week of November 2020, the capital was witnessing its third and worst wave of pandemic. While Choudhury tested negative, it turned out that her husband Surajit Choudhury, 58, and son Shubhrojit, 28, were Covid-positive. When that happened, more than the disease and home isolation, it was the behaviour of the neighbours that hurt her more. “As soon as healthcare workers in PPE suits reached our house to inquire about our wellbeing, the neighbours became inquisitive. My husband and son were quarantined in two separate rooms, but it seems the infection bothered the neighbours more than it did us,” she said. Chowdhury continued, “No one from the neighbourhood came to inquire about us, but advised vegetable vendors not to touch anything near our house and asked drivers not to approach our gate. Amid all this, even though I asked my domestic maid not to come, she was the one who offered all the help we needed. She would get bread, butter, fruits from the market, leave it outside the door and ring the bell so I could pick it up.” A fear took over society. Pritam Singh, 48, who fearlessly distributed free food, PPE kits and masks to labourers as part of NGO United Sikhs during the Covid lockdown, experienced this fear when he contracted Covid in early May. “While my neighbours and close friends were supportive and would message me, people outside the society were definitely frightened. I used the isolation period to shoot videos to motivate others and tell them to stay strong and fight the virus,” he said. The scars are deeper for Surinder Jeet Kaur, 58. The ACP of CAW Cell, South-East district, developed fever on May 15 along with her husband. Both tested positive for Covid, and her husband died after 26 days on the ventilator. “I don’t know if I can ever forgive myself. I was the Covid cell in-charge and our district had at one point the maximum number of corona patients,” said Kaur. I think I contracted it from somewhere. My family members did not step out of the house, it was only I who went out on duty.” Life after Covid hasn’t been easy and Sanjana Yadav, 21, who is pursuing her master’s programme in English literature, is still troubled by breathlessness and is experiencing excessive hair loss even three months after testing positive and recovering. “Because I got infected once, the fear of getting reinfected frightens me, so I have become even more cautious. Due to this, I look forward to getting the vaccine whenever it is made available to people of my age,” she said. While Yadav is all praise for her supportive residents’ welfare association, Choudhury praises Delhi government’s management of home isolation patients. “A woman from the government called and told me what I had to do as a caregiver,” Kaur recalled. “They called every day and also gave me a contact number if I needed any help.” Manav Kapur (33), a PhD scholar, has been encouraging everyone to take the vaccine. For Ravi Sharma (33), a teacher at a Delhi government school, social stigma was more difficult to deal with than Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-untouchables-peoples-behaviour-hurt-more-than-covid/articleshow/81284123.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||BJP MLA suspended for unruly behaviour, Opposition walks out||JAIPUR: Former minister and senior BJP MLA Vasudev Devnani was suspended from the House for a day for unruly behaviour on Monday. The decision of the House by voice vote led the entire opposition to walk out of the assembly to protest the suspension of four-time MLA from Ajmer. Devnani was unhappy over not being allowed to raise the issue of attack on protesting ABVP students on Saturday night. He stormed into the well of the House as soon as the speaker announced the decision on adjournment motions during Zero Hour. When Devnani refused to obey Speaker’s repeated orders to go back to his seat, Speaker CP Joshi directed parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal to move a resolution suspending the member and calling the marshals to remove him from the well. Joshi said he could not be pressurised by any member and a Speaker’s ruling cannot be challenged on such matters. “I will not allow it. I will not tolerate it. Nobody can dictate me. Please go outside the House. Pass a resolution to remove him from the House proceedings. Till I am in the chair I will ensure that the House is run according to rules,” said the Speaker. The minister then moved an impromptu resolution seeking the suspension of the member for a day and tender a written apology for his return to the House. Though Devnani returned to his seat, the matter did not end there. Intervening on the matter, Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria said that Devnani reacted as the matter he wanted to raise was important. He added that a small issue should not be blown out of proportion with suspension. “I accept that he could have raised the issue in a different way but it was not a big issue. But, still you take a decision as you have a majority and we all will move out of the House,” Kataria said. Speaker CP Joshi said neither the Opposition leader nor the member himself was apologetic for the unruly behaviour. Shanti Dhariwal then asked the Speaker about the fate of the resolution moved by him. Speaker then by a voice vote passed Devnani’s suspension. Entire Opposition walked out of the House. Deputy leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore later speaking to the media said suspension is a ‘shameful’ thing. He added that parliamentary party meeting of BJP will be held on Wednesday morning at 10am where they will decide future course of action. He said that the member will not apologise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-mla-suspended-for-unruly-behaviour-opposition-walks-out/articleshow/81280984.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Ex-Navy admiral to be chief guest at Karanj sub commissioning||MUMBAI: Former Indian Navy admiral Vijai Singh Shekhawat (87) will be the chief guest at the commissioning of Scorpene-class submarine Karanj on March 10 after Kalvari-class submarine INS Karanj (S21) was decommissioned on August 1, 2003. INS Karanj was featured in the 2017 Bollywood film ‘The Ghazi Attack’, which was on men aboard S21 who survived underwater for 18 days. The latest Scorpene-class submarine is the third out of six that will add teeth to India’s Navy. A defence official said the decommissioned Foxtrot-class submarine INS Karanj was present at the location, which forced the destroyed Pakistan submarine to move cautiously when she was reportedly destroyed in firing by INS Rajput. Indian Navy said on December 4, 1971, INS Rajput’s sonar room reported what sounded like a submarine changing depth, around half mile ahead. Capt Inder Singh ordered a sharp turn and immediately fired two depth charges. Less than a minute later a massive underwater explosion shook the destroyer. INS Rajput then departed and proceeded to join up with INS Vikrant battle group. After sunrise, local fishermen saw an oil slick and floating debris, including an unused submariner life vest labelled ‘USS DIABLO’. Pakistan’s Navy said PNS Ghazi laid a small minefield east of Vishakapatnam harbour mouth on the night of December 2-3, 1971. At daybreak, it headed out deeper to search for INS Vikrant battle group. Not finding it, PNS Ghazi returned at sunset to resume laying the minefield. As lights ashore were blacked out, PNS Ghazi may have misjudged her position and doubled back into her own minefield around midnight before the INS Rajput depth charging. Thus, it was the accidental detonation of its own mines that destroyed Ghazi and not INS Rajput’s depth charges. Over the years, the mystery surrounding the sinking of PNS Ghazi has endured. A defence spokesperson told TOI, “INS Karanj, under the command of V S Shekhawat played a key role in the 1971 war against Pakistan. In recognition of the valiant action of her officers and crew, many personnel were decorated after the war. ‘Ghazi Attack’ features Karanj and pays tribute to the valour of men onboard and their contribution during the 1971 war. Later, Karanj served as a trial platform for indigenously built ‘Rani’ and ‘Panchendriya’ sonar. After 34 years of glorious service, Karanj was decommissioned on August 1, 2003.” Admiral Shekhawat is a former Chief of Naval Staff of Indian Navy. He was 14th Chief of Naval Staff and served as Navy chief from September 30, 1993, to September 30, 1996. Construction of the submarine began at Mazagon Dock Ltd (MDL) 10 years and five months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-navy-admiral-to-be-chief-guest-at-karanj-sub-commissioning/articleshow/81284130.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Cops file chargesheet in minor girl’s rape case within 14 days||Jaipur: Almost a fortnight after a five-year-old girl was kidnapped and raped by a 20-year-old youth at a village near Pilani, Jhunjhunu police on Monday filed a chargesheet against the accused. In this case, a woman probationer RPS officer camped in Jaipur and compassionately interacted with the girl and videographed her statements. The RPS officer visited the girl undergoing treatment at JK Lon Hospital in plainclothes and used to bring chocolates and gifts for the girl to win her friendship. Pilani police on Monday filed the chargesheet against Sunil under Sections 363 (kidnap), 366-A (procuration of minor girl), 376 (rape) and under other appropriate sections of POCSO Act at a special POCSO court in Jhunjhunu. The girl went missing from a village near Pilani on February 19. The girl is now very familiar with Garima Jindal, the RPS officer, who is posted as circle officer at Chirawa. “When I first came to Jaipur along with the girl, I was shivering and fainted. From the next day, I started visiting her and her family at JK Lon Hospital. She is a very introvert girl and was already in trauma,” said Garima. “She gradually became my friend. And while we gave a questionnaire to her mother, the girl actually started looking at me while replying. I am still in touch and she talks to me properly,” she added. Jhunjhunu SP Manish Tripathi said, “After filing the chargesheet, we have have taken the case under case officer’s scheme and will pursue the case properly in the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-file-chargesheet-in-minor-girls-rape-case-within-14-days/articleshow/81281007.cms||Ashish Mehta
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet okays restructuring of excise and taxation, 3 other depts||Chandigarh: To streamline the functioning of excise and taxation, town and country planning, medical education and research and rural development and panchayats, the Punjab cabinet on Monday approved the restructuring plans of these four departments. It also approved creation of 110 new posts in the taxation commissionerate and 59 new posts in the excise commissionerate of the excise and taxation department to earn more revenue collections. The implementation of GST has brought services under the ambit of department, and added a new feature of audit, which involves examination of records, returns and other documents maintained by GST registered person. It also ensures correctness of turnover declared, taxes paid, refund claimed, input tax credit availed and assesses other compliances under GST Act, which are to be checked by an authorised expert. The excise revenue collections in the state have increased from Rs 435.79 crores in the year 1990-91 to Rs 5,794 crores in 2020-21 (projected figures). It is likely to go up to Rs 7,000 crore in 2021-22. In the recent years, an unprecedented increase in the excise related activities have been observed in the state. The formulation of excise policy and its implementation is a time consuming and full-time exercise, said an official spokesperson. The excise and taxation department was bifurcated into the two commissionerates — taxation commissionerate and excise commissionerate — on October 8, 2018. However, the staff and officers deployed on the excise side in the excise commissionerate is skeletal. With the restructuring of Government Medical Colleges of Patiala and Amritsar, along with attached hospitals besides Government Nursing Colleges and Government Dental Colleges of Patiala and Amritsar and attached hospitals and Government Ayurvedic College, Hospital, Pharmacy, Patiala, as many as 1,154 new posts of various categories for recruitment have been created while 606 posts have been surrendered or abolished under the restructuring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-okays-restructuring-of-excise-and-taxation-3-other-depts/articleshow/81283341.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Forest guard feared missing||Poinguinim: Yogesh Velip, 30, a forest guard, has been reported missing by his brother Dashrat at the Canacona police station. Police said Yogesh attended his duties at Hati-Pawl, forest wildlife, on Saturday but failed to return home at the usual time. “Soon, his family and neighbours started searching for him. The forest guards too started a search operation followed by the Canacona police, but Yogesh is not traced yet,” police said. Yogesh has been working at Hati-Pawl for the last eight years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-guard-feared-missing/articleshow/81283397.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||13 V-B structures to get healing touch ahead of Unesco visit||Kolkata: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is taking up a restoration work of 13 heritage buildings on the Visva-Bharati University campus in Santiniketan. The drive will start immediately with Upasana Griha, or what is popularly known as the Kaach Mandir. The heritage conservation wing of the ministry of culture had been approached by the university for this conservation work as a follow-up to the dossier that had been prepared by the ASI and submitted by the ministry to Unesco for a World Heritage Site tag. The dossier has been re-done to give the project, which had been pushed to the “tentative” list by the Unesco after the 2010 first attempt, a new fillip. Tagore’s Santiniketan is not one of ASI’s protected sites and hence they are not under constant supervision and maintenance. Since it is a part of the institute, it is the university management that takes care of the structures. During the Tagore sesquicentenary celebrations in 2010, the university had approached ASI for restoration of 23 structures. However, the university feels that before the Unesco team’s campus visit, which is likely to be in August, at least 13 structures need to get a healing touch. The list that had been sent to ASI by vice-chancellor Bidyut Charkaborty includes Upasana Griha, Santiniketan Griha, Ananda Pathshala, the five buildings inside Rabindra Bhavan (Udayan, Konark, Shyamoli, Punashcha and Udichi), China Bhavan, Hindi Bhavan and Kuthi Bari at Sriniketan. The ASI directorate has given the go-ahead to the Kolkata circle to start work at Upasana Griha. “It is a unique building made of wrought iron and coloured Belgium glass. We are starting out with it,” confirmed the superintending archaeologist of ASI, Shubho Majumdar. The Upasana Griha was built by Tagore’s father, Maharshi Debendranath Tagore, and has since been used as a prayer hall where the formless divine is worshipped through Brahmo Sangeet. After a long struggle with Tagore’s favourite Shyamoli, ASI was able to restore the mud house about a year and a half back. However, the university feels that all the houses of the Uttarayan complex are extremely fragile and a re-look needs to be taken at them by the ASI. The main reason for Unesco not allowing the world heritage tag in 2010 was the fact that it was a porous site and a lot of modern day construction had happened close to the heritage buildings. It had then suggested that the fresh application should be divided into core area and buffer area. The latter can have modern constructions for the developmental needs of the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/13-v-b-structures-to-get-healing-touch-ahead-of-unesco-visit/articleshow/81279719.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Excise law gets harsher: Soon, death, life term in case of hooch casualty||Chandigarh: To check illicit and spurious liquor, the Punjab cabinet on Monday gave its approval to amend the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, by adding section 61-A, amending sections 61 and 63, and deciding to introduce legislations on the same during the ongoing budget session of state assembly. This decision was taken during a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. According to an official, the cabinet decided a “systematic change” in the law to introduce a deterrent punishment to anyone indulging in such malpractices in wake of unfortunate tragedy in the districts of Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, whereby several peopel died due to consumption of spurious and adulterated liquor in July 2020. It was felt to bring a paradigm shift to strengthen the act and deal with cases sternly where consumption of adulterated or illicit liquor leads to death or severe injury. The A new Section 61-A has been inserted in Punjab Excise Act, 1914, as its the Sub Section 1 stipulates that whoever mixes or permits to be mixed with any liquor sold or manufactured or possessed by him any noxious drug or any foreign ingredient likely to cause disability or grievous hurt or death to human beings, shall be punishable. In case of death, such guilty shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life, and will also be liable to fine which may extend to Rs 20 lakh, in case of disability or grievous hurt. Guilty would be punished with imprisonment for at least six years, extendable up to life imprisonment, and with fine which may extend to Rs 10 lakh. Likewise, if any other consequential injury is caused to a person, the guilty shall be punished with the imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, and fine which may extend to Rs 5 lakh. In case of no injury to a person, the guilty will be punished with imprisonment which may extend to six months and fine which may extend to Rs 2.5 lakh. The cabinet also made provision by amending the act to provide compensation to the victims’ families by the manufacturer and seller of spurious liquor. According to Section 61-A (2) (i), the court may order if it is satisfied that death or injury has been caused to any person due to consumption of liquor sold in any place, order the manufacturer and seller, whether or not he is convicted of an offence, to pay, by way of compensation, an amount not less than Rs 5 lakh to the legal representatives of each deceased or Rs 3 lakh to the person to whom grievous hurt has been caused, or Rs 50,000 to the person for any other consequential injury. Provided that where the liquor is sold in a licensed shop, the liability to pay the compensation under this section shall be on the licensee and no appeal can be filed by the accused unless the amount ordered to be paid under this section is deposited by him in the court. Section 63 has also been amended to enhance the term of imprisonment in the existing provisions of the act from one year to three years and amount of fine up to Rs 1000 to 10,000 for the offence of alteration or attempt to alteration of denatured spirit. Likewise, the cabinet also gave approval to amend Section 61 (1) to enhance the term of imprisonment from three years to five years under the chapter ‘Offences and Penalties’ of the act for unlawful import, export, transport, manufacture and possession of any intoxicant. BOX: LIMIT OF FOREIGN LIQUOR REDUCED In order to strengthen Section 61(1) (v) of the Punjab Excise Act 1914, the limit of foreign liquor has been reduced to 27 bulk litres from 90 bulk litres. At present, as per any person who unlawfully imports, exports, transports any foreign liquor exceeding 90 bulk litres on which duty has not been paid, will be punishable with an imprisonment of not less than two years and a fine of not less than Rs 2 lakh. It has been found that in most of the cases, the volume of foreign liquor transported is less than 90 bulk litres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/excise-law-gets-harsher-soon-death-life-term-in-case-of-hooch-casualty/articleshow/81283372.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ajmer||For elderly, vaccine is licence to travel without fear||JAIPUR: Sixty-nine-year-old Krishna Sharma, a retired private school teacher, is waiting for the day for travelling to the US and Australia where her scientist son and doctor daughter’s family are settled. The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination, meant for people above 60 years and above 45 years with specified comorbidities, has come as an opportunity for them who are planning to travel in near future. Vaccination for them is protection they needed for traveling. “My son is a scientist in the US and my daughter and her husband are doctors in Australia.We have not met them for long due to the pandemic. We were waiting for the day when vaccination would begin. On the first day of vaccination for the elderly, we reached at the vaccination sites to get the jab so that we can travel abroad after receiving the two doses,” said Sharma, who was accompanied by her 73-year-old husband Kailash Chand Sharma. The Sharmas, residents of Shastri Nagar, said they were not scared of getting vaccinated but were waiting for the day when it begins. Bani Park resident Mukesh Malhotra also has the same motive of getting vaccinated. “Beginning of vaccination for people above 60 is a big relief. I was unable to move out. My children are in the US and I have to meet them,” said Malhotra. The vaccination is giving liberty to the elderly population for movement, who remained inside their houses for the last one year due to the pandemic. Mahendra Verma (66), resident of Kanti Nagar, is a retired public works department employee. Every year, he goes on pilgrimage, but last year he had to postpone it due to the pandemic. Verma rushed to Satellite Bani Park hospital to get the vaccine so that he gets the second dose early, which will enable him to travel. “I am happy that I will be able to travel now. I will go to Haridwar on May 13 and on June 17 I will go on Amarnath Yatra,”said Verma. Mahila Chikitsalaya (vaccination in-charge) Dr Shalini Rathore said, “Majority of elderly people came for vaccination have urgency to travel abroad as they have relatives there, whom they have not met for a long time. Vaccination is giving them opportunity to travel so that they meet their children and grandchildren. It is quite an emotional moment.” However, doctors are appealing to those who are getting vaccinated to continue to follow Covid protocols. “I got myself the second dose of vaccination at Satellite Bani Park hospital today. I advise people getting vaccine not to stop wearing masks and continue following social distancing even after vaccination for double safety,” said 65-year-old Dr Anant Nigam, a diabetologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/elderly-who-plan-trips-abroad-get-vaccinated-on-1st-day/articleshow/81281011.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Silver theft: 4 held for planning operation, kingpin still at large||Jaipur: In a major breakthrough in the multi-crore silver theft case, Jaipur police (west) on Monday arrested four persons who were involved in the execution and planning, from digging of the tunnel to the theft. The prime accused Shekhar Agarwal and his nephew, involved in the planning and execution, are still at large and only after their arrest, the police can go for some recovery. Dr Sunit Soni on February 24 had lodged a case that some burglars decamped with silver which was concealed in the basement of his house by digging a tunnel from an adjoining house. “In the investigation, it was found that the key conspirator, Shekhar Agarwal had got Banwari Jangid the piece of land which is adjoining the house of the victim in Vaishali Nagar. Agarwal had paid for the house which was registered in the name of Banwari. So, we first detained Banwari and interrogated him. He was arrested after we found his active involvement in the planning and execution of the theft,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime), while addressing a press conference on Monday. Police also found that Shekhar guided the doctor for investing in silver and with the help of his nephew Jatin Agarwal, the purchased silver was concealed in the basement of the doctor’s house during Diwali last year. “Shekhar paid Rs 97 lakh to get the adjoining plot and got it registered in the name of Banwari Jangid, who too is his employee. We have arrested three others identified as Kaluram Saini, Ramkaran and Kaidar Jat, who too were involved in the digging of tunnel and later, putting the stolen silver in a vehicle,” Lamba added. Investigation also suggested that Shekhar had lured all the accused that he would pay them somewhere around Rs 15 lakh each. “Whether they were paid and how much they were paid will be investigated. Also, it was found that Shekhar has already disposed the stolen silver in various markets in Delhi, Haryana and Jaipur. Now, we need two more arrests — of Shekhar and Jatin, his nephew,” Lamba said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/silver-theft-4-held-for-planning-operation-kingpin-still-at-large/articleshow/81281019.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Agra||Government primary schools reopen after pandemic break||Bijnor/Agra: After a break of almost one year, primary schools reopened in the state on Monday amid restriction on the number of students. The state government has put in place a new plan under which students of only two classes will be allowed on any given day. So on the first day, students of Class I and Class V were allowed entry and rest were given the timetable and told to return home.Basic education department officials had also sought the consent of the parents of the children whether they wanted to send their wards to the schools or not. They were told to send their children with masks and sanitizers.Head master of Chandpur Feru school in Bijnor, Rajendra Singh, said “The students were very excited and happy to attend their classes after an year. However, parents of some children were under dilemma. They were worried about the ongoing pandemic. We allayed their doubts and asked them to follow Covid-19 guidelines. In addition, we also gave knowledge to the students about Covid- 19. All children followed the guidelines. They were wearing masks.”Most children were happy to be back in school.In Agra, Class V student of Pratapura primary school, Mehak Kushwaha, said, “I was missing school. Now I am happy to meet my friends and teachers after so many days. We enjoyed our midday meal.”Basic Shiksha Adikari Rajveer Kumar Yadav said, “Teachers have been strictly directed to ensure that students maintain social distancing. Classrooms will be regularly sanitized. Arrangements are being made for thermal screening and face masks. Students with Covid-19 symptoms will be sent home immediately. Very soon, Covid-19 testing of students will also be conducted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/government-primary-schools-reopen-after-pandemic-break/articleshow/81278506.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Steppe eagle from Kazakhstan hunted by nomads in Jhunjhunu||Jaipur: A steppe eagle named Kenjyk, which was on a winter sojourn and tagged in Central Kazakhstan in 2018, is suspected to have been hunted by nomadic tribe Bawaria near Bissau in Jhunjhunu district.Residues were found in the last satellite location of the bird, though researchers have not recovered the Global System Monitoring (GSM) tracking device.After receiving an e-mail from scientist Elvira Nikolenko on February 20, International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) member Dau Lal Bohra started investigation to find the cause of mortality. The scientists received the last signal on Januray 24 at 11.08 am. The copy of the email in possession of TOI reads, “We are not sure that it died, possibily the tracker was broken.” However, when Bohra reached the spot after tracking satellite location provided by the scientists, he found residues of the steppe eagle in the area. He said, “At the same location, we found residue including both wings and feathers dug inside a pit. It was a steppe eagle. We can say it prominently that bird was hunted as nomadic tribe were camping here for past one month and left on February 26. Also, steppe eagle is not found in this region and finding residue of the same species is difficult.” Bhawana Tanwar, a wildlife researcher, who was also part of the investigative team said, “The photographs of the bird remains have been shared with scientists Igor Karyakin and Elvira Nikolenko. They have confirmed the bird is steppe eagle. If birds tracking instrument was broken, we would have found the device there not residues.” Kenjyk, tagged under Russian Raptor Research and Conservation Network, died on it’s third voyage to Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/steppe-eagle-from-kazakhstan-hunted-by-nomads-in-jhunjhunu/articleshow/81281021.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Stung by HC order, state govt to move apex court||Panaji: Hours after the high court on Monday quashed and set aside the election process for five municipalities, the state government decided to approach the Supreme Court to challenge the order on the grounds that courts should not interfere with the election process. Immediately after the HC order, CM Pramod Sawant held a meeting with advocate general Devidas Pangam, party office-bearers and government officials to discuss and decide on its course of action. “The state government will challenge the high court order on the grounds that when an election is approaching fast, a court cannot interfere and whatever election disputes are there should be taken up after the elections,” Pangam told TOI. The case is likely to be filed on Tuesday. He also said that there are many SC judgments stating that when an election is approaching fast, courts should not interfere. He added that all the remaining elections will go as per schedule, except the five municipalities of Mapusa, Margao, Mormugao, Quepem and Sanguem. Meanwhile, GFP and Shradha Amonkar, a former councillor, have filed caveats before the SC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stung-by-hc-order-state-govt-to-move-apex-court/articleshow/81284142.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Dusshera tragedy: Nod to job for victims’ kin||Chandigarh: Punjab ministerial cabinet on Monday gave approval to provide jobs in various departments and institutions to the family members or heirs of 34 deceased of Amritsar rail tragedy. The kin will be offered jobs as per their qualification and by relaxing existing norms as a special case. The train incident had occurred on October 19, 2018, at Joura Phatak in Amritsar district on the day of Dussehra, in which 58 persons had died and 71 persons had got injured. Family members could not be covered under the existing state policy and related instructions of November 21, 2002, for grant of jobs on compassionate grounds. On a proposal by deputy commissioner of Amritsar, the chief minister’s office, after detailed deliberations, decided that one member of each of the 34 families of the 58 deceased be considered for a job. Family members of those killed in the train accident, in the past, had held protests to mark the anniversary of the tragedy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dusshera-tragedy-nod-to-job-for-victims-kin/articleshow/81283388.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolhapur||Jab at Satara pvt hospitals after staffers are trained||Pune: The launch of the vaccination drive for citizens aged over 60 and those over 45 years with comorbidities hit a hurdle due to glitches in registering on CoWIN. It is mandatory to register on CoWIN in order to receive the vaccine. Officials from Satara and Solapur districts said that they had come across several senior citizens, who said they could not register their names through the application. “We hope the situation improves in the coming days. Similar problem was experienced when the vaccination drive was launched in January for health workers. It became glitch-free in a couple of days,” said Solapur district civic surgeon Sheetal Jadhav. Solapur city has around six lakh senior citizens, including 3.2 lakh in the city. According to a study conducted by the administration, the district has around 93,000 people with co-morbidities. The administration has made arrangements for vaccination at 22 centres. Solapur district has completed 55% vaccination of the health workers.The government has identified the private hospital where the vaccine will be available at a fee. However, authorities said that the vaccination will begin only after the staff at these hospitals is trained. Satara district has around seven lakh senior citizens and the vaccine will be available at 34 hospitals, including 16 private ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/jab-at-satara-pvt-hospitals-after-staffers-are-trained/articleshow/81281009.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Agra||Illegal arms factory raided in Farrukhabad; 4 arrested, 56 weapons seized||Agra: With the arrest of four people, Farrukhabad police has claimed to have busted an illegal factory making countrymade weapons and seized 56 finished and semi-finished firearms along with manufacturing tools on Monday. The weapons were being made allegedly for use in the upcoming panchayat elections in UP, said police. Ashok Kumar Meena, SP, Farrukhabad, said a police party raided Sirsa following a tip-off and arrested four people -- Tinku Kumar, Monu Sharma, Shyamshankar from Fatehgarh and Rajesh Kumar from Kasganj -- from the spot. Two of their associates managed to escape. He added that the duo will also be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/illegal-arms-factory-raided-in-farrukhabad-4-arrested-56-weapons-seized/articleshow/81278513.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Vadodara||Global concert rings in good news for Covid-hit musicians||Vadodara: Anand Parmar, an ace percussionist from Ahmedabad, was forced to start driving a rickshaw when Covid-induced lockdown rang a death knell for live concerts. He had no choice but take up this work to sustain his six-member family, including three daughters. But Parmar has finally managed to pay the fees of two daughters after getting aid generated from a 10-day global online music concert which saw doyens of music including some Grammy award winners performing for charity. “Music is my sole earning. As live shows are not scheduled to restart in the near future, I still drive the rickshaw. But I am relieved that I could pay my daughters’ school fees ” said Parmar. At least 100 pandemic-battered musicians from across the country have got monetary aid that was raised in the Dikshitar-Beethoven Melharmony Festival organized by the US-based Melharmony Foundation. “Lot of people from all walks of life are suffering and the impact on musicians has been really bad. I spoke to some of my colleagues in western classical and jazz music and in India too about the fund-raising idea along with identifying the needy musicians,” said Chitravina N Ravikiran, a popular Carnatic musician. “The assistance is still ongoing as we are receiving requests and recommendations for help,” Ravikiran told TOI from the US. Like Parmar, Ajay Patel, a drummer from Ahmedabad, too received assistance from the foundation. “I was forced to sell Gujarati snacks as I had to pay for my daughter’s school fees and other expenses. In this extremely difficult situation, the donation from the foundation came as a blessing.” The festival was organized to commemorate the 250th birth anniversary of the legendary Ludwig van Beethoven and 245th birth anniversary of Muthuswami Dikshitar, considered one of the musical trinities of Carnatic music. The festival witnessed the confluence of four-time Grammy Awardee Glen Velez, Loire Cotler, Apollo Chamber Players, David Connor, Ed Matthew, Ben Jaeger and Steve Kurr. The foundation generated at least US $45,000 to US $50,000. Ravikiran said that the concert is still available online and people can watch it by contributing to the corpus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/global-concert-rings-in-good-news-for-covid-hit-musicians/articleshow/81278535.cms||Jay Pachchigar
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Labourer ends life in Jaipur by hanging||JAIPUR: A 32-year-old labourer living at Keshupura on Ajmer Road under Bhakrota police station area ended his life by hanging from the ceiling on early Monday morning. The deceased was alcoholic and used to have fights with his family members on a regular basis. No suicide note has been found by the police from his house. According to the police, the deceased, identified as Lokesh Jajoria, was working as a labourer. He had not been bringing home his wages and would spend it on alcohol. “His family members had told him to not indulge in drinking. They had also asked him to bring his wages home. It was found that on Sunday evening when he returned home in inebriated condition his family members and four daughters had an argument with him. They requested him not to drink alcohol daily,” said a senior police officer of Bhankrota police station. The police told TOI that Jajoria would threaten to end his life every now and then. “We have not found any suicide note. Though there is a possibility that the man was very weak economically and emotionally,” said an officer. The body was handed over to his family after post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourer-ends-life-in-city-by-hanging/articleshow/81281058.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Jab centres cite ‘glitches’, health staffers miss dose||PUNE: Several healthcare workers, due for their second dose of Covid vaccination, could not be inoculated on Monday owing to “CoWIN 2.0 server issues” cited by vaccination centres. Though Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials maintained that only four civic-run/government hospitals conducted the vaccination drive in the civic area on Monday and that private vaccination centres had been informed about the same, TOI learnt that several private hospitals in the city were trying to administer vaccines to healthcare and frontline workers, but could not due to “server issues”. Madhur Rao, senior deputy medical administrator, KEM Hospital, told TOI, “The CoWIN server was down so we could not vaccinate healthcare workers on Monday. Private facilities were meant to continue the second dose for healthcare workers as well as first dose for frontline workers on Monday, but we could not give them the shots as the server was down.” Sanjay Patil, chairman, Hospital Board of India, and Indian Medical Association (IMA) Pune, told TOI, “I was due for my second dose of vaccine and went to the private hospital concerned but had to return as the authorities cited server issues. They did not say that vaccinations were not taking place on Monday.” Dilip Sarda, executive member Maharashtra Medical Council, said, “I enquired with friends and found that none of them got their doses on Monday due to high beneficiary load after addition of age groups of 45+ with comorbidities, and those above 60.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jab-centres-cite-glitches-health-staffers-miss-dose/articleshow/81281037.cms||Neha Madaan
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||BJP sweeps subject committees’ polls in Maharashtra||Nagpur: After bagging all posts of zonal chairpersons, the ruling BJP went a step further by clinching the top slots of various subject committees. The party’s corporators got elected as chairmen and deputy chairmen of 10 panels unopposed. Out of the 10 committees, the BJP retained chairmen of two — Dilip Diwe (education) and Mahendra Dhanvijay (property tax consultative). In the 151-member house, the BJP has 107 corporators, Congress 28, BSP 10, Shiv Sena 2, NCP 1 and independent 1. The elections got underway at the NMC’s standing committee hall at 11am on Monday. By the end of the day, the BJP had posted a resounding win by claiming the chairman and deputy chairman’s posts in the 10 different subjective committees unopposed. District collector Ravindra Thakre was the presiding officer for the elections, which were held in virtual mode (online). Corporators backed their candidates by raising hands during the video conferencing. The election concluded at around 2pm. At a press conference, ruling party leader Avinash Thakre said the party tried to give an opportunity to all corporators to head committees and zones in the last four years. This time too, many first-time corporators were considered. Thakre, however, could not justify repeating Diwe and Dhanvijay. He said merging two public transport services –MahaMetro and Aapli Bus — will be a good move. “It will strengthen the city’s public transport system,” he said, adding, “If MahaMetro starts rapid transit service in the city as a feeder bus service, it will incur more loss to the civic body.” COMMITTEES AND HEADS Education special committee: Chairman Dilip Diwe, Deputy Sumedha Deshpande (both BJP) Law special committee: Chairperson: Adv Meenakshi Telgote, Deputy Vanita Dandekar Estate: Chairperson Rajendra Sonkusre, Deputy Nishant Gandhi Health: Chairman: Mahesh Mahajan, Deputy: Vikram Gwalbanshi Sports: Chairman: Pramod Tabhane, Deputy: Lakahan Yerawar Women & children welfare: Chairman: Divya Dhurde, Deputy Archana Pathak Fire and electric: Chairman Dipak Chowdhary, deputy Kishore Wankhede||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-sweeps-subject-committees-polls/articleshow/81281041.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Nod to give Mohali civil hospital land for private facility||Chandigarh: Conceding the request of Max Healthcare Group, the Punjab cabinet gave its nod to transfer 0.92 acre land of health department to 200-bed Max hospital, Mohali, for upgradation of their health services by adding 100 more beds. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the cabinet has taken this decision subject to certain conditions imposed by the finance department. The health and family welfare department has entered into a concession agreement with Max Healthcare to transfer the said land of Civil Hospital, Mohali. In addition to Rs 389.57 lakh on account of upfront fee of this land, the government would also get an additional revenue i.e. 5 % of the gross revenue, which would be generated by the Max with the addition of 100 beds. “Amid the pandemic, the healthcare scenario has taken a turn towards private participation and support towards addressing the management and treatment of Covid-19 patients” said n official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nod-to-give-mohali-civil-hospital-land-for-private-facility/articleshow/81283393.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Long queues and heated exchanges as seniors line up in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Though the inoculation window was open for a few hours, the elderly and their family members came out in large numbers to get the Covid-19 vaccine shot on the first day of the fresh round of the mega-drive. Vaccination sites saw a heavy rush and long waiting time. As the process was not streamlined, some heated exchanges took place at several sites. However, the nodal medical officers argued that the overall process would improve within the next couple of days. While the vaccination drive at 136 private and 56 government hospitals was scheduled to start at noon, many senior citizens started arriving several hours before. At Max Hospital in Saket, people started queuing up for registration around 9am. Six waiting rooms had been set up and queues of 15-20 people could be seen at the registration counter. Dr Sahar Qureshi, medical superintendent, said, “Small problems are encountered when a new process starts. After a day or two, it will be much better. We have the capacity to immunise 600 people daily.” Many elderly people were confused about co-morbidities like kidney problems and heart-related issues, besides the registration process. At Qutub Institutional Area, Dr VGR Shastry, medical superintendent at Medeor Institute of Emergency Medicine, said, “We are insisting on a certificate of co-morbid condition from a DMC-appointed doctor.” Despite the capacity of 200 vaccinations daily, the number remained low on the first day due to glitches. Similar scenes were seen at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital with the staff pleading with the elderly to wait for their turn and maintain social distancing. Amar Lal (73), who got vaccinated along with his wife Pushpa Sukhramani, said the vaccine would help them live without worrying much about getting infected. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) in east Delhi, many senior citizens reached there as early as 8am. They queued up for the walk-in provision and got themselves registered. “They were vaccinated after registration and verification of documents,” said an official. Brij Bihari Lal Sharma (74), who reached early at RGSSH, said, “As I’m undergoing dental treatment, I have to visit the clinic every month. I have undergone more than 10 RT-PCR tests in the past one year. I’m relieved after taking the first jab of the vaccine.” Dr HN Sharma (67) and his wife, Karuna Sharma (62), a retired officer, took the first jab of vaccine, while their daughter, Dr Aditi Acharya, got the second dose on Monday at Metro Hospital and Cancer Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/long-queues-and-heated-exchanges-as-seniors-line-up/articleshow/81284139.cms||Paras Singh
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Stolen newborn rescued in Rajasthan, 2 women arrested; 2 at large||UDAIPUR: Dungarpur police on Monday arrested a childless woman and her mother for stealing a four-day-old baby from the government hospital on Sunday. The childless woman’s husband and brother, who were involved in the conspiracy, are currently at large and police teams have been deployed to nab them, Dungarpur SP Sudhir Joshi said. Jyoti Mochi had delivered on February 24 and two days later, the newborn was shifted to the critical care unit after he was diagnosed with jaundice. Accused Neeru, wife of Dinesh Gameti, took away the baby from critical care unit, when no one was around. However, her luck ran out as she was spotted by the cameras. The baby was rescued from Tallaiya village, some 30km from the district headquarters, from the accused’s home on Monday evening. “The baby is healthy and has been handed safely to his mother Jyoti who is under medical observation. Based on the CCTV camera footage from the hospital, the woman was identified as Neeru, a resident of Bhatwada, and married to Dinesh Gameti of Tallaiya in Bichhiwada. Ten teams had been constituted that held intense searches at several places and managed to locate Neeru. We found the baby from her custody,” Joshi said. Neeru was married in 2013 but the couple didnt have any children. Neeru had attempted twice on earlier occasions to steal babies from the hospital, but she succeeded this time. Her mother Ramila, husband Dinesh and brother Yogesh too helped her in the conspiracy. Yogesh drove her to the hospital on Sunday and soon Neeru found a chance to lift a baby from the NICU, the brother-sister duo fled from the spot with the infant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stolen-newborn-rescued-2-women-arrested-2-at-large/articleshow/81281029.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: When doctors stood witness to confessions of dying men||HYDERABAD: What is a dying man’s last wish? Doctors at Hyderabad’s Gandhi Hospital got unique insight into this painful aspect of the Covid-19 pandemic which completed one year on Tuesday. It was on March 2, 2020, that Telangana had recorded its first Covid-19 case. With Gandhi Hospital becoming the nodal healthcare facility in Telangana for the pandemic, doctors here were witness to many of the nearly 2,000 deaths in the state. Before dying many of the patients confessed to the doctors their fears and disappointments and also expressed their last wishes which the doctors tried to fulfil, sometimes unsuccessfully. In fact, a yearning to correct a wrong they had done to loves ones often occupied their minds on the deathbed. A 45-year-old patient who knew death was awaiting him told his doctor he had not spoken to his brother in 10 years after a tiff over property. “The night before he died, he confessed that he had done wrong by misappropriating property and wanted to hand over a portion to his brother. He requested me to find his brother, but we were unable to trace him despite all efforts,” said Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent Gandhi hospital, adding that he had shed tears almost every day during the pandemic. Another young couple which parted ways on a bitter note last year, lay in two different isolation wards in different cities, one dying and wanting to find the other. “The patient had felt it was his mistake and had ignored all attempts for a reconciliation. He wept bitterly requesting us to find his partner and let her know his feelings. He died before he could tell us how,” said a post-graduate doctor who heard the confession. He had also been requested by a few to help them slip out of the hospital to meet their families one last time. Most confessions circled around property, money transactions, sharing of responsibilities, ego clashes and ‘wrongdoings’ that were not specified. There were other last wishes too, which included their favourite food and even a sip of their favourite tipple. “A VIP patient, who never adjusted to the facilities in a government hospital, requested for exotic dishes that he was used to at parties and was craving for these after having plain food,” said Dr Ajay Kumar Joopaka, assistant professor of psychiatry. He added that for some who wanted to meet their families, the doctors made video calls. But during the end stages a few could not recognise their own families as they had developed psychosis and were away from reality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-confessions-when-gandhi-docs-stood-witness/articleshow/81284146.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Stalled projects on the table as ridge board back after a yr||New Delhi: Ridge Management Board (RMB), which last met over a year ago, has been reconstituted. It is now set to meet on March 5 to take a look at several development proposals that were halted over the last one year, including Phase-IV of the Delhi metro, which is to pass through parts of the Delhi ridge.Two independent expert members have been appointed by the board who will be taking part in the meeting on Friday, which also aims to tackle issues and proposals on better conservation of Delhi’s ridge areas. The expert members are Sohail Madan, centre manager at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary and part of Bombay Natural History Society, and Vivek Menon, chief executive manager at Wildlife Trust of India.The board had last met in February 2020 when its tenure was officially set to expire the next month. It tried holding a meeting in September 2020 but it was opposed by its then independent expert members— Sunita Narain, director-general of environment NGO Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), and Vimlendu Jha, executive director of NGO Swechha. The two argued that since their term had finished, not only was the meeting being held without following proper rules but also that their opinions would not be legally binding.The meeting was subsequently cancelled, leaving proposals such as the construction of the campus of Indian Institute of Foreign Trade in Maidangarhi village, a skill centre and a skill university in Jaunapur, a lab complex and a storage-cum residential complex to wait longer. The DMRC is among those waiting for approval from the board to carry out construction in the southern ridge, the central ridge and parts of the morphological ridge as part of Phase-IV of the Delhi metro expansion.Among other issues, which were to be discussed, included prohibition of barbed wire in ridge areas and how to ensure availability of water for wild animals.“Fresh agenda has been prepared and all members have been asked to meet on Friday at 4.30pm. We will take a look at all construction-related proposals, which plan to use ridge land, as well as proposals to protect the ridge better,” said an official of the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stalled-projects-on-the-table-as-ridge-board-back-after-a-yr/articleshow/81284143.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Dates in March elude thousands, many get centre far from home||As thousands logged on to Co-WIN on Monday morning, they were surprised to see appointments for all of March were booked for many centres. Many were also in for a rude shock when the nearest venue shown was far from their homes. In Thane, some were given options nearly 40km away, report Sumitra Deb Roy & Manoj Badgeri. Goregaon resident S B Rao’s son could log on to the Co-WIN website around 11am after making attempts since 7am on Monday. But he was repeatedly told all slots were booked for the entire month. “As Nesco jumbo centre in Goregaon is closer to us, we tried to book there, but there were no slots available for March,” said Rao. They landed up at the centre to try their luck at on-spot registration. Rao managed to get his name registered, but couldn’t get vaccinated despite waiting for over three hours. Rao’s son later tried to reschedule his appointment and found a slot open for Tuesday at SevenHills in Marol. Rao said two of his friends got appointments for March 28 and April 4. Similarly, Surendra Menon, a south Mumbai resident, couldn’t get an appointment before March 29. “That’s when a friend told me that he managed to get registered on-spot at the BKC jumbo centre and even got the vaccine under an hour,” he said. Two other friends got appointments at KEM Hospital next week. Mahesh Vijapurkar, 72, a Thane resident, said he was given centre options in Ambernath. “I was unable to register as they were far away. I tried the helpline, but it was futile,” he said. Surendra Bhatia tried opting for private facilities but couldn’t get the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dates-in-march-elude-thousands-many-get-centre-far-from-home/articleshow/81283439.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Delhi||RWAs go door to door to get seniors registered for C-vax||New Delhi: With the exercise to vaccinate senior citizens and those in the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities having started on Monday, residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in the city have also got into action.They circulated the messages from the district magistrates’ offices, organised door-to-door visits to help senior citizens register themselves on the Co-Win portal, assisted in resolving technical glitches in filling information and even arranged transport facilities at some places.Looking at the maddening rush and confusion at nearby private hospitals on Day 1, some RWAs have requested subdivisional magistrates to fix slots or timings for each neighbourhood. Hardeep Singh, president of Sainik Farm RWAs, said 50-60% of the residents in the area were senior citizens. “We aggressively forwarded the step-by-step guideline for registration and the list of private and government hospitals. But most of them returned from a nearby private hospital disappointed because there was a long queue,” he said. “This is a risky situation for senior citizens who are vulnerable to catching infection.”The area SDM has been requested to “either assign slots for our area on certain days or make some vaccination arrangement at a nearby hospital/dispensary in coordination with us”, said Singh.At Navjiwan Vihar, RWA members started door-to-door visit of the residents who had approached them for help in filling information on the portal.“We have 120-130 families with senior citizens and some of them are living alone. Many of them are not tech-savvy. Around 50 have approached us and we have got a day slot on March 28 at Max Hospital Saket after request, so that everyone can go conveniently,” said Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjiwan Vihar RWA. Many people have volunteered to take them to the hospital, she added. Meetings were organised on Sunday in some areas by Delhi government officials with RWAs to spread the message. It was told that walk-ins and on-site registration will also be allowed after 3pm only if vaccines are available.“An online meeting with the district magistrate was attended by 40-50 people from different neighbourhoods. Soon we circulated the guidelines but some residents were still facing technical glitches regarding generating password and uploading information,” said Sanjay Rana, president of GK-II RWA. The authority has promised to set up a technical team to help us, he added. “We are also trying to create our own team to resolve such issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-go-door-to-door-to-get-seniors-registered-for-c-vax/articleshow/81284147.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 2, 2021||Pune||Vax sale in open market unlikely till priority group is covered: Officials||Pune: The government is unlikely to allow the sale of Covid-19 vaccines in the open market till the 30-crore priority population is covered to avoid any confusion even if the manufacturers submit data to the drug authorities for full authorisation in March-April.Senior epidemiologist from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Samiran Panda said the government wanted to complete all the phases of vaccination before regulating the price, as had been indicated in the meetings. “The main aim of the government is to scale up the vaccination in the priority population as of now. The vaccines will be made available in the market only after this phase,” he told TOI.Panda said considering the simultaneous phases of vaccination, enough vaccines should be available. The production, too, should be factored in before allowing the sale of vaccines in the open market.While private sector is keen that the government allows the sale of vaccine in the open market with price regulation considering the slow rate of vaccination in the country, central health officials want to consider all the options before making it available in the open market.“After the manufacturers of the two vaccine companies submit the data to the drug control authorities, there will be data assessment. Even if the complete authorisation is given, the government would be keen to first finish the vaccination drive for the priority population covering 30 crore people before rolling it out in the market,” Panda said, citing the opinion of the vaccine groups and health officials in several meetings.Niti Aayog’s member (health) Dr VK Paul told TOI that the objective right now for the government was to inoculate the priority population, comprising those above-60 and above 45 years with co-morbidities. “The vaccine stockpile of both Covishield and Covaxin would be used for this group apart from the healthcare and frontline workers.”He said they were hoping that soon Sputnik and Cadila Zydus vaccines would also receive emergency authorisation.Senior health officials said both the vaccines being used varied in supply because of the difference in the manufacturing capacity of the firms. “The supply for the vaccination programme for the healthcare and frontline workers was also variable as the government has more doses of one vaccine as against the other,” said an official.The vaccines manufacturers, it has been learnt, are willing to scale up the production. According to sources, both the manufacturers have committed to scale up the production in the coming months with 14.24 million doses administered till the end of February.Serum Institute of India (SII) has already supplied 48.3 million doses of Covishield to the government. In March, its production would be around 50 to 60 million doses. From April, the company would scale it up to 100 million doses per month. Bharat Biotech also stated in a statement to scale up the production of Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vax-sale-in-open-market-unlikely-till-priority-group-is-covered-officials/articleshow/81281055.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||AAP MLAs ride bicycles to assembly to highlight Capt’s ‘false promises’||Chandigarh: To protest against Congress government’s false promises, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) rode bicycles from the MLAs’ hostel to the Punjab assembly on the first day of the budget session. “It has been four years to the promises being made and we have reached the final budget session of Congress’s term, but the promises made by chief minister Amarinder Singh remain unfulfilled,” said leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema. Cheema said from drugs to farm loan-waiver and from post-matric scholarship to the Shagun scheme, Congress had failed in fulfilling any of its promises. He added, “Captain Amarinder had promised the people of Punjab before the assembly elections in 2017 to end mafia rule, waive all debts of farmers, eradicate drugs from Punjab in four weeks, give jobs to the unemployed and other big promises were made; but, as soon as Captain came to power, he forgot everything. He neglected the people and betrayed them.” “Congress party leaders are busy fighting amongst themselves for the CM’s seat. This is absolutely shameful,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-mlas-ride-bicycles-to-assembly-to-highlight-capts-false-promises/articleshow/81283400.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Auto driver fined for not wearing mask; assaults cop||PUNE: The Bund Garden police arrested an autorickshaw driver on the charge of slapping and kicking a police constable at the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus stop near the city railway station on Sunday night when the latter asked him to pay Rs500 in fine for not wearing a face cover in public place. Altafur Rehman Altaf Shaikh (47) drove away in his auto-rickshaw after assaulting constable Tanaji Adake. He was traced on the basis of his vehicle registration number and related details and arrested from his residence at Yerawada during the early hours of Monday. Adake and other policemen were on a patrolling round when he spotted Shaikh moving around without a mask near the bus stop, soliciting passengers willing to travel to Yerawada. When Adake asked him to pay the fine, Shaikh started arguing. Shaikh then slapped and kicked the constable and sped away in his three-wheeler, the police said. The police added that Adake had suffered minor bruises in the attack. The police said they registered a case under the sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code against the autorickshaw driver for the attack on the constable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auto-driver-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-assaults-cop/articleshow/81281071.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||‘Maharashtra just has 45 lakh doses, Centre should release more’||PUNE: The “controlled” release of vaccine doses by the Centre will slow down the Covid vaccination drive in Maharashtra, health officials have said. The state now aims to cover an estimated one crore citizens who are part of the new phase, those aged 60 and above and people over 45 with comorbidities. This group is also being covered simultaneously, along with healthcare and frontline workers. However, the state currently has only 44.74 lakh doses of both Covishield and Covaxin. Dr Subhash Salunke, the state technical expert on Covid, said for the vaccination drive to be scaled up across government and private hospitals, supply of doses must be streamlined. “We want to scale up sessions in the coming one week," Dr Salunke said, adding that the Centre should, at least of the new phase, stop “controlling” disbursement of doses. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said they have been asked to scale up the drive from March 7, after the soft launch on March 1. A senior state government official said some private hospitals that are not empanelled under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana have been asked to discontinue the vaccination drive, which he said was a major setback for the state. "These private hospitals were doing good work and have trained manpower. Moreover, people who were vaccinated at these sites will now have to be called to other sites for their second dose. This move was completely unnecessary and will only cause more delays," Dr Vyas said. State immunisation officer Dr DN Patil said the Centre has to ensure doses are dispatched in a timely manner. “As of now, we have 39.84 lakh doses of Covishield and 4.08 lakh doses of Covaxin. We should be getting more in the coming days," he said. The state IMA president Dr Avinash Bhondwe said the government’s move to de-list private facilities that are not empanelled is a hiccup. “Private facilities that had the space and trained staff were unnecessarily asked to discontinue. In Pune, Poona Hospital, Sahyadri and Joshi hospital have had to discontinue vaccine drives after the new circular."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-just-has-45-lakh-doses-centre-should-release-more/articleshow/81281064.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Assembly pays tributes to farmers who died during stir||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday led the legislative assembly in paying tributes to farmers and farm labourers who died during the ongoing agitation against central agri-marketing laws, freedom fighters and political personalities, besides Covid warriors, who had passed away since the last session of the assembly. On the first day of the budget session, the House also remembered former Union minister Buta Singh, former ministers Mahinder Singh Gill, Major Singh Uboke, Bal Mukand Sharma, Satpal Gosain and Satwant Kaur Sandhu, former deputy minister joint Punjab Chandrawati and ex-MLA Brij Lal Goyal. The House also paid homage to legendary Punjabi singer Sardul Sikander, devotional singer Narinder Chanchal and journalist Satbir Singh Dardi tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/assembly-pays-tributes-to-farmers-who-died-during-stir/articleshow/81283399.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Above normal temperatures likely to continue in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Monday predicted that the maximum temperatures, which were settling above normal, will continue to remain stable for the next few days. However, mild rain activity is expected in four hill districts – Chamoli, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh — of Uttarakhand on March 3 and 4. The maximum temperature in Dehradun on Monday was recorded at 27.7 degree Celsius, four notches below normal, while the minimum temperature settled at 9.6 degree Celsius, the Met office said. According to Rohit Thapliyal, senior meteorologist of the regional meteorological centre, "Dry weather will prevail across Uttarakhand on Tuesday as well. However, a feeble western disturbance is approaching and might result in light showers in the hill districts on March 4 and 5." Thapliyal added that the maximum temperatures in both hills and plains will settle above normal level and the night temperatures will hover around normal level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/above-normal-temperatures-likely-to-continue-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/81279760.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 2, 2021||Vadodara||Post-poll violence: 36 held in Vadodara||Vadodara: Vadodara rural police arrested 36 people on Monday for post-poll rioting at Desar and Waghodiya talukas on Sunday night. In Desar taluka, a mob of 34 had pelted stones at police and damaged security vehicles after polling ended. Police said that a group had started bursting crackers right outside the polling station which was prohibited as per the district collector’s notification. “When our staff members ordered them to stop bursting crackers and not crowd near the booth, a few of them were infuriated and manhandled our staff,” said sub-inspector R B Vaghela of Desar police station. Soon the situation escalated and the mob started pelting stones. The cop said that 19 people were nabbed on Monday. The situation was worse than Desar in Waghodiya, as police were forced to lob tear gas shells to disperse the crowd at Tarasva village. An independent candidate Saraswati Parmar’s husband Mahesh made allegations after the election that the EVM was changed by the election commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/post-poll-violence-36-held-in-vadodara/articleshow/81278549.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Sainik School alumnus is eastern naval head||Lucknow: Monday was a proud moment for Uttar Pradesh as Vice-Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, who hails from Gonda, became the first alumnus of Sainik school to take over as the flag officer commanding-in-chief (FOC-in-C) of eastern naval command. He took the charge from Vice-Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, PVSM, AVSM, VSM, at a ceremonial parade held at naval base Visakhapatnam. Commissioned on July 1, 1983, Vice-Admiral Singh is an alumnus of National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla. Prior to NDA, he joined Lucknow based Sainik School on July 1, 1974, and left in 1979 after completing intermediate. Interestingly, prior to him Vice-Admiral Ganesh Mahadevan and Vice-Admiral Paras Nath are also the alumni of UP Sainik School, but Vice-Admiral AB Singh is first FOC-in-C from UP. According to the Navy, he has commanded Indian naval ships Veer (missile vessel), Vindhyagiri (frigate), Trishul (guided missile frigate) and Viraat (aircraft carrier). Born on July 2, 1963, the officer had served the Navy for 38 years and held several positions such as navigation and direction specialist. He also has rich operational experience of operation Pawan in Sri Lanka and operation Parakram on the western seaboard as the fleet navigating officer of western fleet. He has been the Chief of Staff at Western Naval Command during the period of intense operation activity in early 2019. He has commanded the Eastern Fleet and is familiar with the peculiarities of Eastern Seaboard, and was closely associated with the response to Super Cyclone Hudhud in 2014. The officer has excelled in all professional courses in India and abroad and received his first masters from Madras University during the staff course, where he was awarded the Scudder medal. The Flag Officer has also earned a master’s degree in global security from Cranfield University, United Kingdom. As principal director and ACNS (policy & plans) at naval HQ, he was closely associated with promulgation of maritime strategy, transformation and long term capability development plan and Atmanirbhar shipbuilding roadmap of the Indian Navy. The officer has a rich tri-service exposure in jointmanship during the tenures as instructor at NDA and DSSC Wellington, Deputy C-in-C at Strategic Forces Command and Deputy Chief (operations and training) at HQ IDS (prior to assuming Command of the Eastern Naval Command). For his distinguished service, he was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal in 2011 and Ati Vishisht Seva Medal in 2016. The Flag Officer is married to Charu, and the couple have two daughters Ambika and Ajita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sainik-school-alumnus-is-eastern-naval-head/articleshow/81283436.cms||Arvind Chauhan
March 2, 2021||Goa||Goencho Avaaz wants ouster of election commissioner||Panaji: Terming it as an “ill-conceived, dubious and manipulative plan” of the Goa government in deciding reservations and delimitations of wards, Goencho Avaaz hailed the high court order in setting aside the exercise as a “landmark decision” and called for the resignation of the State Election Commission. “This verdict is a clear and decisive slap on the face of the State Election Commission. It is now time for the commissioner to own his responsibility and resign,” Goencho Avaaz general secretary Ninio Correia said. He accused the commission of functioning as a “willing tool of the state government”. “It is extremely distressing that bureaucrats who are appointed to such important and supposedly autonomous positions, should have demeaned and diminished the standing of these statutory offices,” Correia said. “It is a matter of deep shame that the ones appointed to protect and safeguard our democratic ethos are in fact responsible for inflicting irreparable damage to the democratic set up of the state and the country,” he added. This is not the first time that the State Election Commission has acted in such adubious and vested manner, compelling the people of Goa to lose faith in its objectivity and lending substance to the allegations that the Election Commission office, Goencho Avaaz said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goencho-avaaz-wants-ouster-of-election-commissioner/articleshow/81284151.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Two minors detained, youth held for robbery in Kekri town||Ajmer: Two minors were detained and a youth was arrested on Monday for carrying out a robbery using a fake pistol in Kekri town in broad daylight last Friday. The trio was nabbed using the CCTV camera footage in the area. One of the minors had planned the robbery using a fake pistol as he wanted to purchase an expensive motorcycle and the other minor wanted to give a costly gift to his girlfriend. The motorcycle they used in the robbery was also stolen by them.According to police, the youth and one of the minors entered the house of Pradeep Tilyani, a resident of Katla Masjid area of Kekri town. His wife and mother-in-law were in the house. The minor asked them to bring the gold and cash in the house while flashing the fake pistol. The other minor remained with motorcycle all this while. They collected the cash and gold and fled from the scene. After the incident, people expressed anger as the robbery took place in broad daylight in the constituency of health minister Raghu Sharma. Police started looking at CCTV cameras and finally arrested Roshan Nayak (24), a resident of Bijaynagar town of the district, and detained the two minors. Police also seized the motorcycle used in the crime and found that it was also stolen by them. Police also seized the fake pistol they used for robbery. Police said that the three accused are from Bijaynagar and they went to Kekri and rented a room and started planning a big robbery. They found that Pradeep is a businessman and there are two women and one child in the house. Pradeep went away to his shop in the morning and the women were alone in the house. The trio thus planned to carry out the robbery in the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-minors-detained-youth-held-for-robbery-in-kekri-town/articleshow/81281090.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Akali MLAs protest over guv ‘sitting on’ bills||Chandigarh: The SAD legislators on Monday raised “Governor Go Back” slogans, alleging that he had insulted farmers as well as the legislative assembly by not giving assent to the three Bills passed by the House in the last session to reject the central agricultural laws. The Akali MLAs protested against governor V P Singh Badnore outside the legislative assembly when he arrived to deliver his address and also inside the House, forcing him to cut short his address. Later SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia said his party’s protest had exposed the Congress party, which proved that it was hand in glove with the governor as well as the central government. He said the SAD legislators had also appealed to the Congress to launch a joint protest against the governor who had insulted all 115 legislators who had gone to him after the last assembly session to hand over the three Bills rejecting the central laws for assent. “The governor has been sitting on the Bills since then, which is also an insult to Punjabis,” he said. He said people are not foolish and the Congress government should reduce its own taxes on petrol and diesel first. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akali-mlas-protest-over-guv-sitting-on-bills/articleshow/81283432.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Youth Cong leader murder: 1 more arrested||Ajmer: Police on Monday arrested the fourth accused wanted in former youth Congress leader Vikram Sharma murder case from Mathura.Rahul Bhat, 30, had escaped after the crime and police announced a reward of Rs 2,000 on him. There are five more accused wanted in this case and police said a special team is working to arrest them all. Police on Monday declared the arrest of fourth accused Rahul Bhat from Mathura. Before that, police had already arrested Mohit Soni, Chandresh and sharp shooter Sandeep Khotan. Now, Akash Soni, Ravi Mehra, Varun Choudhary, Vishal Kumar and Ajay Singh are still on the run. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-cong-leader-murder-1-more-arrested/articleshow/81281108.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Political leaders from the past turn BJP icons for the present||CHENNAI: On February 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a scathing attack on the Congress at a public meeting in Puducherry. Hours later, he flew down to Coimbatore for another public meeting, where to the surprise of many, was a gigantic cut-out of Congress stalwart K Kamaraj. Next to Kamaraj was AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran. MGR’s cut out, one could presume, was because the AIADMK was an ally of the BJP. But Kamaraj? Read the entire story on TOI+The BJP is banking on past political stalwarts to woo voters||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/political-leaders-from-the-past-turn-bjp-icons-for-the-present/articleshow/81281103.cms||V Mayilvaganan
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||GST fraud occurred in Nagpur, involving an ITC claims of Rs118cr detected||NAGPUR: The directorate general of GST intelligence (DGGSTI) Nagpur zone has unearthed fake input tax credit (ITC) claims to the tune of Rs118.12 crore through allegedly fictitious transactions worth over Rs656 crore. So far, Rs7.27 crore have been recovered on the spot, said a press release issued by the DGGSTI. In last two months, four persons have been arrested for their alleged involvement in such frauds. The agency has come across a number of fictitious firms through which such deals were recorded. The real firms dealing in commodities from steel to spices have been booking fake purchases against the name of such shell companies to avail ITC, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gst-fraud-involving-itc-claims-of-rs118cr-detected/articleshow/81281115.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Bareilly||Caught in UP poachers’ wire trap, eight-year-old tiger bleeds to death||BAREILLY: Razor wires put up by poachers to trap wild boar, deer and blue bulls -- nilgai -- for their meat ensnared a full-grown tiger on Sunday night and led to its painful and agonising death in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district, which has already seen at least five big cat killings in the last two years. The region, sources claim, has turned into a hotbed for poachers. In March, 2019, a big cat was killed just 12-km away from the spot where the adult male tiger’s bloodied carcass was recovered on Monday morning. Abutting Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, the district’s lush sugarcane fields have become a refuge for stray tigers. In a recent survey using camera traps, the presence of over 10 tigers was confirmed in the forests of Mohammadi range of social forestry. But it has also exposed them to villagers and poachers amid them. Sources said that the poachers trap and kill wild boar and ‘nilgai’ for their meat which fetches them somewhere between Rs 400 and 500 per kg. Caught in one such trap, the eight-year-old tiger died on Sunday night in Dokarpur village in Mohammadi range. Sources said that the poachers also connect these wires with high-tension lines making it more lethal. Divisional forest officer (DFO) Samir Kumar said, “It was an adult male tiger and must be above 8 years of age. It appears that the blade wires were placed to hunt a wild animal by professional people. We have also recovered the body of a wild boar from the spot. “A few suspects, including the owner of the field, have been identified. They will be arrested soon. We are collecting more information through our sources to ensure everyone involved in the crime is nabbed. There was an injury around the tiger’s neck which is possibly due to its struggle with the blade wires. The carcass has been sent for autopsy at Indian Veterinary Research Institute (ICAR-IVRI) Bareilly and the details are awaited.” A three-member team has been formed to inquire into the matter, the DFO said. A local told TOI, “Poaching is rampant in the area. And the forest officials had caught people in the past but they released them due to unknown reasons. The people who make complaints against corrupt officials are threatened of dire actions.” On February 14, two poachers were arrested with the skin of a tiger which was killed inside Dudhwa forests. In August 2020, an adult tigress had died after going hungry and thirsty for 10 days as a plastic wire was coiled around its neck and it was neither able to hunt or drink water in Jatpura beat of Mailani range. A tiger caught in a snare had died in Shivpuri village in March 2020 while a tigress was poisoned and its body fished out of a canal in the social forestry region on July 10, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/caught-in-poachers-wire-traps-tiger-bleeds-to-death-in-ups-lakhimpur-kheri-5th-such-death-in-2-years-in-region/articleshow/81277981.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||HC quizzes Telangana cops on lawyers’ murder||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday sought to know from the police authorities investigating and supervising the February 17 murders of lawyer couple — Gattu Vaman Rao and PV Nagamani — as to why they did not get the statements of the four accused recorded by a judicial magistrate till now. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy shot this poser to advocate general BS Prasad after going through the sealed cover status report furnished by him indicating the progress of the investigation. “Your report says that the four arrested accused confessed to committing the crime. Police recorded their confession statements under section 161 of CrPC. The same can be fortified by getting them recorded by a judicial magistrate because the statements of confession given to police do not carry any sanctity before a court of law,” the bench said. A confession recorded by cops in the police station is recorded under section 161 of CrPC, while the same statement recorded by a judicial magistrate is done under section 164 of CrPC. When Prasad said the practice in vogue here is to get statements of witnesses recorded by the magistrate and not the accused, the judges wanted to know whether they made any such effort in the first place. “Did the accused refuse to give the statements before a magistrate,” they wondered. The AG, after consulting the investigation officer who was also present before the virtual court assisting the state counsel, said that they have identified two eyewitnesses and a request was made to the judicial first class magistrate at Manthani to spare time to record the statements of the two eyewitnesses. “March 4 was allotted to us and we will be getting their first-hand accounts recorded,” the state counsel explained. Responding to the persistent questions on recording the statements of the accused under section 164 of CrPC, the AG said that he would obtain instructions on this aspect and sought time to do so. The judges sought an updated status report on this from the AG and also on whether police were taking adequate steps to provide security to the eyewitnesses. They also sought to know from the government and police whether they made any last-minute attempt to record the statement of Vaman Rao while shifting him in an ambulance to the hospital. “It could have been done by requesting the local MRO or some official who was readily available,” they said. In the sealed cover report, it was said that CCTV footage pertained to the one extracted from CCTVs installed near Manthani court. The couple was heading towards Peddapalli on the fateful day they were hacked to death while returning from Manthani court. “But there was no footage pertaining to the murder spot as there are no CCTVs installed there. A person video-recorded the crime and also the last words of Vaman Rao who had named an accused in the video,” the AG said and added that the state had made him an important witness (No. 2) in the case. “We secured all the electronic and physical evidence. Our efforts to trace some more incriminating evidence is still on,” he said. The AG further said they listed the bus conductor, some passengers and bystanders as they happened to be eyewitnesses. At this the judges sought an updated status report by March 15 and adjourned the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-quizzes-t-cops-on-lawyers-murder/articleshow/81284152.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Pune in Feb saw lowest Covid toll in 10 months||Pune: The city in February recorded the least Covid-19 deaths in 10 months. The toll was 89, the lowest it has been since May last year (229 deaths), data released by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) showed. It also means that deaths in February, despite a recent surge in cases, have fallen by 47% compared to December, and by 33% compared to January. Incidentally, February, January 2021 and December 2020 (in that order) have had the lowest number of Covid deaths since last May. The district’s overall case fatality rate (CFR) has also reduced from 0.7% to 0.6% — it’s now the lowest in four weeks. Officials and experts TOI spoke to said the dip in the toll shows how treatment and awareness have improved over the months. Sanjeev Wavare, the assistant medical officer of the PMC said, “Covid treatment has evolved. Diagnosis and treatment are now being done well in time.” Epidemiologist Dr Amitav Banerjee said fatalities, instead of the number of cases, are a more accurate measure of how the pandemic is behaving. He said, “The Covid death rate in Pune, and India, has been relatively low, which is a good sign. Even by conservative estimates — that about 30 crore Indians may have encountered the virus so far (going by serosurveys) — the CFR seems to be low. If we take cumulative deaths from Covid as little over 1.5 lakh and denominator as 30 crore infected, the infection fatality rate comes to 0.05%. Our young population seems to be cushioning the pandemic’s impact.” Dr Banerjee said the advantage of having a low number of overweight people in the population (the West has three times the prevalence of overweight people than Asian and African countries), seems to be giving Asian and African countries an edge. “The rise in cases is a natural phenomenon of community transmission, which cannot be prevented by restrictive measures as evidenced by widespread antibody prevalence in the country,” he said.  Pune-based critical care expert Dr Subhal Dixit, said, “Early treatment is vital to reducing fatalities, which is now happening in a majority of the cases. That said, there are still many people who refuse to do a swab test despite having cold, bodyache and fever. If anyone experiences these symptoms, it’s best to do an RT-PCR test to rule out Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-in-feb-saw-lowest-covid-toll-in-10-months/articleshow/81281102.cms||Neha Madaan
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Water cannons open at SAD’s ‘Punjab Mangda Jawab’ rally||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) functionaries faced water cannons and courted arrest during their ‘Punjab Mangda Jawab’ rally at Sector 25 rally ground here on the opening day of the Punjab legislative assembly budget session on Monday. They demanded Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s reply on the Congress government’s “unfulfilled promises”. While addressing the rally, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced a ‘Lok Lehar’ against the Congress government in the state from March 12 to hold rallies in all 117 assembly constituencies of Punjab. He said after forming the government, the SAD would not implement the three agricultural laws in Punjab, would reduce urban power bills by half, give free education to scheduled caste and backward class students, provide minimum support price (MSP) on vegetables and fruits, and ensure cemented roads, drains, and potable water in all 12,000 villages of the state. The former deputy CM said that Capt Amarinder had not only insulted the people but also the holy Gutka Sahib by taking a false oath that he would implement a complete farm loan waiver once voted to power, besides a host of other promises. He said other unfulfilled promises included eradicating drugs within four weeks, ensuring jobs to each household, giving unemployment allowance of Rs 2,500, increasing the old age pension to Rs 2,500 per month and increasing the Shagun outlay to Rs 51,000, besides providing free houses to the homeless. Over 1,500 farmers had committed suicide in despair even as the state government had failed to give them the promised Rs 10 lakh compensation and government job, he alleged. “Old age pension of five lakh families has been scrapped even as blue cards of six lakh aata-daal beneficiaries have been struck off the rolls,” claimed Sukhbir. He said the Congress government has hiked power tariff by more than 30% and even increased state share of VAT on petroleum products phenomenally. The Ferozepur MP claimed the SAD was responsible for establishing the MSP regime and Parkash Singh Badal was responsible for the establishment of more than 90% of the agricultural mandis in the state. “Besides taking up these issues in the budget session, we will take all these issues to the people through a ‘Lok Lehar’ movement,” he said. Addressing the gathering, SAD’s Prem Singh Chandumajra highlighted how the state government had admitted in answer to a written question that recovery (kurki) proceedings had been initiated against three lakh farmers. Another Akali Balwinder Singh Bhunder alleged that the Congress government had destroyed the future of coming generations by allowing “house-to-house distribution of drugs”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/water-cannons-open-at-sads-punjab-mangda-jawab-rally/articleshow/81283426.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Healthcare worker starts morning with shot, registers marriage in the afternoon||Pune: Monday was a busy day for the Anjikar family. Their daughter Jasmira’s marriage had to be registered in the afternoon before they dashed off to Aurangabad for the wedding ceremony the day after. But their morning started with another commitment. Jasmira was due for the second dose of Covaxin at the Aundh District Hospital. She is a healthcare worker at a private hospital and was determined to go for her vaccination on March 1. Her parents are also healthcare workers and all three were due for their second shots. “I feel content, confident, and relieved now as my parents and I have taken both the doses of the vaccine. My wedding ceremony can go on as planned without any worries. It is a low-key event in Aurangabad,” she told TOI. Jasmira knew the vaccine dose dates and that of her marriage registration would clash, but she was committed to getting her shot before tying the knot. “Healthcare workers have been working tirelessly for a year now, and we know the importance of vaccination. Many of our colleagues or the patients ask us about the vaccine, and we recommend that they get vaccinated for the larger good,” she said. Her father Devendra said they never feared or doubted the vaccine and were firm about getting the shots. Waiting for his turn at Aundh District Hospital, he said, “We have a lot on our plate today, but getting inoculated tops the list for all of us.” Jasmira’s mother Vaishali said, “Every eligible beneficiary must get vaccinated without any hesitation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/healthcare-worker-starts-morning-with-shot-registers-marriage-in-the-afternoon/articleshow/81281131.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Mines dept stays mining auction in Mundoti||Jaipur: Mines department has stayed e-auctions in 11 granite blocks in Mundoti under Nallu panchayat in Ajmer. But e-auctions will start from March for three days for the rest of the 314 blocks.After concerns were raised by the panchayat of Nallu that mining will affect the pasture land in the area, the mines department took the decision.“Even though the auctioning of the revenue land was done within the parameters of the law, we are sensitive to the concerns of the local community. That why we are staying the auctions and will do a further assessment,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, department of mines and petroleum.Taking up the villagers’ case, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) had written to the principal secretary, mines, to spare the revenue land in Mundoti from mining as it would affect the pasture land used by cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mines-dept-stays-mining-auction-in-mundoti/articleshow/81281151.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: ‘Cutting 3,500 trees at Ajni instead of 7,000 is not environment conservation’||NAGPUR: Raising strong objection to the latest proposal of building just the inter-modal station (IMS) at Ajni, city environmentalists have analysed that the step would still cause massive environmental loss to the city. “Cutting 3,500 trees instead of 7,000 is not environment conservation,” they said. Amid rising opposition to the IMS project at Ajni, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has submitted a fresh proposal to Central Railway, stating that schools, residential quarters, offices and other buildings will be rehabilitated at another site to save trees. TOI recently reported NHAI’s decision to revise the plan, which was recently announced by Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari at a press meet in the city. For phase-1 of the project, 44.5 acre have been handed over to the Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA). In a proposal submitted to Central Railways, NHAI requested the latter to provide its CONCOR depot land at Ajni for constructing utilities including schools, hospitals, residential quarters etc that have to be relocated. The IMS itself is planned on 44-acre lush green area at Ajni. According to environment activists, at least 3,500-4,000 trees will have to be cut for the same. “This will still be a huge loss to city’s green cover and a thriving biodiversity habitat,” said environmentalist Jaydeep Das. A presentation prepared by NHAI, that was accessed by activists through internal sources, reveals that multi-phased projects might come up at Ajni, in a total area of about 490 acres. This includes IMS phase 1 and 2, and central business district phase 1 and 2. While NHAI officials have not given any confirmation about the other phases, activists fear they might come up. “Who knows if after constructing IMS 1 on the 44-acre land, policymakers might bring other projects, eventually destroying the entire green lungs,” added Das. Stating that NHAI’s decision will lead to both heritage and environmental loss, environment activist Anasuya Kale Chhabrani said, “Once destroyed, you won’t be able to build heritage structures back or grow a tree in a day. Moreover, the city’s water table will also suffer as the age-old trees hold groundwater.” Activists have demanded that the entire project should be shifted to Khapri. “It will be a win-win situation in all aspects — the move will improve Mihan and industrial area at Butibori. It won’t cause congestion and pollution in the heart of the city,” added Kale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cutting-3500-trees-at-ajni-instead-of-7000-is-not-env-conservation/articleshow/81281158.cms||Manka Behl
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: They staked lives, but firemen not on vaccination priority list||NEW DELHI: From sanitising Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid at Nizamuddin and Okhla Mandi to rescuing Covid-19 patients from a hospital during a blaze, firemen put in their best efforts during the pandemic. However, they are an aggrieved lot as Delhi government has not included them in the list of frontline workers for the vaccination programme. A senior fire officer said that the home department had asked them to submit a list, but none of their personnel had been vaccinated so far. “We rescued people from burning houses, saved animals, carried out fire checks and sanitised healthcare facilities, but we have not been vaccinated. Police, home guards, civil defence volunteers and now even civilians are getting the shots, but we have not been counted as frontline workers. During the pandemic, over 270 of our personnel even contracted the virus. They all are demotivated and asking why they are not being inoculated,” added the officer. From March 23 to December 31, the fire department received 20,020 calls. The current strength of the department is 2,423 of which 270 personnel contracted the coronavirus while at work. A firefighter, who was a part of the team sanitising various centres and hospitals, said, “It took us a week working in shifts to sanitise the entire Alami Markaz. We had to wear PPE kits for long hours. We even sanitised vegetable markets and Covid care centres at Jangpura, Bakkarwala, among others. If we are not frontline workers, then who are? All of us feel demotivated.” Over 100 people were rescued by the firemen. “At a time when people feared coming close to each other, we rescued eight Covid patients from a hospital in south Delhi after a fire broke out there without caring for our lives. Vaccination has opened even for senior citizens and those with comorbidities, but none of us have been vaccinated so far,” said another officer. When the vaccination programme was yet to begin, the fire officers had submitted a list to the home department. Recently, when they sent a query about vaccination, it was conveyed that they were not being counted as frontline workers. Despite repeated attempts by TOI, Delhi government did not respond to queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/they-staked-lives-but-firemen-not-on-vax-priority-list/articleshow/81284157.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Sharp drop in new cases, recoveries more than fresh infections in PMR||Pune: There was a nearly 50% drop in daily cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Monday, as 865 new cases were detected. Also on Monday, 876 patients were discharged. This was the first time in several days that the number of recoveries were more than the daily cases. The drop in new cases was reported owing to reduced sample testing last weekend. As per a report by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar, 8,565 tests were conducted in the region as against over 12,000 sample testing reported on Sunday. The region’s total sample testing reached 23.27 lakh on Monday evening. Altogether 406 patients tested positive in the PMC limits, 253 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 206 in rural areas. Among the discharges, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 415 recoveries, while Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas reported 292 and 169 discharges, respectively. The region’s total positive caseload reached 4.08 lakh, while discharges increased to 3.89 lakh. The region reported 13 deaths on Monday due to infection, including eight in Pimpri Chinchwad. Four patients succumbed in the PMC limits, while one patient died in rural areas. The death tally in PMR increased to 9,253, including 5,028 in the PMC limits. Meanwhile, the region’s tally of active patients increased to 10,345 on Monday evening, of whom 6,189 are in home isolation and 4,156 patients being treated at various hospitals. The PMC had 4,903 active patients, the highest in the region. The Pimpri Chinchwad reported 3,423 active cases on Monday evening, while the tally of patients in rural areas was 2019. A report released by the PMC's health department stated that 262 patients were in a critical stage and wer being treated at various hospitals, while 594 patients were on oxygen support on Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sharp-drop-in-new-cases-recoveries-more-than-fresh-infections-in-pmr/articleshow/81281147.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Around 9,000 trees lost to wildfires in two districts of U'khand since Oct||Dehradun: Uttarakhand has already lost 8,700 trees and 492 hectares of forest land with a total of 415 forest fire cases recorded, so far, since October. Surprisingly, 6,100 trees were lost under the jurisdiction of Alaknanda Soil Conservation, Gopeshwar Forest division in Chamoli district alone, followed by Almora district where 2,600 trees were reduced to ash, 1,600 in Almora forest division and 1,000 in Civil Soyam Almora Divisional Forest Office. While around 30 hectare of plantation conducted by the forest department has been destroyed. DFO of Alaknanda Soil Conservation, Gopeshwar, Sarvesh Kumar Dubey, told TOI, “It was last three years of plantation which caught fire, not exactly trees,” With 150 forest fire cases and loss of 177 hectare forest land, Pauri Garhwal district has emerged as most susceptible. This is followed by loss of 75.5 hectare forest cover in Almora district in 51 cases. And then by Bageshwar district where 60.7 hectares of forest cover left gutted in 38 cases followed by Uttarkashi district with 44.25 hectare burnt in 61 cases, while 38 hectares in Pithoragarh in 27 cases. These fires largely impact the habitat of small creatures such as butterflies, snakes and other insects while leaving the larger ones like deer and leopards vulnerable to hunting and poaching. Man Singh, nodal officer forest fires in Uttarakhand forest department, told TOI, “Fortunately, in our country the wildfires aren’t as devastating as the West as we have groundfires, not crown fires. In Uttarakhand, too, the fires are not so devastating, till date. It is usually under control. Under CM’s order all the departments are working together.” Sensing the severity of wildfires in Uttarakhand this year due to dry weather and loads of pine on the forest floor, the additional secretary of forest department, Neha Verma, has written to all the district magistrates to ensure that firefighting, manpower and emergency services are all ready. The state has already suffered losses to the tune of Rs 19.50 lakh while over 2,500 people from forest department and others have been deployed to douse the blaze - all part of a combined exercise. Four persons have been killed in the blaze and two forest staff injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/around-9000-trees-lost-to-wildfires-in-two-districts-of-ukhand-since-oct/articleshow/81279830.cms||Shivani Azad
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Bed-ridden folks left high and dry, there’s no plan for them yet||Amit Bhandari, 72, who got vaccinated at Nesco Goregaon on Monday, said he had a major dilemma. His wife, bed-ridden since she suffered from a spine injury two years ago, cannot come to the vaccination centre, leave alone stand in queue to take the shot. “I would strongly urge the government to think about those who cannot come here to get vaccinated. They do deserve vaccine protection like everybody else,” he told Sumitra Deb Roy. S Rao, another Goregaon resident, shared a similar concern about his maternal uncle and aunt. “They are in their mid- and late-80s. Both are too fragile to come to a vaccination centre where hundreds are jostling to get their names registered. In fact, since I don’t have a solution, I haven’t even discussed the topic of vaccination and that the drive has started,” he said. Suresh Kabra said they were in a quandary about a friend’s wife who has recently undergone knee surgery. “We have somehow got an appointment for her in SevenHills Hospital on Tuesday but we are not sure how to bring her all the way from Malad,” he said, adding that they may consider waiting for more centres to open near their house. A senior state official said the issue of bed-ridden patients has not been discussed yet. “Probably after the initial rush, we may look into it,” he said. Physician Dr Jalil Parkar, who consults with Lilavati Hospital, said he believes everybody should get vaccinated. “However, it may be safer to take the vaccine in a hospital setting as they are equipped to handle any reactions better,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bed-ridden-folks-left-high-and-dry-theres-no-plan-for-them-yet/articleshow/81283452.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chennai||Scholar who made Tamils rediscover their backyard||By Somalay SomasundramLong before the pandemic made us realise the importance of travel and the internet offered us respite with photographs and information for our next vacation, words were the only window to the world. Although popular in western countries, travelogues were a nascent stage genre in the country in the early 1950s. And one of the pioneers in the field was Somalay (pen name for Soma Lakshmanan) who with his descriptions could transport his readers to lands unknown. Born on February 11, 1921, in Nerkuppai, a village in Sivaganga district, Somalay's tryst with travel began with a family business trip to Burma in 1947-48. On his return, he was inspired by A K Chettiar’s travel books and embarked on a 40,000-mile tour of Europe, Australia, the US and the Far East during 1948-49.Although family business was the primary reason for his global tour, Somalay was more interested in learning about different countries, people and cultures. Upon his return to India, he recollected the impact of global travel on him and said, "I went as a businessman and returned as a travel writer."His career as a travelogue writer began with his travel articles in Tamil magazines such as ‘Sakthi’, ‘Hanuman’, ‘Paarijatham’ and ‘Kalaikadir’. Those contributions lead to his first book ‘Naan Kanda Velinattu Katchigal’ (The Scenes I Saw Abroad) published in 1949. The curiosity of Tamils about foreign lands and Somalay’s affable writing style resulted in three editions of his first book in just two years. When Somalay described his arrival in the US in 1948 by the famous ship ‘Queen Elizabeth’, it was like the reader’s American dream came true. Thousands of Tamils saw America through his book ‘Amerikavai Paar’. Eminent Tamil author M S Udhayamoorthy recalls that it was Somalay’s book that inspired him to visit the US. His exploits in Australia and Africa gave a peek into the cultures of those continents. His eye for indigenous lifestyles were apparent when he wrote separate books on the less-known countries like Ethiopia, Nigeria, Sudan and Ghana as part of his Africa series.Impressed by Somalay’s unique penmanship and extensive knowledge, fellow travelogue writer Sa Visvanathan, editor of the erstwhile popular Tamil weekly ‘Dinamani Kadir’, invited Somalay to write. But instead of his explorations abroad, Visvanathan asked him to rediscover places closer to home, writing about the states and Union territories of India. Those weekly features published in 1971-72 were a big hit among Tamil readership and are now available as ‘Imayam Mudal Kumari Varai’ (Himalayas to Kanyakumari). Delving deeper than the geographic marvels of a place, Somalay’s book recounted the folklore, history and culture of the various parts of India, which makes them relevant till today. Senior Tamil scholar Avvai Natarajan, who also served in the government over several decades, says Somalay’s books on the districts of Tamil Nadu became the source of information for developing the state government’s district gazetteers.The writings inspired to look inwards, says vice-chancellor of Tamil Nadu MGR Medical University Sudha Seshayyan. "As I was brought up in Chennai, I was eager to learn about the city’s history and culture and was attracted to Somalay’s ‘Chengarpattu Mavattam’ which has a wealth of information about the city and its surrounding areas," she says. The writer and thinker’s contributions transcend beyond his trailblazing work in travel literature to other fields such as folklore, tourism, journalism, biographical literature, and religion. His ‘Folklore of Tamil Nadu’, provides a comprehensive picture of the folk heritage of the state.His premier contribution on modern Tamil writing ‘Valarum Tamil’ is a pioneering study of the development of Tamil prose in the 19th and 20th centuries. S P Thinnappan, emeritus professor at the National University of Singapore says the ‘Valarum Tamil’ was a source to promote Tamil through Singapore Radio’s programmes in the island country.Somalay compiled about20 Kumbabishekam (temple consecration) volumes on major temples in India ranging from Kasi (Varanasi) to Rameswaram. His research acumen and unbiased documentation of facts made him a sought-after editor for such official souvenirs and his works have been produced as evidence in the courts to retrieve properties belonging totemples and mutts.Over the next four decades, until his death in 1986, Somalay wrote about 100 books, most of which are travelogues on Tamil Nadu’s districts, India’s various states and different countries of the world. He was also considered an authority on Chettinad heritage and his 716-page research volume, ‘Chettinadum Senthamilum’ continues to be an encyclopedia about the region. Some of Somalay’s books are available at Paari Nilayam, Manivasagar Pathipagam and Vanathai Pathipagam. Efforts by the state government to nationalise reprint and digitalise his works would be a fitting tribute to this legendary Tamil scholar on his birth centenary.(The author is Somalay’s son, an agricultural scientist in the US)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/scholar-who-made-tamils-rediscover-their-backyard/articleshow/81281174.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Bareilly||Man, 24, shoots self, frames sister’s boyfriend in a bid to separate them||Pilibhit: A 24-year-old man allegedly shot himself in a leg with a country-made pistol and levelled the charges on the boyfriend of her 21-year-old sister in an attempt to separate them as the girl's marriage was fixed somewhere else. Following the complaint, police booked three people, including the boyfriend, on Sunday night and arrested the trio on Monday morning. During the probe, said police, they found that the girl’s brother had injured himself after firing a shot from a country-made pistol and levelled the charges on the boyfriend of his sister, who was adamant on marrying her boyfriend, even as her family had fixed her marriage somewhere else. The accused hatched a conspiracy in an attempt to separate the lovebirds, said police. According to police sources, the girl’s family — agriculturist — is not ready to accept the girl’s boyfriend because he is a barber. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said, “Action will be taken against the injured and his father under IPC section 182 (giving false information to a public servant in order to cause him to use his lawful power to the injury or annoyance of any person).” Divulging details, Gajraula police station SHO JP Singh said police had booked three people, including the girl’s boyfriend, hailing from Bithaura Kalan village under sections 307 (attempt to kill) and 323 (causing hurt) of IPC for opening fires at the girl’s brother on Sunday evening following a written complaint lodged by the girl’s father. The trio was arrested on Monday morning, said the SHO. However, during the investigation, police came to know that one of the accused named by the girl’s father was in a relationship with his daughter, but the father-son duo had fixed her marriage somewhere else against her wishes, and as the girl was adamant on marrying her boyfriend, they hatched a conspiracy to frame the youth, said the SHO. The SHO added that as the inquiry found the three detainees innocent, they were immediately released from custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-24-shoots-self-frames-sisters-boyfriend-in-a-bid-to-separate-them/articleshow/81277991.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Man and 11-year-old grandson drown in Jaisalmer water tank||Jaisalmer: An 11-year-old boy and his grandfather, who tried to save him, drowned in a water tank in Nokh police station area of Jaisalmer district.The incident took place on Sunday late evening and the family members cremated the bodies without informing the police, who have initiated an investigation.Nokh SHO Mohammad Hanif said a farmer family at 3BM minor of IGNP was working on the farm on Sunday night when 11-year-old Rahul Singh stepped into the tank to drink water and slipped into it. On hearing his screams, his grandfather Koop Singh, 55, entered the water tank, but he, too, did not know swimming and both drowned. On getting information, villagers took them out in 10-15 minutes, but by then both had died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-and-11-year-old-grandson-drown-in-jaisalmer-water-tank/articleshow/81281172.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Rly Board moots plan to keep new AC-3 tier coach fare low||Lucknow: Buoyed by the initial trial results of the 83 berths AC coach, the Railway Board has mooted a proposal to keep its fare lower than the existing AC-3 tier coaches. According to senior railway officials, “Considering the increase in accommodating passengers in newly developed coach, it has been decided to keep the fare lower than AC-3 tier but higher than the sleeper coach.” On Monday, railway ministry shared a video clip of the coach oscillation trial which was conducted at 180 kmph on Kota-Sawai Madhopur section in loaded condition. The 83 berths coach has been designed and developed by Research Design and Standards Organisation (RDSO), Lucknow, and Kapurthala Coach Factory. Its trials started last month. The coach has been developed on Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) platform. Rajesh Dutt Bajpai, executive director information and public relations, railways, said, “The coach has been designed for capacity of 83 berths instead of existing 72 berths. The electronic circuit has been shifted beneath the coach which gave the engineers extra space to accomodate more berths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rly-board-moots-plan-to-keep-new-ac-3-tier-coach-fare-low/articleshow/81283444.cms||Arvind Chauhan
March 2, 2021||Pune||Registrar’s prior opinion binding for raid: Court||Pune: A sessions court here held that a prior opinion of the registrar of trademarks and copyrights is binding before any search and seizure by police in a case of infringement of trademark. Also, investigation into such cases has to be carried out by a deputy superintendent of police (DySP) or an equivalent rank officer, the court said while granting an ad interim anticipatory bail to five partners, directors and office-bearers of a Phursungi-based cookware appliance maker and distributor. Based on information given by a corporate investigation services provider from Mumbai, the social security cell of the crime branch on February 19 raided a shop in Shukrawar Peth and a godown at Phursungi and seized “fake” pressure cookers worth Rs17lakh allegedly carrying a logo and wrapper very similar to a popular pressure cooker brand. An FIR was registered with the Faraskhana police under the Trademarks Act and the Copyrights Act and the applicants apprehended their arrests as some of these provisions were non-bailable offences. Their lawyers, Monish Jain and Ranjit Patil, argued the action was not in line with the mandate given by section 115 (4) of the Trademarks Act, 1999. Among other things, the same provide for investigation by a DySP or equivalent rank officer and prior opinion from the registrar of trademarks and copyrights, they said. Judge P R Ashturkar upheld these contentions in the light of some Bombay High Court judgments and observed on February 26 that the police raid could not have been carried out by an officer of the rank of an inspector. Besides, the goods were already seized and infringement of trademark, if any, can be verified by documents. As such, there was no need for custodial interrogation, the judge held. “The very mandatory requirements are not complied, in view of case laws cited ... at this stage applicants are entitled for interim protection,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/registrars-prior-opinion-binding-for-raid-court/articleshow/81279818.cms||Vishwas Kothari
March 2, 2021||Pune||Two 18-year-olds held on charge of murdering man in Alandi||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday claimed to have cracked a murder, which happened in Alandi on February 23, with the arrest of two 18-year-old youths. The youths, who had robbery cases against their names when they were minors, allegedly bludgeoned 30-year-old Mahadev Khandare of Talegaon Dabhade to death after he resisted their robbery bid. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said, “Khandare too had police record — he was arrested in a murder case. He was in jail and was released on temporary bail due to the coronavirus pandemic.”The commissioner said Khandare’s body was found near Indrayani Ghat in Alandi on February 23. He was brutally assaulted. An Alandi police team, led by senior inspector Dnyaneshwar Sable, managed to establish his identity with the help of a cellphone number found in the victim’s jacket. “The victim was asked to report to the Talegaon Dabhade police station every month. He, however, did not follow that,” Prakash said.The commissioner said police constable Balasaheb Khedekar received a tip-off about two youths who were regular visitors to Indrayani Ghat during the night. “We took the youths into custody. During questioning, the duo admitted their involvement in the murder and revealed that they had tried to rob Khandare and when he resisted, bludgeoned him to death,” Prakash said. The youths told police another accomplice was involved and is on the run. Prakash said some ghats in Alandi do not have proper lighting. “We will ask the authorities to install proper lighting and CCTV coverage on the ghats. We have also told our personnel to carry search lights with them in police vans during night patrolling,” the commissioner further said.This was the second such incident in February. An unidentified man, around 35 years of age, was found bludgeoned to death at the foothills of Ghoradeshwar hill, near Talegaon Dabhade. The body was discovered by a morning walker behind the cricket stadium in Gahunje. There were no identifying marks on the man, except for a tattoo on his hand that read, “Rajesh Pal”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-18-year-olds-held-on-charge-of-murdering-man-in-alandi/articleshow/81279826.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Delhi||UP govt signs pact with Noida airport||New Delhi: The Uttar Pradesh government signed a state support agreement (SSA) in Lucknow with Noida International Airport (NIA) on Monday. The state will support to establish and continuously improve surface access to the airport, establish and expand basic utilities, maintain law and order, and grant necessary clearances to build and operate the facility.Noida International Airport Ltd (NIAL) CEO Arunvir Singh said the SSA “is a step further towards the development of a truly world-class airport in UP”. The airport will bring more job opportunities in the state, he added.Airport CEO Christoph Schnellmann said the SSA “is a significant milestone and a testament of the strong and growing partnership between NIA and the state government...We are delighted to see the government’s strong commitment...with the early development of the metro extension from Greater Noida to NIA terminal, the integration of an airport terminal station for the upcoming Delhi-Varanasi high-speed rail link, as well as the link highway to Delhi-Mumbai Expressway”.On the difference between two entities, an official said, “The brand name is Noida International Airport (NIA), being developed by Yamuna International Airport Private Limited. NIAL is the implementing agency on behalf of the UP government.” NIA aims to become India’s first zero-emission airport and is planning to generate and consume renewable energy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/up-govt-signs-pact-with-noida-airport/articleshow/81284161.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||One detained in robbery case||Pune: A 42-year-old man from Thane was detained for questioning in connection with robbery of a gold chain worth Rs58,000 from a jewellery shop in Bhosari on Sunday afternoon. “We have tracked him with the help of footage from cCTV cameras. We are questioning him,” said an officer from the Bhosari police. Jeweller Paresh Khandelwal (35) has lodged a first infomration report with the Bhosari police. Chain snatched at Nigdi A gold chain, worth Rs45,000, was snatched from a 72-year-old woman at Nigdi Pradhikaran around 7.45pm on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-detained-in-robbery-case/articleshow/81279834.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Baby ditched, woman names wrong daughter as its mother in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In a case full of twists and turns, Kheda police filed a complaint against a woman and her 15-year-old daughter for falsely stating that she had been raped and gave birth to an unwanted baby which they later abandoned. The complaint was filed on February 27, after cops were shocked to find that the DNA test of the abandoned child revealed that the minor in question was not the mother of the baby. The man, who allegedly raped the girl, was confirmed to be the father of the child. The case pertains to an incident where an abandoned baby was found at a secluded spot at a village in Kapadwanj taluka of Kheda district. Police got involved and the preliminary probe took the cops to a 40-year old woman who was the mother of two daughters. She was supposed to have taken a pregnant girl to a midwife for delivery. Cops questioned the woman who confessed that a 19-year-old man named Rasik Solanki from Kapadwanj had lured her younger daughter, raped her and got her pregnant. The 15-year-old girl also told the cops that she had given birth to a child. A complaint was filed against Solanki under the charges of rape and offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The cops also sent samples of Solanki, the child and the 15-year-old girl to establish the paternity of the child. A charge sheet was filed against Solanki on February 15. The DNA report which came on February 26, however had a surprise. The 15-year-old girl was not the mother. The cops were back to square one. Eyewitnesses reiterated that the woman had come to a midwife with a young girl. Cops went back to the woman and questioned her. She broke down and stated that her elder daughter who is 16 and a half, had become pregnant with Solanki’s child. The elder daughter had been adopted by the woman’s brother and she did not want the incident to disgrace her brother. So when the cops found the abandoned child, she cooked up the story of her 15-year-old daughter being the mother of the child she had abandoned, to protect the elder daughter and her marriage prospects. “The woman stated that she had named the 15-year-old as the mother in a desperate attempt to shield her elder daughter. We had a medical check-up done on the minor but it was inconclusive. We then decided on the DNA test,” said H C Jhala, police inspector of Kapadwanj town. Police have filed complaints under IPC Section 182 (false statement before a magistrate), 211 (false charge of offence with intent to hurt) and 203 (false information).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/baby-ditched-woman-names-wrong-daughter-as-its-mother/articleshow/81281179.cms||Ashish Chauhan
March 2, 2021||Bareilly||Three booked for rape bid on Dalit girl||Pilibhit: Three people of a village under Barkhera police station were booked on Sunday evening for allegedly barging into the house of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in their neighbourhood and attempting to rape her. Police said the accused also thrashed the girl’s younger sister as she intervened. In her complaint to police, the girl alleged that the accused barged into her house around 7.30 pm on February 27 when his father was out at work. The accused abused her and attempted to rape and as her younger sister attempted to rescue her, they thrashed her, alleged the girl. After hearing their screams, locals gathered for help forcing the accused to flee the scene, said the girl, alleging that the accused threatened her of dire consequences. SHO Viresh Kumar said the accused were booked under sections 452 (house trespass), 354 (applying force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-booked-for-rape-bid-on-dalit-girl/articleshow/81278002.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Central govt team member visits Yavatmal to assess Covid preparedness||Yavatmal: A member of the central government team constituted for overseeing the precautionary measures taken by the district administration to contain the spread of Covid-19 across Yavatmal district visited the city on Monday. Dr Ashish Ranjan held a review meeting in the collector's office, which was attended by the senior officials of departments concerned. The member lauded the efforts of the district administration and urged it to carry out the measures with team work spirit. He said the death rate was steady at 2.7%, though the number of patients continues to be in an upward trend. “It is certainly admirable,” he added. Ranjan, accompanied by the district collector M Devendra Singh, zilla parishad chief executive officer Dr Shreekrishna Panchal, DSP director Dilip Bhujbal Patil, RDC Lalitkumar Warhade, GMC dean Dr Milind Kamble, CS Dr Tarangthushar Warey, DHO Dr Hari Pawar, Yavatmal municipal corporation chief and others, visited the Super Speciality Hospital, Vidarbha Housing Society and Shirey Layout and examined the precautionary measures taken to thwart coronavirus spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-govt-team-member-visits-yavatmal-to-assess-covid-preparedness/articleshow/81277447.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Aurangabad||315 sr citizens & 156 comorbid patients above 45 get jab in Aurangabad city||Aurangabad: Vaccination for citizens started at the civic body-run hospitals in Aurangabad city on Monday and 471 people were given the first dose of the Covid vaccine. Private hospitals are yet to start the inoculation services.Neeta Padalkar, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) health officer, said: “The private hospitals registered for various government schemes will be starting the inoculation services sometime later this week.” She added that the hospitals registered for the implementation of healthcare schemes, either with the state or central government, will be tasked with running the vaccination centres.Speaking about the vaccination drive in the city, Padalkar said 156 people in the 45-59year age group, who have comorbid conditions, have been inoculated on Monday, along with 315 senior citizens.During the day, 70 healthcare workers were also given their first dose and 470 were given their second dose of the vaccine. In addition, 292 frontline workers were also given the vaccine.To encourage more citizens to come forward and take the vaccine jab, former mayor Nandkumar Ghodele as well as former revenue divisional commissioner Purshottam Bhapkar took the shot. Civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said arrangements are being made to ensure that all the eligible people are given the vaccine as per the government schedule.Officials of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) said the vaccination for the senior citizens as well as comorbid patients above the age of 45 years will start there from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/315-sr-citizens-156-comorbid-patients-above-45-get-jab-in-aurangabad-city/articleshow/81281184.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Assagao-Anjuna road work irks locals||Saligao: Assagao locals have raised concerns over the poor condition of the road leading from Assagao to Anjuna, making it extremely difficult for commuters to negotiate through this stretch. The locals said the road had been dug up for laying of underground pipelines under the JICA-funded project, which has resulted in narrowing down of the road and affecting the flow of traffic. Even before the work was taken up by the PWD, the road was ridden with potholes due to poor road quality of roadworks, the locals said. “It’s been nearly two years since the road has been kept in such a condition,” Deepak Naik, a local, said. The residents said that it has been nearly two months since the roads were dug up by the PWD, but the work of repairing the road was not taken up, leaving the stretch with huge craters. “The dust from the dug up road is entering the houses located on the stretch and causing a serious dust pollution issue. The road should have been immediately patched up after the digging was taken up and the necessary work completed,” Nirmala Malvankar, a local, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assagao-anjuna-road-work-irks-locals/articleshow/81283484.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||CM sets up panel to study merger of primary & secondary govt schools||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday formed a committee to look into the feasibility of the integration and merger of the state government’s primary and secondary schools of the state. The committee will study the various aspects of the possible merger and will present its report within 1 month. The committee will comprise education department officials and district magistrates as members. The order was issued by CM's chief personal secretary Vikram Singh Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-sets-up-panel-to-study-merger-of-primary-secondary-govt-schools/articleshow/81279845.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Rs 8,370 crore civic panel’s budget focuses on tax dues, healthcare||PUNE: Civic body standing committee chairperson Hemant Rasane on Monday tabled a Rs8,370 crore budget for the 2021-22 despite poor revenue generation due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The budget is Rs720 crore more than the Rs7,650 crore draft budget presented by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar in the last week of January. Rasane, who had also presented the Rs7,390 crore budget in 2020-2021, has increased this year’s budget by around Rs980 crore. This is the first time that the budget has crossed the Rs8,000-crore mark in the PMC’s history. Rasane said elaborate efforts would be taken to recover the pending taxes to boost the revenue. “The civic body recovered more property tax this year than last year despite the pandemic. Similar efforts will continue the next year. Various schemes will be executed to recover the property tax arrears.” The standing committee chairperson said initiatives such as bringing more properties in the tax ambit would be a key step for increasing the revenue. Some leading municipal corporations, such as the one in Thane, have started various initiatives for the management of civic assets. The PMC will replicate such initiatives. “Many of these initiatives were slated to be initiated in 2020-21, but could not be launched due to the pandemic. Now as the situation is improving, we will consider their implementation,” said Rasane. As per the budget, space on 200 road overbridges will be used for advertising. Publicity rights will be given to the advertising agencies at municipal gardens, flyovers and bridges. The 2020-2021 municipal budget could not be properly executed due to the lack of funds. The civic body had to cut 40% of the proposed civic works following the drop in revenue. All the key income sources, including property tax and building permissions, had suffered. Such a major hike in the civic budget has raised many eyebrows. “Only big numbers have been shown to the people in this budget. Hardly any new revenue sources are found or declared,” said Deepali Dhumal, leader of opposition in PMC. As per the budget, the PMC had Rs3,107 crore from various sources till December 31, 2020. The revenue target for the 2020-21 fiscal was Rs7,390 crore. The PMC had introduced an amnesty scheme for the property tax defaulters and mopped up around Rs490 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-rs-8370-crore-civic-panels-budget-focuses-on-tax-dues-healthcare/articleshow/81281213.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 2, 2021||Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Gun explodes during practice, jawan hurt||A jawan was injured during firing practice of 105mm Indian field guns at Pokhran field firing range on Saturday as the barrel exploded. He was sent to Jodhpur Military Hospital. The trial was stopped after the incident. Earlier too, on October 31 last year, barrel of T-90 tank had exploded during firing practice. Prior to that, on September 13, the barrel of ATAGS gun had exploded. A probe has been ordered. The gun has been made indigenously and can be fired during day and night. It has been designed by Armament Research & Development Establishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gun-explodes-during-practice-jawan-hurt/articleshow/81289324.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Delhi||School shut for a week after student tests positive in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A Delhi government-aided school in Tis Hazari has been shut for a week after a student reportedly tested positive for Covid-19. On Monday, parents protested outside Queen Mary’s School, alleging that the standard operating procedure (SOP) for Covid were not being followed, leading to the infection. A Class XI student tested positive on February 27 as per the reports being circulated on a school group. According to parents, the student had attended school till February 24. School authorities, however, said they were yet to get a hard copy of any report and the parents did not inform the school. Sanjay Solomon, who said he worked at the principal’s office, told TOI, “The parents did not inform the school about the reports. But since other parents had raised concern, the principal decided to close down the school for a week in consultation with the management.” According to a message sent to the students, “The school will remain closed for students of classes IX to XII from March 2 to March 6, 2021. The students will have to submit their corona-negative report to their class teachers of March 8.” Solomon also hinted that the protest by “a few parents” was actually against the offline exams scheduled for classes IX and XI. “The parents had even come on Saturday saying they wanted exams to be held online. There were just a few of them. The guidelines say the exams have to be conducted offline,” he said. However, a parent said, “When our children have already been going to school, why would we have problems in making them sit for the exams?” Their main issue, the parent said, is that the school is not following any Covid SOP. “There is no thermal screening, the social distancing is also not being followed adequately. When we came to the school, nobody checked us or ensured that social distancing was followed.” On Monday, police were called in as a large gathering is prohibited under the Covid protocols. The school has cancelled a practical exam scheduled on Tuesday. “But from March 8, examinations will begin and what will the school change in a week?” asked a parent. “We wonder how many more students had come in contact with the child,” said the worried parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/school-shut-for-a-week-after-student-tests-ve/articleshow/81284163.cms||Shradha Chettri
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur: Gun explodes during practice, jawan hurt||A jawan was injured during firing practice of 105mm Indian field guns at Pokhran field firing range on Saturday as the barrel exploded. He was sent to Jodhpur Military Hospital. The trial was stopped after the incident. Earlier too, on October 31 last year, barrel of T-90 tank had exploded during firing practice. Prior to that, on September 13, the barrel of ATAGS gun had exploded. A probe has been ordered. The gun has been made indigenously and can be fired during day and night. It has been designed by Armament Research & Development Establishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gun-explodes-during-practice-jawan-hurt/articleshow/81281188.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Varanasi’s locomotives for Mozambique||Lucknow: The Indian railway ministry will export the first batch of 3,000 horsepower diesel locomotive engines to Mozambique under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat mission, next week. The engine has been developed by Banaras locomotive works in partnership with a private player. The first cape gauge (1,067 mm) locomotives, built with AC-AC traction system, have a haulage capacity of 2,255 tons at 100 kmph. Of the six locomotives to be given, two will be handed over via virtual inauguration ceremony on March 10, by railway minister Piyush Goyal to his Mozambique counterpart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/varanasis-locomotives-for-mozambique/articleshow/81283450.cms||Arvind Chauhan
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Unidentified man killed in Uppal||Hyderabad: An unidentified man, aged around 40, died after an unknown vehicle hit him near Uppal metro station, around 7:30 am, on Monday. Police suspect it could be a hit-and-run case. Officials did not find any ID proof and have written to HMRL asking for CCTV footage. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unidentified-man-killed-in-uppal/articleshow/81281201.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Tanavade: SC will decide on reservation of wards||Panaji: Declining to comment on the order of the high court of Bombay at Goa setting aside the reservation of wards in five municipalities, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Monday said that whatever the government has done in terms of reservation of wards is correct, but if the high court says it is wrong then the matter would be decided by the Supreme Court. He also sought to pass the buck of the municipal wards reservation on the officers of the directorate of municipal administration (DMA). “The state government has challenged the high court order in the Supreme Court, and that is the reason I will not comment on whether it is a right or wrong decision with regard to the reservation of wards,” said Tanawade speaking to TOI. “Reservation of wards is done by the officers at the municipal administration, and not by the government,” he said. When asked if BJP is demanding action against the officers for the anomalies in the reservation of wards, Tanavade said, “We cannot make this demand. We have to wait for the apex court’s decision.” Tanavade said that whatever is the decision, it will have no bearing on the party. The state BJP president also said that BJP is ready to face elections with new reservations, and that the party is confident of winning polls in all 12 municipalities, including the Corporation of the City of Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tanavade-sc-will-decide-on-reservation-of-wards/articleshow/81284167.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Major agri land survey to begin in July||Ahmedabad: A major agricultural land survey will be initiated by the state government across Gujarat between July and September this year. A notification in this regard has been issued by the state revenue department on February 24. The overall survey will be conducted in three parts. In the first part of the survey this year, revenue officials across all districts will collect data on number of marginal, small, medium, and rich land-holding farmers. This will also include primary categories of SC and ST and men and women. In the second part to be initiated between July and September 2022, the survey will collect data on land use, irrigarion status, whether the land is leasehold or rented and cropping patterns. In the third and final round between July and September 2023, revenue officials will collect data on type of fertilisers used, seeds preferred for farming, crop rotation patterns, along with the size of house, age and education qualification of the farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/major-agri-land-survey-to-begin-in-july/articleshow/81281221.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Vax drive for senior citizens starts at 13 centres in Amravati||Amravati: Covid-19 vaccination drive for senior citizens began at 13 centres in the district on Monday. Sixty-five years old Vinod Vitonde was the first to get the shot at Irwin Hospital, where 68-year-old Dr Kamlesh Bangad and his 62-year-old wife Sunita also took the vaccine. “Getting vaccine against coronavirus is a big achievement. It is safe. All are going to get it,” said Dr Bangad, who urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in view of growing cases. Covid-19 vaccination began at nursing school centre of District General Hospital, PDMC Hospital and Dental College in city besides Achalpur, Chandur Bazar, Anjangaon Surji, Bhatkuli, Chandur Railway, Daryapur, Dharni, Moshi, Warud and Teosa. Covishield vaccine is available at these centres, while Covaxin is available at one of the booths at District General Hospital, said district vaccination officer Dr Deepak Karanjikar. Senior citizens can register themselves on portal cowin.gov.in or they can approach a Setu centre, said district health officer Dr Dilip Ranmale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vax-drive-for-senior-citizens-starts-at-13-centres-in-amravati/articleshow/81277454.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Medicine shops reopen in Ayodhya on admin’s appeal||Ayodhya: A day after TOI report of chemists’ ongoing strike in Ayodhya posing risk to patients in the holy town, the district administration intervened and convinced owners of medicine stores to open their shops on Monday, thereby bringing relief to people. Locals had been facing trouble in procuring medicine as chemist stores had been closed for three consecutive days due to strike called by Ayodhya Chemists’ Association alleging harassment by drug inspector . Drug Inspector P C Rastogi told TOI, “All the medicine shops are now open and medicines are easily available, though they have not formally called off the strike yet. The chemists association went on strike on Friday alleging harassment and demand for bribe by drug inspector P C Rastogi. Anuj Jain, owner of a medical store, said, “Today, we have opened our shops on the request of local administration. Our association will take a call on formal announcement on the strike is still in dilemma.” Rastogi said, “All the allegations against me are false and no evidence was produced before higher authorities regarding allegations against me that I harassed any drug dealer or demanded bribe. Moreover, the drug inspector has no authority to issue or cancel licence, the provision of renewal has been abolished by central government in 2017 and only retention fees has to be deposited as the licences are auto-renewed and the entire process is now online and paperless. Chemists’ association president Avi Anand said, “We opened the medicine shops today on local administration’s request and will decide our further action soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/medicine-shops-reopen-in-ayodhya-on-admins-appeal/articleshow/81283453.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Colleges reopen, average turnout recorded on Day 1||Dehradun: Degree colleges and universities reopened for all students in Uttarakhand after a gap of almost a year. Dehradun’s prominent colleges like DAV PG, DBS, SGRR and MKP College witnessed an "average" turnout. While Covid protocols were in place, student leaders said that enforcing social distancing will be tough and the government should instead inoculate students for free. Private colleges claimed that the turnout was up to their expectations, considering 70-80% are out-station students. “The day 1 response was satisfactory. Students are aware that offline classes are a necessity. Some of the subjects cannot be taught online. The attendance won’t be high, especially when compared to colleges as we have a lot of students who are from other states,” said GS Warne, secretary of the Association of Self-Financed Colleges of Uttarakhand. Though the turn-up was around 40%, observers said that the number of first year undergraduate students who came for classes was quite decent. Many, however, stuck to taking online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/colleges-reopen-average-turnout-recorded-on-day-1/articleshow/81279861.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Animal sacrifice case: Ex-MLA backs SHO||Kota: Former BJP MLA Bhawani Singh Rajawat on Monday came out in support of the SHO at Deoli-Manji police station of Kota district, who was suspended last week over an alleged sacrifice of goat at a family function at his native village in Baran district.Rajput community has been performing sacrifices of goats for generations and it is not a crime, Rajawat said and demanded revocation of suspension of the SHO in a memorandum submitted to Kota district collector on Monday while warning an intensive agitation by the community in case the suspension is not revoked.On the receipt of preliminary inquiry, a report was submitted by a DySP into the 54-second video of a man sacrificing a goat which was uploaded on a twitter handle. People associated with various animal welfare organisations had claimed the man in the video was Bhanwar Singh, SHO Deoli-Manji police station, of Kota district. SP Kota Rural Sharad Choudhary on Friday suspended the SHO with an order to file a charge-sheet.“People from other communities openly make sacrifices of goats, buffalos on eid and even sacrifice camel in Tonk, which is not considered as crime,” Rajawat questioned if only sacrifice by Rajput community is crime. Sacrifices are performed at temples of the goddess across the country and will continue, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/animal-sacrifice-case-ex-mla-backs-sho/articleshow/81281225.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: KMDA plans stability test for two old bridges||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has initiated the process to engage agencies for doing a structural condition tests and preparing DPRs for repair and retrofitting works of the Kidderpore steel bridge over Tolly Nullah and Alipore’s Dhana Dhanyo Setu. Both bridges had been built several years ago and have not been properly supervised. “Apparently the structural condition of the two bridges seem to be alright but a thorough test including load capacity is needed to see if there has been any deterioration in its condition or whether its load bearing capacity has diminished or not,” said a KMDA official. KMDA have completed load capacity test of several bridges in the first two phases, and both these bridges will undergo the test in the third phase. The Kidderpore bridge is a steel structure similar to Chetla Lock gate and Chitpore bridge which have both incurred damages. KMDA has also decided to dismantle Chetla Lock gate bridge and will reconstruct it at a nearby position. Same is the plan for Chitpore bridge. KMDA is also preparing the detail project report (DPR) for replacing the damaged joint bearings of Aurobindo Setu that links Ultadanga with Gouribari crossing. The bridge that was constructed nearly 50 years back has been found to have diminished load bearing capacity. Repair work of Kalighat setu will also start soon with the authorities presently doing the technical evaluation of the bids submitted by interested agencies to take up the work. KMDA is also on the process to engage agencies for taking up major repair work of Baghajatin ROB and a span of Ultadanga flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-plans-stability-test-for-two-old-bridges/articleshow/81279884.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Man held for beating wife to death in Jhalawar||KOTA: Jhalawar Rural police on Sunday night arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly beating his wife to death at his house in Poli village under Eklera police station. The woman, who was brought to Jhalawar district hospital on Saturday night in critical condition after she was brutally beaten by her husband in an inebriated state earlier in the evening, died during treatment on Sunday morning. Police arrested Rakesh Meena, a resident of Poli village on Sunday night for allegedly beating his wife Vimlabai, 31, to death after parents of the deceased woman lodged a case of murder against Meena, Eklera SHO Laxman Singh told TOI. A scuffle reportedly erupted between the husband and wife on Saturday evening and the accused in an inebriated condition thrashed his wife severely. Police lodged a case of murder under Section 302 of IPC against Meena, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-held-for-beating-wife-to-death-in-jhalawar/articleshow/81281220.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||PMC proposes cancer cure centre, ICUs in its hospitals||PUNE: Standing committee chairperson Hemant Rasane on Monday proposed steps in the civic body’s 2021-22 budget to improve health infrastructure and announced the Nanaji Deshmukh cancer hospital, intensive care units at five PMC-run hospitals and allocation of Rs146 crore for the proposed medical college and super speciality and urology centre at another health hub. Rasane said, “The civic body faced a huge challenge due to Covid-19 in the past one year. We also felt the need to further improve health facilities in the city. Accordingly, we included various plans in the budget for the coming fiscal.” He said there was no dedicated hospital for cancer treatment in the city and five districts in western Maharashtra. “The civic body has sought proposals to set up one such facility. It is likely to comeup on a 10,000 sq mtr area in Warje or Baner. An international agency working in the health sector has extended cooperation to the project,” Rasane said. A new public health scheme, Aarogya Vardhan Project, has been proposed for the residents by implementing preventive measures. About 10 lakh citizens are expected to benefit from the project to be implemented jointly by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), social groups and citizens. Rasane said Rs10 crore has been set aside to tackle the outbreak of Covid-19. Two cardiac ambulances will be added to the fleet to ensure timely medical assistance to the critical patients. The administration was readying the infrastructure to tackle over 1,90,00 active Covid-19 cases. Health activist Abhijit More said the PMC should ensure optimum utilization of the existing infrastructure and the hospital that were closed. “Before announcing b=new scheme, The administration must fill 700 vacant posts in the health department and focus on the primary care network by starting a ‘mohalla’ clinic for every 20,000 population,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-proposes-cancer-cure-centre-icus-in-its-hosps/articleshow/81281224.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Bareilly||Two accused of murdering carpenter, 35, arrested||Pilibhit: Two murder accused of a 35-year-old carpenter, along with the person who had provided them shelter, on their way to surrender before the court in Pilibhit were arrested by police when they were about to reach the district court campus on Monday. Police said the accused were hiding in the house of the shelter providers’ in-laws in Delhi. Talking to mediapersons, superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said the carpenter — Mohammad Yamin of Naugwan Pakadia village under Sungarhi police station — was shot dead near Karbala on the outskirts of Pilibhit city around 6.30 pm on February 25. “Following the murder, police had booked three people — Imran, Banti and Aman — of Feel Khana locality under Pilibhit kotwali. During the investigation, police came to know that the trio had taken shelter in Delhi at the house of the in-laws of one Azam (25) of Naugwan Pakadia village in Pilibhit. Azam was also booked under section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 212 (harbouring an accused with intention of screening him from legal punishment),” said the SP. Before Pilibhit police could rush to Delhi to arrest the accused, they got information about the accused’s plan to surrender before the court in Pilibhit on Monday. Acting on the information, police raised a barricade on Devha river bridge on Pilibhit-Bareilly road and arrested Banti, Aman and Azam, who were on their way to the court on a bike, said police, adding that the third murder accused, Imran, was yet to be nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-accused-of-murdering-carpenter-35-arrested/articleshow/81278006.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 2, 2021||Trichy||AIADMK launches video to counter charges on bus stand||Trichy: While the DMK and other opposition parties gear up to take on the ruling party for failing to implement the integrated bus terminus project for Karur district even after being in power for a decade, supporters of transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar are circulating an animated video showing a detailed plan of the upcoming bus terminus on social media. The video with Tamil Nadu government emblem shows various facilities proposed at the bus terminus with 61 bus bays apart from four bays for private buses and a commercial complex with 42 shops and restaurants. An announcement was expected on the bus terminus during the recent visit of the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to Karur district, but it didn’t materialise. While senior officials from the transport department distanced themselves from the video, AIADMK IT wing said that the tender for the bus stand was finalised but before it was rolled out, the election was announced. “Supporters of transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar are circulating the videos to create an impression that the bus stand project was mooted during their tenure,” said Pradesh Congress committee member Stiffen Babu. He said the transport minister tried to put temporary sheds at the proposed site to make it a temporary bus stand a few days back, but it was challenged in court by DMK MLA V Senthil Balaji. The bus stand has been a long pending demand from locals, it is most likely to become a poll issue this time. Senthil Balaji had mooted the bus stand project in 2012 when he was the transport minister, at Thirumanilayur village which was 1km from Karur town. After M R Vijayabhaskar became the transport minister, he took the project to Thoranakkalpatti village which was about 5 km from Karur town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-launches-video-to-counter-charges-on-bus-stand/articleshow/81281226.cms||Sampath Kumar
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Man booked for lending bike||Hyderabad: A bike owner was arrested after a person who took his vehicle died in a drunken condition on Monday. Police said the rider was not wearing helmet and that the owner had allowed the other person to use his vehicle in a drunken condition. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-lending-bike/articleshow/81281223.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Congress stages walkout from assembly against govt policies||Gairsain: As soon as governor Baby Rani Maurya started her address in the Uttarakhand assembly in Bhararisain on Monday, leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh got up and expressed her annoyance over government policies. Claiming that the policies and decisions were not in favour of people or the state, she along with the Congress legislators staged a walkout from the assembly. “They have done nothing for unemployment. Apart from following the instructions given by the senior leaders, the BJP government of Uttarakhand has failed to solve the major issues related to the people of the state, therefore there was no point of sitting in the House,” she later said. Deputy leader of opposition Karan Mahra asserted that it was unfortunate for the state that the assembly proceedings rarely had a full business day on Monday. “Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat holds as many as 55 important departments, including health, power and PWD. Monday is a day reserved for CM to answer the questions. The house proceeding started, but it was reserved only for the Governor’s address. When legislators cannot question the CM about the departments held by him, it becomes a tough situation,” said Mahra, who represents Ranikhet constituency. He further added that women safety is a major issue. “On one end, a woman accuses a BJP legislator of being the father of her child and the lawmaker has regularly avoided going to the court and the Director of Culture Department has accused a senior IAS officer of harassment. What is the state government doing on these issues and there is no answer,” Mahra added. Former Speaker Govind Singh Kunjwal said that the party has lined up a number of issues like unemployment, women safety, migration, inflation and also Gairsain, to target the BJP government. “There is no point in declaring Gairsain the summer capital, when you cannot give the status to the area. The summer capital is reduced to an assembly session where the common man is left completely ignored.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/congress-stages-walkout-from-assembly-against-govt-policies/articleshow/81279905.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Last date to apply extended to Mar 10||Hyderabad: Last date for submission of online applications for admission into first year intermediate courses in social welfare residential educational institutions has been extended to March 10, 2021. Visit TSWREIS website for more details. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/last-date-to-apply-extended-to-mar-10/articleshow/81281270.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt amends rules to make liquor shop bidding lucrative||JAIPUR: Fearing lukewarm participation in the bidding for liquor shops that starts from Wednesday, the finance department has amended some rules of the recently announced excise policy for 2021-22 to provide liquidity support to the bidders. Instead of 8% advance annual guarantee fees, the shopowners now have to pay 5%. Similarly, security fees has been reduced to 2% from 4% and will be returned to the shop owners at the end of the financial year. In order to reduce liquidity burden, the department has said the shop owners can deposit 50% of the composite fee after three months and 50% has to be deposited before March 31. There is also relief extended on the guaranteed offtake of liquor. The owners will have the choice to take whichever category of liquor they want for the money paid over the reserved price through bidding. Earlier, the shops were mandated to lift the brands for the extra bidding money proportionately as under the reserve price. However, there has been no relief over the duty. The new policy removed the mandatory increase in sales criteria with guaranteed salesi n the policy for 2021-22. Now, shortfall in off take of the guaranteed quantity will invite a duty of minimum Rs 2,500 per case. “In fact, we had been demanding to remove the penalty for not selling 10% more liquor. In the new policy, the government only increased that burden,” said Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare society. Mewara said the department has received 25,000 applications for the bidding of 7,665 composite shops where bothcountry liquor and IMFLwill be sold. The bidding starts from March 3 and will continue till 10th of the current month. In the last couple of years, the department made as several changes to check slide in excise revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-amends-rules-to-make-liquor-shop-bidding-lucrative/articleshow/81281245.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Six women held, let off later||Hyderabad: After getting a complaint of six women loitering in a suspicious manner, police took them into custody on Monday. They found that they were beggars who had migrated to Hyderabad from Gujarat. The women were later let off. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-women-held-let-off-later/articleshow/81281242.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: ‘One-crop one-produce’ scheme prefers turmeric over tur in Yavatmal, Wardha||NAGPUR: The central government’s Rs10,000 crore, one-crop one-product scheme to boost food industry may not have the right combination for districts like Yavatmal and Wardha. Over 130 crops have been identified for each district in the country. The scheme calls for supporting cultivation and processing of the given crop through subsidy in each of the districts. If farmers form a group of 10, each member will get a subsidy of Rs40,000 as working capital and the subsidy is up to Rs10 lakh for processing units. For Wardha and Yavatmal, the scheme identifies turmeric as the focus crop. However, turmeric is grown in only around 5,000 acre in both the districts. This is despite the famed Waigaon turmeric of Wardha getting a geographical indication (GI) tag. According to estimates, turmeric is grown in around 4,000 acres in Yavatmal and not more than 800 acres in Wardha. The crops were chosen on the basis of recommendation by a committee, which included each district’s guardian minister, collector and officials of state agriculture department. The committee in Wardha and Yavatmal had pushed the case for tur. The central government, however, turned it down and chose turmeric instead, said sources. Sources in the state government said the right crop has been chosen for other district of Vidarbha. Oranges have been identified for Nagpur and Amravati. Its paddy for Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur, guavas for Buldhana, Bengal gram (chana) for Akola and oilseeds, safflower and sunflower for Washim. The agriculture department will have to push hard to increase turmeric production in the two districts, said sources. Tur was rejected because the Centre’s plan was to identify perishable crops which can be processed. Tur is only made into dal, which is a much simpler process, said a source. One of the criterion was presence of micro industries for processing a particular crop in the district. Even by those standards, there are only a handful of powdering units for turmeric, said sources. The state’s agriculture department could get the crop changed for Washim. Instead of Bengal gram (chana), it was changed to oilseed, safflower, sunflower and linseed. In Buldhana, guavas are grown in not more than 1,400 hectares. However, there was a steady increase of 500 hectares a year. The fruits here are sweeter, which can give Buldhana an edge in guava processing, a source said. Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), a government agency on farm crisis, said turmeric has potential as a medicinal crop and the state should support the plan. Lalit Bahale, president of Shetkari Sangathana, said facilitating a particular crop in each district can lead to episodes like the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Such moves can distort demand and supply, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-crop-one-produce-scheme-prefers-turmeric-over-tur-in-yavatmal-wardha/articleshow/81281273.cms||Shishir Arya
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: SBI inter-circle hockey tournamentfrom March 3||LUCKNOW: The State Bank of India, Lucknow circle, will organise the All-India Inter-Circle Hockey tournament at Padma Shri Mohammad Shahid Hockey Stadium, Gomtinagar, from March 3-7. Circle CGM & president (circle welfare committee) Ajay Kumar Khanna hoped that all teams would display sporting spirit and put up their best show. Secretary, CWC, KK Singh said total 10 teams would participate in the tournament. “The teams will be divided into three groups which will play 12 league matches. The semi-final will be played on March 6, while the final will be held on March 7,” he said. The Lucknow circle team comprises of four international players – Arjun Singh Yadav, Dhan Singh, Shailendra Singh and Anil Sharma. Other members of the squad are Shailendra Yadav, CDB Kumar, Ajeet Srivastava, Rajive Tandon, Neeraj Thapa, Nitya Nand Sharma, Mohd Adil Rizvi, Sunil Singh Mahara, Tarkeshwar Chauhan, Vijay Kumar Singh (captain), Joy Chakravarty and Ashish Vishwakarma. The opening ceremony will be organised at 9am on March 3 which will be attended by CGM Ajay Kumar Khanna, secretary (CWC) KK Singh and DGM & circle development officer Chandra Bhushan Kumar Singh. Prize distribution ceremony will be held at Anandi Water Park & Resort, and will be followed by a ‘kavi sammelan’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sbi-inter-circle-hockey-tourney-from-march-3/articleshow/81283483.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘No compelling case to demolish IIM-Ahmedabad dorms’||AHMEDABAD: Why the student dormitories at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) don’t need to be demolished? After architects, conservation experts, Indian and international organizations and academicians, a group of over 350 alumni has tried to address this burning issue that has put the country’s premier B-school in a spot for the past two months. The alumni, largely from the flagship PGP programme, have brushed aside any talks of bringing down these rare structures built by American architect Louis Kahn and have stepped forward to provide pro bono support to catalogue campus-wide issues such as falling ceiling slabs and provide/facilitate urgent repairs to ensure student safety in the near term while options are being reviewed. Some of the alumni members have in fact visited the campus recently to review the situation on ground and get first-hand information about the dorms and other rare structures built Kahn on the campus. While the institute is planning to conduct a third study using services of American architects, the alumni have said they have reached out to top level Indian experts with domain and contextual knowledge who are willing to undertake the same and disclose the full report to the public. “IIM-A must be exemplary in terms of the standards it sets on transparency, especially when it involves heritage that is collectively valued,” according to a letter by the alumni dated February 17 and addressed to the institute’s director. The group has also identified competent and highly respected experts from reputed technological institutions who are willing to study the structural efficacy of the buildings and the way forward to conserve and restore them. This team will evaluate the safety and integrity of the dorm structures as of now and in future both in normal conditions and under seismically stressed conditions. They will also identify the types of damages, the feasibility of repairs to them or otherwise and recommend for each of them specific detailed action plan required for repairs or restoration or any other alternatives, they said. In December, IIM-A had announced its plans for demolishing 14 out of 18 student dormitories citing safety concerns. The board of governors (BoG) for IIM-A put the plans on hold following a huge global outcry over the decision. The board said it will re-evaluate the decision. “We engaged one of the best team of conservation architects – SNK (Somaya & Kalappa Consultants) and restored Dorm 15 and the Library,” mentions the BoG letter. The conservation architects had hired a team from Indian Institute of Technology-Madras for seismic surveys. The view of a third-party structural engineer, whose identity remains unknown so far, is seen as the reason for the decision to demolish the dormitories. The alumni group has suggested that the commitment to retain Dorms 15-18 be extended to protect Dorms 1-14 as well as the deterioration level in them was relatively less. “We understand that there is a concern that D15 does not comply with the new building codes. As we understand, these building codes keep changing (most recently in 2016) but this does not imply that older buildings that do not meet these specifications have to be demolished or else a vast number of buildings, not just heritage buildings, in India may have to go,” the letter mentions. The earthquake in Gujarat in 2001 had an impact on the dorms and other structures, especially the library building. All the dorms were restored in less than a year’s time with an overall expenditure less than Rs 5 crore, said an official in the know of the matter. In an earlier communication, the institute said that the structural consultant of the conservation architect opined that the dorm will resist moderate earthquakes with limited damage but there will be significant damage with severe earthquakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-compelling-case-to-demolish-iim-a-dorms/articleshow/81281269.cms||Maulik Pathak
March 2, 2021||Trichy||Prostitution rackets busted in Srirangam||Trichy: The Trichy city police busted prostitution rackets from a lodge and a house in Srirangam in the last few days. Eight people were arrested. On Sunday, the Srirangam police received a complaint from M Manikandan, 32, a staffer at a lodge in Keezha Chithirai Veethi in Srirangam about prostitution taking place there. Acting on it, a police team visited the lodge and arrested T Geetha, 49 of Keezha Chithirai Veethi and S Socrates of Airport area in Trichy. The prime accused Vimala is yet to be arrested. Police also rescued two women (aged 32 and 30 years) who were subjected to prostitution and handed them over to the government women protective home at Kajamalai. In another incident on Saturday evening, the government hospital (GH) police busted a brothel at a house in Tholkpappiya street in Kumaran Nagar. Based on a complaint, police visited the house and arrested P Rajendran alias Rajesh, 55, of Aravakurichi in Karur, R Ranjitha, 26, of Alangudi in Tiruvarur district, A Palaniyappan, 69, of Pudukottai, T Elamaran, 33, of Kavalkaranpatti in Karur, V Vignesh, 33, of Rettaivaikkal in Trichy and D Shanmugam, 50 of North Tharanallur in Trichy. Three women were rescued and sent to the government women protective home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/prostitution-rackets-busted-in-srirangam/articleshow/81281274.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Man booked after woman alleges sexual exploitation||Pune: A 33-year-old former executive with a private company was booked after his 28-year-old girlfriend accused him of sexual exploitation. The man’s three friends too were booked as the woman accused them of cheating her and intimidating her into not approaching the police. The woman, who hails from Goa, had moved to Pune in 2019 in search of a job. She found employment as a marketing professional in another private firm, an officer from the Khadak police said. She met the man through a common friend, the officer added. “The man left his job as an executive with a private company a few months ago and is now working as a legal adviser. He has not done either his LLB studies or any course related to the legal profession,” the officer said. Police cited the first information report and said the two were in love and had physical relations, following which the woman started asking the man to marry her. In January, the man took her on a trip to Nashik, where they checked into a lodge. The woman alleged that three of his friends arrived at their room, claiming to be plainclothes policemen and conducted a “raid”. The woman alleged that the trio took her documents, like identity proof, PAN and Aadhaar cards and also seized her cellphone. Subsequently, as the man was not committing himself to marrying her, they ramped up pressure on her against approaching the police. “Recently, he agreed to marry her at the marriage registrar’s office near the Mamledar Kacheri on Shivaji Road on February 13. However, when they reached the registrar’s office as decided, the man left her on the pretext of going to the washroom and ran away,” police said. Police said the woman, who was under mental stress, left her job recently and is once again on the search for employment. “The two had already applied for a wedding date on February 13, a day before Valentine’s Day. The woman came to the marriage registration office wearing new clothes and in a happy mood. The man too arrived, but fled the place before the registrar could solemnize the marriage,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-booked-after-woman-alleges-sexual-exploitation/articleshow/81281275.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Pvt security guard robbed of Rs 1,500, two in cop net||Pune: Two persons were arrested on Monday on the charge of robbing Rs1,500 from a private security guard after beating him up at Shivaji Maharaj Chowk on Sunday afternoon. A police team led by assistant inspector C M Borkar took the suspects — Shaliwan Jambhulkar (28) and S Mhaske (24) of Hinjewadi — into custody with the help of the registration number of a motorcycle. The guard, Nitin Mane, had lodged an FIR with the police. Mane told TOI, “I had borrowed the money from my colleague. My wife had told me to buy a lighter for the stove as ours was not working.” He said when he was on his way to buy the lighter around 6.30pm, the two men on a motorcycle dashed him from them rear. “One of them snatched my wallet and also tried to rob my cellphone. I first kept my cellphone in my front pocket and began resisting them,” Mane said. He said, “I had caught hold of the duo. But no one came to my help. The duo then overpowered me and forcibly took me to a fish shop along the road. One of them took the chopper from the shop and threatened me.” Mane said the duo then hit him on his head and attacked him with stones. “I fainted for a while, when the duo drove away on their motorcycle. I had noted down the registration number of the vehicle and informed the Hinjewadi police,” he said. Assistant inspector Borkar said the suspects were local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-security-guard-robbed-of-rs-1500-two-in-cop-net/articleshow/81281261.cms||Mihir Tanksale
March 2, 2021||Pune||PPP formula to complete infra projects||Pune: The civic body has decided to focus more on the public private partnership (PPP) model for completing infrastructure and other development projects. Among these projects are redevelopment of the Mahatma Phule mandai, Tulshibaug, Sarasbaug, Nehru stadium and Mamarao Date printing press.“The development projects cannot be stopped due to want of funds. Keeping this in mind, the PPP model has to be explored. This will reduce the direct expenditure of public funds on development works,” said Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee.  PMC officials said the PPP model had been earlier used in various civic projects using corporate social responsibility funds. Projects related to education and municipal schools have mostly been carried out through this model. An official said the PMC has also developed a few projects on the build, operate and transfer basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ppp-formula-to-complete-infra-projects/articleshow/81281231.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Budget set to focus on health of economy, citizens||NEW DELHI: The budget session of Delhi assembly will begin from March 8 and the budget for 2021-22 is likely to be presented the next day. This decision was taken in a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday. The session will conclude on March 16. The session will begin with the address of the lieutenant governor and Covid norms like social distancing and wearing of masks will be followed throughout. “Delhi assembly budget session to begin on March 8, Monday. Delhi cabinet decided today,” deputy CM Manish Sisodia tweeted. He will be presenting the budget as finance minister for the seventh consecutive year. The outcome budget, which maps the performance and achievements of all departments during the previous financial year, will be presented on the first day of the session, besides the Economic Survey. Last year, Delhi government had passed a Rs 65,000 crore budget, while Rs 50 crore was set aside to deal with the pandemic. The budget for fiscal 2020-2021 was nearly 10% higher than the previous year’s estimates. While the focus of the budget will be on environment and transport, a significant portion may be earmarked for health and education, which have been the priority areas of the AAP government. Infrastructure revamp in unauthorised colonies, providing houses to slum dwellers, 24x7 water supply would be other top priorities. The campaign to switch to electric vehicles being promoted through the EV policy may be one of the highlights. All eyes will be on budget 2021-22 because the first year of the Kejriwal 3.0 government was by and large spent fighting the pandemic. Revenue collection dropped by 42% during this period. Now that the pandemic seems to be waning, the government may shift more resources to development projects. When the pandemic broke out on March 2, 2020, as a preventive move against Covid-19, the AAP government curtailed the session into a one-day affair and passed the budget the same day. It was initially scheduled from March 23 to 27. Preparations for budget 2021-22 began towards the end of last year with all departments working till late each day to prepare the financial document. This was because the pandemic kept most of them engaged most of the year. The drafting of the budget took a little more time. The pandemic badly hit the government’s revenue collection and impacted expenditure on various projects. Also, the government was required to incur expenditure on various welfare projects, like financial assistance to autorickshaw and taxi drivers and construction workers. Budget 2021-22 will also offer an insight into the AAP government’s priorities and development plans for the next few years because the party is preparing to expand beyond Delhi and become a political alternative in other states. AAP would be hard-selling its Delhi governance model in six states, including UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and Gujarat, which go to polls in the next two years. Under AAP, the size of Delhi government’s budget has been growing steadily over the last five years. In 2015-16, it was Rs 41,500 crore, which grew to Rs 46,600 crore in 2016-17, Rs 48,000 crore in 2017-18, Rs 53,000 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 60,000 crore in 2019-2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-budget-set-to-focus-on-health-of-economy-citizens/articleshow/81299982.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 2, 2021||Trichy||Kattunaicken community members seek ST certificate||Trichy: A group of people claiming to be ‘Kattunaicken community’ from Arangur village in Trichy, on Monday, raked up their long pending demand for getting scheduled tribes (ST)community certificate for them ahead of Tamil Nadu elections. They staged a demonstration near the collector office along with children. The villagers had also raised this demand during the general elections in 2019. President of Kattunaicken welfare association of Arangur village, M Venkatesan, 44, said that they belonged to Kattunaicken community, one of the 36 scheduled tribes in Tamil Nadu. However, the government officials refused to accept their claim citing that they had no proof to substantiate their claim. “Though our clans in Kattunaicken community are living in several parts of Tamil Nadu with the ST certificate for several years, we in Arangur village are yet to be issued the certificatein spite of investigations by many government teams,” said Venkatesan. He said that people of their community in the village lost out on their reservations in education and employment meant for the STs. Venkatesan said that some of their people were given community certificate as ‘Raja Kambalam’ community under most backward class (MBC). “Some of them accepted that too for continuing their education,” he said but most of them still waiting for the ST certificate. A senior official said that their demand was still pending before the department of Adi Dravidar and tribal welfare of Tamil Nadu. The police, citing the imposition of the model code of conduct (MCC), persuaded the protesters to disperse. The president of Pazhangudi Irular Membattu Kuzhu, Ariyalur, C Dharumadurai, who led the group, said that the police advised them not to hold demonstration in the run-up to the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kattunaicken-community-members-seek-st-certificate/articleshow/81281281.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Tampering with AMC-sealed property can land you in jail||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to file police complaints against those property owners who had tampered with the seals put by the AMC. The AMC has also decided to impose 10% administrative charge on such owners who had tampered with the seals. AMC officials said that to take action against property tax defaulters, the civic body had gone on a major drive and sealed several properties. However, the AMC had stopped the drive during the elections. The Corporation has instructed its teams to carry out surprise visits and ensure that the seals are not tampered. Officials said that during the surprise visits many seals were found tampered, and also broken in some properties. The AMC will not only collect taxes with the interest ,but will not give any rebate to these owners. Also, the Corporation has decided to collect 10% of the outstanding tax as administration charges in these cases. Going further, the civic body has also issued orders to disconnect water and drainage facility of such properties and may seize and auction the properties if the owners fail to pay up their dues. The AMC in the western part of the city has sealed nearly 100 odd properties in January just before the elections. The civic officials said it was noticed that majority of the property had not paid their taxes ranging from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 6 lakh. The officials said that even in the eastern part of the city such drives were taken up. “We will carry out surprise checks across the city in the coming days to ensure that the seals are intact,” said a officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tampering-with-amc-sealed-property-can-land-you-in-jail/articleshow/81281289.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||CISCE starts special online programme for women teachers||Kolkata: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations that conducts the ICSE and ISC exams has initiated a physical education and community-coaching program for women teachers. The online program will be conducted throughout the month and is scheduled to begin on March 8. “It will be a two-week program with 28 sessions altogether, with two sessions of 90 minutes each. The program offers an opportunity for the women teachers to learn from some of the best trainers in the world,” reads the circular sent to the school principals. The training, which is free, will provide participation certificates if they attend 70% of classes. A certificate of merit will be awarded to those participants who get at least 60% marks in the online examination. The training will provide teachers with the knowledge and skill to enable, engage and empower students to be physically active and emerge as self-reliant leaders. “We shall encourage our teachers to participate since the coaching will be provided by specialists and sports nutritionists. It is a project initiated by the centre under Fit India Movement,” informed the school head. “We will encourage our physical education instructor to participate. There will be experts from the international arena which will help the teachers understand the global perspective,” explained a school principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisce-starts-special-online-programme-for-women-teachers/articleshow/81279943.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 2, 2021||Pune||Social distancing norms a big worry for small & micro business units||Pune: An analysis of the recent survey of industries by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) reveals that the actual percentage of recovery could have been far better had the micro and small units been kept out of the study ambit. This is because the larger companies have reported a production of 90% their capacity in February. The work force that has returned to work in the large companies also stands at 91%. The medium enterprises have also reported production of 88% and a workforce of 89%. In comparison, production in the micro and small units continues to be at 55% and 78%, respectively, in February (See graphic).The latest MCCIA survey of industries in Pune indicated that 51% companies had reached production at pre-Covid levels and 20% more were set to achieve it by May.Pune president of MSME Association Anil Howale said, “ It’s a bit easy for them (large and medium enterprises) to get the workforce back and allow it to function on their big premises.The micro and small units function in workshops measuring 1,000-2,000 sq ft area.” He said, “It is very difficult to get adequate manpower.” The next challenge is to ensure that they are kept gainfully employed in such a small area, where ensuring social distancing is a big challenge. ny additional restrictions will derail the hopes of recovery for the micro and small enterprises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/social-distancing-norms-a-big-worry-for-small-micro-business-units/articleshow/81281282.cms||Abhijit Atre
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Preserve rich musical heritage of UP, and spread it far & wide: Anandiben Patel||LUCKNOW: Governor Anandiben Patel presented 24 medals to toppers and conferred degrees to 123 students of Bhatkhande Music Institute Deemed To Be University at its 10th annual convocation on Monday and urged them to preserve and spread the rich musical heritage of Uttar Pradesh and country far and wide. In her address, the governor said, “The second innings of your life has begun now. You all must preserve our rich cultural heritage with your talent, take it forward and inspire the future generations as well.” She said the institute should form a core committee comprising its alumni and artists to come up with suggestions on changes to be made for the benefit of students. “The university should also start implementing various health programmes for girl students. As an educational institute, it is our responsibility to look after overall development, both intellectual and health-wise, of our students,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/preserve-rich-musical-heritage-of-up-and-spread-it-far-wide-guv/articleshow/81283493.cms||Aditi Singh
March 2, 2021||Trichy||Trichy gets a turf wicket to hone skills of local players||Trichy: Tiruchirappalli District Cricket Association (Trichy DCA) has received a cricket ground with turf wicket at Saranathan College of Engineering here to conduct district and state-level tournaments. The players who were familiar with the matting wicket of the DCA have faced difficulties while playing on turf wickets across the country. Now with the new turf wicket, the local players from tier-II cities and towns will get the required exposure to perform in professional tournaments. The turf wicket was established at the college at Panjappur in Trichy city by a professional cricket groundsman with technical inputs from the DCA. Unlike the matting wicket, turf wicket is unique and requires special skills to play. For a player who was trained only in matting wicket, it would take some time to get used with the turf wicket, the association said. The lack of exposure to turf wicket has affected the chances of the local cricketers to represent the state and national team. To overcome the disadvantage, two turf wickets were established on the college ground at a distance of five metres. “The college has given us permission to host district matches. Aspiring cricketers from the central region will get an opportunity to play on the turf wicket. Like cricket sensation T Natarajan from Salem, even Trichy players will get an opportunity to represent the country,” Scorer R Kannan, chairman of the publicity committee, Trichy DCA, said. The turf wicket at Saranathan College can be converted as a bouncing and a spinning wicket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-gets-a-turf-wicket-to-horn-skills-of-local-players/articleshow/81281290.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 2, 2021||Trichy||Trichy corpn tables budget on the sly||Trichy: Trichy corporation has tabled the budget for the financial year 2021-22 discreetly without fancy announcements or scope for new projects. Officials justified tabling the budget in secrecy and not disclosing expenditure and revenue figures stating that Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns have affected its revenue. Corporation sources confirmed that the civic body budget was tabled last week at the main office sans publicity. Even many corporation officials were unaware of the development. The revenue estimate of Trichy corporation was Rs 1,335.5 crore for 2021-22 in the last budget, but the civic body was tight-lipped in disclosing the figures. “There is no room for announcing new infrastructure projects. The budget we tabled last week will focus on completing the infrastructure proposals underway and announced in the previous budget, smart cities mission,” said S Sivasubramanian, commissioner, Trichy Corporation. The commissioner said that the long pending demand of Thiruverumbur residents seeking proper roads will be fulfilled at a cost of Rs 30 crore. Similarly, the ongoing underground drainage and stormwater drainage projects under the smart cities mission will be completed on schedule, he added. As the budget for 2021-2022 was expected to be a deficit budget for the first time in four years, the move to include smart cities mission funds in the budget adapted since 2020 has helped the civic body to maintain a surplus budget for this year too. Corporation sources cited the lack of time as a reason for the clandestine tabling of the budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-tables-budget-on-the-sly/articleshow/81281283.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 2, 2021||Trichy||SASTRA awards presented||Trichy: Universities play a key role in building strong capabilities in research and innovation by nurturing and igniting young minds to move on the path of scientific excellence, said Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology, Government of India, She was speaking on the National Science Day celebrations at SASTRA Deemed University held on a virtual platform on Sunday. Renu Swarup highlighted that the nation’s scientific growth is a reflection of the ecosystem and is evident from the surge in innovation index and the number of startups. She outlined the nation’s impetus on research, innovation, translation and delivery that has put the country in a position of exponential growth changes. While touching upon international collaborations, she highlighted the transformation of the country’s role from consumers to co-developers of technology. Saying that the country has reached a position where it can aim at the global leadership position, she said the growth India has achieved in science reflects how it has built the whole science ecosystem. We are looking for exponential growth in research rather than incremental, and that’s where we want to position ourselves in the next five years. We have moved from single institutional projects to looking at clusters. DBT is working closely with many such clusters, she said. “It is not about individuals working in an individual domain area. It’s coming together of different disciplines, bringing in contributing and complementing the growth. We see the boundaries between different domains of science are getting blurred,” she said. S Vaidhyasubramaniam, vice-chancellor, SASTRA, welcomed the audience and outlined the continuing legacy of SASTRA in honoring stalwarts in science.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sastra-awards-presented/articleshow/81281296.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 2, 2021||Pune||Teachers are divided about exam modes of state board||Pune: The debate over the conduct of examinations by the state education board in the online or offline mode is heating up. Most educators, teachers and experts feel there could not be any alternative to offline exams for the crucial years and the board should rather make provisions for exam centres that are easily accessible to students. Many teachers and other educators have sent suggestions to the state board to consider the conduct of offline examinations.A section of teachers were batting for online examinations. They said it was the need of the hour. Pune Zilla Parishad teacher, Sanjay Patil, said, “When the entrance examinations are conducted online, then the board examinations cannot be conducted in the same manner. There has been a general opinion that online exams are impossible. Now, it is the need of the hour to come to a conclusion regarding the conduct of the exam.”When school teaching became online, banking, tax returns, university exams and everything else became digital there was no opposition. But the board exams going online is inviting a lot of opposition for no reason, he added.Those opposing online examination said considering the huge number of students sitting for the board exam it was an impossible task. Nearly 33 lakh students take the exam annually. Bhau Gawande, another ZP teacher, said, “We all know how poor the internet connectivity is in rural schools. Additionally, providing digital devices to every student considering the huge number, it will be impossible. Those suggesting online exams must also consider these factors. Instead, more voices must speak for how best the board can conduct offline examinations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teachers-are-divided-about-exam-modes-of-state-board/articleshow/81281295.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 2, 2021||Kolkata||Bidhannagar looks at road repairs ahead of elections||Kolkata: With elections around the corner, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has taken up work to repair the bad stretches of road inside the blocks of Salt Lake. On Monday, a lane beside the AE Block part- II park was repaired with civic authorities using a new bitumen layer on the battered surface. “We are using the existing allotted funds which is left to be utilized, including the councillor’s fund. There will also be patchwork on roads which are in very poor condition,” said a civic official. The civic authorities have already placed a Rs 140 crore proposal to the state urban development department for overall repairs of roads in its 41 wards spread across Salt Lake and Rajarhat. They are awaiting approval. TOI had earlier reported that the condition of roads in many parts of Salt Lake was in poor state with no major repair work last year and motorists and bikers often have to manoeuvre the potholes or craters. The civic authorities had carried out a pre-Puja patchwork last year after the urban development department sanctioned about Rs 10 crore in two phases. But through repair was not possible due to the pandemic.  “The condition of roads in many places, especially inside the blocks, is terrible. In some places the road seems to have caved in,” said Anamika Poira Paul, a resident of CE Block. Civic officials said that patchwork is done as and when required. “We are awaiting the government’s funding to take up thorough road repair work,” said an official. In Sector V, NDITA has planned to engage an agency to repair damaged stretches of the IT hub on an ‘on-call’ basis whenever required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-looks-at-road-repairs-ahead-of-elections/articleshow/81279970.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Farmers at Rudrapur rally 'change' name of ground from 'Modi maidan' to 'Kisan maidan'||Rudrapur/Dehradun: Signboards of 'Kisan maidan' sprung up at a ground locally known as 'Modi maidan' on Monday during a kisan mahapanchayat attended by Rakesh Tikait and other farmer leaders to protest against the Centre's agricultural laws. In 2017, during the assembly poll campaign, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed what was termed as Rudrapur's biggest rally turnout -- around 50,000 people -- at the ground. On Monday, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders claimed that the turnout in their mahapanchayat was more than 50,000 and that it justified 'renaming' the ground as Kisan Maidan. “It is the public which gives a place its recognition.People had named this as Modi Ground and now people will call it Kisan Ground,” said Rakesh Tikat. "A memorial will be built in the ground in remembrance of those farmers who lost their lives protesting against the farm laws." Tikait added: "BJP is busy in canvassing in poll-bound states like West Bangal and Kerala and has no time to address the demands of farmers. However, we farmers will follow them everywhere and organise mahapanchyats to tell people about their poor policies. I will request my farmer brothers to gear up for protests anywhere, anytime in the next eight months.” The BKU leader also asked farmers to continue working in their fields and not leave work. Addressing the gathering, farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that when the country got its independence, the agriculture sector contributed to 60% of the nation's GDP but it has now reduced to 12%. "The central government will not succeed in its malicious intent of destroying the agricultural sector. We will not retreat till the draconian farm laws are revoked,” he added. During the mahapanchayat, Punjabi folk singer Rupinder Handa released the Farmers' Anthem number two and devoted it to the ongoing protest. She said that the new anthem has been sung by fifteen singers. Also, a separate counter was set up for SC lawyers who met Terai farmers and updated them on the status of their case in the apex court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-at-rudrapur-rally-change-name-of-ground-from-modi-maidan-to-kisan-maidan/articleshow/81279950.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Pau students boycott online classes||LUDHIANA: PAU students boycotted online classes from Monday even though a few students of different colleges, including agriculture, attended classes. Students who boycotted online classes belong to basic sciences, community science, three sections of agriculture, horticulture, first and third year of food technology department and second year of biotechnology department. Students had been requesting authorities to conduct offline classes. They said a few days ago, they were informed that their practicals would be conducted offline and theory classes would be conducted online. For that, they were told they would be called to the university but now the scenario looks different, they said, adding that they were confused and worried. We have requested authorities to look into the matter, they said. “We want the best decision to be taken in the interest of all, keeping our problems in mind as online classes are not helping us in any way. Attendance is not regulated and students take classes lightly. There are many other problems like poor internet connection, which is one of the major problems faced by students and teachers. It is tough to bring the essence of a physical classroom in online ones. Students are ready to sign the consent letter and take all responsibility by following precautionary measures as per Covid-19 guidelines,” they said. According to a student from food and technology, second year, “Almost all subjects are practical and professors share the youtube link and other teaching resources. They are putting in efforts but that is not always a solution for practical subjects.” A student from basic sciences college said, “We have sent many mails to our professors and dean. They claim they are observing the Covid situation and they stated that they have less facilities of accommodation. Now, three to four students are living in one room but according to government guidelines, only two students can be accommodated.” Dean, college of agriculture replied to a student in a mail stating, “ The holding of offline classes is already under review by higher authorities. A positive decision is expected. Please register in your own interest and not delay the registration process.” Meanwhile VC Baldev Singh Dhillon told TOI, “ We will watch how the situation is developing and go by the government guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pau-students-boycott-online-classes/articleshow/81278641.cms||Mehak Jain
March 2, 2021||Trichy||3 cut electrocuted farmer’s body, bury it||Trichy: Thirumanur police in Ariyalur district have arrested three people for hiding the body of a farmer who was accidentally electrocuted after coming into contact with an electric fence illegally established on a field. The accused cut the body of the deceased into two and buried it in a sugarcane field to evade legal action, but police caught up with him. Thirumanur police identified the deceased as Savarimuthu, 40, a tenant farmer cultivating paddy in Senapathy village. On the night of February 18, he went to irrigate his standing crops when he accidentally touched the electric fence on the field of one Murugesan. The fence was raised to safeguard the crops from wild boars but the victim did not know it was electrified, and was electrocuted. Police said Murugesan initially moved the body to his field. As the family members of Savarimuthu found only his two-wheeler near his field and his mobile phone switched off, they lodged a complaint at Thirumanur police station. Three days later, Murugesan cut the decomposed body of the victim into two pieces and buried it in the sugarcane field in two sacks. One Ganesan and Samidurai were said to have assisted the accused. During inquiry, Thirumanur police grew suspicious and traced Murugesan to Coimbatore. He was brought to Thirumanur where he confessed to the crime during interrogation. Police recovered the mortal remains of the victim and autopsy was conducted. Police said Murugesan, Ganesan and Samidurai were booked under various IPC sections and under the electricity act, 2003 for illegally establishing an electric fence. They were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-cut-electrocuted-farmers-body-bury-it/articleshow/81281294.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Fined, Satellite man pranks cops||Ahmedabad: Revenge is a dish best served cold. And in the case of a Satellite man, served through a prank call that had the police scrambling to douse a non-existent fire at a Shivranjani traffic booth late on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Akash Ajmera, a 30-year-old who runs a paying guest facility in Anandnagar, who cooked up the hoax after he felt angry at being fined for not wearing a seat belt. According to an FIR filed with Satellite police, they received a call about a major fire at a traffic booth in Shivranjani. The control room passed on the message to cops on a patrol near Shivranjani. The cops rushed there, but found the booth intact. When the cops called back the number, the caller said it was his way of taking revenge on them. “He told us that the traffic police harassed him every day. He threatened to set the traffic booth on fire and carry out a blast that will turn it into ashes,” mentioned the FIR filed with Satellite police. The FIR added that the man dared the cops to do whatever they could then abused them and disconnected the phone. Cops traced his location and arrested him from his house in Satellite. Inspector J B Agrawat of Satellite police said that traffic cops had caught Ajmera on Saturday evening for not wearing his seat belt while driving his car, and fined him Rs 1,000. This did not go down well with him and he plotted his revenge. The police booked him for impersonation. Ajmera was later released on bail from the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fined-satellite-man-pranks-cops/articleshow/81281320.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Five held for stealing parts of tower wagon||Roorkee: Five people, all residents of Roorkee, were held by the railway protection force (RPF) on Monday for allegedly stealing some metallic parts from a tower wagon (a self-propelled rail engine-like vehicle), which was parked in a railway shed at Roorkee. All the accused, including two scrap dealers, were in their mid-twenties. According to VK Mishra, Haridwar assistant commandant RPF, the two scrap dealers were nabbed first. Thereafter, they told the police about the other accused. “We have registered a case under the Railway Property (unlawful possession) Act and have sent them in judicial custody after producing them in the court,” Mishra told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-held-for-stealing-parts-of-tower-wagon/articleshow/81279986.cms||Tapan Susheel
March 2, 2021||Pune||Pune varsity may amend marks rule for NSS||Pune: The rising number of Covid-19 cases have led to the closure of educational institutes till March 14 but Savitribai Phule Pune University has told all its colleges involved in the National Service Scheme (NSS) to conduct the mandatory 7-days residential camp before March 20, as per the orders from the Union government. The last date for registration for colleges is March 5, post which an exact number would be available. The notification issued by SPPU on Saturday said while student attendance in state colleges is restricted due to Covid-19, no concession has been given regarding postponement or cancellation of special camps in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic yet by the ministry of youth affairs & sports as NSS is a Union government scheme. “As per the rules, if there are no special camps, students will not get any marks (5,10, 15 per year based on their participation) nor can the colleges nominate students for awards at state and national level. Therefore, all NSS units are advised to prepare NSS special camps at their level in accordance with the regulations in the context of Covid-19. Also, according to the disaster management rules, care should be taken that no more than 100 people gather in one place. Due to the pandemic, the college is also required to obtain the appropriate guarantee from the parents of the participating volunteers while organizing the camp,” Prabhakar Desai, state liaisoning officer for NSS, said. Another senior official from the university said there are discussions about giving a concession to the marks-rule by the university. “As per the norms, the student has to attend 120 hours of work along with attending a camp for 5 marks while the requirement for 10 and 15 marks is even higher. However, there are some talks regarding relaxing this rule for this year,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-varsity-may-amend-marks-rule-for-nss/articleshow/81281299.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||Schools turn chirpy, greet little ones with flowers & mascots||Lucknow: The first day of reopening of schools for classes 1 to V witnessed around 30% but students who turned up returned home with all smiles, chocolates and balloons saying that they want to come. The campus classes of the junior students began almost after a year on Monday Many little ones carrying sanitizer, wearing masks came with their parents who told them to maintain social distancing in classes. St Joseph’s College welcomed students with a flower shower, army band while City Montessori LDA campus, Mahanagar and Gomtinagar extension had cartoon mascots to welcome students. Brightland School, City International School, and others also gave a warm welcome to students with balloons and colorful campus decoration. “My school campus was not like before. It was more fun now as Ninza Hathodi poster welcomed me at the school gate followed by Doremon, Chotabheem and Motu Patlu. I loved my school and flower shower by teachers on us,” said class IV student Advik Mishra of St Joseph’s College. Dr Sarah Sheikh who came to pick up her daughter Alishba at CMS Mahanagar said, “My daughter had classes in the second shift but she got ready in the morning itself as she was excited to go back to the physical classroom.” Namrata Anil whose daughter is also in the same standard said, “My daughter, Divyashri is a new admission in this school and for the first time, she is meeting her classmates and class teacher. She was eager to mingle with every child on the way to make them her friend when we came to drop her” Mukesh Bhargav, whose son, Laksha is a student of Class 2 said, “I am still in doubt whether to send my son regularly although he takes all the precautions so that is not a worry but the habit of attending school will have to be inculcated again.” “The student’s attendance was upto 30% in most of the schools but in Brightland school and St Joseph the attendance was above 70%,” said the president of Unaided Private Schools Association Anil Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/schools-turn-chirpy-greet-little-ones-with-flowers-mascots/articleshow/81283497.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Officials find fake answer sheets in TET inspection drive||Pune: The Maharashtra State Council of Examinations has found bogus answer sheets of the teacher eligibility test (TET) during an inspection drive. In the bogus answer sheets, the officers found that the marks were manipulated and the remarks were changed from ‘ineligible’ to ‘eligible’. The council has instructed the education directorates to take strict action against the erring teachers. The teachers created the bogus answer sheets to save their jobs, the council’s representatives said. Earlier, the council had found bogus eligibility certificates submitted by the teachers from the state government schools. The open category candidates appearing for the test have to score at least 60% in the 150 marks test to pass the TET exam. For the reserved category, the passing percentage has been reduced to 55%. Candidates who clear the exam will get the TET certificate which is valid for seven years. The council’s commissioner Tukaram Supe said the officers were shocked to see the manipulations done in the answer sheets by the candidates to clear the exam. “We have seen fake certificates produced by the teachers, and now, even fake answer sheets are being brought to the fore during the recent inspection,” he said. “As many as 402 certificates have been scrutinised in the past three years with the help of education directors. So far, we found five such cases of certificate manipulation and four cases of answer sheet manipulations,” said Supe. Bending The System Of the five cases found, four were from Mumbai division and one was from Nashik division Bogus certificates and answer sheets were being illegally produced and given to teachers The inspection drive was conducted by the council after several complaints were made by the teachers of such malpractices Primary, secondary and higher secondary education directorates were told to conduct the inspection among teachers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/officials-find-fake-answer-sheets-in-tet-inspection-drive/articleshow/81281307.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 2, 2021||Trichy||Statue of EVR Periyar in Thanjavur desecrated||Thanjavur: Tension prevailed at Orathanadu in Thanjavur as an EVR Periyar statue erected in front of the government arts and Science College was found desecrated on Monday morning. It was found draped with a saffron shawl and a cap on his head. Preliminary enquiries revealed that a mentally unstable woman had done this, police said. On information, a large number of members of Dravidar Kazhagam including district secretary Arunagiri and union secretary Jeganathan gathered around the statue. Orathanadu police removed the shawl and cap from the EVR statue. During investigation, it came to light that a woman who was mentally unstable was behind the incident. Interrogation with the woman confirmed it, police said. S Basil Prem Ananth, special branch SI of Orathanadu police told TOI that as per the CCTV footage and a confession made by the woman, who has been identified as J Kala, 55, a native of Ponnappur near Orathanadu, confirmed that she had done the act without knowing what she was doing, he said. “A native of Ponnappur, the woman came to her son’s house in Orathanadu from her native on Sunday. Early on Monday, without the knowledge of her son and family members, the woman walked out of the house. On her way she noticed the statue and put the shawl and cap on it,” the SI said. MDMK chief Vaiko has condemned the incident. “Not only Periyar and Anna statues, but also the statues of Thiruvalluvar have become routinely desecrated during this regime. Such heinous acts are taking place even during the assembly elections. This shows that the Tamil Nadu police are mute spectators,” Vaiko said. “Whenever such incidents take place, it has become a routine affair for the police to blame it on a mentally-ill person,” he further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/statue-of-evr-periyar-in-thanjavur-desecrated/articleshow/81281298.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Differently abled cert hurdle crossed||Akshay Modi could register his 56-year-old uncle, who is intellectually disabled, for vaccination after multiple attempts. When he reached the Nesco centre in Goregaon, staffers said they couldn’t upload the supporting certificate as it had to be first transferred to their phone or computer. The nephew was asked to reschedule, but he couldn’t as his uncle has to be conditioned for days before he can step out of home. Finally, they allowed the jab. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/differently-abled-cert-hurdle-crossed/articleshow/81283496.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Goa||Goa: Poll process for five civic bodies kept in abeyance, code of conduct lifted||PANAJI: Within hours after the high court of Bombay at Goa quashed and set aside the elections for five municipalities, the State Election Commission (SEC) on Monday kept the election process in abeyance and lifted the model code of conduct with immediate effect. “The SEC in exercise of the power conferred upon it under Article 243ZA of the Constitution of India, read with Section 10 A of the Goa Municipalities Act, 1968, do hereby direct that the entire election process for Mormugao, Margao, Mapusa, Quepem and Sanguem municipal councils shall be kept in abeyance till further orders,” SEC commissioner Chokha Ram Garg said. He also said that the model code of conduct which was brought in force with effect from February 22 for Mormugao, Margao,Mapusa, Quepem and Sanguem municipal councils stands lifted with immediate effect. On February 22, the SEC had stated that elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) and 11 municipal councils would take place on March 20. While over 2.5 lakh voters will help political parties gauge the ground situation ahead of next year’s assembly polls, the last local election — to the zilla panchayat —showed that rural Goa overwhelmingly supports BJP. March 20 will also see the byelection to ward IX of the Sakhali Municipal Council, 22 wards of various village panchayats, and another byelection to the Navelim ZP seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poll-process-for-5-civic-bodies-kept-in-abeyance-code-of-conduct-lifted/articleshow/81283498.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Pune||Competition on science writing||Pune: As part of Science Day on February 28, Maharashtra State Bureau of Textbook Production and Curriculum Research also known as Balbharati, has organized a science writing competition for primary, secondary and higher secondary level teachers, an official notification said. Teachers at all the three levels interested in participating need to write a research article in any of the following four topics: Innovation in science, technology friendly science teaching, future of science teaching and role of teachers and National Education Policy 2020: A new direction of science teaching. To participate, the teacher should mail his or her dissertation to research_officer@ebalbharati.in. The last date is March 15. Articles can be submitted in Marathi, Hindi or English.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/competition-on-science-writing/articleshow/81281316.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Tax deadline reprieve a breather for city businesses||Mohit.behl@timesgroup.com Ludhiana: With city industry limping back to normalcy after the losses incurred during the Covid-19 pandemic, it was difficult for most to meet the deadline for filing tax returns. However, businessmen and tax professionals were relieved when the central board of indirect taxes and customs (CBIC) extended the date of filing annual returns, GSTR9 and GSTR9C, for financial year 2019-20. Sunday (February 28) was the last day for filing of returns. Now, the date has been extended to March 31. The decision to extend the deadline came in the wake of several business and tax professional associations expressing their inability to meet the deadline due to difficulties faced by them because of Covid-19 pandemic. A formal notification is awaited but the CBIC statement on Sunday said, “It may be noted that the due date for furnishing of annual returns GSTR9 and GSTR9C for the financial year 2019-20 was earlier extended from December 31, 2020 till February 28, 2021. In view of the difficulties expressed by taxpayers in meeting this time limit, government has decided to further extend the due date for furnishing of GSTR9 and GSTR9C for financial year 2019-20 to March 31, 2021 with the approval of election commission of India. This press note is being issued to keep taxpayers informed so that they may plan their return filing accordingly. Suitable notification to give effect to this decision is being issued.” Welcoming the decision, city-based chartered accountant Ankur Gupta said, “GSTR9 is an annual return under which the assesse has to file several details, including outward and inward supplies made or received. GSTR9C is a reconciliation statement between GSTR9 annual return and audited financial statements of the assesse. Filing both these returns is a very hectic task and a lot of time and alertness is required to file these details. Last year, due to onset of coronavirus and its impact on businesses, CBIC extended the due date by two months but still everyone was unable to cope with the deadline, so the board has kindly consented to our request of extending the deadline by one more month till March 31, which is really appreciable.” Pradeep Wadhawan, former senior vice-president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said, “Extension of deadline of filing GSTR9 and GSTR9C comes as a big relief for the business community. Businesses have not been able to return back to normal due to the setback caused by coronavirus. Therefore, we could not compile all the data required for filing of these annual returns. This extension was much needed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tax-deadline-reprieve-a-breather-for-city-businesses/articleshow/81278656.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Cops raid former councillor’s property, find intoxicating pills||Times News Network Ludhiana: Police conducted a raid at a building in Chhawni Mohalla, which belongs to former BJP councillor Satish Nagar and recovered a cache of intoxicating pills on Monday. The raid, which was conducted with the help of a team of the drug inspector, lasted for hours. Police booked Nagar and his three accomplices. An official said police reached the spot on Sunday night for a raid following a tip-off. They were resisted by supporters of the former councillor, who asked the police to produce a search warrant. The team returned from Chhawni Mohalla but a team was deputed at the spot to ensure that no tried to shift the material. A search is on and the quantum of recovery will be revealed later. ACP Central Waryam Singh confirmed that division number 4 police have lodged an FIR against former councillor Satish Nagar, Himmat, Anoop Kumar Sharma and Rajinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-raid-former-councillors-property-find-intoxicating-pills/articleshow/81278732.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Aurangabad||CoWIN glitches add to woes of elderly vax beneficiaries||Aurangabad: Senior citizens as well as comorbid patients aged above 45 years had a tough time on Monday after the CoWIN app developed glitches and delayed the overall vaccination drive at all three vaccination centres of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC).In some cases, elderly people who had come to get the vaccine had to return home after waiting for a long time.As per the schedule, arrangements for inoculation were made at the centres located in N-11, N-8 and Bansilalnagar areas of the city.Nanobai Balande, who had turned up at the N-11 centre, said: “I was looking forward to get the vaccine shot. However, after being made to wait for over an hour, I (and many others) was asked to return later.”Echoing her experience, Poonamchand Nimbhore said: “I have been informed that the app is not working properly. Even the health officials here are not sure when the app will start functioning normally. We have been asked to come back later.”Similarly, several senior citizens were found sitting in lines, waiting for their turn. However, a couple of hours later, they were told that there were technical glitches in the app.When contacted, AMC health officer Dr Neeta Padalkar said: “To ensure that the senior citizens do not face any difficulties in getting the vaccine, we got the vaccination forms filled online as well as offline.” She claimed that almost all the people who had reached the vaccination centres were given the jabs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cowin-glitches-add-to-woes-of-elderly-vax-beneficiaries/articleshow/81281321.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra has only 45 lakh doses, Centre should release more: State officials||PUNE: The "controlled" release of vaccine doses by the Centre will slow down the Covid vaccination drive in Maharashtra, health officials have said. The state now aims to cover an estimated one crore citizens who are part of the new phase, those aged 60 and above and people over 45 with comorbidities. This group is being covered simultaneously, along with healthcare and frontline workers. But the state currently has only 44.74 lakh doses of both Covishield and Covaxin.Dr Subhash Salunke, the state technical expert on Covid, said for the vaccination drive to be scaled up across government and private hospitals, supply of doses must be streamlined. “We want to scale up sessions in the coming one week," Dr Salunke said, adding that the Centre should, at least of the new phase, stop “controlling” disbursement of doses. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said they have been asked to scale up the drive from March 7, after the soft launch on March 1. A senior state government official said some private hospitals that are not empanelled under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana have been asked to discontinue the vaccination drive, which he said was a major setback for the state. "These private hospitals were doing good work and have trained manpower. Moreover, people who were vaccinated at these sites will now have to be called to other sites for their second dose. This move was completely unnecessary and will only cause more delays," Dr Vyas said. State immunisation officer Dr DN Patil said the Centre has to ensure doses are dispatched in a timely manner. “As of now, we have 39.84 lakh doses of Covishield and 4.08 lakh doses of Covaxin. We should be getting more in the coming days," he said. The state IMA president Dr Avinash Bhondwe said the government’s move to de-list private facilities that are not empanelled is a hiccup. “Private facilities that had the space and trained staff were unnecessarily asked to discontinue. In Pune, Poona Hospital, Sahyadri and Joshi hospital have had to discontinue vaccine drives after the new circular."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-has-only-45l-doses-centre-should-release-more-state-officials/articleshow/81283525.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 2, 2021||Pune||Learning hits a pause without library, lab & workshop access||Pune: Extension of the closure of colleges and universities has not gone down well with the teachers and some students, who think that their inability to attend practicals, access reference books and libraries is hurting their academic development. Since the syllabus is vast in each subject, students in undergraduate and postgraduate courses require more than their textbooks to study. Buying reference books for each subject is not possible for most students. Here libraries, both central and departmental, help the students, but for the past 10 months they have been unable to access them. Apart from the importance of laboratories in science-related courses, many courses require hands-on-training, experiential learning, discussions, expert guidance among others but this too has taken a hit due to the closure of institutes. Students of Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) are among those who have suffered the most. The principal of one of the ITIs in the state said, “Education and training are two different things and skills can be acquired by consistent training. With all colleges and workshops closed, students in ITIs have been suffering tremendously. Without hands-on training, it is hard to become a plumber or a technician. But students must not lose heart. Skills can be acquired even with practice and that can be done if they give their 100% once they are recruited by companies. Placements won’t be affected as companies need ITI students.” A first-year engineering student was disappointed at the closure of colleges in the city. “I was going to visit my college and see my fellow students and teachers for the first time. Our practicals were supposed to start on February 22 but the closure was announced and then extended.” Aparna Rajendra, deputy librarian at Savitribai Phule Pune University, said on an average 500 students would visit the library daily while the total capacity of the university’s reading room is 1,200 which is completely full during examination season. “This number has drastically reduced. While we have given remote access to students and there are titles available online, not all titles are there and students with poor internet especially in rural parts find it hard to access it. They would also come to access materials related to competitive examinations,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/learning-hits-a-pause-without-library-lab-workshop-access/articleshow/81281326.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Natural gas companies’ stocks soar on healthy biz prospects||Ahmedabad: Gujarat-based companies dealing in natural gas have seen their stocks rally on bourses following the government’s commitment to bring natural gas under goods and services tax and its plans to spend Rs 7.5 lakh crore to build oil and gas infrastructure over the next five years. In past one month, the state-run city gas distribution company (CGD) Gujarat Gas Ltd’s (GGL) stock price has jumped by 49% to Rs 534 on March 1 from Rs 359 exactly a month ago on February 1. The company’s stock even made a fresh lifetime high on Monday as well. As a result, the company’s market cap swelled by Rs 12,050 crore to touch Rs 36,763 crore on March 1. Another top CGD player from Ahmedabad, Adani Total Gas Ltd’s (ATGL) share price has also soared by 35% to Rs 525.2 from Rs 387.7 during the same period. ATGL’s m-cap has surged by Rs 15,128 crore in last one month to reach at Rs 57,768 crore. Gujarat State Petronet Ltd (GSPL), the state-owned natural gas transmission firm and GGL’s parent company, has seen its share rise 23% to Rs 248.8 from 202.4 since February 1. The share, however, declined by less than 1% on Monday. “If natural gas is brought under the ambit of GST, it will benefit companies operating in the natural gas segment,” said Vaibhav Shah, managing director, Monarch Networth Capital, a city-based financial services company. Industries using natural gas as input will be able to claim input tax credit (ITC) on gas they consume, and it will bring its cost down and boost consumption, say industry players. “The consumption of natural gas has also been growing in India with industries gradually shifting to natural gas from conventional fuels such as coal,” added Nilesh Kotak, a city-based stock analyst. There is also a push to natural gas consumption as the government intends to reduce its dependence on crude oil imports. According to stock analysts, the government’s plans to spend Rs 7.5 lakh crore for oil and gas infrastructure is a major positive for companies like GSPL. Apart from this, strong financial performance of these companies in the quarter ended December 31, 2020 has further supported the rally in their stock prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/natural-gas-companies-stocks-soar-on-healthy-biz-prospects/articleshow/81281324.cms||Kalpesh Damor
March 2, 2021||Pune||Educators feel MCQ-based tests just not the right fit for postgrad courses||Pune: The conduct of multiple-choice-questions (MCQ) based examinations and allowing only 20 marks for theory examination for the last year students may not be an ideal way to assess college students in English, psychology, philosophy or law where descriptive answers are important to understand the students’ understanding of a topic, educators have said. In many subjects, and especially in a postgraduate courses, the quality of writing is also of prime importance and this examination pattern is detrimental to their evaluation, they added. But another group of educators said the move as an exception this year. Radhika Seshan, former head of the history department at SPPU said analysis is a major part of being a postgraduate student. “MCQs do not allow one to understand how much a student has evolved. They can probably gauge how much a student knows but there is a big difference between what a student knows and what a student understands. At the postgraduate level, understanding topics and analysing concepts become important,” she added. Gautami Pawar, head of the English department at Abasaheb Garware College, said all language teachers would like a subjective examination where students are asked to describe, interpret and critically analyse a topic.“Last week, we tried to conduct our internal examinations online with just 10 marks allotted to descriptive writing. Even this could not be scanned, converted to a pdf file format and uploaded by many students due to poor network issues. Hence, MCQs are the most convenient option to assess students at the moment,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/educators-feel-mcq-based-tests-just-not-the-right-fit-for-postgrad-courses/articleshow/81281328.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||GTU begins work to get NBA, NAAC accreditation||Ahmedabad: All the colleges affiliated to Gujarat Technological University (GTU) need to be accredited by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) or National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) by 2022, said sources in the university. This is mandatory for getting academic autonomy and central government funding. As a step in this direction, the varsity has recently directed all the affiliated colleges to constitute and Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) Committee latest by March 15. The All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has directed all technical colleges to get NBA or NAAC by 2022, said sources. There are more than 550 colleges affiliated to GTU, the state’s largest university. A majority of these colleges are yet to get the required accreditation, said sources. Accreditation from NAAC is a must for several central government schemes, projects, funding under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shikshan Abhiyan (RUSA), seeking autonomy, and even getting an approval for running courses. While the central and state government have been pushing colleges to seek autonomy with an aim to reduce the burden on larger universities, lack of NAAC accreditation is proving to be a hurdle in the process, according to sources. NAAC is not essential for technical colleges as they are assessed by the National Board of Accreditation. However, NBA does not give grades to colleges. NAAC grades public, private, deemed, state and central colleges and universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-begins-work-to-get-nba-naac-accreditation/articleshow/81281346.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Spl CBI court rejects bail of Wadhawans||Mumbai: A special Central Bureau of Investigation court on Monday rejected the bail pleas of DHFL promoters Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan in the alleged loan scam case involving Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor. The brothers had the special CBI court after the magistrate’s court had rejected their pleas. Rana and the Wadhawans have been in jail after being arrested last year. In January, a magistrate court had rejected the bail pleas of the Wadhawans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/spl-cbi-court-rejects-bail-of-wadhawans/articleshow/81281400.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Nagpur||Covid-19 cases under 3,000 as testing goes below 25,000 in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: The number of fresh cases came down significantly below 3,000 on Monday mainly due to less number of tests conducted in all districts of Vidarbha as compared to the previous days when the sample size increased. On Monday, 16,218 tests were conducted as compared to more than 25,000 per day. A whopping 27,800 tests were held on Feb 27 followed by 25,846 on February 28 and 25,823 on February 26. As many public swab collection centres are shut on Sunday, the trend of less number of cases being detected is normally seen a day later. However, all districts continue to conduct record number of tests as they have been instructed by the Central teams which are monitoring the rising cases in Vidarbha since last month. Some more teams from the ICMR and the health ministry visited different parts of the region to assess the Covid scenario. At all districts, they insisted on having increased testing to ensure asymptomatic carriers don’t spread the infection to comorbid people. Rising cases in Amravati has increased Covid fatality with the district now reporting the most numbers in the region. The region recorded 26 Covid deaths from Nagpur (6), Wardha (2), Chandrapur (1), Akola (3), Amravati (10), Yavatmal (3), Buldhana (1). This took the toll to 7,414. No deaths were reported in Bhandara,Gondia, Gadchiroli and Washim. The 2,495 new cases were from Nagpur (877), Bhandara (26), Wardha (70), Gondia (10), Chandrapur (22), Gadchiroli (15), Akola (463), Amravati (699), Yavatmal (59), Buldhana (118) and Washim (136). Now, the total is 3,22,364. Also, 1,965 recovered in a day. They are from Nagpur (686), Bhandara (18), Wardha (122), Gondia (6), Chandrapur (22), Gadchiroli (3), Akola (272), Amravati (329), Yavatmal (122), Buldhana (288) and Washim (97). Now, the tally is 2,89,719 while 25,218 are under treatment. Gadchiroli: No Covid death was reported and the toll remains at 106. New cases increased by 15, the lowest among all Vidarbha districts. At the same time, 3 recoveries were reported. The district now has 130 active cases, while total cases are 9,583. So far, 9,347 defeated Covid and were declared recovered. Washim: The district didn’t report any Covid deaths as cases increased by 136. The district reported 97 recoveries. The toll remains 160. New cases took the tally to 9,070, discharged count rose to 7,541 while 1,458 are active patients. Buldhana: While one Covid death took place, a whopping 118 new cases were reported. According to the official data, the district now has 18,786 cases, 16,064 recoveries, including 288 of Wednesday, 194 deaths and 2,528 active cases. Bhandara: The district didn’t report any Covid deaths. While the day’s cases were 26, recoveries were 18. The district has 231 active cases. Total caseload is 13,700 with 13,129 discharged. The Covid toll is 328. Gondia: The district didn’t witness any deaths. It saw 6 recoveries and 10 new cases. The number of patients under treatment is 134. New positive patients took the tally to 14,443. So far, 185 have succumbed, while 14,118 recovered. Akola: The district reported 463 cases and three deaths. Only 272 recoveries were reported. The tally climbed to 16,145. So far, 367 people have died. With new recoveries, the tally touched 12,574. The active cases are 3,664. Yavatmal: The district witnessed 3 deaths — 89 and 56-year-old men from the city and a 75-year-old man from Manora tehsil- which takes the death toll to 468 so far. The administration received 439 test reports, of which 59 (37 males & 22 females) were positive. Currently, there are 1,488 patients undergoing treatment in the district. Of the 17,575 Covid patients in the district so far, 15,622, including 122 on Monday, have recovered and been discharged from hospitals. The graph is still on an upward trend. The test reports received were quite less than the previous day’s count. On Sunday there were more than 1,000 test reports, as against Monday’s 439. Wardha: The district saw two deaths, 70 new cases and 122 discharges on Monday. The active cases are 1,062 while total cases are 12,422 and recoveries 11,016. Two women (50 and 70 years old) from Wardha died due to coronavirus, taking the toll to 344. Cases were detected from Wardha (41), Deoli (22), Arvi (4), Hinganghat (2) and Ashti (1). Amravati: Ten deaths and 699 fresh cases took the toll to 521 and caseload to 35,816 on Monday. With 329 getting discharge, the caseload reached 29,531, leaving 5,764 patients under treatment. Chandrapur: Twenty-two new Covid patients were found and an equal number of people were discharged, leaving 322 active cases on Monday. There was one death reported during the day and toll climbed to 399. The caseload has scaled to 23,696, while total recoveries amount to 22,975.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-cases-under-3k-as-testing-goes-below-25k/articleshow/81281340.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 2, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra has only 45 lakh doses, Centre should release more: State officials||PUNE: The "controlled" release of vaccine doses by the Centre will slow down the Covid vaccination drive in Maharashtra, health officials have said. The state now aims to cover an estimated one crore citizens who are part of the new phase, those aged 60 and above and people over 45 with comorbidities. This group is being covered simultaneously, along with healthcare and frontline workers. But the state currently has only 44.74 lakh doses of both Covishield and Covaxin.Dr Subhash Salunke, the state technical expert on Covid, said for the vaccination drive to be scaled up across government and private hospitals, supply of doses must be streamlined. “We want to scale up sessions in the coming one week," Dr Salunke said, adding that the Centre should, at least of the new phase, stop “controlling” disbursement of doses. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said they have been asked to scale up the drive from March 7, after the soft launch on March 1. A senior state government official said some private hospitals that are not empanelled under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana have been asked to discontinue the vaccination drive, which he said was a major setback for the state. "These private hospitals were doing good work and have trained manpower. Moreover, people who were vaccinated at these sites will now have to be called to other sites for their second dose. This move was completely unnecessary and will only cause more delays," Dr Vyas said. State immunisation officer Dr DN Patil said the Centre has to ensure doses are dispatched in a timely manner. “As of now, we have 39.84 lakh doses of Covishield and 4.08 lakh doses of Covaxin. We should be getting more in the coming days," he said. The state IMA president Dr Avinash Bhondwe said the government’s move to de-list private facilities that are not empanelled is a hiccup. “Private facilities that had the space and trained staff were unnecessarily asked to discontinue. In Pune, Poona Hospital, Sahyadri and Joshi hospital have had to discontinue vaccine drives after the new circular."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maha-has-only-45l-doses-centre-should-release-more-state-officials/articleshow/81289466.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||‘Use tech, research to save & promote local languages’||LUCKNOW: Renowned Hindi litterateur Padma Shri Ashok Chakradhar said it’s time to promote Indian Languages by developing India’s Multi-Lingual Interaction (‘IMLI’) as an alternative to AI-based virtual assistant ‘Alexa’ that takes speech inputs to perform various tasks and start conducting National and International Knowledge Accreditation Standards for Hindi (NIKASH) on the lines of Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). In his address as chief guest of the fifth convocation of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti Language University (KMCLU) on Monday, Chakradhar said, “Indian languages should be pitched with technology for better promotion and to save them from becoming extinct. IMLI can be an alternative to Alexa for providing information on verbal inputs in local languages.” Chakradhar, who was conferred DLitt degree, said some people blame globalization and computers for languages becoming endangered, but computer can be a tool to retrieve and revive languages. Research on developing technology in Indian languages and setting up language centres can be savior, he added. Governor Anandiben Patel gave away 85 medals and 482 degrees to students and said, “In the last few decades, research on languages has dropped significantly, especially, at local level. According to one census, many languages are on the verge of extinction and hence research on languages is required.” “Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti Language University can contribute significantly in this. It has formed a high-level committee and I hope it will conduct multidisciplinary research,” she added. She also asked Chakradhar to support KMCLU in developing the ideas he mooted and to guide the language committee in promotion and research of languages. Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma also appealed for research in languages that saves them from becoming extinct. Ashok Chakradhar will be honorary professor of KMCLU and will take online lectures, announced KMCLU vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/use-tech-research-to-save-promote-local-languages/articleshow/81283523.cms||Mohita Tewari
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man rams into Gandhinagar doctor’s car, then thrashes him||AHMEDABAD: A doctor with a private hospital on Saturday filed a complaint with Adalaj police alleging that an unknown man assaulted him after hitting his car, near Tragad village of Gandhinagar district.Dr Dinesh Thakur, 66, an anaesthetist with a private hospital who retired as chief medical officer of the CRPF, said that the incident took place on Saturday afternoon between Tragad toll booth and Zundal Circle. Thakur in his FIR said that he was going to pick up his daughter at the airport as she was arriving from Jaipur on Saturday afternoon. When he passed Zundal Crossroads and was moving towards Tragad toll booth, a car driver overtook him from wrong side in which he hit Thakur’s car and caused damage. The man drove a little further and stopped his car in a way that Thakur was also forced to stop his car. The man then came out of his car and walked towards Thakur. To respond to him, Thakur opened his window but rather than saying anything, the man slapped Thakur two to three times. A few people stopped but before they could even approached the accused, he began walking away from there. Thakur tried to note down the number of the accused’s car but he returned, tore up the paper, threw away the pen and slapped him again. Thakur later approached Adalaj police and filed a complaint against the unknown car driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-rams-into-gandhinagar-doctors-car-then-thrashes-him/articleshow/81281373.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Two report ‘mild reaction’ in city, sent home after 30 mins||Mumbai: The city recorded two instances of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) on Monday, the first day of vaccinating senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities. Civic authorities said both were minor cases of giddiness, where the recipients were kept under observation and sent home within 30 minutes. In Mumbai, a total of 7,350 people were vaccinated on Monday, including 1,722 senior citizens and 260 people above 45 with comorbidities.  Officials at all eight centres said they were on extra vigil since many above 80 and 90 years of age got the shot. But none reported any major issues, although the centres are gearing to receive more calls a day after vaccination. State authorities didn’t divulge any AEFI figures, although the incidence of reactions among vaccinated has been much less than 1%. At BKC jumbo facility, dean Dr Rajesh Dere said not a single person needed ICU admission. The centre was handing out paracetamol tablets to all recipients. At Nesco jumbo facility in Goregaon, dean Dr Neelam Andrade said they didn’t register a single case of AEFI. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid, said studies conducted so far had shown that there is no cause for concern as far as senior citizens and Covid-19 vaccines are concerned. “However, we have just started vaccinating our senior citizens and we should be watchful for any adverse reaction and treat it,” he added. In a study published in The Lancet in November 2020, UK researchers found the Oxford vaccine is better tolerated in old-er adults than in younger adults and has similar immunogenicity (the ability of cells to provoke an immune response) across all age groups after a boost dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-report-mild-reaction-in-city-sent-home-after-30-mins/articleshow/81283551.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 2, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Health minister leads 2,200 senior citizens to get the jab, says all’s fine||BHOPAL: Around 2,200 elderly people were vaccinated against Covid-19 here on Monday, according to a health department estimate. It was the first day to inoculate senior citizens (aged above 60) and people aged above 45 (with specified 20 co-morbidities). MP public health and family welfare minister, Prabhuram Chaudhary, was among the many who were administered the vaccine. Chaudhary got the first shot of the vaccine at the district hospital. Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman, handed over the vaccination certificate to Chaudhary. Later, in the vaccination centre’s observation room, Chaudhary said that he was “having a pleasant feeling after taking the first dose of vaccination. He had no problems”. The vaccine against Covid-19 was administered to former civil servants and well-known individuals of the state capital. It includes former chief secretary of Madhya Pradesh, Nirmala Bich, former MP CS and 1978-batch IAS (retired) officer R Parasuram, former DGP M L Jain and many others. JP hospital’s vaccination centre witnessed an extraordinarily long queue which continued till the lunch session. Most of the vaccine registration was offline. Health department employees had to work overtime to complete the online registrations for the vaccination on Day 1 of the new phase. MP medical education minister, Vishwas Sarang, who inspected the facilities at GMC, said, “The city’s well-known doctor and former dean of GMC, Dr N P Mishra, was vaccinated at Gandhi Medical College. Dr Mohan Tankwal also got the first dose of the vaccine. Other senior doctors also arrived for vaccination. This is a good sign.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-minister-leads-2200-senior-citizens-to-get-the-jab-says-alls-fine/articleshow/81278820.cms||Jamal Ayub
March 2, 2021||Goa||Stop using malpractices to win polls: AAP to BJP||Panaji: Terming the high court order on municipal elections as a tight slap on the Pramod Sawant government, AAP advised the chief minister not to resort to malpractices like rigging elections to win them. AAP Goa convener Rahul Mhambre said the high court order clearly indicates that the BJP was trying to rig the elections to favour their supporters and well wishers as delimitation and reservation of wards was done without following the constitutional mandate. “The high court rescheduling elections in five councils shows how desperate the BJP government was to rig the elections and even declared the schedule when the matter was lying in the courts,” Mhambre said reacting to the order While demanding that elections be held in free and fair manner, Mhambre urged the government to stop using the State Election Commission as its tool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stop-using-malpractices-to-win-polls-aap-to-bjp/articleshow/81283553.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Senior citizens give their best shot, say vaccine means freedom from fear||LUCKNOW: After remaining confined to their homes for almost a year due to Covid-19 pandemic, it was elderlies’ day out in the city on Monday. Elderly beneficiaries turned up at immunization camps in large numbers to get the first dose of vaccine. Enthusiasm writ large on the faces of Baijals. Vijay Baijal (78), who retired as general manager of UPPCL, got to know about the drive on Sunday evening and papers required for registration. He passed on the information to his wife Suman (74) and sister Usha (76) and they decided to go for vaccination. “Though we had to wait at the centre for two hours for registration, our excitement did not die down,” said Baijal, who drove the family to SPM Civil Hospital. His sister, Usha, a retired professor from Allahabad University, said: “Vaccination will help us get rid of the constant fear of catching coronavirus infection.” Head of gastric surgery department at KGMU, Prof Abhijeet Chandra, brought his mother Sarojini Srivastava (85) on a wheelchair to the vaccination centre. “Everyone who is fit for vaccine should get it because the immunity will not only protect the beneficiaries but also their families,” he said. Dr Apoorv Upadhyay from psychiatry department at KGMU brought his mother, Subhashi Upadhyay, for vaccination. “I also wanted to bring my father but he was out of station,” he said. At Shekhar Hospital, several elderly couples came holding hands to take the vaccine dose. Lokendra Pal Singh (73) from Indiranagar, who retired as DGM of UPPCL, has been on medication for viral pneumonia since last December. “As soon as the drive began, we did our on-site registration and took the jab,” he said. His wife, Snehlata (67) said she would advise all elderly people in her family to take the vaccine. At RMLIMS, Murari Lal Bajpai (80), a retired accounts officer, said he would recommend vaccination for people of his age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/freedom-from-fear-senior-citizens-give-their-best-shot/articleshow/81283544.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 2, 2021||Dehradun||Govt focusing on decentralised development, all-round growth of Uttarakhand, says Governor||Gairsain: In her address on the first day of Budget session on Monday, Governor Baby Rani Maurya in Uttarakhand assembly said that decentralised development along with all-round growth of Uttarakhand was a priority for the state government. She said that the government was committed to meet all the promises and targets to take Uttarakhand in the list of developed states. For the migrants, who had returned to Uttarakhand, the state has started the 'CM Swarojgar Yojna'. “For the approved projects, the government was giving 15% to 25% grants. For agriculture, allied activities and protected agriculture, a total of 9,907 applications have been received and out of which 6,748 have been cleared and forwarded for the bank approval,” she said. The Governor pointed out that with a budget of Rs 26.74 crore the first tiger safari would be developed in Corbett Tiger Reserve’s Pakhro area, on a 106.16 hectare land. Maurya said that under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, a total of 5.88 lakh families were given employment and 1.06 lakh migrants who had returned during Covid phase were given employment by creating 16.63 lakh man days. Maurya stated that the Gross Domestic Product of Uttarakhand is Rs 2,53,666 crore and the per capita income is Rs 2,02,895. She added that the Uttarakhand government has increased the ex-gratia to next of kin of martyrs of armed and paramilitary forces from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. She further stated the performance of the state government during the Covid-19 pandemic. Maurya said that five dedicated hospitals, 420 Covid care centres and 12 Covid Health Centres were set up. Besides, 528 ICU, 570 ventilators were installed, 214 ambulances were purchased and the government appointed 378 doctors, 113 nurses, 32 pharmacists and 27 technicians. She maintained that the government has digitised all the ration cards, out of which 94% have been linked with Aadhaar cards. Under the Mid-Day Meal scheme, two bananas and two eggs are being given to the students twice a week as additional supplement. She added that the process of setting up two Atal Utkrishta Vidhyalayas in every block was underway. Maurya said that the government has entered into a bipartite agreement with Mineral Exploration Corporation Limited for exploration of minerals in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-focusing-on-decentralised-development-all-round-growth-of-uttarakhand-says-governor/articleshow/81280030.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||NGO, Gandhians lend support to govt’s defence of dry laws in HC||Ahmedabad: The state government on Monday got two litigants in its support in defence of its liquor prohibition policy, provisions of which are under challenge before the Gujarat high court.The Ahmedabad Women’s Action Group (AWAG) and two Gandhians – president of Gujarati Sahitya Parishad and a social activist Neetaben Vidrohi – have filed petition requesting the HC to allow them to join the litigation and oppose the challenge. The HC said that it would hear all the parties in this case.Both the litigants have expressed apprehension that if prohibition policy is relaxed, it would result in increase in offences against weaker and vulnerable sections of the society, especially crimes against women will increase. In their applications, they submitted that the petitioners, who have challenged provisions of the Gujarat Prohibition Act, have done so for their personal interest and against public interest.AWAG has cited the Nirbhaya rape case and claimed that such incidents could take place in the state once people are permitted to consume liquor. Attributing such crime against women to consumption of alcohol, its application reads, “This is not the only instance where woman is subjected to rape or torture or murder. To support the say - the applicant draws the kind attention of this court to the Jessica Lal Murder Case, Unnao Rape Case, Surat’s minor rape case, etc.”On the other hand, Shah and Vidrohi has sought rejection of the petitions challenging the prohibition laws by dubbing the litigation as “an attempt, in misconception or for extraneous reasons”.Both Shah and Vidrohi have attributed high immunity of Gujaratis against Covid-19 to the policy of prohibition. “It can very well be said that the immunity of the people of Gujarat is better than that of the people from other states and prohibition can very well be considered a strong factor,” the application reads.----BOX: GOVT RAISES PRIMARY OBJECTION TO CHALLENGE TO PROHIBITION POLICYThe state government on Monday raised its preliminary objection to the litigations filed two years ago challenging certain provisions of the prohibition policy. Advocate General Kamal Trivedi relied heavily on the 1951 Supreme Court judgment by which the apex court had upheld the Bombay Prohibition Act. Citing the petitioners’ reliance on the ground of right to privacy following the SC verdict, the law officer argued that the petitioners cannot challenge the provisions again on new grounds, particularly as such a challenge was rejected earlier by the SC. To this, senior advocate Mihir Thakore, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that most of the provisions have been challenged for the first time. The high court has posted further hearing on March 8.----WHY SUPPORT TO PROHIBITION POLICY?- Gujarati people’s good health and immunity is largely due to its prohibition policy, which helped them to fight Covid-19 better.- Relaxing prohibition policy would result in violence against women. Cases like Nirbhaya, Unnao are result of absence of prohibition policy.- Challenge to prohibition is in misconception and for personal interest so that petitioners could consume foreign branded liquor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngo-gandhians-lend-support-to-govts-defence-of-dry-laws-in-hc/articleshow/81281454.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Delhi||No monthly salary for first time: JNU faculty||NEW DELHI: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has, for the first time, not paid its teachers the monthly salary. This was revealed on Monday as the teachers released a report on the five-year term of vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar. Kumar’s term was to end on January 26, but he has been given an extension by the Union education ministry till the appointment of his successor. Teachers alleged that after the extension, Kumar had changed the rules for appointing members of the search committee for the new VC to delay the process. Bikramaditya Kumar Choudhary, a teacher at Centre for the Study of Regional Development and former JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) secretary, said, “As we recount on the achievements of the VC, I would like to inform that for the first time, teachers have not been paid for the month. It is a rule of the government that they have to be paid on the last day of the same month, leaving the month of March.” Registrar Pramod Kumar did not respond to calls and messages. But according to an official, the university is still waiting for funds from University Grants Commission. But teachers claimed a lot of money had been used from the corpus fund, and given to different organisations and for holding events. They alleged that the autonomy of the university had been destroyed in these five years. “It’s the VC, and not the university, that has autonomy in JNU today. Some of the decisions have been taken arbitrarily by the VC to deliberately weaken the existing system of academic governance,” alleged Moushumi Basu, JNUTA secretary. Over 150 cases have been filed by faculty, students, non-teaching staff against the VC and his administration in 2016-21, Basu added, claiming “in majority of these, JNU has been found to have committed illegality.” Kumar did not respond to the allegations. Teachers also presented data on how the outsourcing of the entrance examination had been costly. “In 2019-20, according to information provided by National Testing Agency (NTA) in response to an RTI, the shortfall in revenue was over Rs 2.57 crore. This makes it clear that the shift to an online mode of examination conducted by NTA has resulted in a significantly higher net expenditure,” said Basu. Teachers also alleged that Kumar had violated constitutional provisions like reservation in recruitment and promotions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-monthly-salary-for-first-time-jnu-faculty/articleshow/81284185.cms||Shradha Chettri
March 2, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Ex-DGP M L Jain gets jab at 93 in hospital he helped build||BHOPAL: 93-year-old former DGP M L Jain was one of the first people to get vaccinated in Bhopal on Monday. He got the vaccine against coronavirus at Protima Malik police hospital, a healthcare centre he oversaw taking shape during his tenure as IPS officer. “The arrangements at the vaccination centre were very good,” said Jain who is also the author of ‘Cop to VC’, a book about his experiences and perspectives gained during his long and diverse career. He had retired in 1986. “The pandemic has reshaped how to approach basic things we took for granted,” said Jain. He misses the tennis court at the Police HQ. He played the sport for six decades, he added. An MSc before he entered the services, Jain has plans once he gets the second dose of the vaccine, 28 days on. “We all have to adhere to social distancing. The virus can impact anyone, the rich or the poor equally lethally,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ex-dgp-jain-gets-jab-at-93-in-hosp-he-helped-build/articleshow/81278838.cms||Jamal Ayub
March 2, 2021||Delhi||Miss India Delhi Mansi Sehgal joins AAP, says inspired by clean politics||NEW DELHI: Miss India Delhi 2019 Mansi Sehgal joined Aam Aadmi Party on Monday inspired by the “honest governance of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal”. AAP Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha inducted her into the party at Naraina Vihar Club. A Delhi resident, Sehgal is a trained engineer, dancer, TedX speaker and an entrepreneur. In her introduction to the Miss India Delhi pageant, she had spoken about her keen interest in philanthropy and organ donation. 1/10Miss India Delhi 2019 Mansi Sehgal joins Aam Aadmi Party Previous NextShow Captions<p>A Delhi resident, Sehgal is a trained engineer, TedX speaker and an entrepreneur.</p><p>I was extremely impressed by the honest governance of Arvind Kejriwal and MLA Raghav Chadha and chose to join AAP, she says</p><p>From an extremely young age, I wanted to do something good for the society, to make a difference, says Mansi</p><p>Believe in yourself and you are half there: Mansi Sehgal</p><p>A student of DPS Dwarka, she graduated from Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology, Delhi</p><p>She urged the youth and particularly the women to come and join AAP to bring about the change</p><p>Mansi Sehgal's interest lies in dancing and music</p><p>I feel that through clean politics, we can bring about a substantial change in the world that we live in</p><p>For any nation to prosper, health and education are the two main pillars, says Mansi</p>On her induction into AAP, Sehgal said, “From an extremely young age, I wanted to do something good for the society and make a difference. For any nation to prosper, health and education are the two main pillars. I have seen tremendous change in these fields in the past few years under the leadership of CM Kejriwal.” “I’m delighted that AAP and Arvind Kejriwal instill confidence in young people to join politics and serve the people. The AAP family is growing by leaps and bounds with each passing day. I welcome Mansi into the AAP family,” said Chadha. He added that several eminent citizens of Naraina joined AAP inspired by Kejriwal’s governance model. Talking about what inspired her to join AAP, Sehgal said, “I was extremely impressed by the honest governance of Arvind Kejriwal and MLA Raghav Chadha. I feel that through clean politics, we can bring about a substantial change in the world that we live in.” She added, “I urge youths, particularly women, to be an active part of politics and join AAP and bring about the change that we all wish to see.” Since it won the Delhi assembly election in 2020 the second time with a brute majority, AAP is focusing on spreading its footprints beyond the capital and Punjab. AAP is trying to reach out to the youth and woo them into the party in different parts of the country. It plans to contest the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Gujarat and Punjab. Watch Miss India Delhi 2019 Mansi Sehgal joins Aam Aadmi Party||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/miss-india-delhi-joins-aap-says-inspired-by-clean-politics/articleshow/81284188.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Passengers stab cab driver, three arrested||BHOPAL: Four colleagues who had hired a cab online for sightseeing, allegedly stabbed the 25-year-old cab driver in front of 23rd Battalion on Bhadbhada Road over a petty dispute on Sunday evening. A case was registered at Kamla Nagar police station. Three accused — two men and a woman — have been arrested, while search is on to nab the fourth accused. The accused told police that the driver was staring at the woman, so they attacked him. The victim alleged that the woman was asking her coworkers to slit his throat. SHO Kamla Nagar SI Vijay Sisodia said, the complainant Rashid Khan received a booking from Akash from a college on Karond Road to go to Lake View near Boat Club. He reached the spot in his cab at around 4pm, and four accused including the woman Puja Ahirwar and her accomplices Akash, Ankit and Laddu boarded the cab. When they reached the Lake View, the accused again hired his cab for visiting Van Vihar and Sair Sapata. Rashid said, after visiting the spots, when they were returning and reached near 23rd Battalion gate on Bhadbhada Road, he turned back to ask Akash, who was sitting on the rear seat, where else they wanted to go. This irked them and they started hurling abuses at him. They told him why he was turning repeatedly and asked him to drive straight. Puja too hurled abuses at him and told Akash to slit his throat. Akash grabbed him from the back and stabbed his throat deep with a knife. Laddu stabbed him on the left hand while Ankit stabbed him in the cheek. During the struggle, Rashid honked the car horn with his legs and locals rushed to help. The accused fled the spot while Rashid and others nabbed Puja while she was trying to run away. Akash is still on the run. The accused could not tell the cops why they were carrying knives with them. Police registered an attempt to murder case against the accused and they were sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/passengers-stab-cab-driver-three-arrested/articleshow/81278848.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Vadodara||Cops promise safety for pregnant women||Vadodara: Mother of a newly born, Anjali (name changed) was scared that her husband would beat her when she returned home from hospital. But Anjali will go home fearlessly after a team of Vadodara police’s SHE team met her in the maternity ward of the SSG Hospital on Monday. ACP Megha Tewar assured that cops will come to her rescue. In a bid to curb crime against women, especially the married ones, the city police have launched a unique initiative. A team of female cops has decided to visit the maternity ward of different hospitals and reach out to women that face harassment at home or domestic violence. “When a woman is pregnant or mother of a newly born, she needs rest as well as mental peace. But we get many cases of married women being harassed for a male child or facing violence from husband during pregnancy. So, we decided to reach out to such women and what better place than maternity wards in the hospitals,” Tewar told TOI. The SHE team met about 25 women in SSG Hospital as well as their relatives in the maternity ward. “I had a word with the mothers of newly born babies and pregnant women. Some of them complained about being harassed by their husband or in-laws but they never thought of approaching the cops. We counselled them and also offered to talk with their in-laws and husband,” Tewar said.  Police said that most women face harassment either for a male child or ‘jiyanu’ – a function that is held some months after a child is born. Women are pressurized to give gold to the husband or in-laws and organize a big function which costs a lot. “One of the women told me that her husband isn’t taking her home as she gave birth to a girl child. We are going to counsel him and if he doesn’t relent, we will file a complaint,” Tewar added.  The SHE team members also educated the women about their rights and illegality of sex determination tests. On Tuesday, the cops will visit a private hospital in the old city and meet women there. “We want women to feel confident and be assured that the cops are there to help them. The mothers should feel safe and if they face any problem, they should approach us,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-promise-safety-for-pregnant-women/articleshow/81278899.cms||Tushar Tere
March 2, 2021||Nashik||Covid testing in Nashik dist to go up to 8,000 per day||Nashik: The Covid testing facility in the district will get a boost with the installation of the automatic RT-PCR and automated RNA extractor machine — both of which will be installed at the Nashik civil hospital. The purchase and installation processes of the machines are likely to be completed within a fortnight. “We are now getting two machines that will speed up the process of Covid testing in the district. One of the machines is likely to arrive at the civil hospital in a couple of days. The automated RNA machine will follow soon,” Dr Utkarsh Dudhedia, the coordinator for swab testing in the district said. In the district, the laboratories – both private and government — have currently been testing about 3,500 samples every day. The government laboratories here alone have the capacity to perform about 3,000 daily tests. “With the addition of the two new machines, the capacity of the government labs would touch 8,000 per day,” Dr Dudhedia said. The coordinator also pointed out that when the pandemic was at its peak, in September 2020, around 5,000 swab samples were being processed each day. The Nashik district has had 1,22,810 positive patients so far. Of them, 1,17,555 have fully recovered. Across the district, 2,105 patients have succumbed. There are currently 3,150 active cases. Till date, 5.4 lakh tests have been carried out in the district, and 1.2 lakh samples tested positive. as many as 1,415 tests are under process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-testing-in-nashik-dist-to-go-up-to-8000-per-day/articleshow/81281498.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 2, 2021||Delhi||29 arrested for cheating in exam using bluetooth devices in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has filed 14 FIRs and arrested 29 persons for allegedly cheating in a competitive examination using bluetooth devices and other means. According to police, an exam to recruit group C staff in Delhi courts was being held at different centres across the city on Sunday in two shifts. They received several complaints of impersonation and use of deceptive means and took action on complaints filed by centre authorities. Many of those arrested were ‘proxies’ giving the exam in place of the real candidate and were caught when their photographs didn’t match.  The others were using small earpieces and were connected to solvers on the phone who were to tell them the answers.“Three cases have been registered in the Crime Branch while 11 cases have been registered at other police stations across Delhi. Districts viz Outer, Northwest and West filed one FIR and made one arrest each while Rohini district along with crime branch arrested 18 people in six FIRs,” police said. Two FIRs were registered in East and four were arrested while three FIRs were filed in Dwarka and four people were arrested, a statement from police said. The cops are probing if these accused were connected and whether it was an organised crime or cheating attempt by individual candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/29-arrested-for-cheating-in-exam-using-bluetooth-devices/articleshow/81284190.cms||---
March 2, 2021||Mumbai||Min’s wife questioned in Fema case of Pune bizman father||Mumbai: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has found that Pune-based businessman Avinash Bhosale transferred crores of rupees abroad in violation of forex norms through his daughter Swapnali Kadam’s accounts and purchased apartments in Dubai and London, said sources. The ED on Monday questioned Swapnali, wife of Congress minister in the state Vishwajeet Kadam. She is a director in Swapnali Bhosale Developers Pvt Ltd, a Pune-based real estate firm. Kadam, a minister of state, is son of educationalist and former senior minister Patangrao Kadam and married Swapnali in 2012. The ED is investigating a case under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema). The sources said the ED recorded Swapnali’s detailed statement for the first time in the case and may call her again for further clarification. Earlier, the ED had recorded the statement of Avinash Bhosale, his wife, their son Amit and daughter-in-law Shweta in the case. All of them had accounts in India through which money had been sent abroad. The Bhosale family, including Swapnali, sent money abroad under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) from their individual accounts, said the sources. Under the scheme an Indian resident is permitted to transfer amounts within specified limits to foreign countries for specific purposes. Sources said the money was not used for the categorised purpose under the scheme and diverted into real estate. In the same case, the ED is also probing Avinash Bhosale’s companies for purchasing a hotel in London worth Rs 400 crore after violating the Overseas Direct Investment (ODI) scheme rules. Officials said they are investigating all the companies associated with the Bhosales and Swapnali in the case. In 2017, income tax (investigation) officials searched his premises and reportedly found questionable transactions in tax havens of more than Rs 100 crore. They had forwarded the details to ED for further investigation. Recently, the ED registered a money laundering case against Avinash Bhosale and others based on a cheating case filed by Pune police against Bhosale, his son and others a few years ago. It is alleged that there was a plan to construct a residential building for bureaucrats in Pune. Bhosale, though, had purchased the plot after manipulating the rules and constructed a commercial structure for himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mins-wife-questioned-in-fema-case-of-pune-bizman-father/articleshow/81283568.cms||Vijay V Singh
March 2, 2021||Lucknow||‘Noida airport pace shows UP work culture’||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the development of Noida international airport in Jewar is a pointer to the new work culture adopted by the ruling dispensation in Uttar Pradesh. Speaking at a programme for signing of a state support agreement for the green-field airport project, the CM said: “It is an example to show how the state government is working for the development of infrastructure in UP.” Launching a veiled attack on the previous state governments for not taking forward the project which had been languishing for 30 years, he said the state cabinet gave its approval for the airport on December 5, 2107, in the interest of the people and the country. Referring to the concessionaire agreement between the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited, the special purpose vehicle (SPV) set up by Zurich International AG and Noida International Airport signed on October 7, 2020, the CM said, “It was the time when the entire world was struggling with coronavirus. We were not only fighting against the pandemic but were also giving the much-needed push to infrastructure development.” Under the state support agreement, the UP government would provide four-lane connectivity to green-field airport and strengthen and modernize existing roads leading to the airport. “The state government will also ensure that the airport is connected with public transport like Metro and bus service. Essential facilities will be provided to the airport and the Noida authority. We will also ensure that no slaughterhouse comes up near the airport and threaten its security and affect cleanliness around the project,” the CM added. Yogi said the air connectivity in the state had improved swiftly in the past four years. “This is a new thought process to step up development,” he said, adding that the area getting air connectivity witnesses a fast-paced development and opens new vistas for investment. He said the people affected by land acquisition for Jewar airport would be rehabilitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/noida-airport-pace-shows-up-work-culture/articleshow/81283565.cms||---
