March 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Wife of Rupesh murder accused files petition||PATNA: A protest petition was filed before the court of CJM Bijay Kishor Singh on Tuesday by IndiGo official Rupesh Kumar Singh murder accused Rituraj’s wife Sakshi Sinha, who alleged that her specific allegations against Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma of physically assaulting her with stick were missing from her deposition which she had been given to sign after recording her statement in the court. On February 3, Patna police had paraded Rituraj (28), claiming that he had shot dead Rupesh to take revenge of getting thrashed by him near the airport after a road rage in November last year. Singh (42) was shot dead in his SUV soon after he reached on his apartment gate in Punaichak under Shastri Nagar police station area in Patna on January 12. Sakshi’s counsel Surya Prakash Singh said a complaint case seeking penal action against the SSP and three SHOs of Patna police, including Ramashankar Singh, has been filed for assaulting her in front of her husband after police arrested him. “The complainant was recording her statement on Tuesday. She found all allegations against the three SHOs recorded in her deposition which was given to sign. However, that part of the charges made against the SSP were missing,” Singh said, adding her case had been already admitted by the court. “As per law, she signed on her deposition, but with remark that her specific allegations against the SSP were not there in the deposition, which she made in front of everyone in the courtroom,” he said. Singh said several lawyers present in the courtroom had also heard Sakshi’s deposition and they also protested against the contents missing from the complainant’s deposition. “After filing of the protest petition, the CJM fixed March 8 for recording Sakshi’s statement against SSP properly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wife-of-rupesh-murder-accused-files-petition/articleshow/81298434.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 3, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: 5 killed after village council sentences ‘witches’ to death||BURUHATU-Amtoli Pahar (JHARKHAND): Mathura Topno had “failed” his village. In four months, Buruhatu-Amtoli Pahar had lost eight people. Cattle were dropping dead. As the village priest and healer, he had not been able to save them. The least he could do now was point them to the source of “evil”. So, on the morning of February 23, dragged to the centre of the Gram Sabha with some 100 people around him, Mathura was asked for names. He gave them random names. The next morning, an elderly man found the blood-soaked body of Josfina Topno, 55, just outside her mud house. Inside, on a wooden cot, was the body of her husband, Nikodim, 60. And in the next room, piled on top of one another were three more corpses — that of their son Vincent, 35, their daughter-in-law Silvanti, 30, and their grandson Albin, 5. A bright yellow and pink toy truck and a cart fashioned out of a box lay next to Albin’s lifeless body. The family had been hacked to death with axes at night about 10 hours after the gram sabha where Mathura had given the names.  “It was all done in 3 minutes,” one of the killers, Salim Topno, boasted later. When TOI visited the village, there was a dreadful silence. Those who did agree to speak said “black magic” had disrupted their lives. “The villagers believed Sarna (the presiding animist deity) has been angered,” Birendra Surin, mukhiapati of Sarita, the panchayat under which the village lies, said. “We knew some action would be taken,” said another man. Rebuked by another in Mundari, the tribal language, he added, “But we didn’t know they would be killed.” Dotted with Pathalgarhi, or stone slabs, in honour of the dead, Buruhatu-Amtoli Pahar has been home to 80-odd families and their ancestors for over 500 years. Most families practise animism, seven follow Christianity, and some are Hindu. The village has a middle school, the neighbouring Titih village has a high school and the panchayat has five missionary-run schools.  But just one family in the village has studied beyond Class X. Most have small patches of land and others were migrant labourers, many of whom are back with limited prospects and little hope. Among those who returned was Amrit Topno, 30, Nikodim’s nephew. Amrit and his wife Wilmani live in the house across Nikodim’s. When the bodies were taken for autopsy, Amrit offered to accompany and help the police. Days later, he was identified as one of the killers. Amrit is among eight who have been arrested so far, along with Soma (25), Sunil (30), Philip (55), Phirangi (45), Sawan (34), Daniel (40) and Salim (25). Seven years ago, Salim had been arrested for killing two women after branding them as witches, tying their bodies to a bike, dragging them to the railway tracks that run by the village and leaving the corpses there. “All of them were inebriated that night,” Suleman said. Barring Daniel and Philip, the rest are distant relatives of one another. They have all been charged with murder, rioting, unlawful assembly and criminal conspiracy. They have also been booked under sections 3 (identification of witch) and 4 (damages for causing harm) of Jharkhand’s Prevention of Witch (Daain) Practices Act, 2001. The murder weapons — four blood-stained axes and an adze — have been retrieved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-killed-after-village-council-sentences-witches-to-death/articleshow/81298741.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
March 3, 2021||World||Indian American becomes youngest executive director of Orange County Democrats||More and more Indian Americans are being appointed to leadership positions in the Democratic Party, from some of the top roles in President Joe Biden’s administration to state units. In January 2021, the Democratic Party of Orange County elevated former political director Ajay Mohan to serve as executive director. According to an official announcement by the Democratic Party of Orange County last month, Mohan, had served the party through the 2020 Presidential election cycle and helped flip 20 local seats from red (Republican) to blue (Democrat) by expanding training programmes and supporting clubs and candidates, as well as expanding fundraising and direct action efforts. Mohan, an Orange County native and a second-generation Indian immigrant, has a decade long experience in working with election campaigns of Democrats across California, the announcement said. “He has worked on successful campaigns for public office from water board to Congress. Mohan is a product of local public schools and currently serves as the commissioner for the city of Irvine.” Mohan, who at 23, is the youngest executive director in the history of the Orange County Democrats, said in an interview to Orange County Register that he isn’t concerned that his age will be a factor in getting results. “Politics is a great vocation just because you’re getting a community of folks who have a whole lot more experience, who have done all of the things you’re doing before,” he said in the Orange County Register report. “I get to work with those folks and take their experience, but also add my own experience in making the party successful,” he said. Orange County, part of the Greater Los Angeles region, is best known for Disneyland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/indian-american-becomes-youngest-executive-director-of-orange-county-democrats/articleshow/81298476.cms||---
March 3, 2021||India||App on 'accessibility' to address concerns of disabled on Covid-19 too||NEW DELHI: Bringing focus on the critical need for accessibility, a mobile based application "Sugamya Bharat App" that became available to the public from Tuesday will not only enable persons with disabilities to complain about inaccessible spaces and services but also seek information and raise concerns related to Covid-19. The app, incidentally, comes at a time when the second phase of vaccination has started for those above 60 years and for those in the priority group of 45 and above with specific co-morbidities which includes certain categories of disabilities. The list of specified comorbidities for determination of eligibility of citizens in age group 45 to 59 years includes persons with intellectual disabilities, those having high support needs, muscular dystrophy, acid attack with involvement of respiratory system and multiple disabilities including deaf-blindness. All those who fall on this list will need to get a certificate from a doctor to apply for vaccination. The new app offers to take up a wide range of accessibility issues - built environment, transportation sector and ICT ecosystem. The separate section on the app allowing people to write in with their concerns linked to Covid-19 is also being cited as a way to reinforce the need for inclusion that is not limited to accessible spaces alone. Launching the app, minister for social justice and empowerment, Thaawarchand Gehlot said it aims at mobilising "jan-bhagidhari" (public participation) in gaining access to on-ground issues related to inaccessibility being faced by not just persons with disabilities but any vulnerable member of society such as the elderly, the ill and infirm, pregnant women, children, among others. The department of empowerment of persons with disabilities under the ministry of social justice has set a timeline of 15 days for the authorities in-charge to respond and deal with any complaint registered on the app. Any delay will be escalated to higher authorities and nodal officials in ministries, departments and the states. DEPwD secretary, Shakuntala D Gamlin said cases of delay will also be referred to the disability commissions in states so that they can issue orders for action. Gamlin further shared that if anyone raises any issue they are facing related to Covid-19 or want any information regarding the ongoing vaccination process they will be guided as per the laid out directions and procedures of the health ministry. Arman Ali, executive director, National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People said that the app can be gamechanger in bringing to the fore concerns of the disabled provided it is implemented properly on ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/app-on-accessibility-to-address-concerns-of-disabled-on-covid-19-too/articleshow/81298937.cms||Ambika Pandit
March 3, 2021||Business||'US support for IP waiver at WTO would be ground-changing'||Mumbai: Even as the WTO takes up the proposal today of India and South Africa to waive patents on Covid-19 medicines and vaccines, over 400 US civil society groups have urged President Biden to support it. The waiver of intellectual property (IP) would suspend patents and monopoly protection to Covid-19 drugs, vaccines and diagnostics for the duration of the pandemic, for an equitable and unrestricted access of these products globally. Public health and human rights activists feel backing from US could help in galvanizing support of other developed countries. Rich countries have cut deals monopolising the global supply of vaccines, posing a serious risk to equitable access for the world's poorest and most vulnerable, with the world ``on the brink of a catastrophic moral failure''. The proposal submitted in October last year, which has the support of over 100 nations, is still being opposed by rich countries including US, and those in the EU. At two recent WTO committee meetings, the Biden administration reportedly has not reversed the Trump-era obstruction of the waiver. Health activists say US support for the waiver would be ground-changing on multiple levels, including influencing other high-income and middle income countries. Brook Baker, Health GAP senior policy analyst and Northeastern University Professor of Law told TOI: Every day the Biden administration spends obstructing the TRIPS waiver proposal further delays Covid-19 vaccination for the 90% of people in low- and middle-income countries. US support for the waiver would be ground-changing on multiple levels. It would be highly influential with other high-income countries, not only those on the fence wishing not to offend the world’s biggest IP defender, but also the EU where countries are beginning to feel the risk of the pandemic recircling the globe because of a delayed vaccine roll-out. Likewise, US support for the waiver will influence some middle-income countries that have strangely remained silent or even questioned the waiver in order to avoid conflict with the US. US civil society including those working on health, development and human rights like MSF, Human Rights Watch, Health GAP (Global Access Project) and Oxfam are part of this initiative. The letter urges Biden ``to reverse a dangerous and self-defeating position taken by President Trump that threatens the prospects of ending the Covid-19 disaster. With global supply limited, many people in low- and middle-income countries around the globe will not have vaccine access until at least 2022, according to the British Medical Journal. Most of the world’s poorest countries will have to wait until 2024 for mass immunization if current trends continue, reports the Economist Intelligence Unit.’’ Perhaps, most importantly, US support would send a signal to industry that its defensive effort to maintain monopoly control over supply, price, and distribution cannot stand. In a context of global supply shortages, significant profit-taking despite massive public investments, and grossly inequitable distribution, deep social and economic disruption will continue. Because of the threat of compulsory override of its intellectual property rights, industry will realize that its technologies must be shared – one way or the other. Voluntary sharing can be incentivized, including to the Covid-19 Technology Access Pool and Medicines Patent Pool, but in the absence of voluntary technology sharing the sledge hammer of taking technology as a last resort will – and should – occur”, Baker added. Notably, governments, particularly US, provided billions in upfront payments, clinical trial support, and guaranteed purchase, so pharmaceutical firms did not bear risk. Yet now the corporations will control where and how much vaccine is made. Even as some firms holding vaccine monopolies have contracted others to manufacture, there is insufficient supply, the letter adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-support-for-ip-waiver-at-wto-would-be-ground-changing/articleshow/81298448.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
March 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Home guard jawan dies in road accident||PATNA: A home guard jawan on night patrolling was crushed to death by a speeding pickup van on SH-90 near Dak Bungalow under the Baikunthpur police station area in Gopalganj in the wee hours of Tuesday. Police said the victim was identified as Birendra Mishra (57), a resident of Ekderwa village under the Town police station area in Gopalganj. Another home guard jawan, Mohan Sah (54), was injured in the accident as he fell from the police patrolling vehicle. Sah, who sustained severe injury in one of his legs, is undergoing treatment at Gopalganj sadar hospital. Sah is a resident of Batardai village under the Barauli police station area in Gopalganj. SHO of Baikunthpur police station Prashant Kumar said the accident took place around 2am. “The two home guard jawans were part of a police patrolling team on night duty. The driver of the pickup van fled with the vehicle after the accident. Mishra was rushed to a hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem, the SHO said, adding efforts were on to trace the pickup van.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-guard-jawan-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/81298063.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Our rights infringed, say Church Street residents||BENGALURU: The move to continue Church Street as pedestrian-only zone for four more weeks has not gone down well with nearly 50 families staying there. “Our movements during weekends are restricted, we feel choked and this should not continue,” they said. Church Street was converted into pedestrian-only space during weekends following a proposal by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) as part of the Clean Air initiative. Though it was to end on February 28, residents received a communication on Tuesday that it would be extended till March-end. Residents insist the move is not resident-friendly and their complaints haven’t been addressed. The restrictions imposed on vehicle use have miffed residents, most of them senior citizens. There are over 150 persons in three apartments and a few independent houses on Church Street. Sameera Fernandez, whose parents live there, said: “We were not consulted before DULT extended this. We’ve had a bad experience since the beginning. My parents are old and go to church every Sunday. Taking out the vehicle and returning home is a challenge as visitors feel we’re intruding into their space. People harass residents for taking their vehicles out.” The residents said they gave two complaints to DULT in November, but to no avail. Only one pass is issued per family, said another resident, adding: “If a family member takes the car out, the other members are stranded at home or forced to walk to the main road to take a taxi.” Minati Ambarish, member, Church Street Welfare Association, said: “We strongly feel our rights are infringed. Everyone should have free entry and exit from their homes, but it doesn’t happen here during weekends.” She added: “Friends can’t visit us; we cannot take a taxi from the airport and reach home as vehicles without passes are not allowed and we worry about not getting an ambulance on time in a medical emergency.” Adding to the misery is the refusal of facility management staff (including security guards, maids and gardeners) to work during weekends. “Since they are forced to pay and park outside Church Street, they don’t want to report for work,” said a resident. The residents allege the project has been done to favour a few restaurants. Pollution levels during weekends are higher on the street, they said, adding that huge crowds pose a risk for them as the pandemic is not yet over. They urged Shanthinagar MLA N A Haris and other officials to look at the issue from resident’s perspective too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/our-rights-infringed-say-church-st-residents/articleshow/81298995.cms||Kiran Parashar
March 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 25 chargesheeted in Sandalwood drug case||BENGALURU: Sleuths of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Monday filed a chargesheet against 25 persons, including actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, through jurisdictional Cottonpet police. The 25 accused include 15 on bail (including Dwivedi and Galrani), 5 in jail and 5 absconders. “We filed a chargesheet against 25 accused persons including four Nigerian nationals,” Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police said. Police sources said the chargesheet runs into over 2,390 pages in five volumes and was submitted to the 33rd Additional City Civil and Session Court, the special court for NDPS Act. Puneeth Kumar, police inspector (CCB), investigated the case registered in Cottonpet police station on September 4, 2020. The chargesheet contains statements of over 180 witnesses, confession statements of the accused and other evidence. Police allege the accused were actively involved in purchasing, consuming and selling narcotic substances. Police furnished bank account details of the accused. The racket came to light when ex-RTO official Ravi Shankar revealed the drug trade in high-end parties in his statement before KC Gautam, assistant commissioner of police, CCB. Police registered a case against 12 accused persons including late minister Jeevaraj Alva’s son Aditya Alva and others with Cottonpet police station on September 4. The accused are Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani, Vinay Kumar, BK Ravi Shankar, Aditya Alva, Veeren Khanna, Rahul Thonse, Aditya Agarwal, Prashanth Ranka, Srinivas Subramanya alias Shri, Benald Udenna, Chidiebere Ambrose alias Chief, Loom Pepper Samba alias Simon, Aswin Kumar, Osita Onoh Philip, Pratheek Shetty, Shivaprakash, Vaibhav Jain, Prashanth Raju G, Niyas Mohammed, Ashwin Kumar alias Ashwin Boogi, Abhi Swamy, Vinod Kumar Poddar and Lokesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/25-chargesheeted-in-sandalwood-drug-case/articleshow/81298998.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 2 woman flyers held at KIA with saffron, iPhones & Cuban cigars||BENGALURU: Two women passengers, who smuggled in 57kg saffron, 30 iPhones, 10 Airpods, over 1kg of tobacco and Cuban cigars from, Dubai were nabbed by customs sleuths at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). Smuggled goods worth Rs 78 lakh, hidden in their luggage, were seized and the women were booked. According to sources in the Air Intelligence Unit (AIU), the passengers, identified only as a 33-year-old woman from Ahmedabad and a 36-year-old woman from Mumbai, landed at KIA at 8.50am Monday on Emirates flight EK 564 from Dubai. As part of passenger profiling, especially those from the Gulf, customs personnel on duty at the airport noticed something amiss about the women. They were intercepted by women officers on duty. The duo had left for the UAE from Mumbai on February 26, 2021 but couldn’t give convincing answers about their short trip to the Gulf and return to Bengaluru instead of Mumbai. A baggage scan revealed a lot of undeclared items and physical examination of their belongings revealed 27kg of saffron worth Rs 16.2 lakh, 14 iPhone 12 Pro Max worth Rs 19.2 lakh, two iPhone 12 Pro worth Rs 2.4 lakh, five Airpods worth Rs 1.2 lakh and 755gm of tobacco worth Rs 10,500 from the luggage of the Ahmedabad woman. The total value of the seized goods is over Rs 39 lakh, AIU sources said. An inspection of the Mumbai woman’s bags revealed the same kind of smuggled goods: 30.1 kg of saffron worth Rs 18.1 lakh, 14 iPhone 12 Pro Max worth Rs 19.2 lakh, five Airpods worth Rs 1.2 lakh, 1.02kg of tobacco worth Rs 14,000 and a Cuban cigars pack worth Rs 5,500. The total value of the seizure was estimated at about Rs 39 lakh. The suspects were booked for smuggling and evasion of customs duty and released on bail and the goods were seized. A probe is under way to check if the women had any links with Bengaluru-based international smuggling gangs who deploy carriers by luring them money and free air travel, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-woman-flyers-held-at-kia-with-saffron-iphones-cuban-cigars/articleshow/81299011.cms||Petlee Peter
March 3, 2021||Business||NMDC logs record production, sales in February||Hyderabad: State-owned iron ore miner, NMDC Ltd, on Tuesday said it has registered growth during the month of February 2021 both in terms of production and sales performance as compared to the year-ago period. While, the iron ore production for February 2021 grew 19% to 3.86 million tonne (MT) as against the 3.24 MT in February 2020, sales in February 2021 increased 12% to 3.25 MT as against the 2.91 MT in February 2020. The Bailadila projects at Chhattisgarh produced 3.15 MT in February 2021 as compared to last year’s production of 2.93 MT in the month of February, and registered a growth of 8% in production. The total sales of iron ore from Bailadila projects during February 2021 rose by 8% at 2.62 MT as against 2.42 MT in February 2020. Commenting on the performance, Sumit Deb, CMD, NMDC Ltd, said, “These production and sales figures definitely display NMDC’s strong character to bounce back in spite of operational challenges…we foresee a gradual rise in numbers and will continue to set new records.” NMDC has recently restarted the operations at Donimalai mines in Karnataka, which have a capacity to produce a minimum of 0.5 MT of iron ore per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nmdc-logs-record-production-sales-in-february/articleshow/81299066.cms||Swati Rathor
March 3, 2021||Business||MTAR Tech raises Rs 179 cr from 15 anchor investors ahead of IPO opening||Hyderabad: Hyderabad-based precision engineering solutions company, MTAR Technologies, on Tuesday announced that it has raised Rs 179 crore from 15 anchor investors a day prior to its issue opening. The company has allocated nearly 31 lakh shares at Rs 575 per share on March 2 to the anchor investors. The investors include Nomura Funds Ireland, Jupiter South Asia Investment, White Oak Capital and Goldman Sachs India. Each of these investors were allocated 1.7 lakh shares for around Rs 10 crore each. Among the domestic investors, SBI Mutual Fund and Axis Mutual Fund picked up the largest allocation of 13.67% each for approximately Rs 24.5 crore, across their various schemes. SBI MF and Axis MF have also invested Rs 70 crore and Rs 30 crore respectively in a pre-IPO round that concluded last month. Other domestic institutions who were allocated shares included ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund, HDFC Mutual Fund, Aditya Birla Sunlife Mutual Fund, Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund, Nippon India Mutual Fund, Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, Sundaram Mutual Fund, Invesco Mutual Fund and Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance – each of these institutions were allocated 1.7 lakh shares for around Rs 10 crore each across their various schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mtar-tech-raises-rs-179-cr-from-15-anchor-investors-ahead-of-ipo-opening/articleshow/81299116.cms||Swati Rathor
March 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's yogini, Nisha Dhaundiyal says her mental strength helped her bag 'Roadies'||Chandigarh girl, Nisha Dhaundiyal who participated in the TV show, 'Roadies' last year, says it was because of her physical and mental strength that she was able to survive the tough tasks of the show. Called yogini Nisha, the 25-year-old girl is a fitness model, and an international yoga player, who has a post graduate degree in physical education and also holds a diploma in yogic science besides having done a computer course. "I started yoga by watching my mother," says Nisha, adding, "My mom is my love and I am inspired by her. It made me feel so good and relaxed when I started with workouts that I was in love with the results. Then I started meeting people who said they were inspired by me, and that was when I decided to be a fitness model." Ask her about how she ventured into the 'Roadies' show and she says, "I was always a fan of 'Roadies' and I followed all seasons closely. In 2020 the theme was 'Roadies Revolution' and I got fascinated by it and decided to give it a try and was lucky to have made it." Commenting on the qualities and pre-requisites that helped her bag a place in the show, Nisha, who is a three time winner of Chandigarh fitness modeling event, says being a yogini helped. "Yes, in 'Roadies' physical and mental strength, both are equally important. Me being from the fitness and yoga field, with strength in both my muscle and mind, I think I was fit for the show," says Nisha who goes on to add, "My experience on the show was amazing. The leaders and the team, the environment of the show made me a different person and I learned a lot. The audience gave me so much love even after the show ended. I am very grateful."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarhs-yogini-nisha-dhaundiyal-says-her-mental-strength-helped-her-bag-roadies/articleshow/81299425.cms||---
March 3, 2021||India||Protest against Azad opens up rift in J&K Congress unit||JAMMU: After a group of ‘dissident’ Congress leaders met in Jammu in an apparent show of strength and senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the party unit in the Union territory is showing signs of turmoil. On Tuesday, a few hours after a section of Congress workers burnt an effigy of Azad, accusing him of conspiring against the party at the behest of BJP “for personal gains”, another group came out in Azad’s support, bringing a rift within the party’s J&K unit to the fore. Congress workers, led by former general secretary of the party’s J&K unit and a district development council (DDC) member Mohammad Shahnawaz Choudhary, burnt Azad’s effigy outside the Press Club on Tuesday afternoon. They raised slogans against Azad, demanding his ouster from the party. “Congress has always given him (Ghulam Nabi Azad) so much. Congress made him the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, but when it is time for him to pay back to the party, he is making Congress weak from within,” said Choudhary. Alleging that it is clear Azad is working at the behest of BJP, Choudhary also accused the Congress veteran of conspiracy against the party leadership and demanded his expulsion. Aijaz Choudhary, vice-president of Jammu and Kashmir Congress Committee, also attacked Azad by pointing out that he stayed away from the DDC elections and invited dissidents to criticize the party from his home. A few hours later, another group of Congress workers, led by JMC councillor Gaurav Chopra, staged a protest against Choudhary and said, “A person who fought the recently-held DDC polls against the party mandate is not a Congressman and is working on the directions of BJP and RSS to weaken the Congress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/protest-against-azad-opens-up-rift-in-jk-congress-unit/articleshow/81299474.cms||---
March 3, 2021||India||NIA registers case against Lashkar-e-Mustafa chief||SRINAGAR: The National Investigation Agency on Tuesday registered a case against Hidayatullah Malik, self-styled commander of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, on charges of running a terror organisation at the behest of Jaish-e-Mohammad to carry out terror activities in Jammu and threaten national security. An ‘A’ category terrorist, Malik was arrested from Jammu’s outskirts on February 6 with a pistol and grenade. The Shopian native, who was earlier involved in several terror crimes in Kashmir — including robbing Rs 60 lakh from a bank in November last year — had told police he was planning to carry out a terror strike in Jammu. “A case in this connection was registered on February 6 at Jammu’s Gangyal PS under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The NIA on Tuesday re-registered a case and took over the investigation,” said an NIA spokesperson. Based on further information obtained from Malik, the agency raided several places and recovered a hand grenade, three magazines and 28 rounds of ammunition along with other incrimination material, said the spokesperson. Malik had done recces of numerous security installations in Jammu and Delhi in 2018 and 2019 for carrying out terror attacks. He had been associated with other terror organisations in the past and furthered subversive activities in Kashmir Valley, the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-registers-case-against-lashkar-e-mustafa-chief/articleshow/81299569.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 3, 2021||India||Mehbooba moves HC for renewal of passport||SRINAGAR: Former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has approached the high court for issuance of renewed passport, which she alleged was not happening for want for police verification. In her plea, Mehbooba said that the passport issued to her was valid till May 31, 2019 and she had applied for its renewal on December 11 last year. “The passport, as per the instruction manual, was expected to be dispatched within 30 days,” she said in her plea. “After the receipt of the application, complete in all respects, the Regional Passport Office sought police verification from additional director general of police, CID, and senior superintendent of police, Srinagar district,” she said. Even after the passage of more than a month, the passport was not dispatched. She then found out that, her case is not moving as physical police verification was pending. Mehbooba said she then made a representation to the passport officer, stating that even though more than a month had elapsed, the (police verification) report sought by him has not been furnished, notwithstanding the guidelines issued by the Union of India mandating that police verification must be completed within a period of 21 days. “Despite the representation, it appears from the record that the additional DGP, CID, for reasons unknown, has not forwarded to the RPO the police verification report,” she said in her plea, while seeking a direction to the authorities concerned to issue the passport in her favour expeditiously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mehbooba-moves-hc-for-renewal-of-passport/articleshow/81299649.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 3, 2021||World||Tough contest likely on Islamabad Senate seat||ISLAMABAD: As Pakistan is set to elect nearly half of the 104 members of Senate, the upper house of Parliament, on Wednesday, all eyes are set on the contest on Islamabad’s general seat between current finance minister Hafeez Sheikh and former prime minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani. Sheikh is a candidate of the governing Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI), while Gilani is contesting from the platform of Pakistan Democratic Alliance (PDA), an anti-government amalgam of 11 opposition parties. While all the four provinces — Balochistan, Punjab, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) — have equal representation in the Senate and members of each provincial assembly vote through secret ballot for electing senators, the 342-member National Assembly (NA) is the electoral college for four — two on general, one technocrat and one woman — Senate seats of Islamabad. The capital territory of Islamabad is federally-administered. Out of the four, election on Islamabad’s two seats is held every three years. The NA currently comprises 341 members and 171 votes in the lower house will be required for a senator to be elected from Islamabad. As PTI does not enjoy simple majority in NA and is dependent on coalition partners for maintaining majority in the house, the contest between Sheikh and Gilani has become the centre of attention. Sources said Prime Minister Imran Khan and his close aides are seriously concerned as many of their national and provincial lawmakers are openly expressing their dissatisfaction with the party. The PM understands that losing the Senate seat from Islamabad, where the general seat is traditionally won by the governing party, will create an impression that he has lost support of the majority, and hence his political legitimacy will be seriously challenged. PDA is also trying to give an impression that the election on the general seat of Islamabad is a test case for the opposition’s alliance in order to materialize its idea of moving a no-confidence motion against Khan in future. Senators in Pakistan are elected to office for a period of six years and elections are held after every three years to replace half of the house. As many as 52 senators — who were elected in 2015 — are set to retire on March 11 after completing their six-year tenure. However, this time there will be no polling for the four seats of the former tribal regions, which were merged with the northwestern KP province. Therefore, the 2021 elections will see 48 new senators join the upper house — 12 each from KP and Balochistan, 11 each from Punjab and Sindh, and two from Islamabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/tough-contest-likely-on-islamabad-senate-seat/articleshow/81299756.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 3, 2021||World||Alleged Sikh terrorist Kuldeep Singh arrived illegally in UK 16 years ago||LONDON: Alleged Sikh terrorist Kuldeep Singh, whose extradition to India has been rejected by the Westminster Magistrates' Court in London, arrived illegally in the UK and has been living in the country for 16 years. India is trying to extradite Singh to make him face trial for plotting a campaign of terror in Punjab, including bomb attacks and assassinations including that of former chief minister Prakash Singh Badal and his deputy Sukhbir Singh Badal, as well raising funds and arranging supply arms for terrorist acts, and recruiting youths for the banned terror outfit Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF). The 44-year-old — also known as Keepa Sidhu — was born in Jalalpur Kalan village in Lohian tehsil in Jalandhar. He entered the UK illegally in 2005 and remained under the radar, undeclared to the UK authorities, until 2013, when he made a claim for leave to remain in the country on human rights grounds, court documents say. His application was refused. In 2017 he made a subsequent application to remain in Britain, again on human rights grounds. That claim was also refused. In 2018, he then made an asylum claim. The application was treated as withdrawn on the basis that he failed to attend the asylum interview. In 2019, he submitted a further asylum claim which remains outstanding. Following an Interpol red notice being published for Singh on October 23, 2018, and India’s extradition request being certified by the UK on July 5, 2019, Singh was arrested at Loughborough Immigration Reporting Centre on October 15, 2019, where he was on immigration bail. The extradition warrant, however, was discharged after district judge Gareth Branston decided at Westminster Magistrates' Court that there was no case to answer and the evidence against him was inadmissible. India is seeking permission to appeal that decision. In his written judgment Branston wrote: “There is no evidence that anyone was actually killed as a result of his alleged activities.” However, a disclosure memo in the Government of India evidence alleges that Ranjit Singh Neeta, the head of the KZF, who is trying to create Khalistan in Punjab, was in contact with Singh and Neeta had met with chiefs of ISI in Lahore, where he revealed his plan was to murder the Gagneja chief of RSS. State RSS vice-president Brigadier (retd) Jagdish Gagneja was shot at in Jalandhar on August 6, 2016 and died 47 days later. Singh has remained in custody throughout. On September 10, 2020, Branston granted bail to Singh after hearing he had a sister in the UK who put up a sum of £25,000 as surety. But Justice Swift revoked the bail four days later in the High Court, following an appeal from the Indian government. He said the fact that Singh entered the UK illegally and remained at large and undetected for a period of some eight years “suggests that he is a resourceful man capable of going to ground for an extended period when he chooses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/alleged-sikh-terrorist-kuldeep-singh-arrived-illegally-in-uk-16-yrs-ago/articleshow/81299834.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 3, 2021||Business||Electronic goods export records all-time high of Rs 8,806 cr for Dec 2020: ICEA||New Delhi: Electronic goods export reached an all time high of Rs 8,806 crore in December 2020 with mobile handset contributing 35 per cent to the overall kitty, industry body ICEA said on Tuesday. According to the India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) mobile exports are 50 per cent higher compared to the pre-COVID levels. "We are pleased to share that industry is overcoming the unprecedented challenges of COVID and is on a path of regaining the momentum as envisaged in NPE 2019. "Mobile phones are the highest contributor in the segment comprising 35 per cent of the value with an export value of Rs 3,061 crore which is 50 per cent higher than December 2019," ICEA chairman Pankaj Mohindroo said in a statement. He said that the mobile phone manufacturing industry, backed by the PLI scheme, during the COVID period industry has made substantial investments of more than Rs 2,000 crore. "Electronic Goods exports for the current financial year have crossed Rs 50,000 crore mark despite COVID-19 pandemic and complete washout of production for 45 days. The mobile handset industry has catered to the domestic demand during the pandemic as well as exports of more than Rs 14,000 crores till December 2020," Mohindroo said. The government rolled out a production linked incentive scheme for the mobile phone sector July last year in which global majors like Apple's contract manufacturers Foxconn and Winstron, Samsung, Lava, Dixon etc participated. The scheme attracted total investment proposals of Rs 11,000 crore with commitment to manufacture mobile phones worth Rs 10.5 lakh crore. The rollout of the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) scheme can also help boost the exports by a specific process of determining the rates and identifying the product lines, ICEA said. "The reduction of custom duties and a scheme to refund to the exporters the embedded central, state and local duties and taxes can act as a key contributor in achieving the mobile phone export of over Rs 8 lakh crore envisaged under National Policy on Electronics 2019 target," Mohindroo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/electronic-goods-export-records-all-time-high-of-rs-8806-cr-for-dec-2020-icea/articleshow/81299233.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Business||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, Rare Investments sell shares worth nearly Rs 65 cr in Ion Exchange||New Delhi: Rakesh Radheyshyam Jhunjhunwala and his firm Rare Investments on Tuesday offloaded shares worth nearly Rs 65 crore in Ion Exchange India Ltd, through open market transactions. As per bulk deal data on BSE, Jhunjhunwala sold a little over 1.5 lakh shares at Rs 1,205.19 apiece, valuing the deal at Rs 18.17 crore. Rare Investments offloaded 3.87 lakh scrips at a price of Rs 1,205.42 apiece, taking the total deal value to Rs 46.73 crore. Through separate transactions, Plutus Wealth Management LLP bought 4.75 lakh shares of Ion Exchange at a price of Rs 1,220.75 apiece. On BSE, shares of Ion Exchange (India) Ltd ended 14.34 per cent higher at Rs 1,403.2 apiece.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rakesh-jhunjhunwala-rare-investments-sell-shares-worth-nearly-rs-65-cr-in-ion-exchange/articleshow/81300023.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Over 4.5 lakh submit life certificate for EPS pension in Karnataka and Goa region||BENGALURU: Over 4.5 lakh people eligible for Employees Pension Scheme (EPS) in Karnataka and Goa region have submitted their life certificate towards receiving their monthly pension. Eligible pensioners who have missed out on the February 28, 2021 deadline should submit their certificate immediately, stated additional central PF commissioner (HQ — Karnataka and Goa) RK Singh. A release from the EPFO said out of 5,95,021 pensioners in Karnataka and Goa only 4,56,480, which is 76.7% , have submitted their life certificates after the submission time was extended till February-end due to the pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-4-5l-submit-life-certificate-for-eps-pension/articleshow/81300561.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||I-League: Churchill Bros, unbeaten in first phase, not thinking too far ahead||It’s been four months since Spanish coach Fernando Varela arrived to take charge of Churchill Brothers FC but not for a moment has he forgotten what he must achieve with this team. The club's target, like every season, is to win the I-League and Varela is up for the challenge. So far, the former Gokulam Kerala coach has remained on track. Churchill are unbeaten in 10 games with 22 points in the first phase and on course to clinch their third title. The former champions have opened a four-point gap at the top of the standings as the league now enters its final phase. Varela has lauded the work the team did during preseason and arrived in best shape in Kolkata. Since being inside the bio-secure bubble, the team has shown great character and Varela wants his side to maintain the same focus. “Now during the matches, we had to correct the mistakes and there was focus to understand what to correct and that’s how we grow on our performances. Players had a good mentality and put in a good effort,” Varela told TOI on Tuesday. In the second phase, the top six teams will play each other once with the points from the first phase being carried forward. The team that finishes on top will be champions. From teams in the top six, Churchill have only defeated second-placed Punjab FC (18 points) and Kerala (16 points). They have played goalless draws against Mohammedan SC and Real Kashmir FC, while settling for a 1-1 scoreline against TRAU. “It is not affecting my mind,” said Varela. “Football is about opportunity, correcting mistakes, respecting opponents, players. It is also about respecting ourselves. How we did and we are doing shows our potential to the Indians and our fans. They are believing in our potential,” said Varela. Last season champions Mohun Bagan had lost only one game out of 16 and that defeat came against Churchill. Now, many believe the Goan outfit can win the league without a loss. “I don’t like to read the future more than the next game. We must correct the mistakes (from the last match) and be focussed. We can do the work if we continue in the same way,” said Varela. Like he promised before the start of the league, Varela has not only won points for the team but created an identity with their style of play. Churchill’s defence led by Lebanese Hamza Kheir has conceded only six goals, the best defensive record in the league so far. Upfront, Clayvin Zuniga and Luka Majcen have combined well and won matches with their goals. Both are leading the goals-scoring charts. While Luka has scored seven, Clayvin has six and the duo have netted 13 of the team's 15 goals. The other two goals have come from Bryce Miranda and Kingslee Fernandes. Varela knows teams will be better prepared to face them in the final phase, but he believes Churchill will be stronger going forward.  “We are better than the first games. We know more about us. Always have to correct the mistakes, even if you win. I feel really proud of the players, they have done a great job during the season,” said Varela. The Spanish coach will be happy with the performances during the last three games, which followed three straight draws that held them back. Churchill won their last title in 2013. They are close to another one, the club’s third.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-league-churchill-bros-unbeaten-in-first-phase-not-thinking-too-far-ahead/articleshow/81300514.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
March 3, 2021||Goa||GCA keeps eye on future with women’s team||Panaji: There was no surprise in store when the Goa Cricket Association chose experienced campaigner Shikha Pandey to lead the women's team for the one-day tournament to be held in Jaipur from March 11. After more than one and half month of trial and preparations, GCA announced a 21-member squad, running their eye through 60 promising and established players. There was an addition of six players to the regular 15-member squad due to BCCI's Covid-19 regulations. The team played six warm-up matches and GCA's online training and fitness programme, started in June last year, ensured coach Anuradha Redkar has the best players available. The team will leave for Jaipur on Wednesday, and as per BCCI's standard bio-bubble practice, go into a seven-day isolation before resuming practice on March 10. "What makes our team special is the fact that we have Shikha on our side. Nothing can replace the kind of experience she brings to the team. She has been here for trials, worked hard and brought a fresh approach and lot of positivity among girls," said Prakash Mayekar, director of coaching and cricket operations. GCA is also looking to invest in youngsters and strengthen the women's team. They have chosen promising debutants such as Ibtisam Shaikh (17), Taniya Pawar (16), Ciya Dessai (21), Rehna Kamat (18) and Poorva Bhaidkar (17) to play alongside established players like Tejaswini Durgad, Vinavi Gurav, Sanjula Naik, Sugandha Ghadi and Purvaja Verlekar. Shikha and Nikita Malik will spearhead the pace attack while allrounder Tejaswini, who played for India Red and Blue in Challenger tournament, will be the trump card. Opener Purvaja Verlekar, who took part in the National Cricket Academy (NCA) One-day cricket tournament in 2017, is expected to do bulk of the scoring. Goa are drawn in Elite Group C along with Chandigarh (March 12), Rajasthan (March 14), Maharashtra (March 16), Uttar Pradesh (March 18) and Andhra Pradesh (March 20).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gca-keeps-eye-on-future-with-womens-team/articleshow/81300726.cms||Paresh Mokani
March 3, 2021||Goa||Ishan Pandita gets national call after super sub shows with FC Goa||Panaji:Ishan Pandita has done enough in the Indian Super League (ISL) to earn himself a call for national duty by coach Igor Stimac. Whenever handed a chance – mostly as a late substitute – the FC Goa striker has given a good account of himself, scoring four goals in 56 minutes, spread across nine matches. His added-time goal against Chennaiyin FC was particularly impressive. Now, the 22-year-old who has done duty for clubs in Spain’s lower divisions, has been named among India probables for the two friendlies against Oman and United Arab Emirates (UAE) later this month. Sunil Chhetri and Manvir Singh are the two other strikers in the team with Pandita almost certain to make the trip to Dubai. Stimac has named 35 probables with the list expected to be trimmed down to 28 after the ISL final on March 13. Goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh, central defender Adil Khan and right-back Seriton Fernandes are the other FC Goa players in the squad. Stimac has named 10 new faces among the probables with many of them expected to get a taste of international football for the first time. The likes of Brandon Fernandes, Rahul Bheke, Sahal Abdul Samad and Asish Rai have not been considered for selection since they are nursing injuries at the moment. “The two matches against Oman and UAE mean a lot to Indian football. It’s been a while since we last played and this is a great opportunity to check where we stand at the moment. “I know the season was a tough one and players might be overloaded. But, we have enough time to refresh their legs and brains. However, many of them will have a break of two weeks without any organised training sessions prior to joining the camp. Hopefully, they will execute their individual working plans,” said Stimac. PROBABLES Goalkeepers: Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, Amrinder Singh, Subhashish Roy Chowdhury, Dheeraj Singh, Vishal Kaith. Defenders: Seriton Fernandes, Ashutosh Mehta, Akash Mishra, Pritam Kotal, Sandesh Jhingan, Chinglensana Singh, Sarthak Golui, Adil Khan, Mandar Rao Dessai, Prabir Das, Mashoor Shereef. Midfielders: Udanta Singh, Rowllin Borges, Lalengmawia, Jeakson Singh, Raynier Fernandes, Anirudh Thapa, Bipin Singh, Yasir Mohammad, Suresh Singh, Liston Colaco, Halicharan Narzary, Lallianzuala Chhangte, Ashique Kuruniyan, Rahul KP, Hitesh Sharma, Farukh Choudhary. Forwards: Manvir Singh, Sunil Chhetri, Ishan Pandita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ishan-pandita-gets-national-call-after-super-sub-shows-with-fc-goa/articleshow/81300112.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Raipur||In a 1st, Chhattisgarh inducts 13 transgenders as constables||RAIPUR: In a reflection of changing times, transgenders popularly known as kinnars, have shed their sarees and bangles to don khaki uniform and protect the civilians and uphold law of the land. Chhattisgarh police recruited 13 transgenders as constables, a first for the state police force. TimesViewIndia has about 4.9 lakh transgenders, according to Census 2011. The actual number is much higher. Often at the receiving end of social prejudices, many prefer to hide their sexual identity. A 2018 NHRC study showed that a staggering 96% are denied jobs. In this gloomy backdrop, this is a bold and much-needed move that will surely help in improving their lot.Two transgenders were placed on the waiting list as the list was released on Tuesday. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel took to Twitter to congratulate them, "The results for police constable recruitment exams are out and 13 members of third gender community have been selected as constables while two of them are on the waiting list. I congratulate all the selected aspirants and extend best wishes to all of them. रायपुर रेंज पुलिस आरक्षक भर्ती परीक्षा के परिणाम घोषित कर दिए गए हैं। इस परीक्षा में तृतीय लिंग समुदाय के 13 उम्मीद… https://t.co/iya6LtDVQk— Bhupesh Baghel (@bhupeshbaghel) 1614614516000Director general of police of the state DM Awasthi to have congratulated the new recruits. Senior police officials said that Chhattisgarh is the first state to have recruited TGs in such numbers. TOI had reported in May 2018 that ten TGs (transgenders) had cleared physical fitness test in the women's category after the Chhattisgarh government had then decided to recruit them to the police force. On cloud nine after seeing the merit list, an elated Naina Sori, 25, says it has been tough for her on the streets, begging and facing molestation regularly. “I had dreamt of doing something substantial in life, but also felt undeserving at the same time because of the way I was treated in the society. I have a higher secondary pass but never managed to get a decent job for myself because I wasn't accepted by society. People would glance at me as I belonged to some other planet.” Now, I am sure things are changing and I have earned this position with hard work and dedication," Naina told TOI. Facing molestation is a routine thing for a transgender and I would work towards preventing it in society once I get posted, she said. Another TG Akshara Mandal, 25, from Ambikapur said that she had never gone to school nor played on the ground, but the rigorous practice sessions at Police Line instilled so much confidence in her that she feels she can conquer the world. "I managed to overcome my fears by getting selected in the police force. When people stared at me questioningly, it was my friends and supporters who stood by me and they would accompany me on the ground to run with me.” “Gradually, everyone became friendly,"Akshara said. It's been more than 8-9 years since she has left her home to live on her own and earned her livelihood by working as domestic help and collecting money at marriage events. “It hasn't been an easy journey as people often mistreat us.” Akshara hopes to get the respect she deserves. Vidya Rajput, the chief of the transgender community in Chhattisgarh said, "Struggles of several years have yielded results for the members of the community and a new way of livelihood has opened for them giving them an option to join the mainstream society. As soon as we realize who we are, either we are forced to leave homes or are abandoned by the family. Years of talks with the government for rehabilitation and employment of TGs has started showing results. The change will begin now, Vidya, said adding, “it's time for TGs to walk ahead from ‘bhiksha and badhai' (begging and congratulating) to don uniform and protect the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/in-a-1st-cgarh-inducts-13-transpersons-as-constables/articleshow/81301131.cms||Rashmi Drolia
March 3, 2021||India||Centre allows more private hospitals to administer Covid-19 vaccine||NEW DELHI: A day after glitches eased but did not disappear in the larger "on demand" rollout of the Covid vaccine, the Centre decided to allow even private hospitals not affiliated to Ayushman Bharat, CGHS and state schemes to be included as centres for administrating the inoculations. The Centre's decision will effectively allow inclusion of some of the bigger private hospital chains and standalone medical facilities.  This means hospitals like Fortis and Max, not part of the vaccination drive in Gurgaon (though they are in Delhi), can be part of the effort as long as they are willing and meet certain criteria. Apart from big names, many smaller private hospitals could also be brought onto the Co-Win portal being used to register and schedule the shots. In Delhi, all major private hospitals are vaccinating eligible beneficiaries. "Initially, only about 54 private hospitals were named. However, the state government updated the list within a few hours to include 136 private hospitals so that maximum people are covered," said an official. Apollo, Max, Fortis and most other major hospital chains in Delhi are offering the shot while there are 56 government-run hospitals where it’s available free of cost. The pace of vaccinations improved with scheduling of shots and over six lakh vaccine doses were given till 7pm on Tuesday, of which 5.21 lakh beneficiaries got the first dose. Some 88,744 health and frontline workers got the second dose. Better functioning of the portal and hospitals streamlining their procedures helped, even though sessions were cancelled on account of data problems. In some cases, hospitals said vaccine supplies had not arrived and that staff needed a few more days of training. The Centre said 60 distribution points for the vaccines had been arranged nationally from where they were further distributed. It said there were no glitches in the Co-Win software but there was confusion since people were looking for an app. However, officials said the system is being improved and slots like "forenoon" and "afternoon" were being done away with for shorter intervals to ensure crowding did not take place. They also said the 9am-5pm routine will be relaxed if a hospital is in a position to administer shots late into the evening. Read AlsoCovid-19: 90% health workers get 1st dose in 9 states/UTsStates such as Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat and the UT of Ladakh have achieved 100% coverage of healthcare workers for the first dose, the government said, underlining that even states like Tamil Nadu, where vaccine hesitancy was initially an issue, are now among better performers.Many private hospitals sites were also faced with logistics issues, untrained staff, overcrowding and even shortage of supplies leading to delay in vaccination. Currently, the shots are being administered at around 27,000 hospitals, of which around 12,000 are in the private sector. The decision was taken in a high-level meeting in the wake of reports of overcrowding at empanelled hospitals and unavailability of appointments or sessions despite people registering on Co-Win. Nearly 50 lakh people, using Co-Win portal and Aarogya Setu app, had registered for Covid vaccination till Tuesday afternoon. Officials said that assuming two persons per mobile number, it would be around one crore people. "There were some glitches in the first version of the software that we unveiled on January 16 but yesterday there were none. Just that people were looking for an app and they happened to find one that looked authentic but was not made for that purpose," said R S Sharma, head of the empowered group on Covid-19 vaccinations. To expand the coverage, the Centre has also advised states to optimally utilise the capacities of private hospitals and ensure adequate allocation of vaccines to all hospitals (government and private) for the entire duration for which sessions have been planned. "It was reiterated that there is no shortage of vaccines, hence adequate doses should be allocated to vaccination centres. States/UTs should not store, reserve, conserve or create a buffer stock of Covid vaccines at the state and district levels. The central government has adequate stock and will provide the required vaccine doses to states and UTs," the health ministry said. Emphasising that there are no software-related glitches in Co-Win, Sharma said a system has been put in place for monitoring the user experience as well as to look for glitches. "We are looking at how long a person takes to register after logging in. We had done this also at the time of Aadhaar. Anecdotes are in one place, but we are taking data-driven decisions," he said. He added the new version of Co-Win has a "demand-driven approach". "We see no problem in scaling up. It should be able to take a huge amount of load… The number of transactions will be large. We also want data to be safe and secure," Sharma said. Overall, 1.54 crore doses of the vaccine have been administered so far since the launch of the world’s largest vaccination drive on January 16. While the second phase of the drive was launched on March 1, extending the coverage to a larger "priority" population group based on age and co-morbidities that can increase the risk of severe infection and death, over 4.3 lakh people aged more than 60 years and 60,020 people aged 45 years and above with specific co-morbidities received the vaccine till 7pm on Tuesday. Watch Covid-19: Centre allows more private hospitals to administer vaccine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-allows-more-private-hospitals-to-administer-vaccine/articleshow/81301194.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 3, 2021||India||Covid-19 cases rise for 16th day in a row||NEW DELHI: India's Covid case count surged for 16th straight day, with 15,002 fresh cases recorded on Tuesday. The seven-day rolling average of daily cases in the country has risen uninterruptedly since February 14, when the average stood at 11,430, to 15,686 on March 2 — a growth of 37%. However, the death toll from the virus stayed below 100 for the second day, with 98 fatalities reported in the country on Tuesday. Deaths reported on the previous day were 91, which came after six days of 100-plus daily toll. With this, the total toll from the pandemic in India has climbed to 1,57,387, translating to a case fatality rate of 1.4%. TimesViewThe fresh surge in coronavirus cases in several states is worrying. And while the states and Centre must do what they need to, citizens too must play their part: wear masks, follow safe health practices. The outbreak isn’t over yet and it won’t be if we abandon these practices.Maharashtra again accounted for more than half of India’s death toll with 54 fatalities, followed by Kerala (16), Punjab (10) and Karnataka (7). The spike in the pandemic in Punjab continues to be a worry. The state logged 730 fresh cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day surge in nearly four months since December 6, when the count was 802. In Kerala, cases continue to decline gradually. The state added 2,938 cases on Tuesday. This was the first time since September that daily cases had dropped below the 3,000 mark (except on Mondays, when cases fall sharply due to lower testing over the weekend). Tamil Nadu recorded 462 fresh cases, followed by Gujarat (454) and Karnataka (437). All three were among states that reported a surge in infections last week. India is among a handful of countries across the world where cases are on the rise in recent days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-cases-rise-for-16th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/81301492.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
March 3, 2021||India||Covid-19: 90% health workers get 1st dose in 9 states/UTs||NEW DELHI: Even as vaccination against Covid-19 started slowly in the first phase of the national programme – initially marred by vaccine hesitancy – nine states have now inoculated over 90% of registered healthcare workers with the first dose. States such as Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat and the UT of Ladakh have achieved 100% coverage of healthcare workers for the first dose, the government said, underlining that even states like Tamil Nadu, where vaccine hesitancy was initially an issue, are now among better performers. Nine states and UTs including Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have also vaccinated over 75% of its healthcare workers who were due for second dose. Besides, nine states and UTs have achieved more than 70% vaccination coverage of registered front-line workers with the first dose of the vaccines. Read AlsoCentre allows more private hospitals to administer Covid-19 vaccineThe Centre's decision will effectively allow inclusion of some of the bigger private hospital chains and standalone medical facilities in the vaccination drive. This means hospitals like Fortis and Max, not part of the vaccination drive in Gurgaon (though they are in Delhi), can be part of theOverall, India administered over 1.54 crore doses of the Covid vaccines till 7pm on Tuesday since January 16. These included over 67.32 lakh health and over 55.47 lakh frontline workers who received the first dose and over 26.85 lakh health and 828 frontline workers who have got the second shot. Since the launch of the second phase of the drive on March 1, which the coverage expanded to a larger “priority” population group, over 4.34 lakh people more than 60 and 60,020 people aged 45-60 with specific co-morbidities have also received the vaccine till 7pm on Tuesday. The health ministry said 5 crore doses and 46 lakh vials of vaccine had so far been moved around the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/90-health-workers-get-1st-dose-in-9-states/uts/articleshow/81301593.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 3, 2021||India||Supreme Court slams governments for laxity on CCTV-in-thana plan||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday rebuked the Centre and many states for their lackadaisical approach in implementing its direction to install CCTV cameras in all police stations to stop custodial torture and accused them of showing “complete disregard to the fundamental rights of citizens and the SC’s order”. Brushing aside the Centre’s letter requesting adjournment of hearing to gauge the “ramifications” of the December 2 court order for CCTVs in central probe agencies, a bench of Justices R F Nariman, B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy said, “We are not accepting the excuses given in the letter. It gives an impression that you are dragging your feet. Tell us what funds have been allocated for the purpose.” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested for time and the bench gave the Centre three weeks to implement the order. The SC on December 2 had ordered all states and UTs to compulsorily install CCTV cameras with night-vision facility in all police stations with provision for storing recorded data for at least 12 months, and ideally for 18 months, to enable probes into allegations of custodial torture by police. The order was also applicable to the CBI, NIA, ED, NCB, DRI and SFIO. On Tuesday, most states sought one and a half years time, but the UP government wanted three years citing its geographical size. The West Bengal government wanted five years to equip all police stations with CCTVs. Bihar and Telangana bore the brunt of the bench’s displeasure. “You are playing with our order. We are giving you one last chance. Please tell your secretary concerned to proceed in right earnest or else we will initiate contempt proceedings against him. We are most displeased with the affidavit. It shows complete lack of any regard to citizens’ fundamental rights and to our orders,” the bench told the Bihar government. It told the Telangana government that its performance in complying with the court order was dismal when “these are matters of utmost importance concerning rights of the citizens of the country”. It accused the MP government of dragging its feet and told Maharashtra that it appeared disinterested in implementing the order. Brushing aside the plea of most governments for budgetary allocations, the bench directed them to allocate funds within a month and complete the task in the next four months. However, keeping in mind the size of UP and the administrative exigencies in poll-bound states of Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, the bench gave these states time till end of the year to install CCTV cameras in all police stations. The Justice Nariman-led bench had said on December 2, “In order to ensure that no part of a police station is left uncovered, it is imperative to ensure that CCTV cameras are installed at all entry and exit points, main gate of the police station, all lock-ups, all corridors, lobby/reception area, all verandas/outhouses, inspector's room, sub-inspector’s room, areas outside the lock-up room, station hall, in front of the police station compound, outside (not inside) washrooms/toilets, duty officer’s room, back part of the police station etc.” “CCTV systems must be equipped with night vision and must necessarily consist of audio as well as video footage. Most important of all is the storage of CCTV camera footage which can be done in digital video recorders and/or network video recorders,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-slams-governments-for-laxity-on-cctv-in-thana-plan/articleshow/81301659.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 3, 2021||India||Indira-imposed Emergency was wrong: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the imposition of Emergency by then late PM Indira Gandhi was a mistake but added that Congress had never tried to capture the institutions like, what he called, was happening now under BJP-RSS. In an interaction with former chief economic advisor to GOI and Cornell university professor Kaushik Basu and students, Rahul Gandhi said Emergency was a “mistake” and “wrong”. “That was a mistake. My grandmother (Indira Gandhi) said as much,” he said. But he said there was a fundamental difference between what happened during the Emergency and what was happening now. “Congress at no point attempted to capture India’s institutional framework,” he said, adding RSS is doing something “fundamentally different” by filling up the institutions of the country with its people. According to Basu, former president Pranab Mukherjee told him just before his passing that Indira Gandhi was worried about losing polls but still called the election in 1977 because she wanted to “test” it. Watch 'Emergency' imposed by Indira Gandhi was wrong: Rahul Gandhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indira-imposed-emergency-was-wrong-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/81302046.cms||---
March 3, 2021||India||India slams rich nations for vaccine patent hurdle||NEW DELHI: India has hit out at developed countries that are seeking to block its joint initiative with South Africa for patent waiver on Covid-19 vaccines and drugs and accused them of trying to protect the commercial interests of a few companies. It has urged World Trade Organisation (WTO) members to decide on the issue quickly given the massive impact of the pandemic. “To slow down the virus’s ability to infect new people and mutate further, we need true vaccine internationalism and Trips waiver is an effective and pragmatic way to achieve it,” India’s ambassador to the WTO Brajendra Navnit said at the general council meeting. Citing India’s initiative to supply over 36 million vaccine doses to 35 countries, he urged members to provide flexibility under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (Trips) agreement. Navnit countered the opposition from several countries, which argued that the move will not augment manufacturing capacity, while affecting commercial interests of the patent holder. “We would like to understand this dichotomy that if waiver will not lead to increase in manufacturing capacity, meaning, no new manufacturers will enter into production of Covid products even with the proposed waiver in place, then how will the commercial interests of existing IP holders be impacted? On the other hand, if manufacturing is going to increase significantly and thereby impacting commercial interests of IP right holders, then are we not agreeing that the final objective in the present scenario is to increase manufacturing,” he said. He added that India and South Africa were not against intellectual property rights but were seeking the waiver due to the health emergency from the pandemic. Citing the instance of suspension of air travel and its impact on aviation, tourism and other sectors, India argued that governments were not against the interest of these sectors. “We would like to know why commercial interests of only a few companies are so sacrosanct? If it is to preserve incentives to innovate, then such commercial loss, to the tune of few tens of billions of US dollars at the maximum, can always be compensated by further incentives,” Navnit added. He further said the temporary waiver of certain provisions of the Trips agreement would only help in meeting the final objective of Covax by addition to the global manufacturing capacity||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-slams-rich-nations-for-vaccine-patent-hurdle/articleshow/81302119.cms||---
March 3, 2021||India||3.4 lakh Covaxin vials lie unused in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The state government has received 3,56,340 doses of Covaxin, of which just 8,468 (2.3%) have been used so far. The unused vials are at the state’s vaccine storage unit here. The Made-in-India vaccine dispatched during the first phase of vaccination in January has been given to only six institutions in the state. The vials have expiry dates in May. After PM Narendra Modi took Covaxin on Monday morning at AIIMS, Delhi, several senior citizens here asked why Covaxin can’t be given to them in Bengaluru’s hospitals. “There’s no choice of vaccine as of now, even when senior citizens pay for it. We need to answer these questions patiently and explain to them the benefits of Covishield,” said a doctor heading a private hospital in Bengaluru. The state has seen 21 serious adverse events following vaccination so far, all were post-Covishield vaccination. No AEFIs have been reported post-Covaxin administration. Meanwhile, Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, Karnataka said Covaxin will be distributed to some districts by mid-March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-4-lakh-covaxin-vials-lie-unused-in-karnataka/articleshow/81302247.cms||Sunitha Rao R
March 3, 2021||Business||Government realises Rs 77,814 crore against Rs 4 lakh crore spectrum put for sale||NEW DELHI: The much-touted spectrum auctions ended after just six rounds and under two days as the government managed to generate sales of Rs 77,814 crore, much below the near Rs 4 lakh crore worth of airwaves put up for sale. The biggest buyer was Reliance Jio that spent Rs 57,123 crore to cover a large part of its spectrum that was coming up for renewal, while a resurgent Airtel bid Rs 18,699 crore, Vodafone Idea spent Rs 1,993 crore. It is believed that Vodafone Idea did not repurchase some of the spectrum which it will be vacating. Telecom companies were cautious and did not bid over the reserve price, preferring to conserve cash in view of the tough financial position of the sector, while also reserving money for 5G auctions that may happen over the next few quarters. Also, many found the reserve pricing set by regulator Trai and ratified by the inter-ministerial digital communications commission (DCC) “overpriced”, and stayed away from coveted 700 MHz band, which found no takers for the second time in running (it did not find buyers in 2016 auctions). Spectrum in the 2500 MHz band was also left out. For the record, the just-ended auctions were the second-biggest grosser for the government in terms of spectrum sales (the first being the Rs 1.1 lakh crore sale achieved in February 2015). The telecom department hopes to collect around Rs 20,000 crore for the exchequer through the auctions as part of the mandated upfront payment that companies need to make towards purchase. Telecom secretary Anshu Prakash said that the auctions had ended by 12:45 PM on Tuesday, in just a few hours after they had opened on the second day. While the government had got bids worth Rs 77,146 crore on the opening day on Monday, Tuesday was completely muted with only Rs 668 crore worth of incremental bids before the process came to a close. The telecom department, however, managed to sell around 37% -- or 855.6 MHz -- of the 2308.80 MHz spectrum that had been put up for sale. Prakash maintained that the sale had “far exceeded” the government’s expectations. He said the government had expected to mop up only about Rs 45,000 crore as per its own internal projections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-realises-rs-77814-crore-against-rs-4-lakh-crore-spectrum-put-for-sale/articleshow/81302375.cms||Pankaj Doval
March 3, 2021||Business||Efficiency, focus can help tackle volatile situations||By Lt Gen Anil Kapoor Organisations comprise people and harness people power. Quality people make quality organisations. The year 2020 was a watershed year the world over, when both individual professionals and organisations felt the adverse impact of volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity (Vuca) of the pandemic. The reality is that everyone felt Vuca moments in life and continue to face them, and everyone yearns for success. The moot question is: What is a good strategy to survive and thrive in Vuca moments? I have practised as a way of life POISE, for individuals and organisations that I have been part of. This is a mantra for consistent accomplishment narratives. What then is POISE for achievers and agile organisational behaviour? Having served four decades in the Indian Army and participated in military operations and United Nations Peace Keeping Missions, I have faced Vuca moments daily. As I looked back and analysed this journey, I ascribe my series of professional successes to my teams and immense personal satisfaction of each team member to POISE. It has been my habit to help my team members all to refine, define and re-define personal and professional visage through agility — think big-act incremental (small), fail fast-recover faster plan, and replan for success through POISE. Here goes… * Purpose with passion: Organisational focus is the key determinant of its success. Hence, those leading and manning the organisation at all levels must have a well thought through purpose for the organisation and themselves. The nobility of the purpose provides direction, focused determination, and energy to the team. Vectoring of energies fuels passion and ignites fire in the belly to operate and achieve beyond the obvious. Hence, leaders and managers at all levels would do well to fix purpose for the year, month, week, day, and daily defining moments. In fact, it is a best practice to organise oneself into a work time plan and savour a Vuca moment becoming a Eureka moment of the day. Remember the dictum: ‘Find purpose — means will find ways’. Imbibe this as a habit. A well-planned work-time schedule is immensely and mentally stimulating and generates passion (‘junoon’) and energises oneself to accomplish the purpose, in every endeavour of life. So, the first mantra of game changer individuals and organizations is P — ‘purpose with passion’ (P2). * Ownership and optimism: Who owns the organisation? Obviously, the people manning the organisation. Obvious as it may sound, it is often a challenge to build ownership. The managers must lead and channelise the focus of the team by vectoring their energies (direction first, then speed). This is synonymous with the image of an orchestra master, who may not be the master of each instrument, but has mastered the art of orchestrating the efforts of the instrumentalist, each one of whom takes ownership of one’s contribution and delivers the symphony. Of course, exuding responsible behaviour and ownership by the manager, as a role model, is important like that of the orchestra master who fixes the tune for the orchestra and modulates each team player to produce the symphony — an act which I call connecting the leader with the led. Taking ownership is an infectious exercise and is best personified in the mother-child relationship — adopt it. Ownership must always be taken with trust, faith and hope of success and never with fear of failure, especially when faced with Vuca moments. Hence, optimism of the manager is a quintessential imperative. The aura around optimism of ‘to-do activities list’ creates positivity, success and propels ownership into an inseparable bond of making results happen. The second mantra of the game changers is O — ‘ownership with optimism’ (O2). * Initiative and innovativeness: Each man is born creative and unique. From the first breath, each one ideates a myriad thoughts and activities. Quality managers must have an insatiable omniscient reservoir of ideas and seize the initiative to accomplish them. An inborn urge to experiment with disruptive ideas, initiative and creativity builds agility in individuals and inspires them to think and act to accomplish and consistently scale newer horizons. One must develop and practise creative problem-solving and innovative thinking. This I2 as a new normal of the personality of managers will direct and drive their energies to take care of Vuca through actionable agendas in organisational interest. This symbiotic initiative through innovativeness is the third mantra I of game changers (I2). Remember, always think like a man of action and act like a man of thought. * Skills and synergy: Agile learning and skill enhancement is a perennial need of disruptive times. All managers need to upskill themselves to meet challenges that confront them. Learning should be a continuous process in life for quality people. No amount of knowledge, learning and skill will ever go waste, but will complement their professional persona. Skill development enhances the power of ‘me’, which directly results in organisational development as the power of ‘we’, the multi-skilled teams. Hence, the myriad skills and their orchestration through synergy is the jugular vein of successful organisations. An important fact is ‘knowing what to do’ — most experienced people know. But the crux of the matter is that results happen by ‘getting things done’ and this where the emphasis must lie. In an overall analysis, synergy of skills (S2) is the fourth mantra of game changers. * Efficiency and effectiveness: Human life and organisations are all about opportunities, outcomes and results. Managers must think right and act fast. Doing any activity right in the first instance is efficiency. Mathematically speaking, efficiency is the ratio between output and input. Achieving desired outcomes with minimum essential inputs is the art and science of efficiency — adopt it. It means living in the present moment with concentration, commitment and directing all energies to the power of ‘now’. But life is about variety and laden with myriad responsibilities and activities. There is an inevitable need to prioritise all activities so that one does the right things first. Each of us has an opportunity, each moment, to choose between activities and alternatives. A wrong choice results in important things becoming urgent. One must always prioritise events and activities with deep thought. Doing the right things builds effectiveness. Hence, in organisational interest, doing the right things and doing them right the first time builds effectiveness with efficiency (E2) as the fifth paradigm of game changers. So, let us all adopt the following tenets: * Imbibe responsible personal and professional behaviour by practicising POISE consistently * Value time as the power of ‘now’ and have a well-defined purpose for each moment. This will create and recreate ‘wow’ moments in Vuca times * Do the right things & do them right the first time * Most of us know what to do. Let us be result-oriented & get things done * Remain focused & determined to perform by building a performance-enabling culture in our organisations * Imbibe creativity and practise creative problem-solving In the words of Dr Allama Iqbal, ‘Khudi ko kar buland itna ke har taqder se pehle Khuda bande se khud pooche: Bata teri raza kya hai?’ (Elevate yourself so high that even God, before issuing every decree of destiny, should ask you: Tell me, what is your intent?) We have the power to write our own destiny by becoming aware that the power is within us — develop your POISE. (The writer retired as Director General Electronics and Mechanical Engineering, Indian Army)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/efficiency-focus-can-help-tackle-volatile-situations/articleshow/81301226.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Patna||Remodelling work of Bachwara yard done||PATNA: Railways has completed Bachwara yard remodelling work under Sonepur Division of East Central Railway (ECR) to further improve safety and operational efficiency of this junction point which directly links eastern and northeastern parts of the country. According to ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar, Bachwara yard is not only a junction station, but it has also a direct connectivity with Barauni, Samastipur and Hajipur stations. “Several important passenger special trains like Rajdhani Express pass through this station daily. In fact, traffic flow has increased manifold on these routes. Thus, yard remodelling work was a must for smooth traffic operation,” he said. Kumar claimed that despite disruption in passenger train movement caused by the non-interlocking (NI) and yard remodelling work at Bachwara station, the movement of freight trains was maintained. “Sonepur division achieved the second highest interchange of 207 freight trains on March 1 only, compared to 197 interchange of freight trains on February 28,” Rajesh said. Bachwara yard remodelling is a part of the Hajipur-Bachwara track doubling project sanctioned in 2015-16. Bachwara yard has five running lines for the movement of both passenger and goods trains. “Railways has created additional three lines, making it to eight to cope with huge traffic operational load. Bachwara has got a new station building having all passenger amenities, circulating area, GRP building and extension of foot overbridge at the station,” Kumar said. According to sources, the project which is a part of the Hajipur-Shahpur Patori-Bachwara track doubling project has cost Rs930 crore, while the yard remodelling work has been completed at a cost of Rs47 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/remodelling-work-of-bachwara-yard-done/articleshow/81298037.cms||Kumod Verma
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||CM stresses on sanitation at govt hosps||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to ensure that services in government hospitals are at par with corporate hospitals. The CM, who reviewed the Nadu-Nedu programme for health sector from his Tadepalli camp office on Tuesday, also asked officials to make the best use of the sanctioned funds and complete the initiative within the specified timeline. Jagan emphasised on maintaining sanitation and clean environment in hospitals, from changing bedsheets to the food being provided to patients. “Prepare standard operating procedures on actions to be taken and procedures to be followed for maintaining proper sanitation in hospitals. Recruit more staff if required and maintain the equipments in a proper way. Also, every hospital should have the best management arrangements with an effective mechanism,” he said. The chief minister also reviewed works related to the construction of multi-specialty hospitals in tribal areas and new medical colleges in Paderu, Pulivendula, Piduguralla and Machilipatnam. He directed officials to complete the land acquisition process and payments for the projects by the end of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-stresses-on-sanitation-at-govt-hosps/articleshow/81298009.cms||Gopi Dara
March 3, 2021||Patna||Auto, bus operators protest fuel price hike in Patna||PATNA: Hundreds of autorickshaw and bus drivers in Patna staged a protest march against the continuous rise in petrol and diesel prices and its cascading effects on the other essential commodities. The protesters, under the banner of All India Road Transport Workers Federation (AIRTF), Bihar, pulled autorickshaws with ropes and rode tongas from S K Memorial Hall to Kargil Chowk near Gandhi Maidan to highlight the soaring prices of fuel. They demanded that fuel should be brought under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) ambit to bring uniformity across the country and reduce the prices of petroleum products. Petrol in Patna was at Rs93.52/litre while diesel price climbed up to Rs86.79/litre on Tuesday. The bus, truck and auto owners and drivers are now mulling to increase the fare, saying every day hike in fuel prices had left them with no other choice. General secretary of AIRTF and Bihar State Autochalak Sangh, Raj Kumar Jha, said they have proposed 15-25% fare hike on different routes from Wednesday (March 3). “We have already submitted the proposal to the state government and the transport department. A meeting with the regional transport officer was also held in mid-February. However, they have not taken any decision yet. We are suffering revenue losses due to frequent hikes in the diesel and petrol prices,” he said. Bihar Motors Transport Federation (BMTF) has also decided to increase the fare by 25% from March 14 midnight. The federation has sent letters to CM Nitish Kumar, transport minister Sheela Kumari, secretary, transport commissioner and divisional commissioners on Monday after a meeting with bus and truck operators on February 28. BMTF president Uday Shankar Singh said rise in fuel prices is taking toll on the bus and truck operators. “They have not recovered from the Covid- 19 lockdown and the rise in petrol and diesel prices and road tax has increased the burden on their income. In 2002, the government had allowed the federation to increase the fare on their own as per the rise and fall in fuel prices. The price chart was last revised in 2018. The transport fare would go up by 25% from March 14 midnight,” he said. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper that the department has received the request letter from different associations and it is being examined as per the departmental procedure. “There is a process to increase the fare. If the auto or bus owners increase fare on their own, action will be taken against them,” he said. Ajay Kumar, manager of a fuelling station near Dak Bungalow crossing, said the petrol and diesel prices in the state were last increased on February 27. “Fuel prices have been going up on a daily basis, post-Covid lockdown. The government increased the fuel prices after every 3-4 days. The petrol and diesel sales have minutely been impacted due to hike in prices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/auto-bus-operators-protest-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/81298305.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 1,198 to write MBBS exam at Aryabhatta Knowledge University||PATNA: As many as 1,198 students of the nine medical colleges in the state are expected to write the first professional MBBS exam on the newly constructed campus of Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) from Thursday. Vice-chancellor (VC) S M Karim told this newspaper on Tuesday that the guidelines of the National Medical Commission had been followed while making necessary arrangements for conducting the exam from March 4 to 15. “No student will be allowed to enter the hall after the examination begins. Besides, all precautionary measures against Covid-19, which include social distancing, use of face masks, and thorough sanitization of the campus, will be followed strictly,” he added. The VC also assured that the students would not face any difficulty while taking their examinations. The exam will be held from 11am to 2pm on March 4, 6, 8, 10 and 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1198-to-write-mbbs-exam-at-aku/articleshow/81298322.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Patna||Gaya forest division to develop Vanavar hills as a tourist spot||GAYA: The archaeological Vanavar (Barabar) hills will soon be developed as an ecotourism and birdwatching site. According to a recent study by Gaya forest division, at least 52 species of migratory and resident birds from Europe and the Himalayan region have been spotted here. Gaya divisional forest officer (DFO) Abhishek Kumar, who has initiated several measures to make it an attractive site for tourists in the coming days, said some of the bird species spotted here include cattle egret, white-breasted waterhen, gadwall, northern pintail, green sandpiper, coppersmith barbet, red-vented bulbul, rose-ringed parakeet, purple sunbird, red-breasted flycatcher, house crow and blue rock pigeon. “Vanavar hills spread over Jehanabad and Gaya districts are famous for the rock-cut caves dating back to the Mauryan Empire (322-185BC). During the assessment of this historical site, it was felt that it needs proper management and hospitality sector for the tourists to stay here. Besides, security arrangements are not good as several molestation cases have been registered with the local police station,” he said. The DFO said the tourists visiting Bodh Gaya are likely to choose Vanavar hills as another destination, as it is well connected by road and rail and a part of the rediscovered Buddha Trail as well. To ensure proper security arrangements, a joint forest management committee (JFMC) comprising locals has been constituted as envisaged by the National Forest Policy, 1988. Intensive training has been imparted to the JFMC members who are assigned the duty to guide the tourists for site-seeing and realize parking fee and entry ticket from them. JFMC would also run cafeterias and shops to serve local cuisines and beverages and sell local forest-based products like “sabai grass handicrafts, wild ber achar and wild honey”. “I have sent a letter to the director, state tourism department, requesting to allow the JFMC to manage its hotel on revenue sharing basis. Their response is awaited,” he said. Officials said the three interconnected lakes have already been beautified and a survey has been conducted to ascertain surface water storage, water availability and water utilization. Boating facility is proposed in the lakes in the month of Sawan this year, when there is good rush of Hindu devotees arriving here with kanwar to offer puja at the Shiva Linga in the temple on the hilltop. “The project has received technical support by Forest-PLUS 2.0 under the aegis of United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. It is based on ecosystem-management approach to contribute to sustainable and economic growth of local communities. The forest department is promoting sabai grass cultivation, plantation of moringa oleifera etc. Ten acres of forest land has been allocated for moringa plantation with the active involvement of JFMC and Jeevika members. A solar drier has also been installed to dry the moringa leaves and make its powder, which has a very high nutrient value, particularly for women and children,” Abhishek said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-forest-division-to-develop-vanavar-hills-as-a-tourist-spot/articleshow/81297988.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Business||Hitachi adds 1k white label ATMs in 4 months||Mumbai: Hitachi Payment Services has set up 1,000 white label ATMs in the last four months as the dash to cash during the pandemic is increasing demand for currency notes despite the rise in digital payments. White label ATMs are private machines that are owned and operated by non-bank entities but plugged into the banking network. According to RBI data, currency in circulation had risen to Rs 27.4 lakh crore by February 12 this year from Rs 23.5 lakh crore as of March 2020. Monthly ATM withdrawals had gone up to more than Rs 3 lakh crore in December from Rs 2.7 lakh crore in March 2020. The average value of the transaction increased to nearly Rs 5,200 in December. Speaking to TOI, Hitachi Payment Services MD & CEO Rustom Irani said that ‘Hitach Money Spot ATM’ — the company’s white label ATM network — had grown to 5,000 last month from 4,000 ATMs in October. Besides setting up white label machines, Hitachi Payments manages ATM networks for banks and deploys ‘brown label’ machines too — these have a bank’s logo but are owned by Hitachi Payments. While the demand for cash has picked up, the economics of the business has not kept pace. “We are hoping for an increase in the interchange (fees paid by bank to the ATM deployer) as security measures have gone up and also average withdrawal size has increased,” said Irani. Irani said that the preference for cash is there even in developed countries with established electronic payment systems. “The cash in the economy keeps growing with economic growth.” However, the overall ATM network saw a slowdown due to consolidation of public sector banks. One more trend was the increasing deployment of cash-recycling machines by banks. Another Hitachi group company manufactures these ATMs, which redeploy cash they accept as deposits. Over 20,000 of Hitachi’s cash-recyclers have been deployed by Indian banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hitachi-adds-1k-white-label-atms-in-4-months/articleshow/81301118.cms||Mayur Shetty
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||AP drops caste tag from SC colonies, other states follow||Vijayawada: An initiative of the state government has now become a model for the rest of the country to follow. The central government is now considering to write to the rest of the states to follow the model. Two states, Maharashtra and Rajasthan, have already started following the AP model. The initiative is about renaming of villages and habitations that indicate one’s caste. All habitations of Scheduled Castes, which indicate their caste and are known as Harijanwadas in general or SC colonies, are now to be renamed after well-known leaders and social reformers. The schools, anganwadis and PHCs in these colonies will also identified by the locality, which will now be renamed. It all started with Anantapur district collector Gandham Chandrudu issuing orders in February 2020, directing all tehsildars and other officials in the district to rename Dalitwadas or Harijanwadas after a name of the choice of the residents. The collector also told the officials to remove words such as Harijan or Dalit that are indicative of caste. Chandrudu issued these orders following the recommendations of the parliamentary standing committee on social justice and empowerment on August 19, 2010, which recommended against the use of Harijan in the certificates or names of the habitations. “We have changed the names of over 700 colonies and new names were given to the habitations as desired by the residents,” said Chandrudu. The district collector also instructed the officials to stop using the words Harijan or Dalit in the school records or in any other government records, including laying of roads or sanction of houses for the poor. Interestingly, the Maharashtra government was the first to pick up this initiative and cleared a proposal to rename residential areas in the state having caste-based names. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had directed all departments to rename colonies that indicate the caste of the residents. He also directed officials to drop the word Harijan in records of the state government. This was followed by the Rajasthan government which had issued orders to rename SC colonies in the state by removing Harijan or any other name that indicated the caste of residents. It had dropped the word Harijan from 76 schools of the respective area and plans to remove it in all government records. The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) too had responded to the initiative and asked the Centre to issue directions to all state governments and Union territories to rename colonies to avoid identification of people by their caste. The Commission on January 6, 2021, had written to the central government to consider dropping the word Harijan and renaming the schools and colonies. “Whether they are Harijanawadas or Girijanawadas or any other habitation that identifies the caste of the people, we have renamed them as per the choice of the residents,” Chandrudu said. He said that they have also dropped the use of ‘caste-tinged nomenclatures’ in all records of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-drops-caste-tag-from-sc-colonies-other-states-follow/articleshow/81297980.cms||Gopi Dara
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||NIM and Pune-based team up to offer India’s first mountaineering diploma course||Uttarkashi: The Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM) and Pune-based Guardian Giripremi Institute of Mountaineering (GGIM) has teamed up to offer the country's first mountaineering diploma course.The one-year-long course would commence from June this year. The institutes signed an MoU regarding this last month. Colonel Amit Bisht, principal of NIM, said, "This is a first of its kind course in the field of mountaineering, as all the institutes in India are providing only short-term certificate courses.” He added, “This one-year diploma course will become a pivotal point for the growth of mountaineering sports. Besides, it will also open job opportunities for youths.”Umesh Zirpe, founder-director of GGIM, said, “GGIM and Savitribai Phule Pune University has joined hands with NIM to start the first ever mountaineering and allied sports diploma course, which will commence from coming June month.”"During the one-year course, students will receive a month's high-altitude training in NIM, whereas theory and other practicals will be conducted at the GGIM. There are 50 seats in each batch, out of this two are reserved for Uttarakhand state. Besides youths, professionals and adventure lovers can also enrol for this course, irrespective of their age,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nim-and-pune-based-team-up-to-offer-indias-first-mountaineering-diploma-course/articleshow/81297757.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand to have ‘district plan’ for environmental issues||Dehradun: Uttarakhand would soon come up with a ‘District Environment Plan’ which would deal with environmental pollution issues that are endemic to the specific districts.While replying to a question raised by Mangalaur legislator Qazi Nizamuddin on pollution and solid waste management in the state, forest and environment minister Harak Singh Rawat said the Govind Ballabh Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment at Kosi-Katarmal in Almora district is preparing the plan and it would be handed over to the government on April 21 this year. The plan would also cover details of hydropower projects and the norms to be followed, and issues related to air, sound and water pollution on district level, Rawat said.“Be it setting up an industrial unit or hydropower plant, the owners would have to follow all norms and guidelines mentioned for the district concerned,” he added.“This is an important question for a state which has tough geographical locations and witnesses natural calamities, therefore we have decided to have a district-wise environment plan,” the minister said. The minister said the level of air pollution was high in Dehradun, Rishikesh and Kashipur. “The air and water quality is being consistently monitored in areas covered under eight municipal corporations,” he said. Nizamuddin, who raised the question, said in wake of the tough geographical locations it was extremely important for the state to have a separate policy for its environment. “The state has not learnt any lessons from the experience of the Kedarnath tragedy and other natural calamities which have devasted different areas of the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-have-district-plan-for-environmental-issues/articleshow/81297754.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Cops await clues in case of woman found unconscious||Visakhapatnam: Suspense continues in the case of the 20-year-old woman who was found unconscious with her hands and legs tied on the outskirts of Gurla in Vizianagaram district on Monday. Police said they are still investigating the incident to ascertain whether it was a kidnappping case. One person has been held in connection with the incident, however, the woman is yet to reveal what happened on the day. The woman is a third-year student at a degree college in Vizianagaram town. She is a native of Terlam mandal in the district and stayed at a hostel and would frequently visit home. It is surmised she might have taken permission from the hostel on Saturday to visit home for the weekend and left the hostel on Sunday. However, she is yet to recall the events that took place since then. Police said there are no superficial signs of any disturbance on the woman’s clothes, however, they are waiting for the medical reports to ascertain if she had been subject to abused. Special teams have been formed to investigate the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-await-clues-in-case-of-woman-found-unconscious/articleshow/81298047.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Rajkot||Drug peddlers’ car overturns with cops in hot pursuit||Rajkot: Two persons were arrested with 41kg of marijuana from outskirts of Rajkot city after a chase by the special operations group on Monday night. The contraband seized is worth Rs 4.10 lakh, said police.According to police, following specific information on marijuana smuggling, vehicles entering Rajkot were being screened on Monday night.A white car coming from Ahmedabad, but having Rajkot registration number did not stop at the police check-post about 50 km from Rajkot city towards Ahmedabad. The accused Kadar Pathan (21) and Chetan Sapariya (23) drove away from the car at high speed in a bid to escape.Two police teams chased in as many cars. However, while speeding the accused hit a two-wheeler, lost control and rammed into a divider before overturning. The accused, though injured, started running into a nearby farm, but the police teams chased them on foot and nabbed them. Police seized a plastic bag from inside the car containing marijuana. On questioning, it was revealed that both the accused were residents of Rajkot. Further investigation in the case is still on, added police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/drug-peddlers-car-overturns-with-cops-in-hot-pursuit/articleshow/81297476.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Purchase centre for chilli opens in Prakasam||Purchur: In a move to benefit chilli cultivators in the state, the government has launched a purchase centre in Purchur in Prakasam district. Chilli merchants have been roped into buy stocks from local farmers at the agriculture market yard premises in the town. Purchur region in Prakasam district is one of the biggest producers of chilli in the state. However, chilli farmers had to either take their stocks all the way to the agriculture market yard in Guntur or sell stocks to local middlemen as there were no marketing facilities in the nearby market yards. After taking the requests of local leaders into consideration, district minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy had requested agriculture marketing minister Kurasala Kannababu to explore opportunities to open the purchase centre in Purchur. Kannababu directed marketing commissioner P S Pradyumna to look into the issue and provide relief to the farmers. Senior officials of the marketing department held negotiations with chilli merchants and exporters in Guntur and Ongole and prevailed them upon to open their shop in the Purchur agriculture market yard. While the marketing department is creating the required infrastructure in the market yard premises, the merchants are deputing their agents to pick up the stocks. Stocks purchased from the farmers are being transported to cold storages near Guntur by merchants. “This is going to help the local farmers in a big way as they were heavily losing to middlemen who were picking up the stocks in the field at very low prices,” said District Cooperative Marketing Society (DCMS) chairman Raavi Ramanatham Babu. Ramanatham Babu said the farmers would not only benefit with reasonable prices but also be relieved of the burden of taking their stocks to Guntur market yard. He thanked chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy for making the long-pending demand of the local farmers a reality. Sources said farmers of Purchur, Chirala, Addanki and Bapatla would also benefit from the new initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/purchase-centre-for-chilli-opens-in-prakasam/articleshow/81298124.cms||Samdani MN
March 3, 2021||Business||Flying taxis startup The ePlane Company raises $1 million||Chennai: IIT Madras- incubated ‘flying taxis’ builder The ePlane Company has raised around $1 million in seed funding in a round led by VC firm Speciale Invest and Silicon Valley-based entrepreneur and investor Naval Ravikant. The round also saw participation from JavaCapital, FirstCheque.vc, and IIM Ahmedabad-housed incubator CIIE.CO. The startup, which is building compact electric planes for short-range intra city commutes, said it will utilise the funding to grow its engineering team to help them achieve early product demonstrations by 2021. Currently a 16-member team, the startup plans to expand to around 25 people. Further the company also targets to globally launch the human-rated 200 kg taxi for deployment by 2024. Launched in 2019,The ePlane Company is the brainchild of aerospace engineering professor Satya Chakravarthy and his student Pranjal Mehta. ePlane operates out of IIT-M's National Centre for Combustion Research and Development, which has given rise to other deep tech startups such as Agnikul Cosmos. The startup is building VTOL (vertical takeoff and landing) electric planes and claims it can facilitate 10X faster door-to-door commute within cities at a similar price to road taxi. The technology can also be used for moving cargo in remote and rural areas.Vishesh Rajaram, managing partner, Speciale Invest, believes that the participation of marquee Silicon Valley investors in the round is a milestone for Indian deep tech sector. “We are seeing three electric plane companies [globally] listed via SPAC at billion dollar valuations. I consider ePlane not far behind that,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flying-taxis-startup-the-eplane-company-raises-1-million/articleshow/81300401.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||No shelter for Aisha’s husband||Ahmedabad: Nearly five days after Aisha Makrani, a 23-year-old woman from Vatva, committed suicide after posting a heart-rendering video, accused husband – Aarifkhan Gafurji, 25, a native of Jalore, was also arrested. But he too witnessed a poetic justice in the case as he was disowned by everyone including his girlfriend for whom he was ditching Aisha, and his sister, who also did not give him shelter as she was also aggrieved with his crime. Sources with Sabarmati Riverfront (West) police said that Gafurji was attending a marriage event with his family members in Sheoganj town in Sirohi district of Rajasthan when he got the last call from Makrani. “During that phone conservation, he had told her to end his life saying that he wanted to get rid of her. After that incident, she committed suicide and when he knew about her death, he ran away from the marriage event,” said the officer. The officer said that he had called up his girlfriend to take shelter at her place. “But when asked on why he needed a shelter desperately, he told her that his wife had committed suicide and he might be booked by cops. Having listened to this, she scolded him and told him to snap all ties with her.” After he was ditched by his girlfriend, he went to his sister’s place in Pali town on February 27. “His sister too told him that he could not stay at her place as he had committed a crime and keeping him at her place might invite trouble for her. She told him that his presence at her home may create legal issues and family disputes at her home,” said a police officer. After this, he took shelter in a sarai near Marwar railway junction on February 28 but as he was scared of cops who were on hunt for him, he had left that place also and was roaming near toll booth in Transportnagar area of Pali to hire a vehicle to cross the Pali district, when he was nabbed by police. Superintendent of police of Pali, Kalu Ram Rawat, said that they helped Ahmedabad city police in nabbing the accused. “The Ahmedabad city police contacted me on Monday evening stating that the accused is in Pali town. I sent a team of Transport Nagar police and he was picked and handed over to the Ahmedabad police team,” said Rawat. An officer of Ahmedabad city police said that Gafurji will be produced before a local court seeking remand in the abetment to suicide case. Sabarmati Riverfront (West) police on February 27 filed a case of abetment against Gafurji on a complaint filed by the deceased’s father Liyaqat Ali Makrani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-shelter-for-aishas-husband/articleshow/81299228.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Patna||Passengers excited with launch of electric buses||PATNA: The electric buses launched by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday are set to transform public transport services in the city. Equipped with modern technology, including Wi-Fi, mobile-charging points, CCTV cameras and panic button, the air-conditioned buses are built to provide smooth travelling experience similar to modern public transport facilities in other states of the country and elsewhere in the world. Eight buses of 9-metre and 11-metre length with 37 and 45 seating capacities, respectively, have started running in the city. The Bihar State Road Transport Corporation (BSRTC) is currently operating the zero emission e-buses on a pilot basis. A BSRTC official said 25 such buses would be operational in the city by the end of this month. For the time being, four buses are operating on Gandhi Maidan-Danapur and two buses on Airport-Gandhi Maidan routes. Daily bus passengers are excited with the launch of electric buses. Om Narang Tiwari, a lawyer and one of the first few passengers of the e-buses, said, “The old BSRTC buses were not comfortable. The e-buses will now make travel a fun and comfortable. The new facility will also reduce travel time for people.” Another passenger, Sujeet Kumar, who was seen boarding an e-bus on Gandhi Maidan-Danapur route, said, “This is a good initiative by the government. The air-conditioned buses will provide relief to passengers during scorching summer.” Farheen Khan, a teacher, said, “Such zero-emission electric buses were need of the hour for the people of the city. These buses will go a long way in reducing air pollution in the city.” However, some citizens complained about higher fares. Sanjay Yadav, a resident of Gola Road, said, “The fares are high. As a daily commuter, it’s not possible for me to pay Rs 45, almost twice the fare of normal buses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/passengers-excited-with-launch-of-electric-buses/articleshow/81298445.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Patna||Students of PWC given tips on photography||PATNA: Department of communicative English and media studies of Patna Women’s College organised a workshop on photography on Tuesday. The topic of the workshop was ‘Photography in 21st century’. The key speaker of the event was Soumyajit Maitra, mentor-cum-technical expert at one of the leading digital photography schools in Delhi. He was accompanied by Manish Singh and Mayuresh from the same institute. During the session round, Maitra explained the technical aspects of using a camera, its different types and composition, exposure triangle and the series. In the practical round, students were divided into groups and given subjects to capture and learn the technical knowhow of camera. It was followed by a question-answer session. Earlier in the day, the resource team was welcomed by Aditi Rai of the CEMS department and Tauseef Hassan, the course coordinator. The vote of thanks was delivered by Sneha Singh and Nashar-uz-Zoha. Magadh Mahila College: Magadh Mahila College on Tuesday organised a seminar- cum-workshop on ‘Impact of science and technology on education’. Ram Padmadeva, principal of Patna Science College, was the chief guest. He was welcomed by college principal Shashi Sharma. Students displayed their handmade scientific models and posters. Padmadeva encouraged the students to come up with innovative scientific ideas. Sharma appreciated students for their hard work and advised them to move ahead in life with zeal and enthusiasm. The students were given certificates at the end of the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-of-pwc-given-tips-on-photography/articleshow/81298377.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Business||Government opts not to impose duty on Thai tyres||CHENNAI: The finance ministry has decided not to impose anti-dumping duty on truck and bus radial tyres imported from Thailand. The ministry said in a notification that the “central government has decided not to impose the anti-dumping duty on imports of new pneumatic radial tyres of rubber for buses and lorries with or without tubes and/or flaps originating or exported from Thailand.” The move comes after the Directorate General of Trade Remedies recommended that an anti-dumping duty should be imposed on Thai imports of truck and bus radials based on an application filed by the Automotive Tyre Manufacturers’ Association (ATMA). “According to the latest tyre import data released by commerce ministry, Thailand has displaced China as the largest source of truck & bus radial tyres (TBR) being imported into India.Nearly 50% of truck & bus radial (TBR) tyres imported in the first three quarters of the current fiscal are from Thailand . We will request the government to reconsider an anti-dumping duty on import of TBR from Thailand. Even in passenger car radial (PCR) imports in India, Thailand has come to account for the single largest share of 35% in the April-December period,” said Rajiv Budhraja, director general, ATMA. In June 2020, the government had shifted tyres to the restricted category mostly to curb Chinese imports. However, domestic tyre companies claim that China has made huge investments in Thailand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-opts-not-to-impose-duty-on-thai-tyres/articleshow/81300492.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
March 3, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh govt readies blueprint to develop suburbs into smart cities||AMARAVATI: In a move that could spur development in urban areas, the government has decided to develop suburban areas with required civic infrastructure. The municipal administration department has readied a blueprint to make suburban areas into smart cities. Interestingly, the state government has decided to offer house sites to the middle and upper-middle income groups at reasonable prices in the layouts to be readied by the municipal administration department. The plans will be rolled out after the completion of municipal elections. The urban development authorities (UDAs), which used to handle real estate business by readying layouts with civic infrastructure, would be pressed into resume the business afresh. The UDAs have stopped handling the layout business despite success in many towns and cities. Sources said that the UDAs had confined themselves to the regulating authority to clear the plans for the layouts due to pressure from influential real estate firms. The urban development authorities had failed to play the role of enforcement authority to curb illegal and unauthorised ventures by private parties. This resulted in many middle and upper-middle income groups being duped by fake and illegal real estate firms. Hundreds of housing layouts that have come up on the outskirts of the existing towns and cities have remained idle due to lack of civic infrastructure. “The dreams of the middle-class of owning a house were shattered by the civic bodies which could not act fast enough to expand the infrastructure in the outskirts, leading to high stress on land values within the towns and cities. This can be changed only when the basic infrastructure is available in the outskirts,” said Dr Razaq Mohammed, an urban planner. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has noticed the gap between the aspirations of the middle-class and the reality with regard to land value, particularly in urban areas. In order to bring down high land prices, the chief minister has directed the municipal administration department to develop layouts to offer house sites to the middle-class on a no-profit no-loss basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-readies-blueprint-to-develop-suburbs-into-smart-cities/articleshow/81297950.cms||Samdani MN
March 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Nine junior doctors expelled||PATNA: Nine junior doctors of Government Ayurvedic College and Hospital located near Budh Murti in Kadamkuan in the state capital have been expelled for six months for leading an agitation and manhandling the principal. Around 50 junior doctors went on strike from February 24, demanding immediate release of Covid-19 monetary incentives. The decision to expel the nine postgraduate students has been taken by the college administration based on a report submitted by the college inquiry committee on Monday evening. Their entry in the college campus has been banned for six months. They will also be denied government incentives and funds. They are MD and MS students of the session 2020-22. A senior college official said the OPD functioning was badly affected due to their strike. “The students locked principal Dr Dineshwar Prasad in his office and other staff and patients inside the hospital building on February 26,” he said. The principal told this newspaper that peace has been restored on the college premises after strict action against the miscreants. “An FIR has been lodged against five PG students at Kadamkuan police station while nine PG students were expelled for agitation. On Wednesday and Thursday last, the students protested in a peaceful manner. But they crossed all limits when they locked up the college and hospital staff and patients inside the campus. Several people sustained injuries when they tried to escape by climbing over the main gate,” he said. “The junior doctors went on strike for the incentive money for working during the pandemic. The college administration has already sent the request letter to the health department and it will be released soon,” he added. One of the PG students of the department of Ayurved Samhita and Sidhanta alleged that the principal was deliberately not releasing the incentive money to the students. He said the incentive money was given in the other medical colleges to those who were on duty during the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-ayurvedic-college-expels-9-junior-doctors/articleshow/81298419.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 3, 2021||Business||One billionaire every 10 days: India’s 2020 count||MUMBAI: India has added one billionaire every 10 days in 2020 amid the pandemic. This was made possible by rising stock market valuation, which increased the number of worldwide billionaires by 412 to 3,228. There are now 209 Indian-origin billionaires, of which 177 are Indian residents. The total list, which continues to be topped by Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani, has 50 fresh additions and 10 dropouts.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The additions include Arvindkumar Poddar of Balkrishna Industries, Bawri family of Macleods Pharmaceuticals, B Parthasaradhi Reddy of Hetero Drugs, Nikhil Kamath of Zerodha, Pankaj Munjal of Hero Cycles and T S Kalyanaraman of Kalyan Jewellers. The prominent dropouts are B R Shetty from UAE, Ritesh Agarwal of Oyo Rooms and Kishore Biyani of Future Group. Ambani, 63, who strung a slew of investment deals into his telecom business, saw his wealth surge 24% to $83 billion. Reliance, India’s largest exporter, accounts for 8% of the country’s exports and 5% of India’s total revenues from customs and excise duty. Adani saw his wealth almost double to $32 billion on the back of Adani Green Energy growing to a $20-billion valuation. “Despite the disruption caused by Covid-19, this year has seen the biggest wealth increase of the last decade,” said Hurun Report chairman and chief researcher Rupert Hoogewerf. “A stock markets boom, driven partly by quantitative easing, and flurry of new listings have minted eight new dollar billionaires a week for the past year. The world has never seen this much wealth created in just one year, much more than perhaps could have been expected for a year so badly disrupted by Covid-19,” he added. The rise in wealth of the rich has been on the back of rise in value of financial assets — shareholdings in the companies they own. The Nasdaq was up 42% last year followed by China’s Shenzhen (40%), sensex (23.4%) and Japan’s Nikkei (22.9%). China added 256 new billionaires to become the first country in the world to top 1,000 ‘known’ dollar billionaires with 1,056, more than the combined total of the next three countries of the US, India and Germany. In the last five years, China has added 490 billionaires, compared with 160 in the US. “Asia has, for the first time in perhaps hundreds of years, more billionaires than the rest of the world combined. Wealth creation is moving to Asia,” Hoogewerf said. He added that electric vehicles, e-commerce, blockchain and biotech have been the fastest growing industries of the past year. World’s richest person is Elon Musk who, with a wealth of $197 billion, is also new to the top-10 list. Jeff Bezos with $189 billion has moved to the second spot, while luxury giant Bernard Arnault of LVMH with $114 billion is at third place ahead of Bill Gates ($110 billion) and Mark Zuckerberg ($101 billion). An outlier in terms of sector is the ‘Bottled Water King’ Zhong Shanshan, 67, who became the first Chinese to break into the Hurun Global Rich List Top 10 with a personal fortune of $85 billion. This followed bottled water Nongfu Spring’s Hong Kong IPO last September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/1-billionaire-every-10-days-indias-20-count/articleshow/81301074.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Training in beekeeping for Araku tribal women||VISAKHAPATNAM: A livelihood enterprise development programme (LEDP) on beekeeping, funded by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) and supported by the organisation Vikasa, recently commenced at Araku Valley. The objective of the programme is to train 90 tribal women in beekeeping and nurture them into becoming professional beekeepers within a year. Women from Dumbriguda, Chompi and Pedalabudu panchayats in Araku Valley will be trained in batches. Existing farmer producer companies (FPCs) will look after marketing Araku honey which is in high demand. After training, the women will be provided with loans from Vana Vikasa Mutually Aided Cooperative Thrift Societies for meeting the initial costs of setting up five boxes. Elaborating on the project, Kiran Sakkhari, executive director of Vikasa said, “Araku has rich flora and in the Rabi season, large-scale cultivation of nizer crop with its yellow bloom offers scope for promoting beekeeping activity as it is a major source of nectar for honey bees during September to January. In fact, beekeepers from other districts migrate to Araku during this season. They use a European bee called Apis mellifera, which has better potential to collect honey. However, this requires migration to an area where there is large bloom available. Therefore, beekeeping with local bees was undertaken, which proved successful and 20 families are continuing it and selling honey at Rs 500 per kg.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/training-in-beekeeping-for-araku-tribal-women/articleshow/81298021.cms||Sulogna Mehta
March 3, 2021||Business||Use of muzzle prints may double cattle insurance business||MUMBAI: The market for insuring cattle could potentially double with technology that helps in identifying them using images of their muzzles (noses), which is as unique as a human fingerprint. One of the biggest issues faced by insurers is that they can never be sure if a cattle claim is for an animal they have insured. As a result, only 4% of cattle are insured while 7-8% are funded through bank loans. Dvara E-Dairy Solutions, an arm of Dvara Trust (formerly known as IFMR Trust), has developed a mobile application that can scan the muzzle print. This is considered as a unique biometric identifier for cattle such as cows and buffaloes. Dvara has tied up with insurance companies and aims to provide cover for close to 1 million heads of cattle using this technology. Speaking to TOI, Dvara E-Dairy Solutions founder-director Ravi K A said that the application is most suitable for insurance companies and it is working as a technology solution provider for insurers. “We are working with a few insurance companies and have already concluded a pilot project with one of them,” he said. “India has the largest cattle population of 300 million. Only 4% of these are insured while 6-8% of these are funded by lending institutions. Not all the cattle loans are insured and rural households can suffer a severe financial shock if their cattle die,” said Ravi. The new technology to identify cattle will make it easier for insurers to cover them from even remote locations. Traditional cattle identification included methods such as ear tagging, or even some that used an injectable radio frequency identification (RFID) tag, which have their own set of challenges. “The primary drawbacks of injectable RFID tags are that they are not cost-effective, require specialised skills to inject (sub-cutaneous) and the tags have a limited timespan,” said Ravi. Likewise, the implanted labels of ear tags, associated with the ear of cattle, get eventually damaged or fade over some time and are also prone to tampering or duplication. Lack of tamper-proof, scalable, unique digital identity of cattle is one of the reasons for moral hazard, resulting in a higher loss ratio for cattle insurers, said Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/use-of-muzzle-prints-may-double-cattle-insurance-biz/articleshow/81301019.cms||Mayur Shetty
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Bodies of missing boys found in Krishna river||VIJAYAWADA: The bodies of the two boys who went missing on Sunday at Vaikuntapuram village, in Amaravati mandal of Guntur district, were found in Krishna river on Tuesday. The deceased, identified as P Govardan (10) and K Naga Sai (14), were natives of Vaikuntapuram. While Naga Sai was studying in standard 8 at Thulluru government high school, Govardan was in fourth standard. The boys used to play together after school hours. As there was no school on Sunday and their parents, who work as farm labourers were not at home, they went near the river. Police suspect they might have ventured into the river and drowned. After returning from work, their parents searched for the boys but could not find them. Their disappearance created panic as a two-year-old boy from the area was recently kidnapped and later rescued by the cops. The parents lodged a missing complaint with the police on Monday. On Tuesday morning, their bodies were found floating in the water by local fisherman who informed the police, who fished out the bodies and sent them for post-mortem. Cops also found their clothes on the riverbank, which suggest they might have gone for a swim. The missing case has been altered to 174 CrPC as death due to drowning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bodies-of-missing-boys-found-in-krishna-river/articleshow/81298062.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Patna||Rs 842 crore approved for Bihar govt-aided schools||PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved a proposal to allow direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme for disbursement of funds for the students of government schools to purchase uniform and bicycle for the academic year 2020-21 without the rider of minimum 75% attendance. The schools had been closed for more than nine months since March last owing to Covid-19 and most of them reopened in phases from January this year. A senior official in cabinet coordination department told TOI that altogether 48 proposals from different departments of the state government were approved in the meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar. In another decision, the state cabinet approved financial grant to the tune of Rs842 crore to the government aided private schools, which conduct the Matric and intermediate examinations of the state board. The funds were not being released since 2015, the official said. Besides, an approval was given to a proposal for setting up a medical college in Bhojpur utilizing funds to the tune of Rs550 crore. Sources said the cabinet also approved a proposal to sanction funds to the tune of Rs112 crore for procurement of electronic voting machines (EVM) for the upcoming panchayat elections in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-842-crore-approved-for-govt-aided-schools/articleshow/81298369.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Boy held for 3-year-old girl’s rape in Jamui||PATNA: A three-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 19-year-old boy at a village under the Khiara police station area in Jamui district on Monday, police said on Tuesday. The accused, Hareram Manjhi, was thrashed by locals and handed over to police. The girl, according to police, has sustained severe internal injuries. SHO (incharge) of Khaira police station Shambhu Sharma said the accused would be forwarded to judicial custody after production in a local court. “An FIR has been registered with Women’s police station in Jamui on the basis of the complaint lodged by the girl’s mother,” the SHO added. He said the incident took place around 10am on Monday. “Hareram took the girl to an abandoned house and raped her. Her cries alerted the locals who caught hold of Hareram and thrashed him. The police reached the spot after getting information and arrested the accused, a resident of Kaiyyar Dhanwa village under the Chandradeep police station area in the district,” the SHO added. Jamui civil surgeon Dr Vinay Kumar Sharma said the girl was profusely bleeding when she was brought to the sadar hospital for treatment on Monday. “She has received grievous injuries in her internal body parts. She was allowed to go home with family members only after bleeding stopped at night. A woman doctor has examined her,” he said, adding the minor’s condition was stable. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/boy-arrested-for-raping-3-year-old-girl-in-jamui/articleshow/81297911.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Patna||Rath flagged off to set stage for Mahashivaratri||PATNA: Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad on Tuesday flagged off Shiv Vivah prasar rath from Khajpura Shiv Mandir on Bailey Road here, setting the stage for the Mahashivaratri festivity on March 11. BJP MLC Sanjay Mayukh, convener of Mahashivaratri Mahotsav Shobha yatra function and Digha MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia accompanied Prasad. The rath would go around the city as part of the publicity for the Mahashivaratri Shobha Yatra to be organized on the Mahashivaratri day. Chaurasia said the shobha yatras would start from 22 places in the city and will congregate at the Khajpura Shiv Mandir, where they would be welcomed by the VVIP dignitaries. The VVIPs whom the invites to attend the function have been sent are CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CMs Tarkishore and Renu Devi, central ministers from Bihar, state ministers, MLAs and MLCs. On the occasion, they would perform ‘arti’. Besides, the best jhanki of the shobha yatra will be awarded. Chaurasia also said that ‘shiv charcha’ will be held at 175 temples in the city on March 7 as part of the build-up to the final function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rath-flagged-off-to-set-stage-for-mahashivaratri/articleshow/81298405.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Patna||Ravi Shankar, SuMo take Covid vax shots||PATNA: Altogether 1,520 senior citizens and 855 people above 45 years of age with comorbidities were inoculated on the second day of the second phase of vaccination drive against Covid-19 in state on Tuesday. A total of 3,026 people in the two categories, including 1,968 senior citizens, have been inoculated in the state in the last two days. Among the beneficiaries on Tuesday were Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo), who took their first dose at AIIMS-Patna and IGIMS, respectively. “Took Covaxin vaccine for corona made in India at AIIMS Patna. All the Union ministers have voluntarily decided to pay the price fixed for it. Accordingly, I gave donation of ₹250 to the hospital, even though vaccine is being offered free of cost in Bihar,” Prasad tweeted. He also held a review meeting with the AIIMS-Patna director, principal secretary of state health department and other hospital officials about the requirements. “The hospital deserves all help for the good work they did during the Covid-19,” he said. Talking to the media after taking the first shot, along with his wife Jessi George, SuMo said instead of being proud of the success of Indian medical scientists in developing the vaccine, the opposition makes desperate statements. “I appeal to senior leaders of all parties to build up the confidence of common people by taking the vaccine shots,” he said and asked why former CM Rabri Devi and leaders of other political parties in Bihar cannot take the vaccine and set an example for others by rising above politics. As per the data provided by the state health department, the total number of beneficiaries, including the health and frontline workers, who took the first jab has increased to 5,67,633 and people who have taken second shot has increased up to 88,868. Meanwhile, 41 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, whereas no new causalities had been reported in the state. There were only 369 active cases in the state, which has a recovery rate of 99.27%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ravi-shankar-sumo-take-covid-vax-shots/articleshow/81298360.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Guj GST mop-up up 14%,fastest among mfg states||Ahmedabad: The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in Gujarat increased 14% to a fresh record high of Rs 8,221 crore in February 2021 as against Rs 7,217 crore during the same month last year, shows the latest data released by the Union finance ministry. With this, Gujarat clocked the highest growth in GST collection among the top manufacturing states. Gujarat is the only manufacturing state which registered a growth above 10%. Other manufacturing states where GST collection increased include Tamil Nadu (9%), Haryana (6%), Uttar Pradesh (4%) and Karnataka (2%) and Maharashtra (2%). Tax experts suggest that growing demand coupled with revival in industrial production pushed tax collection to go up. “Pent-up demand opening up since the past couple of months helped boost state tax collection. Industrial production grew as consumption grew, this gave a significant boost to the tax collection,” said J P Gupta, state commercial tax commissioner. Gupta also mentioned that the department has tightened its noose on evaders and fraudsters who evade taxes through fake billing scam, which also contributed to rising tax collection. On the other hand, Delhi (-3%) and Telangana (-1%) witnessed a decline in tax collection whereas in Andhra Pradesh, the tax collected remained flat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-gst-mop-up-up-14fastest-among-mfg-states/articleshow/81299078.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Private hospitals ready for Covid vaccination from today||PATNA: All the government hospitals, including the primary health centres (PHCs), and some private hospitals are geared up for the mass vaccination of senior citizens and those above 45 years having comorbidities from Wednesday. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari on Tuesday said beside the government hospitals, 30 private hospitals in the state capital would serve as the vaccination centres for beneficiaries under the two categories. She said registration either through CoWIN portal or spot visit will be done on uploading or submitting a copy of Aadhaar card as identity proof. The PHCs in suburban and rural areas have been directed to constitute teams with vaccinators, doctors, computer operator, security and nursing staff for the immunization drive. She said beside the government hospitals and PHCs, the 30 private hospitals tagged for immunization drive include Paras HMRI, Ruban, Jai Prabha Medanta, Rajeshwar, Big Apollo, Ford, Kurji and Tripoliya SS hospital. Paras HMRI on Tuesday already started the drive for senior citizens and 45+ people with comorbidities. “We gave the vaccine shots to 183 persons, including some judges, legislators, retired university professors and others,” said its regional director Dr Talat Halim. Dr SS Rai, incharge of Fatuha PHC, said two teams were constituted and spot registration would be done on producing Aadhaar card. “We plan to vaccinate 200 beneficiaries every day and have set up vaccination and observation rooms for the purpose,” he said. The immunization drive for the healthcare workers still continues at many places. PMCH superintendent Dr I S Thakur said 2,500 health workers, including doctors of the hospital, were yet to get their second shots. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said while 2050 health workers were given the first shot, only 550 of them had their second dose. Thus, the vaccination centre there was still waiting for about 1400 healthcare workers for giving the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-hospitals-ready-for-covid-vaccination-from-today/articleshow/81298335.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat local body elections: BJP wins all 31 district panchayats, most municipalities||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat’s countryside was completely painted in saffron as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) overwhelmingly captured all 31 district panchayats, majority of the 81 municipalities and over 200 of the 231 taluka (block) panchayats, which had gone to polls on February 28. With the resounding victory, which came a week after the party swept all six municipal corporations, BJP extracted sweet revenge from Congress which had pocketed massive electoral gains in 2015 on the back of a violent Patidar quota stir led by Hardik Patel as well as the Dalit stir championed by Jignesh Mevani. In 2015, BJP was decimated in 24 out of the 31 district panchayats and lost 138 out of the total 228 taluka panchayats. However, the party had kept its semi-urban base intact by winning 45 out of 57 municipalities. Congress was shoved further towards political oblivion in state's electoral politics after failing to win a single district panchayat and severe battering in the municipalities. Effectively, India’s grand old party’s grassroots support was significantly uprooted in the saffron storm. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which had stunned all by winning 27 seats in Patidar strongholds of Surat city, also made a modest entry in the rural bodies by winning 42 out of the 2097 seats it contested. AAP’s Surat show had set off a chatter that it would also make inroads in Patel community-dominated districts like Amreli and Morbi districts where the BJP had lost badly in the 2017 assembly polls. However, the speculations got a burial after Patidars strongly rooted for the BJP. In fact, in Amreli, where Congress had swept all five assembly seats in 2017, BJP won the district panchayat, all 11 taluka panchayats and the five municipalities. The humiliating loss forced resignation of Paresh Dhanani, Amreli Congress MLA and Leader of Opposition in the state assembly. The stellar performance of the BJP has also negated its image of being an ‘city-only’ party as it garnered huge voter support in rural Gujarat too. Moreover, the party remained unscathed from the resentment over constantly rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, general business gloom and anger over heavy fines for Covid-19 rules violation. Towering tribal leader Chhotu Vasava’s 20-year-old fortress in Bharuch district panchayat completely crumbled as the pre-poll joint venture with Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) to corner Muslim and tribal votes proved to be a poor gamble. For the first time, BJP won Bharuch district panchayat with a majority. But AIMIM had a memorable debut in Godhra municipality, the ground zero of 2002 riots, where it won seven out of the eight contested seats and nine seats in Modasa civic body. The BJP also scored several electoral firsts. For the first time ever, BJP captured the district panchayats of Gandhinagar and tribal-dominated Dang and Tapi since their inception. The saffron party also eased through Viramgam municipality, the hometown of fiesty Patidar quota stir leader Hardik Patel, by winning 22 out of 36 municipality seats while the Congress scored a zero. In 2015, the civic poll results had gone down to wire in a close contest. Chief minister Vijay Rupani said, "The foundation for 2022 assembly election victory has been laid today. Congress or AAP are not even close to being the opposition".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/its-bjp-hands-down/articleshow/81299059.cms||---
March 3, 2021||India||‘Love jihad’, cow killing...: Yogi hard sells UP formula in Bengal||MALDA: Uttar Pradesh CM and BJP’s star campaigner Yogi Adityanath laid out the party’s version of “cultural nationalism” during his speech on Tuesday in Malda, which has a heavy Muslim presence. His speech was packed with elements like “love jihad”, “appeasement”, “jihadi hub”, Mamata Banerjee’s alleged “contempt towards Ram bhakts”, and CAA. Adityanath said if voted to office in Bengal, BJP will “ban illegal slaughterhouses, stop cattle smuggling and cow slaughter”. “Come May 2, people in Bengal will celebrate the Deepavali of cultural nationalism,” he added. The Bengal government had failed to stop love jihad and “provide security to women”, he said, citing how the UP government had introduced a tough law against it. The BJP functionary told the Malda gathering how his government banned illegal slaughterhouses in UP within 24 hours of assuming office. “We have also stopped cow slaughter there,” he said, reminding people that there had been no riots in UP since 2017. Adityanath spoke about the aspirations of Bengal youths and how successive governments (Congress, Left and TMC) had failed them. “Thirty years ago, youths from across the country used to come to Bengal for jobs. We are witnessing a reverse flow now. Youths from Bengal are moving out to UP and Delhi for jobs.” Recalling contributions of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, who wrote ‘Bande Mataram’, and Swami Vivekananda, who took Hinduism to the world, he said, “I wonder why the TMC government is averse to Ram bhakts when people in India greet each other by saying ‘Ram Ram’, begin new work in his name and chant ‘Ram naam satya hai’ when a person leaves this world.” He also lashed out at TMC for barring Durga idol immersions on October 1, 2017, the same day Muharram was being observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/love-jihad-cow-killing-yogi-hard-sells-up-formula-in-bengal/articleshow/81302382.cms||Subhro Maitra
March 3, 2021||---||‘Love jihad’, cow killing...: Yogi hard sells UP formula in Bengal||MALDA: Uttar Pradesh CM and BJP’s star campaigner Yogi Adityanath laid out the party’s version of “cultural nationalism” during his speech on Tuesday in Malda, which has a heavy Muslim presence. His speech was packed with elements like “love jihad”, “appeasement”, “jihadi hub”, Mamata Banerjee’s alleged “contempt towards Ram bhakts”, and CAA. Adityanath said if voted to office in Bengal, BJP will “ban illegal slaughterhouses, stop cattle smuggling and cow slaughter”. “Come May 2, people in Bengal will celebrate the Deepavali of cultural nationalism,” he added. The Bengal government had failed to stop love jihad and “provide security to women”, he said, citing how the UP government had introduced a tough law against it. The BJP functionary told the Malda gathering how his government banned illegal slaughterhouses in UP within 24 hours of assuming office. “We have also stopped cow slaughter there,” he said, reminding people that there had been no riots in UP since 2017. Adityanath spoke about the aspirations of Bengal youths and how successive governments (Congress, Left and TMC) had failed them. “Thirty years ago, youths from across the country used to come to Bengal for jobs. We are witnessing a reverse flow now. Youths from Bengal are moving out to UP and Delhi for jobs.” Recalling contributions of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, who wrote ‘Bande Mataram’, and Swami Vivekananda, who took Hinduism to the world, he said, “I wonder why the TMC government is averse to Ram bhakts when people in India greet each other by saying ‘Ram Ram’, begin new work in his name and chant ‘Ram naam satya hai’ when a person leaves this world.” He also lashed out at TMC for barring Durga idol immersions on October 1, 2017, the same day Muharram was being observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/love-jihad-cow-killing-yogi-hard-sells-up-formula-in-bengal/articleshow/81302379.cms||Subhro Maitra
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Rs 117 crore utilised in 3 years for welfare of 17.05 lakh minorities in U'khand||Gairsain: Uttarakhand has 17.05 lakh population belonging to several minority communities and a total of Rs 117 crore has been utilized for their welfare from 2017 to 2020, minority welfare minister Yashpal Arya informed the state assembly on Tuesday.Arya was responding to Independent MLA from Dhanaulti Pritam Singh Panwar who sought to know the welfare schemes being run for the minorities and the composition of minorities in the state.In response, Arya said, “Haridwar has 6.73 lakh population from the minority communities, followed by 5.42 lakh in Udham Singh Nagar, 2.68 lakh in Dehradun, 1.44 lakh in Nainital, 25,981 in Pauri, 10,135 in Almora, 9,951 in Champawat, 8,443 in Tehri, 7,874 in Pithoragarh, 5,347 in Chamoli, 4,711 in Uttarkashi 1,708 in Bageshwar and 1,708 in Rudraprayag.”The data was compiled from the 2011 census. The minister said a total of 19 schemes are being run for the welfare of minorities, out of which four are being run by the Centre, 11 by the state government and the remaining four by the National Minorities Finance Development Corporation, a not for profit company functioning under the administrative control of the ministry of minority affairs. Sharing the details of funds used for their welfare, the minister said Rs 33.55 crore was used in 2017-18, Rs 42.93 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 42.50 crore in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-117-crore-utilised-in-3-years-for-welfare-of-17-05-lakh-minorities-in-ukhand/articleshow/81297763.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Seers ‘disappointed’ over incomplete construction works on peshwai routes||Haridwar: With the akharas’ peshwai (procession) starting from Wednesday, the seer community and the Akhil Bharitya Akhara Parishad have expressed disappointment with the authorities over the “incomplete” construction activities on the designated routes.Shri Panchayti Niranjani Akhada will take out the first procession on March 3 where more than 1,000 Naga Sanyasi will participate, following which Juna Akhada, one of the biggest Naga Sanyasi akhada, will take out the royal procession on March 4. Maha Nirvani Akhada will take out its procession on March 8.President of Akhil Bharitya Akhada Parishad Mahant Narendra Giri told TOI, “After the installation of religious flags, Kumbh Mela has been commenced for us. The akhadas will take out their procession from March 3 but construction is going on especially on the peshwai route, which is a matter of great concern. We had asked the mela administration to take the Kumbh mela works seriously.”Akhadas’ take out the peshwai from the main routes of the city. Locals and pilgrims step out to see the royal procession for taking blessings from the Naga Sanyasi.Though the mela administration has claimed that most of the works have been completed, but the major part of the beautification and renovation works of the road junctions is still pending. Similarly, construction of footpath is still incomplete.Additional Kumbh Mela officer Anshul Singh told TOI, “We have completed most of the Kumbh works, while the remaining work will be completed before March 11. Similarly, the Peshwai route has been cleared by the mela administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seers-disappointed-over-incomplete-construction-works-on-peshwai-routes/articleshow/81297768.cms||MS Nawaz
March 3, 2021||Delhi||217 new cases, zero deaths; positivity rate dips to 0.33%||New Delhi: Delhi recorded no new Covid-19 fatality on Tuesday, even as 217 new cases pushed the city’s infection tally to 6,39,681. The positivity rate fell from 0.44% on Monday to 0.33%, the health department said.Tuesday’s 217 cases resulted after 66,624 Covid tests conducted on Monday, including 42,632 RT-PCR and 23,992 Rapid Antigen Tests. On Monday, 175 new cases were reported. Seventy-eight more people have recovered, taking the total count to over 6.27 lakh, an official said.Of the 5,721 Covid beds, only 544 are occupied, data shows. The occupancy of ICU beds with and without ventilator support is 12% and 9%, respectively.“We need to continue wearing masks and sanitising hands regularly to reduce the disease spread. Unfortunately, we are seeing many people not following any of the two preventive measures strictly, a major cause of spurt in cases,” said a senior doctor at Safdarjung Hospital. The role of mutation in novel coronavirus needs to be examined too, he added. The new cases caused by newer strains is a major concern, doctors say, adding that Delhi needs to be on high alert to detect new Covid clusters and carry out tests to rule out any such possibility. The emergence of newer strains isn’t uncommon, but their mapping is important to detect significant changes that may affect the transmissibility or virulence of the disease, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/217-new-cases-zero-deaths-positivity-rate-dips-to-0-33/articleshow/81300193.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Day 2: Double the number of senior citizens take the shot in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The number of senior citizens getting vaccinated nearly doubled on Tuesday, the second day of the drive launched to cover the elderly and those in the age group of 45 to 59 with 20 specified comorbid conditions. In all, 10,213 senior citizens got the shots compared with 5,176 on Monday. The number of people with comorbidities getting inoculated also increased, though the exercise was marred by glitches for the second consecutive day. The number of vaccination sites have been increased from 303 to 341 to cater to the growing numbers. The total turnout was 62.3%. Glitches in Co-Win, including in registration and verification, were reported from various centres. This caused delays, throwing the process out of gear. Many centres used manual registration and inoculated those unable to register on the portal. “The portal caused problems in registration as well as verification of the registered beneficiaries. Registered beneficiaries whose credentials could not be verified were allowed to get vaccinated after manual registration. The copies of their identity cards and registration numbers were noted down in a log. The details will be fed into the system later,” said an official. Senior Congress functionary Ajay Maken got inoculated at a government hospital in west Delhi along with his wife, mother and mother-in-law. “I got registered for vaccination a day before. The vaccine is safe. Every eligible Indian should get it quickly,” he said. A total of 21,277 people got inoculated, including 17,601 who got the first dose, 3,659 frontline workers and 2,287 healthcare workers. The second dose was administered to 3,676 healthcare workers. Only three minor adverse events were reported on Tuesday. Among the prioritised age group, 74% (8,592) turned up at private facilities and 26 % (3,063) at government facilities. There were 16,700 slots available at private facilities (51%) and 7,690 at government centres (40%). In West district, 1,629 senior citizens got the jab, the highest among all districts, followed by 1,594 in South. In South East district, 1,521 senior citizens were vaccinated. At many centres, senior citizens were seen waiting in long queues. Several cases of issues in registration of walk-in beneficiaries were reported, including delay in getting OTP. At some places, the server was down. Heated arguments between senior citizens and the staff was witnessed over technical issues and delay in inoculation. An official said the system was expected to improve in the coming days. Despite waiting in long queues, many senior citizens and others could not get the shots because they could not be registered on the Co-Win portal. The vaccination of registered healthcare personnel and frontline workers was smooth compared with the others. The vaccination drive started on January 16. Initially, only healthcare workers were permitted to get the jab. From February 13, the government allowed frontline workers, like security personnel, to get inoculated. In the third phase of the vaccination drive, senior citizens and those with comorbidities have been allowed because they are at a higher risk from the novel coronavirus. According to an official report, over 12 lakh people in Delhi are above the age group of 60 and 2-3 lakh are between the age of 45 and 59 with comorbid conditions. Self-registration is being done on Co-Win. Those walking in the vaccination centres are registered on the spot. The credentials of pre-registered beneficiaries are verified before they are inoculated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/day-2-double-the-number-of-senior-citizens-take-the-shot/articleshow/81300216.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Deputy registrar of Anna University held in Rs 3.3 crore job scam||CHENNAI: A central crime branch police team late on Monday arrested Parthasarathy, 57, deputy registrar of Anna University, for allegedly collecting Rs 3.3 crore from people by promising them jobs between 2017 and 2018. He was produced before a city magistrate court on Tuesday and remanded in Puzhal prison. The arrest came a year after the officer’s son and main accused, Vishveshwar, was held in the case. According to police, Vishveshwar took money from job-seekers by promising them jobs in the university and in the state electricity department by using his father’s influence. Rs 3.3 crore taken from 75 candidatesParthasarathy had even ‘interviewed’ candidates who gave money to his son at his office on the university campus, police said. Viveshwar had collected Rs 15 lakh from candidates for the post of Anna University PRO, Rs 10 lakh for the post of assistant engineer in TNEB, Rs 8 lakh for junior assistant job, Rs 3 lakh for the post of office assistant, and Rs 10 lakh for government schoolteacher post, police said. Vishveshwar and Parthasarathy, with the help of agents Valli Ilango, Ramasamy, Ilangovan, Rajapandi, Raji, Arumugam, Ravinder Raja, and Deivasigamani, had taken ₹3.3 crore from more than 75 candidates, police said. The father-son duo had also paid Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh as commission to the agents. All the other accused were arrested in 2019 and 2020 and are facing trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deputy-registrar-of-au-held-in-rs-3-3cr-job-scam/articleshow/81300241.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Progress lags as technical glitches continue to hurt||New Delhi: Technical glitches and non-responsive Co-Win servers affected the Covid-19 vaccination drive in many of the 136 private and 56 government hospitals on Tuesday. At many locations, the inoculation had to continue with manual verification of proof of appointment on the Co-Win portal. Server problems also marred the walk-in registration in many hospitals.At Metro Hospital and Cancer Institute, the vaccination began three hours late due to technical glitches. Chhaya Malhotra, nodal officer for vaccinations, said, “People arrived from 8am, but we managed to start vaccination only around 12 noon because we could not verify them on the Co-Win portal. We also failed to register walk-in individuals because the server was down.”Senior citizens were forced to wait for hours for their turn. S K Sharma, 82, and his wife Savita, 79, were injected after idling for four-and-a-half-hours at Metro Hospital. “The hospital staff was cooperative, but we wasted our time waiting for our turn,” said Sharma.A vaccination officer at Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences also reported being unable to log in to the Co-Win portal several times. The situation was similar at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. At Medeor Hospital in Qutub Institutional Area, medical superintendent Dr VGR Shastry said per case waiting time on the Co-Win server decreased to 4 minutes from 7 on Monday, but the glitches still impeded smooth operations.At Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, officials conducted manual verification of the registered patients, but on-the-spot registration could not be done till 1pm.The queues at Max Hospital in Saket were more organized on Tuesday. But online verification and on-the-spot registration suffered. A hospital official said that around 100 people who had been unable to get the jab on the first day on Monday despite possessing a token were given first chance. The new batch started receiving the shots around 11.40am. Manjolika Ghosh and her husband arrived from CR Park. “We tried getting vaccinated yesterday too. The situation was a relatively better today,” said Ghosh said. At many vaccination centres, the unregistered, walk-in inoculation was allowed only after 3pm. Anchal Jain, 57, had come from Gurgaon to get himself and his parents vaccinated. He claimed he had tried since Monday to register on the Co-Win option in the Arogya Setu app to no avail. Jain tried to register his family at the hospital only to be thwarted by a notification saying, “Co-Win server is facing issues. Please try later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/progress-lags-as-technical-glitches-continue-to-hurt/articleshow/81300236.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Vaccination drive picks up pace on 2nd day as U’khand reports 70 new Covid cases||Dehradun: The second phase of the vaccination drive picked pace on day two on Tuesday with 1,869 people above the age of 65 were inoculated with the first dose of Covid vaccine, whereas 120 persons with comorbidities were vaccinated.The health department is now focusing to empanel maximum number of private hospitals to increase the number of vaccination sessions. Over 1.5 lakh people have been vaccinated in the state so far.“We initially had only seven private hospitals where Covid vaccination was possible and all of them were in Dehradun. But as per the guidelines of the Government of India, we can now allow vaccination sessions at all private empanelled hospitals under the Atal Ayushman Scheme, CGHS and a few others. We are trying to allow vaccination in all the private hospitals as well so that vaccination sessions can be increased,” said Dr Saroj Naithani, director of the National Health Mission.The health department has also removed the cap of 25 vaccinations for the senior citizens at each centre, which was the case on day one on Monday.“Now, all those who have registered themselves online can come for the vaccination on the designated days” Naithani added.Meanwhile, 70 new cases of Covid 19 were reported in the state on Tuesday. The tally has now reached 97, 089.No Covid deaths were reported in the state for the second consecutive day, while 65 people were recovered from the infection. The total recoveries have touched 93,544.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vaccination-drive-picks-up-pace-on-2nd-day-as-ukhand-reports-70-new-covid-cases/articleshow/81297772.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 3, 2021||Delhi||HC issues guidelines for physical hearings||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued guidelines to be followed upon resumption of physical court hearings from March 15, including that visitors and advocates shall maintain social distancing as per the government norms. A circular issued by the adminstration branch of the high court said entry of litigants will be regulated as it was during the pre-Covid pandemic period and facilitation counter/ pass counter will also function in the normal manner. “All the visitors including lawyers shall maintain social distancing as per norms/ protocol issued by the government of India/ Delhi government and or this court,” it said.It added that all the gates including the entry and exit gates of underground car parking shall be opened and operated as it was done pre-pandemic period.Recently, the high court had issued an office order stating that from March 15, all its judges would hold physical hearing of cases. The existing system under which only 11 benches — two division benches of two judges each and nine single-judge benches — hear matters via the physical mode would continue till March 12, it had said.The order had also said that in exceptional cases, the high court might permit any of the parties and/ or their lawyers to join the proceedings through video conferencing, subject to the availability of requisite infrastructure.At present, 11 benches of the high court hold physical courts everyday on rotation basis and some of them also hold hybrid proceedings. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-issues-guidelines-for-physical-hearings/articleshow/81300267.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Open spaces at Bandra connector to be developed||Mumbai: After agreeing to explore construction of an underpass/overpass or a signal system to ensure smooth access to pedestrians on Bandra’s Carter Road at the landing point of Versova-Bandra Sea Link (VBSL), Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) is planning to develop land on either side of the connector as an open space for use by people. MSRDC said VBSL’s connectors will connect to Carter Road at grade level (road level used by pedestrians). MSRDC officials met BJP MLA from Bandra (W) Ashish Shelar on Monday along with architect P K Das, who will consult MSRDC on developing the open space and suggest ways to ensure seamless access for pedestrians on Carter Road. MSRDC said a “best suited system” will be finalised to ensure seamless connectivity to pedestrians on the iconic sea-facing promenade. MSRDC agreed to a site visit with BMC officials and citizen groups to share VBSL’s detailed plan and take suggestions. “I met MSRDC officials and Das, who will be a consultant on VBSL issues. MSRDC assured us Carter Road promenade will be protected. Promenade and walkway beautification will be done with residents’ inputs. Bandra Bandstand connector will reduce traffic congestion,” Shelar said. Das said plans were at a nascent stage. Recently, residents led by Congress corporator Asif Zakaria had objected, saying VBSL’s landing arms outside Otter’s Club will eat into the promenade and hamper pedestrian movement. When Zakaria wrote to MSRDC minister Eknath Shinde, chief engineer C B Patil replied that it will be connected on Carter Road at grade level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/open-spaces-at-bandra-connector-to-be-developed/articleshow/81299189.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||2 bikers held for attacking warden, cops||Mumbai: Two bikers have been arrested for ramming a traffic warden and manhandling traffic police constables on JJ flyover, on which two-wheelers are banned. The police made the arrests from Nagpada under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including the section for preventing a public servant from performing his duty. Vijay Asavle, a traffic constable attached to the Azad Maidan division, lodged the complaint in the case. A police officer said there was a heated argument and the main control room had to be called. A police team was sent to the spot and the arrests were made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-bikers-held-for-attacking-warden-cops/articleshow/81300326.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Kinnar Akhara to be main attraction of peshwai||Hardiwar: The Kinnar Akhara, which is run by the transgender community, will participate for the first time in the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. Its members will take part in Juna Akhara’s procession on March 4. Many saints of the Kinnar Akhara have reached Haridwar for royal procession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kinnar-akhara-to-be-main-attraction-of-peshwai/articleshow/81297790.cms||MS Nawaz
March 3, 2021||Delhi||DJB vandalism: Delhi court tells police to analyse all footage, take action||NEW DELHI: A city court has directed police to collect CCTV footage of the alleged vandalism of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) headquarters in December 2020 and conduct an “impartial investigation” to unearth the truth. Police have been directed to file a progress report on March 9. Earlier, the court had directed the DCP concerned to file a report on why appropriate sections had not been added to the FIR, despite there being videos and photographs in which more than five people were involved in the alleged vandalism. Chief metropolitan magistrate Ganjender Singh Nagar directed police to file a report as to why for one month no witnesses present at the spot had been examined and why videos and photographs were not seized promptly when things were very clear from them. “Assistant commissioner of police (district investigation unit) is directed to collect all CCTV footage, analyse the same and take appropriate action. Investigation would be conducted in an impartial manner to unearth the truth in the matter,” said the court. The court was acting on a plea filed by DJB vice-chairman and AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, who through his counsel Prashant Manchanda sought a court-monitored investigation in the case of alleged vandalism and attack on staff members. Chadha claimed the attack was orchestrated by some political functionaries. The directions were passed by the court after two CCTV videos were played, one showing policemen along with the SHO trying to protect the gate of the DJB office, and another showing the cops not resisting any member of the mob from entering the main building. When the CCTV footage of the main iron gate was played, it was apparent that policemen along with the SHO tried to protect the gate. However, a few people from the mob scaled the gate, jumped inside the premises and open the gate forcefully from inside, thereby allowing those standing outside to come inside despite resistance from police. “In another CCTV footage, it can be seen that the mob is entering the main building of Varunalaya, the DJB headquarters. This time police is there, but they are not seen resisting anybody,” said the court. It also noted that the ACP had pointed out that IPC sections of rioting and unlawful assembly had been added to the chargesheet and police were doing appropriate investigation in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-vandalism-court-tells-policeto-analyse-all-footage-take-action/articleshow/81300333.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Won’t charge hiked auto & taxi fares till meters fixed: Mumbai drivers||MUMBAI: Autorickshaw and taxi drivers have welcomed the fare hike implemented from this month, but complained that it was ‘wrongly timed’. On Tuesday, many drivers resolved that they will not charge the revised fares unless their meters are recalibrated, and this could take two to three months for most vehicles. As a result, commuters stand to gain by paying 16% less fare for autos and 13% less in taxis—as per the old fares. Drivers told TOI that they “feared losing more commuters” as ridership had already dipped over 20% due to the pandemic effect. Also demand for autos was less than the supply—4.6 lakh autos ply in the Mumbai metropolitan region though people are still working from home. “BEST’s mini AC buses also pose a threat to our livelihood as they ply on feeder routes outside stations for Rs 6 fare for 5-km distance,” a driver said, adding that the minimum auto fare is more than three times. Another setback was commuters opting for private vehicles. Auto drivers also complained of police harassment and fines for parking on the road, which again reduces their daily earnings. But what about the state-issued tariff cards? “These cards will be of no use after three months. We will get into fights with commuters who will insist that the meter should show the final reading. So, we have decided that we will collect the revised fare only after the meter is recalibrated,” said Prakash Sonawane, a driver from Bhandup. A RTO official said commut-ers stand to benefit if drivers don’t want to use the tariff card. “This week, autos with registration numbers ending in ‘0’ will begin the recalibration proce-ss,” he said. Thampy Kurien of Mumbai Rickshawmen’s Union said at least 2,000 autos will be fitted with recalibrated meters this week, sent to the labs for table tests for 48km (for every meter) and then road tests on RTOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wont-charge-hiked-auto-taxi-fares-till-meters-fixed-drivers/articleshow/81301643.cms||Somit Sen
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Farmers’ stir supporter blocks actor’s car, arrested||MUMBAI: A 28-year-old man was arrested after he stopped actor Ajay Devgn’s car at Goregaon (East) on Tuesday morning. The man was urging Devgn to support the ongoing farmers’ protest. The accused, Rajdeep Singh, is a driver by profession. Devgn was headed towards FilmCity when Singh, who was travelling in an auto, spotted his car. He then hopped out of the auto and stood in front of the actor’s vehicle, blocking his way. “There was a traffic jam in the area and Devgn’s vehicle was moving slowly, ” said a police officer. Singh asked the actor to step down and talk to him and also urged him to support the farmers’ protest. Devgn's bodyguards tried to move Singh away which led to a scuffle. Singh also allegedly used expletives when the matter was reported to the local police station. Witnesses filmed the incident and the video clip went viral on Twitter. Singh can be heard addressing the actor in Punjabi. The Dindoshi police arrested Singh on charges of “intimidation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/farmers-stir-supporter-blocks-actors-car-arrested/articleshow/81300293.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Chamoli disaster: After 24 days, rescue teams reach T-point at 185m inside tunnel, find connecting smaller tunnel choked too||Dehradun: After 24 days of continuous excavation work, the search and rescue teams equipped with sophisticated excavators managed to reach T-point at 185m inside the tunnel along the 1.6km-long main tunnel where it bifurcates and is joined by another smaller tunnel. The teams were shocked to witness that like the main tunnel, even the narrower connected tunnel — where over 30 workers were initially believed to have taken shelter — was also found to be completely choked with muck and slush. According to authorities involved in the operation, the intake tunnel is filled with slush and water and pumping machines are being used to remove the water. However, efforts are being made to clear the debris and slush from the tunnel, a SDRF official said. No fresh body has been recovered in the past two days even as the search and rescue teams continue to look for bodies in the disaster-hit areas, according to inspector (SDRF) Harak Singh Rana. Till date, 72 bodies have been recovered, including 14 from the main tunnel while as many as 133 people are still reported to be missing. The state government has initiated the process of declaring 133 persons missing as “presumed dead” after a clearance from the Union home ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chamoli-disaster-after-24-days-rescue-teams-reach-t-point-at-185m-inside-tunnel-find-connecting-smaller-tunnel-choked-too/articleshow/81297786.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||WR plans 2nd AC train on slow track||Mumbai: Western Railway (WR) may introduce a second AC rake once infrastructure is upgraded on the slow corridor between Andheri-Virar to operate 15-car services. WR plans to introduce 15-car services on slow corridor between Andheri-Virar from April. WR general manager Alok Kansal said, “We are exploring the option of operating a 12-car AC rake on slow corridor once work for 15-car train services on slow corridor is complete.” WR has been running a 12-car AC service on its fast corridor since December 2017. WR has seven AC rakes but it has been unable to introduce more as demand is low. Introducing more AC services by replacing non-AC ones is unviable as regular passengers may protest. WR had a ridership of 18,000 passengers a day before Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-plans-2nd-ac-train-on-slow-track/articleshow/81299192.cms||Manthank Mehta
March 3, 2021||Delhi||‘Life is too short,’ says 101-year-old after getting jab in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Debunking all myths about the risks associated with the Covid-19 vaccine, super senior Delhiites led the way on Tuesday as the inoculation drive saw the participation of octogenarians, nonagenarians and a centenarian too. “The vaccine brings hope of normal life being restored,” smiled Vedpal Sareen, 94. Though wheelchair bound, he arrived at Max Hospital in Saket with his son, Sanjeev. The Sareens, however, complained about the lag on the Co-Win portal, with Sanjeev saying, “This is mismanagement. There wouldn’t be the need for queues if the centres had to simply collect the data and feed it into the system later.” Max officials said they facilitated early shots for 90+ individuals and those on wheelchairs. Pushpa Kalra, 81, of Malviya Nagar said, “We came on Monday too, but there was chaos and we couldn’t complete the process. It was relatively better today and the hospital honoured the token issued yesterday. We were done within an hour of arriving at the centre.” At Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in central Delhi, 94-year-old Roshan Lal and his wife Rampyari, 80, were awaiting their turn with their son, Ashwin, 65. “We have come from Kalibari. It has been a long year of precautions with masks, kadha and other things. We hope the vaccine will reduce the risks for us,” said Lal. Meanwhile, the directorate of family and welfare took to social media to announce that 101-year-old Harbansh Lal Mehra had received the jab. Mehra advised other elderly citizens to receive the shots. “There has been no medical problem so far. Go ahead, take the vaccine. Life is very short,” said the centenarian. In east Delhi, Saraswati Manchandana, 85, who was accompanied by her caretaker, was inoculated on Tuesday. “I had a backache while waiting for my turn. The waiting time should be reduced for octogenarians,” she said, “But I was excited to take the injection.” Major-general R C Suri (retd), 85, and his wife, Dr Suryakanta Suri, 82, also took their first shots. “Our children live in the United States and they asked us to go for the vaccination as soon as available. My wife is a practising gynaecologist and we felt it necessary for her to get vaccinated because she deals with patients,” said the former army officer. Retired teacher S K Bhardwaj, 80, claimed to have been inspired Prime Minister Narendra Modi. His wife, Sushila Devi, 77, was also vaccinated at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/super-seniors-to-the-fore-to-hit-covid-for-a-six/articleshow/81300318.cms||Paras Singh
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Those infected once showing faster antibody response to C-vax, says study||New Delhi: The Covid-19 vaccine acts as a booster in people with pre-existing antibodies against the novel coronavirus and such persons start developing antibody response as early as seven days of the vaccination, a new study shows. In contrast, those without pre-existing antibodies begin antibody response after 14 days or later.According to Dr Sujeet Jha, principal investigator of the research that assessed the efficacy of the Covid vaccine in generating antibody response, 135 recipients participated. The antibody levels were based on the assessment at various stages — day 0, 7, 14 and 28 — of healthcare and frontline workers who received the Covishield vaccine at Max Group of Hospitals in Delhi in the first phase of immunisation that started on January 16. Covishield in an inactivated viral vaccine and utilises S-antigen to generate antibody response. The current protocol is to administer two doses of the vaccine, first on day zero and the second on day 28. Of the 135 participants, 44 (32.5%) had already developed antibodies at the time of vaccination. “It was observed that antibody response at seven days in people who already had antibodies was significantly higher than in those who did not have antibodies prior to vaccination; rather, greater than 90% of persons with no antibodies at the time of vaccination didn’t develop any measurable response at all on day seven,” said Jha. He added on day 14, both groups had antibodies though difference was still significant. “On day 28, before the 2nd dose, most individuals except three in sero-negative group had measurable antibody response.”Dr Shantanu Sengupta, senior scientist, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, and a participant in the study, said the outcome could help determine the timing for the second dose. “Our data supports safely delaying the second dose in recipient groups with high sero-positivity,” he explained.In the capital, the serosurvey conducted recently showed over 50% of the population had developed antibodies. Some scientists feel that a single dose is adequate for people with pre-existing immunity, but there is disagreement over this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/those-infected-once-showing-faster-antibody-response-to-c-vax-says-study/articleshow/81300279.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 3, 2021||Vadodara||Police resorts to lathi charge to disperse crowd||Anand: Police had to resort to lathi charge outside a counting centre in Borsad town of Anand district, to disperse crowd of supporters of two camps who had come face to face as results of Borsad Nagarpalika were being declared. Sources said that supporters of Borsad Nagarpalika’s former vice-president Yusuf Mirza, a Congress candidate and those supporting three independent candidates in ward number seven had come face to face after the Congress-backed candidates got defeated.. Supporters of both the camps were hurling abuses against each other and had crowded the entire premises. Since the crowd was not ready to vacate the premises, despite repeated appeals, the police resorted to lathi charge after which the crowd dispersed, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/police-resorts-to-lathi-charge-to-disperse-crowd/articleshow/81297810.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray yet to send Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod’s resignation letter to governor||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod may have handed his resignation to CM Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, but the CM has not yet forwarded it to governor B S Koshyari for approval. This means Rathod technically still holds the minister’s post. After forest minister Rathod (49) submitted his resignation on Sunday, a day ahead of the start of the state assembly’s budget session, it was expected Thackeray would forward the letter to the governor immediately on Sunday evening or at least the next day (Monday). However, the resignation had not been sent to the governor till Tuesday evening, a senior Raj Bhavan official confirmed. A Sena leader who spoke on condition of anonymity said Thackeray could keep the resignation with him even for a month and, once the report on the ongoing inquiry in the controversy surrounding the minister is submitted, may hand over charge of the same department to him or give him another portfolio. Rathod quit after he faced allegations from the opposition since the suicide of a young woman, Puja Chavan, in Pune on February 8. Thackeray said on Sunday evening that an inquiry into Chavan’s death had been ordered on the very day of the incident. Rathod’s show of strength on February 23 at Poharadevi temple in Washim too was criticised by opposition for crowding amid a Covid surge. “On Sunday, Thackeray said Rathod did not invite the crowd and had appealed to people not to gather,” the Sena leader said. Asked about Rathod’s resignation, Sena minister Anil Parab said a final decision would be taken by the CM. Thackeray had said Rathod had resigned on moral grounds and had asked parliamentary affair minister Anil Parab to read the content of the resignation letter before the media. Dr Anant Kalse, former principal secretary of the state legislature, told TOI Rathod would be considered a minister until the governor sanctioned his resignation and the state published a notification in that regard. “In an internal adjustment, even if the chief minister takes over charge of the portfolio the minister was holding, he (Rathod) can again take charge of his office without a fresh oath by the governor if the governor does not sanction his resignation.” Meanwhile, PTI reported that Pune police on Tuesday said they had received the post-mortem report of Puja Chavan. DCP Namrata Patil confirmed receipt of the post-mortem report but refused to divulge details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-yet-to-send-sena-mins-resignation-letter-to-guv/articleshow/81300365.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Three, including minor, held for auto-lifting||Rudrapur: Three auto lifters, including a minor, were arrested by Transit Camp area Police of the city on Tuesday. Police have recovered three bikes from their possession. The accused have been identified as Shiva Das, Rajendra Satya and a minor, all residents of Raja Colony in Transit Camp. SHO of the Transit Camp police station, Vinod Fartyal said that a bike was stolen from Shimla Bahadur area under his jurisdiction on February 18. “We checked the available CCTV footage of the area and were able to identify one accused. On Monday night, the police team nabbed three of them riding the stolen bike. After interrogation, we recovered two more bikes on their instance from their houses,” said SHO Fartyal. All three accused were booked under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code and presented before court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-including-minor-held-for-auto-lifting/articleshow/81299098.cms||Aakash Ahuja
March 3, 2021||Delhi||United they fight: Couples turn up together to take the jab||NEW DELHI: Many elderly couples and family members are coming out together to take Covid shots. After having braved through tough restrictions due to the pandemic together, the process of getting the protection against novel coronavirus is also becoming a shared experience. Elderly couple Satish Chander (67) and Kusum Lata Jain (63) visited two hospitals on Tuesday for vaccination. “We had done online registration for a hospital in Mayur Vihar. But there was chaos due to a queue, and we went to Metro Hospital and Cancer Institute in Preet Vihar and got vaccinated,” said Chander. The couple’s daughter and son-in-law, doctors in the US, got vaccinated nearly two months ago. “Our children motivated us and we have been waiting for the past one month,” said Jain. Rajender Bafna (63) and his wife Rajni (63), residents of Greater Kailash II, got the shot at a Saket centre. Both of them, however, feel the process needs to improve. “We had called multiple centres to check timings but everyone says you can come anytime between 9am and 5pm. Tokens with time slots should be provided,” said one of them. “Why should senior citizens who mostly have so many other problems be made to wait for hours?” The protection against the virus is also opening up the possibility of returning to a somewhat normal life. Suresh Sharma, a 76-year-old retired college principal, and his wife Indu Rani started planning their next holiday while waiting at the observation room of Metro Hospital and Cancer Institute. “We love to travel but have been confined to our home for the past one year,” said Sharma. His wife said they were happy and relieved. Some couples could also be seen reassuring each other during last-time jitters. Ram Sagar Shah (62) and Banarshi Devi arrived from Goyla Dairy at central Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital. A retired government employee, Shah assured her that there was no harm in taking the vaccine. “Everyone should take the vaccine as soon as possible. It will get crowded later on,” he said. RML also hosted 80-year-old Premnath Marwah, his younger brothers Mangalsen (75) and Surendernath (71), who had come together from Karol Bagh. The youngest Marwah said he had got infected in November and did not want his brothers to suffer the same agony. “I could not eat or drink. Everyone should take the vaccine to defeat this horrible disease,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/united-they-fight-couples-turn-up-together-to-take-the-jab/articleshow/81300383.cms||Paras Singh
March 3, 2021||Chennai||AIADMK to wrap up talks on seats with its allies by today||Chennai: The ruling AIADMK is likely to finalise its seat sharing talks with partners, the BJP and the DMDK, by Wednesday, and formally seal the deal for the assembly election. Sources confirmed that the AIADMK, represented by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam, is keen to restrict the BJP to 20 seats and allocate 15 for the DMDK, sources said. The BJP would be allocated the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat too, scheduled for a by-election on April 6, the same day that Tamil Nadu goes to polls. The negotiations with the BJP and the DMDK at a private hotel in Chennai went on through the day. An AIADMK delegation of ministers P Thangamani, S P Velumani, deputy coordinators K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam had a meeting with the four-member team led by BJP president L Murugan. “The role of the state BJP leaders was restricted to prevailing upon the ruling party the strength it has gained over recent years. But the numbers are being finalised by the high command in Delhi,” said a senior BJP leader. “The AIADMK is firm that among allies, the PMK would get the highest number of seats in the alliance, which is 23,” said the leader. The AIADMK is keen on completing the seat sharing by Wednesday, given that it has announced the interviews with poll aspirants for all the districts on Thursday and release of candidates’ list by March 8. “Besides seeking a higher number of seats than what was offered, the DMDK is keen on a Rajya Sabha seat too, which is delaying the whole process,” said an AIADMK leader. Neither DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant nor her brother and the party’s L K Sudhish were present during the talks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-to-wrap-up-talks-on-seats-with-its-allies-by-today/articleshow/81298873.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 3, 2021||Surat||AAP’s entry in panchayat polls||Surat: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which won 27 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), made entry into district panchayat polls as well. According to details, AAP's two candidates won in Kamrej taluka panchayat elections. These two seats which AAP won, are considered Patidar dominated areas and it also played a major role in Hardik Patel's Patidar Anamat Andolan. These two areas are close to Surat city and have semi-urban populations, though it falls into Kamrej taluka panchayat. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aaps-entry-in-panchayat-polls/articleshow/81298872.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Chennai||In Trichy, school bags with pictures of Edappadi K Palaniswami stir a row||TRICHY: DMK functionaries and cadres laid siege to Corporation Middle School in Woraiyur in Trichy on Tuesday alleging distribution of freebies to children. But education department officials said they were only shifting items like schoolbags, geometry boxes and crayons from the corporation school in Kura Street to other schools as this school is going to be a polling station. DMK functionaries said that they had received a tipoff on the distribution of the state government’s freebies. They said they found several sacks of school bags, crayons and geometry boxes being moved out. DMK functionaries, led by DMK Trichy urban secretary Mu Anbalagan, alleged that the freebies were shipped out of the school for distributing them to beneficiaries. “Since the corporation school is a polling booth, education department officials moved the freebies to other schools. After the complaint, we kept the items in a room in the school and sealed it,” an official with the static surveillance team said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-trichy-school-bags-with-pictures-of-eps-stir-a-row/articleshow/81298927.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Why charge Rs 250 a dose, Chavan asks Centre||Mumbai: Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan on Tuesday questioned the NDA government’s decision to charge for Covid-19 vaccines in the second phase from March 1. A government order said a person above 45, with comorbidities or 60 can get inoculated at designated centres for Rs250 a dose. “A huge provision has been made in the budget, so it is the responsibility of NDA government. It is wrong to charge for it. It appears the Modi government is digging into the common man’s pocket,’’ Chavan said. State government data shows there are 25 lakh persons with comorbidities and nearly 1.3 crore aged above 60. If Chavan’s demand is accepted, free vaccine will have to be administered to 1.5 crore people in the state. Chavan said in the first phase the Centre had procured 1.6 crore doses at a cost of Rs210 a dose. In Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman’s budget speech, Rs 35,000 crore was earmarked for vaccinations. “More than 1.5 billion doses can be procured at a cost of Rs210 a dose. It can twice cover 75 crore people, which is more than the entire adult population of India. If a massive budgetary provision has been made, why is Modi charging common people? It should be given free,’’ Chavan said. Chavan said countries like US, UK and Canada are providing free vaccines through insurance or budgetary provisions. “Beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana must be given free Covid-19 vaccines. Modi government is charging Rs210 a dose, even though India is one of the biggest suppliers of Covid-19 vaccines,’’ he said.Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/why-charge-rs-250-a-dose-chavan-asks-centre/articleshow/81298981.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Digital access to archives: Funds sanctioned for cultural complex||New Delhi: Delhi cabinet on Tuesday approved the sanction of Rs 49 crore for the construction of cultural complex — Kala Kunj.In 2020, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had laid the foundation stone for the cultural complex, where Delhiites would be able to access digital records of historical archives and participate in cultural functions, the state government said in a statement.Seed money of Rs 3 crore has been released to Delhi Tourism Transportation Development Corporation for the construction of the complex, in collaboration with the department of Delhi Archives. Delhi government has sanctioned Rs 1.3 crore to strengthen the structural design of Delhi Archives building. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/digital-access-to-archives-funds-sanctioned-for-cultural-complex/articleshow/81300421.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Suspended Delhi University vice-chancellor writes to President for reinstatement||NEW DELHI: Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, who is under suspension since October 28 last year over charges of dereliction of duty, has written to the institutional visitor, President Ram Nath Kovind, alleging that some “elements” from the Union education ministry were encouraging certain “extra constitutional” people to clamour for his removal on flimsy grounds. In the letter sent on Monday, Tyagi claimed that the inquiry being conducted against him was not in accordance with norms and, hence, his suspension should be revoked. The chancellor’s nominee to the DU Executive Council, Raj Kumar Bhatia, has also written to the enquiry committee with a copy marked to the visitor seeking revocation of Tyagi’s suspension ordered by the President. Asked about the two letters, Bhatia told TOI, “I can’t vouch for professor Tyagi’s letter.” But he admitted to his communication, which is in TOI’s possession. Tyagi is scheduled to complete his tenure as the VC on March 11. Prior to his suspension, Tyagi was on medical leave. In his letter, Tyagi said, “The education ministry officials have grossly failed to place before you the various provisions of the Delhi University Act, statutes, ordinances and regulations in their legal (and I would plead, moral as well) perspective as far as they pertain to the role and responsibility of the vice-chancellor personally. Also, some crucial provisions of the Act, statutes and ordinances have been all together overlooked.” The letter elaborated, “The inquiry ordered against the vice-chancellor by invoking Section 7-A of the Delhi University Act is not in accordance with law. A close perusal of Section 7-A would reveal that the inquiry prescribed under it is curative in nature. The vice-chancellor is expected to be in correspondence with the Visitor. He is not kept away from the University by the mechanism of suspension under presumption of guilt.” The letter added, “It is most uncharitable on the part of the administrating ministry to present before the visitor for approval events and situations, strikes and agitations attributing them as personal failures of the vice-chancellor. Those conversant with the dynamics of agitations would only sympathise with the vice-chancellor.” Tyagi did not respond to calls and messages from TOI. However, a university official confirmed he had sent a letter to the visitor. The VC is not a civil servant and does not enjoy statutory security of service and that action against him cannot be taken as per civil service rules, Tyagi noted, adding, “I am prepared to put my papers if that brings some good and saves the energy of everyone to be devoted to the better cause of this great premier University, especially in its centenary year.” Tyagi requested the visitor to hold an “appropriate inquiry lawfully in accordance with the Delhi University Act, 1922,” and to revoke his suspension and “reinstate me at the earliest possible”. According to sources, the education ministry has not received any communication from the President’s office about Tyagi’s letter. It is also expecting the inquiry committee to submit its report in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bid-to-remove-me-on-flimsy-grounds-tyagi/articleshow/81300519.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
March 3, 2021||Thane||Lottery or lootery? Mhada clerk’s 7 kin got flats in one building||KALYAN: An MLA from Kalyan has made an allegation of corruption in allotment of Mhada flats through the lottery system. MLA Pramod Patil, alias Raju, of the MNS said seven flats meant for ‘economic weaker section’ had been allotted to close relatives of a senior Mhada clerk, Chayya Rathod, who is posted at Mhada headquarters in Mumbai. “This raises questions over the lottery system that was introduced to root out corruption in allotment,” said Patil. Mhada has initiated a probe. Details given by Patil show names of seven the flat owners as Chayya’s father Vamanrao (flat 1002-J), her brother-in-law Kuldeep Chavan (304-K), her cousin Daya Rathod (308-C), her brother-in-law’s cousin Varsha Aade(C-704), Moreshwar Jadhav, and her cousin’s nephew ( 511). Patil claimed that these flats were allotted in 2018 in ‘Golden Dream’, a project at Khoniin Kalyan. All flats have been allotted in Orchid Complex in different wings. “I got complaints of high-level corruption in allotting flats by the lottery system at the Khoni project,” Patil told TOI. “I got specific information that Chayyamanaged to get several flats allotted to her relatives”. Patil has complained to senior Mhada officials that other officials could have done a similar thing. He has sought cancellation of such allotments. In-charge of Konkan division, Nitin Mahajan, who has been tasked with the inquiry, said, “An inquiry has been ordered as to how flats were allotted to relatives of this particular Mhada employee.” Mhada officials claimed that the 1BHK flats of 321 sqft carpet area were sold below Rs 10 lakh. Real estate agents pegged the market price of these flats around Rs 30 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/lottery-or-lootery-mhada-clerks-7-kin-got-flats-in-one-bldg/articleshow/81300453.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||CM reappoints Rajeev as MMRDA chief||Mumbai: A day after retirement, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday reappointed MMRDA commissioner R A Rajeev for three months on contract basis. An IAS officer of 1987 batch, Rajeev took over MMRDA on May 2, 2018. An order by urban development department stated that he was reappointed because of his expertise and ability to execute projects in a time-bound manner. “As MMRDA commissioner, Rajeev supervised Metro rail and trans-harbour link projects. Government is keen to utilize his expertise and capacity for the pending project,’’ deputy secretary Vijay Choudhary said. It was initially proposed to appoint him on contract for a year. “There are legal issues, as MMRDA commissioner is a cadre post, so it was not possible to appoint a retired person,’’ he said. He said no purpose will be served if a retired bureaucrat is appointed on contract for three months, particularly when Rajeev was holding the post for more than three years. “In IAS, the normal tenure is two years, Rajeev has completed two years. More than half a dozen bureaucrats are vying for MMRDA commissioner’s post, now they will have to wait,’’ he said. The bureaucrat pointed out that it was a piquant situation. High-ranking bureaucrats are waiting for postings for more than three months and some bureaucrats are holding additional posts for prolonged periods. “I am sure newly-appointed chief secretary Sitaram Kunte will resolve the impasse,’’ he said. Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-reappoints-rajeev-as-mmrda-chief/articleshow/81299193.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Portraits of PM, CM, mayor on Roorkee town hall: Oppn threatens stir||Roorkee: The Roorkee Municipal Corporation (RMC) is facing a lot of criticism and flak for drawing portraits of PM Narendra Modi, chief minister Trivendra Rawat, urban development minister Madan Kaushik and mayor Gaurav Goel on the outer wall of the town hall building in the name of renovation and beautification. Many political organisations, including the Congress, have expressed dissatisfaction over the move. They alleged that mayor Gaurav Goel is doing all this with some ulterior motive, and warned that if portraits were not removed from the wall, a big protest against Goel would be launched soon. Former mayor Yaspal Rana said, "This is a wrong move on the part of RMC. If this continues, a wrong precedent will be set for future polity of the city as every mayor would start considering the RMC building as his/her own," said Rana. "Roorkee Municipal Corporation building is a public property. How can a mayor give the order to put his own portrait on the wall of the building for self-promotion? A case should be registered against him (Goel) under the Uttarakhand prevention of defacement of public property Act and other laws immediately," said Rajendra Chaudhary, a law-graduate and senior party worker of Congress. According to RMC officials, renovation and beautification work is underway on a part of the RMC building, including the town hall, with an outlay of Rs 70 lakh. The beautification of a wall includes some impression of Uttarakhand's culture, as well as display of portrait paintings of eminent personalities of the country and the state. RMC authorities have now stopped work on the controversial paintings owing to wide criticism. "We will take legal opinion in the matter, following which we will decide whether the work is to be continued or not," said CK Bhatt, assistant municipal commissioner at RMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/portraits-of-pm-cm-mayor-on-roorkee-town-hall-oppn-threatens-stir/articleshow/81298944.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Vadodara||Other colours fade under saffron wave||Vadodara: A powerful saffron wave swept all the seven districts of Central Gujarat with BJP winning almost all district panchayats, taluka panchayats and municipalities in the region. Tuesday’s results of the local body elections ended BJP’s electoral drought in traditional Congress strongholds putting a crimp in Congress camp. BJP established a clear majority in Vadodara district panchayat where Congress was reduced to single digit. BJP won on 27 seats while Congress got only seven. Seven talukas in the district saw BJP having a clear majority in taluka panchayats even as Desar threw up a fractured mandate with no clear majority. Congress faced a complete rout in Panchmahal district panchayat polls with BJP winning all 38 seats. The saffron party also established a majority on all the seven taluka panchayats in the district. It also won Shehra Nagarpalika. Mahisagar district where BJP had managed to wrest power from Congress thanks to defections in 2018 also saw BJP win 22 of 28 seats while Congress won only six. All six taluka panchayats went to BJP here. Dahod was no surprise with BJP trouncing Congress by bagging 43 of 50 seats in the district panchayat. All nine taluka panchayats here also went to BJP. The party won 31 out of 36 seats in Dahod municipality too leaving only five for Congress. It was for the first time after Chhota Udepur was carved out as a separate district from Vadodara in January 2013 that BJP won majority seats of district panchayat. Of the 32 seats, the saffron party won 27 seats while Congress was reduced to just four seats even as result of one seat was pending. In 2015, Congress had won 21 seats while BJP had won ten while one had gone to an independent candidate. The taluka panchayats in the district too were snatched away from the Congress this time. BJP’s 90 candidates won in six taluka panchayats while Congress was reduced to 37 from its previous tally of 84.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/other-colours-fade-under-saffron-wave/articleshow/81297902.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Unmasking the Covid surge||Maharashtra is again in the throes of the Covid storm after a relative lull, and the city is bearing the brunt of it. As citizens come to terms with the return of several restrictions, panellists at this month’s TOI Debate consider the repercussions and study the contentious pandemic mitigation measuresWhy are corona cases increasing again? ‘Peer pressure to not wear a mask’ and ‘revenge tourism to make up for the time spent indoors’ are partly to blame, feels businessman Venugopal Malu. “There were times when I wished to wear a mask, but those around me (who had no masks on) did not want me to, making snide remarks like ‘You’re not the only one who will end up infected’,” Malu said. “Then there were those who went for holidays just because others did. A lot of such inter-state movement started November onwards,” he added. “Suddenly, we were given the freedom and we really encashed upon it,” said Bengali High School principal Madhu Joseph. People have been travelling via routes that preclude quarantine, opined restaurant owner Shilpi Singh Bagdi. “Many Nagpurians who are making domestic and international trips are flying back to states other than Maharashtra, which has mandatory quarantine upon arrival. After spending a day or two there, they are returning to Nagpur,” Bagdi elaborated. “Once lockdown guidelines were partially relaxed,” chimed in restaurant owner Sachin Jahagirdar, “People began bypassing norms. Some weddings had 500 or 700-strong guest lists. Such large social congregations pushed the Covid numbers up.” Holding big social gatherings primarily responsible for the spike in cases might not be right, said motivational speaker Dr Vartika Patil. “We have to look at the larger picture. These activities are vital for the national economy. The virus is not spreading because of gatherings; it is spreading because we don’t respect other individuals,” Patil said. “Imagine a classroom where there is a monitor to constantly shush students and maintain discipline. The government of India has had to don the role of monitor as it has been left with no other choice,” she added. Jahagirdar felt the latest set of Covid rules — particularly the one necessitating weekend closure — were disproportionately harsh to city restaurants. “We have been adhering to the civic authorities’ guidelines religiously, but always find roadside eateries and tea kiosks violating them. Don’t these rules apply to them too?” he said. Bagdi wholeheartedly agreed with Jahagirdar. “Majority of the populace prefers to go out for dinner between 8-11pm, but we have been asked to shut shop by 9pm. What is the rationale for this? Is there a higher Covid prevalence post that time?” she said. The increased customer influx in those hours is the very chain that authorities want to break, countered film distributor-financier Manohar Wadhwani. “The aim is to prevent crowding at all public places. The pandemic has affected all businesses, but if the current guidelines can help stem infection spread, they are worth a shot,” he said. Amid the dangerous reality of coronavirus, added Patil, it is all about making “a choice between essential and non-essential services”, and the current restrictions are a message to that effect. One ‘essential’ service that has been hampered, nevertheless, is school education. Joseph said she was shocked with the shutting down of schools, barely a month after reopening. “Students were excited to come to school again and we were settling into the rhythm of daily Covid precautions, when the news came. With students having lost a whole year, and likely losing the coming one too, we are worried about their studies,” she said. Joseph added that since online studies could not happen smoothly, online examinations for board-appearing (Std X and XII) students were “not possible” either. “Exams will have to be held offline. Each school can act as a centre for its own students and take responsibility of their safety,” she said. While many citizens are looking at vaccination as a means to that safety, panellists suggested imbuing caution in the optimism. Using tuberculosis (TB) and its vaccine as an analogy, former Indian Medical Association (IMA) secretary Dr Manjusha Giri said, “Coronavirus is not going away in a hurry. Just like TB, Covid-19 vaccines can only decrease the severity of its impact on the body, they cannot prevent its spread.” Giri added, “In addition to the threat of new, mutating Covid strains, we will have to continue taking precautions in the long run to ward off threats of future case spikes.” Sitabuldi shop owner Anand Chandwani averred, “We will have to live with this virus. Some people’s callous attitude could put everybody’s life in danger.” Chandwani, however, felt that a lockdown was not a solution anymore. “We have already suffered enough. Economic activity cannot be put at a standstill at this point.” The sentiment found resonance with Patil, who said, “Asking people to lock themselves up at their homes cannot be a solution. The sustained dampening of human spirit cannot be taken so lightly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unmasking-the-covid-surge/articleshow/81319269.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Senior BJP neta receives vulgar, threat messages||Mumbai: A senior BJP leader lodged a complaint on Tuesday against a person for allegedly threatening her with dire consequences and sending vulgar and obscene messages to her through social media for the last few days. Based on the complaint, the cyber police at Bandra-Kurla Complex registered an FIR against the person whose identity has been kept anonymous as no arrest had been made until Tuesday evening. A probe has been initiated, said a police officer. The 46-year-old woman said in her complaint, “I have received threat calls over the last few days, and even got a video, threatening to kill me . Also, my photos were morphed and uploaded on social media with vulgar messages.” The cyber police said the woman has provided details of the person from whom she had been receiving the messages. A case of stalking and insult to a woman’s modesty has been registered under the Indian Penal Code besides sections of the IT Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/senior-bjp-neta-receives-vulgar-threat-messages/articleshow/81300527.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Kangana moves SC, seeks transfer of cases to Shimla||New Delhi: Alleging threat to their life from Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of four criminal cases pending against them in various Mumbai courts to Shimla in Himachal Pradesh. The sisters submitted that “frivolous” cases were lodged to harass them and malign their reputation and pointed out an incident when Kangana was publicly abused by Shiv Sena members. She also sought transfer of the defamation case lodged against her by famed lyricist Javed Akthar. “Shiv Sena will leave no stone unturned to eliminate the petitioners herein, because of petitioner no. 1’s (Kangana) continuous outspokenness against the wrongs done by the Sena in collusion with big names of Bollywood,” the petition said, while giving reasons for the apex court to consider their plea to transfer the trial out of Maharashtra. “All the FIRs and complaints in question are frivolous and have been filed with a malicious intent to harass the petitioners and malign their public image. While the petitioners have utmost respect for the courts of the country and are ready to face trial as per law, they apprehend that if the trials are conducted in Mumbai, there will be a material threat to life and property of the petitioners,” it said. Kangana said that she had been granted Y-plus CRPF category security by the centre in view of the threat perception and that it may not be possible for them to face trial in Maharashtra as her life would be in danger. “It is pertinent to mention that the Maharashtra government led by Shiv Sena has been harassing the petitioners. It would not be out of context to mention that the petitioner was called ‘haramkhor ladki’ by Sanjay Raut, who is a senior Shiv Sena leader and a member of Parliament. Further, the Shiv Sena-led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had illegally demolished the Pali Hill bungalow of the petitioner,” the petition stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kangana-moves-sc-seeks-transfer-of-cases-to-shimla/articleshow/81301685.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Work near Banganga Tank can resume: HC||Mumbai: Bombay high court has allowed piling and construction near Banganga Tank at Walkeshwar, Malabar Hill, to resume after a report of Archaeology and Museums director said its water quality was not affected. “Perusal of the report prima facie reveals allegations in a writ petition are incorrect,’’ a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni said on Monday. A petition by Gaud Saraswat Brahmin Temple Trust said due to extensive piling and construction, the protected monument and grade I heritage structure was severely affected. The judges on February 22 directed the director to depute an officer to survey and ascertain if work was affecting its water quality. Trust’s advocate, Devendra Rajapurkar, said inspection was done on February 23, when piling and construction were not on. Senior advocate Milind Sathe, for joint developers (NHP Realty LLP and Helecite Residency Pvt Ltd) said on the director’s instruction they had to stop work after the order was passed to inspect the tank. Sathe submitted that only 15 days’ work was left and they should be allowed to continue with piling and construction. “We grant liberty to respondents to resume piling and construction,’’ the judges said. But, noting that since the “tank is a heritage structure and ought to be preserved”, they directed that the director depute the same officer or some other to inspect the tank when work is on, “to give a better picture on allegations by the petitioner that the tank faces real risk of damage when such activities are on, and its water gets severely affected.” They directed that the further inspection report be submitted at the next hearing on March 8, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/work-near-banganga-tank-can-resume-hc/articleshow/81299200.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Improved water storage in M’wada dams bodes well||Aurangabad: The collective live storage in the 11 major irrigation projects that cater to the Marathwada region is around 76% of capacity, which is more than twice the average water storage in these reservoirs recorded in the past five years. The 75 medium projects and 752 minor irrigation projects, meanwhile, currently hold 58% and 43% live storage, respectively — also considerably more than past storage records. Though better-than-usual water storage ahead of summer this year bodes well for the drought-prone region, the power dues towards public water supply in Marathwada, which run into crores of rupees, could be a cause for worry. As per the official data, 12,754 water supply schemes, including those in urban areas, collectively owe the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) Rs 550.6 crore as power dues. The state power utility had recently snapped the power supply to the water supply scheme of the Latur Municipal Corporation over pending dues. Other schemes may face similar action considering MSEDCL’s poor financial condition. Jaisingh Hire, the assistant engineer of the Command Area Development Authority (CADA), on Tuesday, said the good run of monsoon in 2020 had ensured adequate stock in the Marathwada reservoirs. The stocks would be able to meet the drinking water needs of the entire region as well as demands from the agricultural and industrial sectors. “All the eight districts in the region have sufficient water that can last even if the monsoon is delayed. While all major dams here supplied water to the rabi crops, the reservoirs will also release water for the hot-weather season crops between March and June 30. The industries will get water as per the reservation marked earlier,” he said. In terms of power dues pendency, the Latur district has the highest number of defaulters (3,253) who collectively owe Rs 178 crore. Next in line is Nanded district (2,824 defaulters; Rs 136 crore dues) followed by Osmanabad district (1,662 defaulters; Rs 72.3 crore dues), Aurangabad district (1,362 defaulters; Rs 50.4 crore dues), Beed district (1,261 defaulters, Rs 41.1 crore dues), Jalna district (1,075 defaulters, Rs 29.1 crore dues), Parbhani district (771 defaulters, Rs 25.3 crore dues), and Hingoli district (546 defaulters, Rs 18.1 crore dues). In its latest ultimatum, the MSEDCL has warned the public water supply schemes that the power supply could be snapped at any point in time. “Right from municipal corporations to gram panchayats, many local self-governing bodies in Marathwada have not paid their dues. While the state power utility ensured uninterrupted supply even during the pandemic, the weakened financial condition has now forced us to take stern measures. We appeal to the water schemes concerned to clear their dues and avoid any unpleasant action,” Sunil Jadhav, the deputy chief public relations officer for Aurangabad division of the MSEDCL, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/improved-water-storage-in-mwada-dams-bodes-well/articleshow/81300495.cms||Prasad Joshi
March 3, 2021||Agra||Hathras rerun? Dalit girl, 17, dragged through fields till her skin peeled, 'raped' & murdered; 12 held||Agra: The semi-naked body of a 17-year-old Dalit girl in a village in Aligarh with signs of sexual assault and her skin peeled away from being dragged through the fields, deep and numerous nail marks on her breasts, has brought back horrific memories of the young Hathras girl whose violation last year made national headlines.Aligarh police, which had formed five teams to crack the case, detained at least 12 suspects for questioning on Tuesday. The attack bore striking similarities with the gang-rape and murder of another young woman, 19, about 35km away in Hathras five months ago. Both of them Dalit, they were waylaid while they had gone to collect fodder for animals; both were dragged some distance into the fields and strangulated.Aligarh’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muniraj G told TOI, “The post-mortem report has revealed the cause of death to be strangulation and smothering. External injury marks were found on the victim’s body. Her skin had peeled away. There were nail marks on her body. But a preliminary examination by a team of doctors who conducted the post-mortem did not find any internal injury. A forensic report will clear the picture.” Police have preserved vaginal and rectal swabs of the girl for forensic analysis -- the report is awaited -- and registered an FIR under IPC sections 376 (rape), 302 (murder) and also under the Pocso Act against an unidentified person.The girl’s body was found from a field in Aligarh’s Akrabad area on Sunday night. Raised by her grandmother, she is survived by her parents and three siblings—a sister and two brothers. Her maternal uncle told TOI, “My mother is aged and ailing. Years ago, when she had refused to move out of the village, my sister sent one of her daughters to stay with her. I wish she hadn't.”The ailing grandma was inconsolable. “She used to address me as 'mummy' as I had raised her since she was a child. She had been staying with me for 10 years,” the woman said. The woman used to accompany her granddaughter to the fields, but on that fateful day she fell ill and the girl had gone out alone.The complaint filed on Sunday says that the girl left at around 11am to collect fodder for the goats at home. “When she did not return by sunset, her family started looking for her. Later, a local spotted her body in a wheat field. Her clothes were scattered all around and it appeared that she had been sexually assaulted," the complaint said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-rerun-dalit-girl-17-dragged-through-fields-till-her-skin-peeled-raped-murdered-12-held/articleshow/81297829.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Record 23k fined Rs 47L for not wearing masks on March 1||Mumbai: On March 1, most people (23,466) were penalised for not wearing face masks by BMC clean-up marshals and Mumbai Police. The penalty collected was nearly Rs 47 lakh. Of the total, police penalised 7,988 persons; while 495 people were travelling without a mask in local trains. Others were penalised by marshals at civic markets, public beaches and public gardens. Prior to Mumbai Police acting against those without masks and deploying marshals on local trains, BMC used to penalise around 14,000. On March 21, BMC collected Rs 2.8 lakh after penalising 14,100. On March 1, most were penalised in K west ward (1,060), which includes parts of Andheri and Juhu, followed by L ward (Kurla), where 1,035 were fined. In P North ward (parts of Malad), 758 were penalised. So far, BMC has penalised nearly 17.8 lakh Mumbaikars for not wearing masks, while nearly Rs 36 crore has been collected. With increasing Covid-19 cases, BMC decided to increase marshals from 2,400 to 4,800. “It is necessary to have a deterrent for those roaming without masks. Action should be aimed at around 25,000 citizens daily, against the average of 12,500 now,” BMC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/record-23k-fined-rs-47l-for-not-wearing-masks-on-march-1/articleshow/81299205.cms||Richa Pinto
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two bikers who stop to take call killed by speeding crane||MUMBAI: A crane rammed into a 36-year-old woman and her 35-year-old male friend, killing them both, when she was attending to a mobile call while riding a two-wheeler at Santacruz-Chembur Link Road in Kurla on Tuesday morning. This is the third fatal accident this year on the link road. Komal Yadav (36) and Kanchan Gupta (35) were residents of Govandi. Tilak Nagar police have arrested the crane driver, Suresh Rajbharla, under Indian Penal Code sections for rash and negligent driving, and causing death due to negligence, and under the Motor Vehicles Act. Police said the two were heading to work in Kurla. Komal was riding the bike, while Kanchan was pillion. Komal got a call, so they stopped on the narrow bridge, and she was talking on the phone when the speeding crane rammed into them, killing them on the spot, said senior inspector Sunil Kale. The driver said the bike stopped suddenly and he could not apply brakes in time. Meanwhile, a tempo rammed into two pedestrians in Borivli on Monday. The driver, Mehboob Shaik, was arrested. Rakesh Waghoskar died while Ganesh Bage is undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-bikers-who-stop-to-make-call-killed-by-crane/articleshow/81299211.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh budget 2021: Rs 15,622 cr shot in the arm for health||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government is committed to the delivery of quality health services along with development of human resources to meet future demands in the sector, said MP medical education minister, Vishwas Sarang, here on Monday. In the budget speech, MP’s finance minister cited provision of Rs 15,622 crore for health and related areas. A slew of measures have been announced for improvement in health services. It includes a proposal to set up two cancer institutes. A provision of Rs 40 crore has been made for the State Cancer Institute in Jabalpur along with Cancer Care Center in Gwalior. The medical education department has made provisions for improving diagnostic services in oncology via PPP mode. For early diagnosis of cancer, PPP-mode services will be launched in Bhopal, Indore and Rewa. The number of government medical colleges is set to increase to 23 in the next two years. Currently, 13 medical colleges in Madhya Pradesh are government-run and there are a total 2,035 seats for MBBS. At present, six new medical colleges are under construction, while work in this regard is yet to start in Damoh, Seoni and Chhattarpur. A provision has been made in this budget to spend a total Rs 300 crore on nine new medical colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rs-15622-cr-shot-in-the-arm-for-health/articleshow/81298965.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Agra||Times Impact: Help pours in for innocent man in Agra Central jail for 20 yrs, business owners extend job offers||Agra: Following TOI report, help poured in for 43-year-old Vishnu Tiwari who has been in jail for the last 20 years for a crime he never committed. Several business owners have expressed willingness to provide work to Vishnu, after he gets out of jail on the completion of paperwork. After spending three years in Lalitpur district jail, Vishnu had been moved to the Agra Central Jail in 2003. In prison, he was known as a mild-mannered person, a stickler for cleanliness and a gifted cook. “Besides cooking for inmates, he would also oversee cleanup inside the jail. His conduct was always good. Once he gets out, he plans to make a fresh start. His dream is to open a Dhabha in future” a jail official said. Philanthropist and president of Agra Footwear Manufacturer and Exporters’ Chamber (AFMEC) Puran Dawar said, “Vishnu’s story is deeply disturbing. We will help him in every possible manner. Funds will be arranged if he wants to open his own business. He will also be helped in training for the food business. Besides, a suitable job opportunity will be ensured if he wants to work before starting his own business.” The shoe exporter as part of his social work has been offering a one-time meal for Rs 10 at 12 locations in the city. He said, “Vishnu is welcome to work in our kitchen and serve the society. He will be paid a decent salary to lead a respectable life.” Ghaziabad-based businessman and founder of the city’s federation of apartment owners’ association, Alok Kumar, said, “I read Vishnu’s story in TOI and have decided to help him. I will arrange for his accommodation and job matching his cooking skills. The arrangement will be made for his suitable rehabilitation. Authorities must ensure that no other innocent person is suffering in jail.” Agra-based hotel owner, Sunil Dubey, said, “Vishnu’s story has perturbed my family and friends. I will meet him once he is out of jail. I will invite him to join my hotel’s restaurant. He will be provided formal training, we will nature him as a chef.” Several restaurants, café, factory and showroom owners also expressed a desire to provide job and monetary assistance to Vishnu. Meanwhile, human rights activist Naresh Paras filed a complaint with NHRC seeking compensation for Vishnu. He stated that the amount of compensation should be recovered from the state government and police officers who filed a flawed charge sheet against him. Vishnu Tiwari was 23 when a trial court sentenced him to life imprisonment. He had been convicted of rape, did not have the means to hire better lawyers and had lost the will to fight against what he asserted was a false charge. After 20 long years, he has finally been absolved of all charges by the Allahabad high court. Senior superintendent of Agra Central Jail VK Singh said, “Vishnu will be released very soon. We are waiting for the formal release order. It is unfortunate he had to be in jail for two decades for a crime he never committed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/help-pours-in-for-innocent-man-in-jail-for-20-yrs-biz-owners-extend-job-offers/articleshow/81297868.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 3, 2021||Kolhapur||Errant motorists in Kolhapur owe traffic dept `1.2 crore||Kolhapur: The traffic police is yet to get nearly Rs 1.25 crore from errant motorists who were fined for flouting various traffice rules in the Kolhapur city over the past year.Over 1.27 lakh traffic violations were reported and a fine of Rs 2.33 crore was imposed on motorists via e-challan and manual reciepts. The violations include signal jumping, rash driving, illegal parking, not wearing seat belts while driving. The fine imposed by manual reciepts is recovered on the spot while the fine imposed by e-challan is recovered digitally. Sneha Giri, traffic inspector, said, “Notices have been issued to the violators, asking them to pay the fine at the earliest. The fine amount increases if not paid withing the stipulated time. We have also sent text messages on the registered mobile numbers to recover the dues. The vehicle owners have been asked to get their address and mobile numbers updated with the transport office to avoid any inconvenience.”Most of the time, the owner of the vehicle remains unaware of the fine that has been imposed for the violation due to missing mobile number with the transport office. The traffic police are authorised to seize the vehicle if the owner does not pay the fine in time. A drive to confiscate vehicles was organised last year. “As per direction of the high court, the number of accidents occurring due to violation of traffic rules have to be brought down by 50%. We have also completed the task to seize abandoned vehicles that were causing traffic congestions in various parts of the city,” Giri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/errant-motorists-in-kolhapur-owe-traffic-dept-1-2-crore/articleshow/81300550.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Molester’ out on bail kills girl’s dad||AGRA: A 50-year-old farmer was allegedly shot dead on Monday by a youth who was booked three years ago for assaulting his daughter with an intent to outrage her modesty in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district. Police said that the woman’s father was allegedly shot by one Gaurav Sharma, 26, and his associates around 4 pm in Naujarpur village on Monday after a heated argument. Police said initially an altercation broke out between the women of the two families due to a previous dispute. In a fit of rage, Gaurav called some of his associates to the spot and he shot the farmer dead. Talking to the media persons, the girl said that they were being threatened by Gaurav to withdraw the case lodged against him in 2018. “He shot my father dead as we did not agree to his demand,” she claimed, adding that he has some political clout. Later in the day, the accused’s pictures with Aligarh’s BJP MP Satish Gautam were making rounds on Twitter. Recalling the incident, she said that Gaurav’s wife and aunt had visited a local temple in the village on Tuesday morning, where she was already present with her sister for offering prayers. “Gaurav had also come there and started passing comments on me and when I replied back, his wife and aunt misbehaved with me,” she said, adding that her father was also there and tried to intervene. She said after an argument the accused and his relatives left the place, threatening to teach them a lesson. Around 3:30 pm, Gaurav came in a car along with accomplices and asked her father to withdraw the case and to get the matter settled with his daughter. “Before my father could say anything, he opened fire at him. My father was killed in front of my eyes,” she said, adding that the family rushed him to hospital but the doctors declared him brought dead. An FIR has been registered against four persons — Gaurav Sharma, Lalit Sharma, Rahitash Sharma, Nikhil Sharma – and two others for murder and other charges on the basis of a complaint given by the victim’s family at Sasni Kotwali police station. Inspector General (Aligarh range) Piyush Modia said that one of the named persons Lalit Sharma has been arrested. Four teams have been formed to probe the case and nab the accused named in the FIR. Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal said that it was found during investigation that in July 2018, a molestation case was filed by the girl against Gaurav. “The accused was bailed out after spending a month in jail. Since then, there was acrimony between the two families,” he added. Following chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s directions for strict action against the suspects, the district police is contemplating to book the accused under stringent sections of the National Security Act (NSA). The farmer’s last rites were performed amid tight security on Tuesday. The girl, who joined others to carry her father’s body to the cremation ground, demanded action against the accused. The farmer is survived by his wife and two daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-out-on-bail-for-molesting-woman-shoots-her-father-dead/articleshow/81297886.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Leaders host biryani feasts to fend off hard luck in elections||MADURAI: Many villagers in Sivaganga are having a gala time enjoying ‘Kida virundhus’ (goat meat feasts) after some local MLAs decided to appease their village deities by sacrificing goats. Though the model code of conduct specifies that people should not be treated to feasts with a political motive, several instances of biryani feasts have been recorded in the district. Officials said such events are difficult to monitor. Several families have been making offerings to their village deities and gods as it is considered as the best way to ensure victory in difficult situations. With elections to the state assembly round the corner, these offerings are turning into biryani feasts for villagers Three days ago, Thirupathur MLA K R Periyakaruppan of the DMK, who has won three elections in a row in Sivaganga, participated in a feast where goats were sacrificed at Gana Karuppar, Malaiyan temple, in the foothills of Piranmalai in Singampunari in the district. A grand feast was organised in which hundreds of people, including DMK cadres, participated. There were no women or children in the feast, though it was claimed that it was being held in connection with a ceremony of a local DMK functionary. A DMK member said that the former minister was seeking a ticket to this constituency again, and that the offering was being made to ensure him the seat. S Nagarajan, who won the by-election to the Manamadurai constituency in 2019, also participated in a feast held at the Madapuram Bathirakaliamman temple. Though it was claimed that the MLA was organising it, there were no posters or banners to confirm it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/leaders-host-biryani-feasts-to-fend-off-hard-luck-in-elections/articleshow/81298991.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Use of slang prompts HC to send plea back||New Delhi: A petition containing slang language led the Delhi high court on Tuesday to express its displeasure.The high court said that the plea was liable to be dismissed because of sentences like “Tom, Dick and Harry” in a petition raising grievance relating to National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Such “slang language” is not permissible in the pleadings before a court of law, it added.The high court, which declined to entertain the petition, said it was refraining from imposing costs at this stage since the petitioner was appearing in person and gave him the benefit of doubt.Justice Prathiba M Singh said the petitioner appeared to have drafted the petition on his own and perusal of a paragraph showed that “there is slang language being used in the petition.”It further noted that the paragraph in the petition said that “The AA / NCLT cannot permit any person—Tom, Dick, and Harry—to represent and defend the respondent under section of IBC (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code), as the rules does not permit it.”The court underlined that in legal proceedings, “such language is not permissible in pleadings before the court. Accordingly, this petition is liable to be dismissed.”The petitioner, in his plea, had raised a grievance against NCLT and National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) alleging that wrong procedures are being adopted by the said tribunals. The high court said if the petitioner was aggrieved by any order of NCLT or NCLAT, he may draft a proper petition and only then file the same.“At this stage, the petitioner wishes to withdraw the present petition. The petition is dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to avail of his remedies in accordance with law. Since the petitioner is appearing in person, this court is refraining from imposing costs at this stage,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/use-of-slang-prompts-hc-to-send-plea-back/articleshow/81300583.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||MMRDA seeks Bombay HC nod for Metro car shed work||MUMBAI: Citing protection from the axe to 1,000 more trees at Aarey and saving the state exchequer almost Rs 2,300 crore, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is executing the Mumbai Metro Rail project, on Tuesday sought that the Bombay high court lift an interim stay granted last December on work at the Kanjurmarg plot for the Metro car shed. The state government, in its reply, also sought that the stay be vacated. It said that it has “always been the owner and in actual physical possession of the Kanjurmarg land since 1959” and sought dismissal of the Centre’s “misconceived” petition claiming title to the plot. The state said that keeping the “public importance” of the project in mind “work ought not to be stalled any further”. It expressed its willingness to “give all benefits and compensation” on acquisition to whoever may be successful in the dispute between Centre and state over the land title and between Mahesh Garodia and the Centre over the former’s claim to interest as lessee. If the state wins, it is willing to hand over the land for the car shed. A composite car shed for Metro Lines 3, 4 and 6 at Kanjurmarg will prevent spending of Rs 1,511 crore for land in Goregaon Pahadi for Line 6 and Rs 777 crore for land in Mogharpada for Line 4. The HC is hearing a petition filed by the central government’s salt department claiming that it owns the Kanjurmarg land and the state cannot give away 102 acres for the Metro car shed. The Centre challenged an October 2020 order of the state handing over the plot to the MMRDA, which, in turn, gave it to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to execute the car shed and casting yard work. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni sought replies and rejoinders from all parties by March 8, and posted the matters for further hearing on March 12. The HC said it will hear the matter finally. The state had, on January 6, appointed a special committee to reassess viability of the Kanjurmarg land for an integrated Metro car shed. At Aarey, “since there are dense clusters of old trees with Aarey depot plot and new trees have grown over the last few monsoons, it is not possible to plan...a full-fledged depot with an area less than 30 hectares without cutting additional 1,000 more trees,” said the MMRDA affidavit submitted by deputy collector Nitin Chavan. The Centre is a partner in the underground Colaba-Bandra-Seepz Metro Line 3 and should not take an adversarial stand as the project would get delayed, the development agency pointed out and filed a fresh interim application before the HC. The MMRDA said that by 2031, 90 lakh people will benefit from the six Metro lines, including Metro 3, and will have an estimated 55 lakh commuters daily. In August 2015, the Kanjurmarg plot was held by the state government-appointed technical panel as the “most appropriate for the Metro Line 3 car shed in larger public interest” as the second choice—Aarey—would require “an additional cost of Rs 750 crore”, said the MMRDA affidavit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mmrda-seeks-hc-nod-for-metro-car-shed-work/articleshow/81300599.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bhopal||Rs 262 crore to achieve Metro dream||BHOPAL: With Infrastructure development amounting to 20.35% of the MP Budget proposed for 2021-22, state urban development minister Bhupendra Singh expressed optimism that it would lead to all-round development of cities. A total Rs 13,188 crore has been allocated for the urban administration and housing development department for the financial year 2021-22. A provision of Rs 1,500 crore has been made under the housing-for-all scheme, Singh said. This budget will prove helpful in making Madhya Pradesh self-reliant, he added. Urban bodies are expected to get more funding for tapped drinking water supply. The budget for the same has been increased three-and-a-half times to Rs 5,962 crore. The Jal-Jeevan Mission will be implemented in urban areas too. The budget has made provisions for building 2441 km of new roads in Madhya Pradesh, including 65 new bridges. Ahead of the urban bodies’ election, finance minister Jagdish Dewda also announced that loans up Rs 10,000 given under the street vendor scheme, will be interest free. As part of state government’s contribution, Rs 900 crore would go towards the Smart Cities’ Mission and Rs 262 crore for the Metro rail project in Indore and Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rs-262cr-to-achieve-metro-dream/articleshow/81298980.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP hails budget, Congress terms it directionless||BHOPAL: The BJP and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan hailed the budget saying it will spur growth and help realise the dream of ‘Atmanirbhar MP’. On the other hand, opposition Congress termed the budget as directionless and a jugglery of figures. BJP state president Vishnu Dutt Sharma said that the budget would lay the foundation of a self-reliant Madhya Pradesh. The budget would focus on four important sectors which includes infrastructure, good governance, health and economy and self-employment. He further said that 600 MW floating solar plant at Omkareshwar, 4500 MW solar plant at Neemuch, Agar, Shajapur will give the state an edge in the field of renewable energy. Welcoming the budget proposals, union agriculture and rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that provisions made in the budget will be helpful in speedy development and public welfare of the state. Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Tuesday called the state budget contrary to expectations of the people. He said the budget presented by finance minister Jagdish Dewra is directionless, hopeless, a bundle of lies and illusion of data. The senior Congress leader said it is surprising that even after being in power for 15 years in the state, the government is still talking about Jal Jeevan Mission Scheme, reaching tap water to every house. He said the budget has allocated insufficient funds for the Indore-Bhopal metro rail projects. Former finance minister of the Kamal Nath government, Tarun Bhanot said the revenue sources are falling short and it will not be possible to meet the expenditure as estimated in the state budget. Finance minister presented a budget with an estimated revenue receipt of Rs 1,64,677 crore including the state’s own tax of Rs 64,914 crore, another Rs 52,247 as state’s share of the Central taxes, non-tax revenue of Rs 11,742 and grant -in-aid of Rs 35,774. The estimated net expenditure is estimated at Rs 2,17,123 crore and total appropriation amounting to Rs 2,41,375 crore. Congress claimed there is a huge gap between the revenue earnings of the government and the expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-hails-budget-cong-terms-it-directionless/articleshow/81298994.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||High-level graft during Covid-19, claims Fadnavis||Mumbai: Attacking the state government over its handling of the pandemic, leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis has alleged that the state witnessed “high-level corruption” in Covid-19 management. He questioned the restrictions on mandirs, the Shiv Jayanti programme and the Warkari procession when pubs, hotels and political gatherings were allowed in the state. “There was major corruption in the opening of jumbo Covid centres, procuring body bags for dead bodies and also in buying PPE kits. The body bags cost Rs 2,200 per bag but they were purchased for Rs 6,719,” he said. He said bed sheets and fans were purchased at an inflated rate. Fadnavis was speaking on the governor’s speech, which outlines state policies. He said that Maharashtra was among the worst performers in the country in Covid control. “Thirty nine thousand five hundred deaths could have been avoided in Maharashtra. We have 25% of the cases and 35% of the deaths due to Covid,” he said. He asked why the MSRDC was appointed as the documentation agency for Covid-19 in the state. He accused the government of double standards. “The government feels corona spread in mandirs, religious places and Shiv Jayanti programmes. Show us the numbers,” he said. “Why is it that pubs, hotels, political gatherings are allowed?” On governor B S Koshyari being denied a flight by the government, Fadnavis said matters had never come to this stage in Maharashtra. “There have been instances before where there were differences between the state government and the governor but an instance like this has never happened in Maharashtra,” he said. “It is the post that is important. According to protocol, the governor occupies the highest position in the state. If a plane has to be given to the chief minister or the governor, then it is the governor who will get the plane,” he said. On the resignation of forest minister Sanjay Rathod after the suicide of TikTok star Pooja Chavan, Fadnavis called for the suspension of the senior police inspector at the Wanwadi police station. “Why was there no probe in 20 days despite 12 audio clips available? Why was there no FIR lodged?” he said. Home minister Anil Deshmukh reiterated in the assembly that the police were probing tweets from the BJP IT cell and not icons like Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar on the farmer’s stir. In response, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said, “I will feel proud if I am asked to tweet in favour of the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/high-level-graft-during-covid-19-claims-fadnavis/articleshow/81300650.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 3, 2021||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Hathras rerun? Dalit girl, 17, dragged through fields till her skin peeled, 'raped' & murdered; 12 held||Agra: The semi-naked body of a 17-year-old Dalit girl in a village in Aligarh with signs of sexual assault and her skin peeled away from being dragged through the fields, deep and numerous nail marks on her breasts, has brought back horrific memories of the young Hathras girl whose violation last year made national headlines. Aligarh police, which had formed five teams to crack the case, detained at least 12 suspects for questioning on Tuesday. The attack bore striking similarities with the gang-rape and murder of another young woman, 19, about 35km away in Hathras five months ago. Both of them Dalit, they were waylaid while they had gone to collect fodder for animals; both were dragged some distance into the fields and strangulated. Aligarh’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muniraj G told TOI, “The post-mortem report has revealed the cause of death to be strangulation and smothering. External injury marks were found on the victim’s body. Her skin had peeled away. There were nail marks on her body. But a preliminary examination by a team of doctors who conducted the post-mortem did not find any internal injury. A forensic report will clear the picture.” Police have preserved vaginal and rectal swabs of the girl for forensic analysis -- the report is awaited -- and registered an FIR under IPC sections 376 (rape), 302 (murder) and also under the Pocso Act against an unidentified person. The girl’s body was found from a field in Aligarh’s Akrabad area on Sunday night. Raised by her grandmother, she is survived by her parents and three siblings—a sister and two brothers. Her maternal uncle told TOI, “My mother is aged and ailing. Years ago, when she had refused to move out of the village, my sister sent one of her daughters to stay with her. I wish she hadn't.” The ailing grandma was inconsolable. “She used to address me as 'mummy' as I had raised her since she was a child. She had been staying with me for 10 years,” the woman said. The woman used to accompany her granddaughter to the fields, but on that fateful day she fell ill and the girl had gone out alone. The complaint filed on Sunday says that the girl left at around 11am to collect fodder for the goats at home. “When she did not return by sunset, her family started looking for her. Later, a local spotted her body in a wheat field. Her clothes were scattered all around and it appeared that she had been sexually assaulted," the complaint said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-rerun-dalit-girl-17-dragged-through-fields-till-her-skin-peeled-raped-murdered-12-held/articleshow/81297922.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Why charge Rs 250, Chavan asks Centre||Mumbai: Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan on Tuesday questioned NDA government’s decision to charge for Covid-19 vaccines in the second phase from March 1. A government order said a person above 45, with comorbidities or 60 can get inoculated at designated centres for Rs250 a dose. “A huge provision has been made in the budget, so it is the responsibility of NDA government. It is wrong to charge for it. It appears the Modi government is digging into the common man’s pocket,’’ Chavan said. State government data shows there are 25 lakh persons with comorbidities and nearly 1.3 crore aged above 60. If Chavan’s demand is accepted, free vaccine will have to be administered to 1.5 crore people in the state. He said in the first phase the Centre procured 1.6 crore doses at Rs210 each. Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/why-charge-rs-250-chavan-asks-centre/articleshow/81299019.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||5 arrested for vandalising vehicles||New Delhi: Police arrested five men on Tuesday for allegedly vandalizing vehicles and creating nuisance in outer Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy. The ruckus was the result of a property dispute between two groups, police said.A video of the incident also went viral on social media on Tuesday. “Some more suspects have been identified and multiple teams have been formed to conduct raids and nab the remaining suspects,” a police officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5-arrested-for-vandalising-vehicles/articleshow/81300626.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: No clarity on whether students till Std IX will have final exams||MUMBAI: While the state government has said it will conduct offline board exams for classes X and XII, teachers are seeking clarity on whether students till class IX will have to appear for final exams. While RTE Act does not allow schools to hold back students until class VIII, a decision on final exams is critical for class IX. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad had said the government could consider promoting all students. “The government said it will conduct SSC and HSC exams but there is no clarity for other classes. Lakhs of students have not been able to avail synchronous digital education and they will also not be able to appear for exams online. Teachers are confused on how to plan final exams. We can promote students, but a process has to be followed across the state. Without instructions on how to complete this academic year, we can’t move to the next,” said Anil Bornare, executive member of BJP Teachers’ Cell. Most schools have conducted online tests throughout the year and were planning offline exams for the second term. Recently, Tamil Nadu government announced that all class IX-XI students would be promoted without exams. Teachers said they were worried about being overworked in summer. “Exams across boards are likely at April-end or start of May. We need to complete exams for other classes before board exams begin or it will impact the next academic year. We will be accessing board papers right through the vacation months and return for the next academic year in June. Teachers have not had a break in months since pandemic began in March last year and will not get another break in the upcoming year too,” said an aided school teacher from the western suburbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-clarity-on-whether-students-till-std-ix-have-final-exams/articleshow/81306775.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
March 3, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Seniors now get more vaccination booths||BHOPAL: Health department is setting up more vaccination booths for the elderly aged above 60 years and those in the age bracket of 45 to 59 years having co-morbidities, from Wednesday onwards. The vaccination of this category of patients started in the state on Monday and Wednesday will be the second day of the vaccination. A total of around 17605 beneficiaries of these categories were vaccinated at the 186 booths across the state on Monday. Overall more than 61 lakh people above 60 or having co-morbidities are to be vaccinated in the state. Sources from the health department said, the entire system of vaccination is decentralised. The number of booths, the modus of vaccination is being decided from the state headquarters. However, now the district officials have been provided with the autonomy to take decisions on their own, thus they could increase or decrease the number of vaccination booths and take measures to ensure that elderly are brought to the vaccination booths, added sources. The decision was taken in the view of the fact, that in this category of the vaccination, the beneficiaries are to be motivated and vaccination has to be facilitated too. As the requirements vary from area to area and district to district, even in districts there are varying factors that could affect the vaccination of elderly, said sources. The district officials have been instructed to prepare a monthly plan instead of daily plan under the guidance of district collectors and senior police officials and take help of ASHA, ANM, revenue workers and others as per their requirement to ensure proper vaccination, added sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/seniors-now-get-more-vaccination-booths/articleshow/81299016.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Teen hangs herself; family says she watched suicide videos||AURANGABAD: A 14-year-old girl — who, as per her own family, often used to watch suicide-related videos — ended her life on Monday night. The incident took place within Pundaliknagar police station’s limits and a case of accidental death has been registered. The deceased girl has been identified as Sanjeevni, alias Deepali Ghene, a resident of Lane 16 of Anandnagar in the Garkheda area of the city. She had used her mother’s saree to hang herself. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said, “We have recorded the statements of the girl’s family members and they have stated that she often watched suicide-related videos.” The officer said there was a suicide video that the girl had received in one of her WhatsApp groups. After the mother saw Sanjeevni going through that video, she took away her cellphone and deleted the video. The girl’s parents are self-employed. Police said that Sanjeevni’s father left for work at 4 pm and mother at 6 pm on Monday. When they returned around 9 pm, they found her hanging. She was immediately taken to the hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Police said though her family members’ statements portray it to be a case of suicide, a probe will be carried out to find out the trigger for the extreme step. Citing the preliminary autopsy report, police said she died of suicide. Her family has told the police that she never expressed or complained of any harassment or stress. The neighbours have claimed that relations seemed normal amongst the family members. The Class VIII student is survived by parents and two brothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/teen-hangs-herself-family-says-she-watched-suicide-videos/articleshow/81300606.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Beware! Loan apps gain full control of your contact list’||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad Police Commissioner, V C Sajjanar, answers queries from TOI readers on why it isn’t advisable to borrow from instant loan apps, what precautions need to be taken while accepting job offers online and how to report financial frauds. Q. I joined Goodlife Sports and Infra projects, in September 2020 in response to an advert on job portals. While the company, over the months, hired more employees they have laid off most of them now – without paying a single rupee. Now, we realise it is a fraud business. Can you take action against them? Also, how does one know whether a company, advertising for jobs online, is genuine or not? -- Rajender K A. If you have lost money and feel that it was a fraud, please approach the nearest police station and file a complaint. Check the company website and registration details on open-source websites/tools. Also check the company reviews. Also, to check the credentials of a company, I suggest one verifies in person, on receipt of any offer letter through e-mail. If the company charges in advance for providing a job, then it is a fake company and job. Q. I loaned 10,000 from loangram, a loan app, and even returned the money. Yet, they did not update it on their systems and called my contacts and abused them. Eventually, I had to borrow the amount from other apps to pay loangram. Even then, they haven’t updated it and are still harassing me. How does one get out from this vicious cycle? Please advise. -- Mukesh Kumar Rai A. Borrowers are advised to raise a complaint with Cyber Crime Police station for any kind of harassment by loan apps and advised not to take any decision in haste. Both Indian nationals and some Chinese nationals with local support have developed these instant loan applications. A comparison of both depicts that loan apps developed by Indians are collecting two mobile numbers as reference, whereas apps developed by Chinese take full access of the contacts on installing the application. Subsequently, the heads of these Chinese applications are setting up call centers in local regions, hiring locals as tele-callers to call their customers and their contacts, harassing them for payments. Genuine loan providers never offer money without verifying documents. In your case, please approach the local police station with all information on loan, repayment and harassment meted out to you and your family members and file a case. Read AlsoHow instant loan apps became a death trapTaking advantage of the lockdown that resulted in many becoming jobless, rogue firms lent money at sky-high ratesQ. Is there a check-list one should follow while applying for a loan on these apps? -- Suresh KumarA. The instant loan providers have a tie up with NBFC’s (Non –Banking Financial Company) to provide loans. This is because the rate of interest is very high and repayment period is less, as compared to other reputed banks. It is advised to avoid taking loans from these applications as they charge 30% to 35% rate of interest per annum and also harass borrowers by way of taking access to their contacts/photos/gallery and sending messages to people known to them. Do not depend on any unscrupulous app offering short-term, instant loans. Do not download any .apk file. Verify if these NBFC-backed loan apps are genuine by referring to the RBI website. In case of any suspicion, please inform the local police station/Cyber Crime police station and upload it on to NCRP. "Hereby I advise public not to believe anything which is INSTANT whether it is loanapps,gift,lotteries,enrollment schemes & any other schemes. Money does not come easy. There is no Substitute for hard work.Hardwork only pays". Q. Last week I received an email from a friend requesting financial help for a health crisis. On the face of it, it seemed genuine. But when I contacted his family, I was told that his mail ID was hacked and a lot of his friends received such mails. Are there any precautions we can take to avoid such instances? -- Krishnakumar Ranganathan A. In this case, you have done the right thing by calling relatives of your friend to find out the facts. This is what everyone must do. We have to be alert all the time, and not get carried away by emotions and fall prey to fraudsters. Hence, do not believe anything on the internet that is unbelievable. Most e-mail service providers have enabled second factor authentication, where users can secure their mail accounts by enabling it. In some instances, fraudsters also create fake mail ids which resemble the original mail ids and send mails to contacts (of that person) asking for financial favour. One should also make his/her social media profiles secure by making changes to their privacy settings. Almost all social media sites provide these settings. If any such profile is found, immediately block the account and report it. For example, an impersonated Facebook account can be reported as impostor. Public is also advised not to rush in to make payments but verify by calling the person, from whom the message was received. Q. There are a lot of frauds that one hears about around online payment gateways (like PayTM), these days. Yet, these have become the most common modes of transactions. How safe are these platforms? How much money should people keep in these wallets? -- Satya M A. Yes, most cyber fraudsters are using the services of online payment gateways to collect money through their fake websites (may be job related, business related and e-commerce related). In such cases, one must verify the websites and make sure they are genuine before initiating a transaction on the site. Role of payment gateways is only limited to route the payment between remitter and acquiring banks. Money in these wallets must be kept depending on the need. Hereby I advice Public to have a dedicated mobile number for using bank services and other services. Q. Received a WhatsApp text on my mobile along with an audio message saying I have won Rs 25 lakh in a KBC maha crorepati lottery. In the audio message, the person asked me to add the number (given in the text) and call to get details about how I can get my winning amount. I feel these people are fraudsters. How can a common man confirm that? Also, who should we report such kind of fraud to? -- Vijay Joshi A. Fraudsters are cashing in on the greediness of the general public. They send out these SMS’ -- about winning a lottery-- in bulk. If anyone contacts them believing the message, they ask them to pay a certain amount towards registration, GST, Service Fee, Processing Fee etc. to claim the prize money and cheat gullible people to the tune of lakhs of rupees. These messages are also forwarded in the name of e-commerce sites (Snapdeal, Amazon, Flipkart, Shopclues, Naaptol and Paytm Mall) and KBC etc,. It is advised not to respond to any such fake messages. You can file a complaint regarding the fraud online at National Cyber Crime Portal or else can lodge a complaint in person by visiting the Cyber Crime Police Station in your Jurisdiction. Q. I recently booked air tickets through an online website, travelook.in, by paying Rs 7,082. But soon after the payment was successful, I got a message from the portal saying: due to fare expiration, your booking has been cancelled. Since then, I have made multiple attempts at getting a refund but to no avail. Since I am sure there are many others like me who have been defrauded, please guide us on what we should do next to get back our money? -- Himanshu R NaikA. You can file a complaint regarding the fraud online at National Cyber Crime Portal or lodge a complaint in person by visiting the Cyber Crime Police Station in your jurisdiction. While lodging a complaint submit details of the website, payment and contact numbers for investigating the case. The website travelook.in is registered at GoDaddy.com on January 25, 2021 -- it has been created very recently. Users must verify the website details on any open-source tool and check the reviews before making any payment. It is advised to visit reputed websites rather than the sites offering huge discounts. Q. I wish to bring to your notice that a lot of online fraud is happening with tele-callers using the name of established companies, like Bajaj Finance and India Bulls. These people call promising to disburse loans, collect processing fee, security fee etc and then just disappear. It’s happened to me twice. How can one be more cautious? -- K Lakshmi Surya Kumari A. Fraudsters operating mostly from Delhi commit these frauds. Generally, the data of individuals browsing loan/insurance company sites get compromised. Fraudsters send bulk SMS/call the loan seekers and cash in on their needs. Fraudsters collect huge amounts through multiple transactions towards registration, GST, processing fee and advance EMI etc. Do not respond to messages offering loans at a low rate of interest. It is advised to take loans from reputed banks. Q. There are lots of online shopping pages on Instagram that sell branded clothes at half the price. But the order is confirmed only after the entire amount is paid. Once done, many of them block the buyer. It happened to me also and I have lost my hard-earned money. Have such frauds come to your notice? Is there something being done to regulate these marketplaces? -- Sai Mithilesh A. There are lots of classified websites in the online market. Most of the sites target increasing the number of visitors to their sites in order to increase their revenue through commercial advertisements. They don’t have a mechanism to verify if the posts are genuine. Majorly, payment is not routed through such sites. In such cases, the user/buyer must verify the credentials of the posts by reading the reviews. Netizens are suggested not to believe in advertisements offering any type of product for half the market price. Yes, we have received such complaints, where we served a notice to the websites and blocked such posts/advertisements. But it is perennial. Citizens must exhibit caution and common sense while dealing with anything which is too good to be believed online. Q. I had applied for a petrol pump dealership and recently an employee of Hindustan Petroleum Lubricant Company from Mumbai called to tell me that my application had been selected. He even sent me some dealership agreements and asked me to pay the license fee of Rs 75,000, which I did. Now, after some days, when I am calling him, he is refusing to recognize me. He says it’s a wrong number. I have lost all my savings; how can I retrieve it now? Also, while dealing with such companies of repute, how does one say which is fake and which is not? -- B Vijay Kumar A. These frauds are called investment frauds/franchise frauds. Fraudsters make fake websites that look like genuine websites of popular companies and post advertisements calling for franchises, or giving outlets at different places. In the guise of application fee, deposit fee, GST charges, processing fee, fraudsters collect huge amounts of money and cheat gullible people. I advise you to file a complaint at the nearest police station or Cyber Crime Police Station so that they can take necessary action. Public are hereby Advised to follow our Telangana Police, Cyberabad, Hyderabad & Rachakonda Police Advisories on Cyber Crimes which are released regularly. They are also requested to contact following Helplines in case of Cyber Crime Frauds. Helplines# Victims are advised to report frauds to the following numbers: Hyderabad Cyber Crime PS: 040 27852412. WhatsApp Number: 9490616555 Cyberabad Cyber Crime PS: 04027854031. WhatsApp Number: 9490617444 Rachakonda Cyber Crime PS: 04027854044. WhatsApp Number: 9490617111 Victims are also advised to report these frauds on the on National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal: cybercrime.gov.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beware-loan-apps-gain-full-control-of-your-contact-list/articleshow/81300652.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||HC: GR doesn’t imply direction for fee refund||Mumbai: Bombay HC on Monday ordered that a state GR, which had during the Covid-19 lockdown prohibited fee hikes for the academic year 2020-21, “does not and cannot be construed as a direction for refund of any fees collected for 2020-21”. The GR of May 8, 2020 against fee hike is “only prospective in nature” directed a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkari. It “cannot apply to schools which have already fixed fee for AY 2020-21 or fees were in terms of Amended Fees Act and/or were already acted upon before the GR,” said the HC, disposing of a batch of petitions mainly by unaided schools challenging the state’s decision. But it left the issue of validity of the GR, expressly open.Swati Deshpande||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-gr-doesnt-imply-direction-for-fee-refund/articleshow/81301720.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Cong protests against rising fuel, LPG prices||New Delhi: Protesting the soaring fuel prices in the city, Congress party functionaries, including Mahila Congress members, held a demonstration outside the BJP headquarters at Rouse Avenue on Tuesday. The party, in a statement, alleged that the Modi government at the Centre and the Kejriwal government in Delhi were not taking any steps to effect a tax cut, as a major part of petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices goes into excise duty, collected by the central government and VAT, imposed by the state government. Mahila Congress functionaries also carried cooking gas cylinders, protesting against the rise in cooking gas price (LPG). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cong-protests-against-rising-fuel-lpg-prices/articleshow/81300610.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||CNG dispensing units, EV charging points likely to come up at dhalaos in south Delhi||New Delhi: To promote green mobility and clean fuel, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to set up ‘green zones’ at selected abandoned dhalaos or vacant sites with the help of IGL. These zones will have CNG dispensing units, battery swapping machines and electric vehicle charging units, all at one place.The project was approved in a standing committee meeting on Monday.“Integrated CNG dispensing units are small in size unlike conventional CNG filling units and take similar time to fill a vehicle. The green zones will also have electric vehicle charging units for DC charger and any other fast or slow chargers approved as per BIS standards,” said an SDMC official.“The project will not just promote use of green fuel and vehicles but also help in bringing down the level of pollution. We are also looking into the option of using these sites for displaying advertisements on a revenue sharing basis,” the official added.The civic body had recently proposed 93 sites to IGL for a feasibility study. IGL has approved 40 locations for setting up the green zone.“We will provide a minimum 150 square metres of area to IGL where they can install two CNG stations, two electric vehicles charging stations and one battery swapping machine. We will be the first municipality to implement it,” said Prem Shankar Jha, deputy commissioner, remunerative and project cell, SDMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cng-dispensing-units-ev-charging-points-likely-to-come-up-at-dhalaos-in-south-delhi/articleshow/81300635.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Sub-inspector demands Rs 20k to help Pocso accused, held||Aurangabad: A 36-year-old police sub-inspector was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for allegedly demanding Rs 20,000 to provide a favourable statement to a court for an accused booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The officer, serving with the Pishor police station of the Aurangabad rural police, has been identified as Ranjit Kasle. Superintendent of police (ACB) Rahul Khade said, “A 25-year-old man was recently booked by the Pishor police under the Pocso Act. The suspect reached out to the court seeking anticipatory bail and got interim relief. The court asked the police to file its say before the court.” When Kasle demanded the sum for giving a favourable say, the youth lodged a complaint with the ACB. After verifying the complaint, the youth was sent to the officer with powdered currency notes. However, the complainant took out his cellphone to record the officer accepting the bribe. This caught Kasle’s attention and he immediately snatched his cellphone. Not taking any chances, Kalse frisked the youth and found an audio recorder device provided by the ACB. He refused to accept the powdered currency notes and tried to flee. However, he was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sub-inspector-demands-rs-20k-to-help-pocso-accused-held/articleshow/81300646.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 3, 2021||Surat||BJP tears into Cong bastions of South Gujarat||BJP, for the first time, opened its account in the ‘home turf’ of Congress leader and former union minister Tushar Chaudhary in Vyara Municipality and won two seats. BJP won 22 seats out of total 28 in Vyara Municipality. Chaudhary lives in ward four in Vyara town which is considered as his turf. But BJP’s Vikram Tarsadiya, who was in-charge of Vyara town, ensured that BJP breaks Congress bastion. It is also interesting that BJP fielded 26 fresh faces in Vyara town in this poll. Many BJP leaders revolted as they did not get tickets and contested as independents but lost.Meanwhile, in Dang BJP made electoral history. After winning assembly by-polls, BJP won Dang district panchayat and three taluka panchayats — Ahwa, Subir and Waghai — for the first time in its electoral history. Out of the total 18 seats in Dang district panchayat, BJP won on 17 seats while Congress could win on only one seat. In Ahwa taluka, BJP won 13 out of 16, in Waghai taluka panchayat BJP won 14 out of 16 and in Subir taluka panchayat, BJP won on 14 out of 16 seats. Until recently, Dang was considered as Congress bastion but now the saffron party has made inroads into this tribal dominated district.The ruling BJP was also successful in making inroads in tribal dominated Tapi district panchayat by winning it for the first time since its formation. Out of total 26 seats in Tapi district panchayat, BJP won on 17 seats while Congress won nine seats. Tapi district was considered a bastion for Congress but BJP snatched it. BJP also won Valod, Dolvan, Nizar, Kumarmunda and Uchhal taluka panchayats in Tapi district. Congress’ only consolation were Vyara and Songadh taluka panchayats.Box: Owaisi’s AIMIM opens account in Bharuch Surat: Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), which contested on eight seats in Bharuch Municipality, won one seat from ward number 10, while seven of its candidates lost. AIMIM’s Mohmad Fahim Nazir Ahmed Sheikh got 3,756 votes and won the civic poll. AIMIM also fielded one candidate in Bharuch district panchayat’s Palej seat but lost. AAP’s entry in panchayat polls Surat: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which won 27 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), made entry into district panchayat polls as well. According to details, AAP's two candidates won in Kamrej taluka panchayat elections. These two seats which AAP won, are considered Patidar dominated areas and it also played a major role in Hardik Patel's Patidar Anamat Andolan. These two areas are close to Surat city and have semi-urban populations, though it falls into Kamrej taluka panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-tears-into-cong-bastions-of-south-gujarat/articleshow/81297948.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Gang that duped 87 vehicle buyers of Rs 3cr busted, 2 held||Mumbai: With the arrest of two men, Chembur police claim have busted a gang that has cheated around 87 people in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai of nearly Rs 3 crore by luring them to buy bank-auction second-hand cars at throwaway prices on online marketplaces. While mastermind Mohammed Mehboob Qureshi (32) and Imran Ansari (25) were arrested last week, the police are looking for Mehboob’s brother Rashid and Kamlesh Yadav, who was the “middleman”. Mehboob’s father, Vasim, managed to get anticipatory bail on medical grounds. The gang has been operating the racket since 2018, but came under police scanner recently when Sion resident Sukhbinder Paglia lodged a complaint that he had been cheated of Rs 1 lakh. Paglia told the police that in May 2019, he came across an advertisement on an online marketplace about a 2012-make SUV seized by a bank for payment default. As the selling price was Rs 3 lakh, Paglia visited the sales office of the car dealership at Sion where he met Jadhav. Pagalia bargained, brought the amount down to Rs 2.7 lakh, and paid Rs 1 lakh as token money. Paglia said Vasim and Jadhav told him that they would inform the bank, take its no-objection certificate (NOC) within 15 days and hand over the car. But, when Paglia visited the office after a fortnight, they told him to come after 10 days as the NOC was not in yet. “Even after two months when the NOC did not come, Paglia told them to cancel the deal and refund his money. They asked him to come after 10 days, and later gave him a dud cheque...Paglia then lodged a police complaint. By then, Chembur police had received similar complaints against the gang,” said Shalini Sharma, senior inspector of Chembur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gang-that-duped-87-vehicle-buyers-of-rs-3cr-busted-2-held/articleshow/81300685.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha records highest vaccination on Wednesday||Nagpur: In 11 districts of Vidarbha, over 16,301 people took Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday which was the highest on a single day since the rollout of the vaccination programme on January 16. In all, 10,948 from the 60 and above age group and those 45 and above with specified comorbidities took the jab in the region on Wednesday. The number of vaccinated people will be much more than 16,301 on Thursday. The data released by the state’s public health department did not include vaccination of Amravati district, probably due to the delay in sending data by the district to the government. Despite the start of the inoculation for the age-appropriate group along with the first and second dose for healthcare workers (HCW) and first dose of frontline workers (FLW), the number did not increase in the region in the first two days. In all, 6,460, including 1,805 from the age-appropriate group turned out for the inoculation on Monday. The number increased to 9,181 on Tuesday of which 4,850 were senior citizens and comorbid. It means that the number of beneficiaries from age-appropriate group doubled on Wednesday compared to that of Tuesday. This is for the fifth time when the number of beneficiaries crossed 10,000 on a single day. 10,436 were vaccinated on February 18, 10,688 on February 20, 12,827 on February 22 and 10,122 on February 26. A good response is being witnessed from the age-appropriate group for vaccination across the region. There is no apprehension towards Covaxin among age-appropriate group. All districts are likely to increase the number of vaccination centres on Thursday as crowding was witnessed at many centres. This will increase the number of beneficiaries in the region on Thursday and further. The issue of the availability of the vaccine was also over a day ago. Eleven districts of the region received 2,21,800 doses on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-records-highest-vaccination-on-wednesday/articleshow/81318394.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 3, 2021||Bhopal||Fisheries, power, co-op get 100% hike in allocation, 0% for SC dept||Bhopal: Budget allocations of various departments in finance minister Jagdish Dewda’s maiden budget speech has left even many cabinet colleagues of the FM wondering. After farmers, the fishing community seems to be the government’s next favourite as the department budget has seen an increase of Rs 109% — from Rs 93 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 196 crore in 2021-22. Interestingly, the scheduled caste welfare department, which works for the benefit of a large section of the community in the state, has received an increase of only Rs 3 crore — mentioned as 0% in the budget document. In the year 2020-21, the budget allocation for the department was Rs 1,495 crore, which has now gone up to Rs 1,498 crore. There are two more departments whose budget allocations have been increased by over 100 per cent. From Rs 5,964 to Rs 12,184 crore, the power department has seen 104% growth while the cooperatives department has witnessed an increase of 103% — from Rs 703 crore to Rs 1,485 crore. The animal husbandry and dairy department, that used to be part of cow politics, seemed to have been forgotten by the government as there was only a hike of 16% -- from Rs 919 crore to Rs 1,066 crore. The agriculture department has also seen only 43% hike in its budget. From Rs 10,630 crore, it has gone up to Rs 15,191 crore. The women and child welfare department, which looks after the health and welfare of two most important sections of society, has seen just 2% growth, with its budget increasing from Rs 5,085 crore to Rs 5,179 crore. All education departments, school, higher and technical education and skill development departments have also seen a meagre growth of 12%,14% and 13% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fisheries-power-co-op-get-100-hike-in-allocation-0-for-sc-dept/articleshow/81299051.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Key member of gang behind break-ins at ATMs arrested||New Delhi: Delhi Police’s Special Cell has arrested a key member of a Mewat-based gang, which is estimated to have looted over Rs 1.3 crore in 12 cases of ATM break-ins in Delhi since December. The gang members used gas cutters to cut open the cash boxes and also uprooted the kiosks by using SUVs.The arrested man has been identified as Waqeel (33), a resident of Nuh in Haryana.“The suspect was arrested by a team comprising inspector Shiv Kumar, SI Rajesh and others from near a bus stop at Nelson Mandela Road-Vasant Vihar Road crossing,” a cop said. A semi-automatic pistol of .32 bore and four live cartridges were recovered from them.Waqeel and his associates used to spray black paint at CCTV cameras after entering ATM booths. They then cut opened the ATMs with the help of gas cutter and removed the cash cabins. After removing cash, they used to throw away parts of ATMs. At times, they would use their SUVs to uproot the ATM kiosk by tying ropes around them. Waqeel, police said, was working under the gang’s kingpin, Liyaqat, and Dhaula Kuan gang rape convict Shamshad who were arrested earlier. Shamshad was granted parole on April 20 last year as part of an exercise to decongest jails in view of compliance with the government’s Covid-19 rules. On the night of November 23 -24, 2010, five men had kidnapped a BPO employee near Sharma Automobiles in south Delhi’s Moti Bagh, took her in a pick-up van and raped her in the moving vehicle. The incident had taken place when she, along with a friend, was returning home from their office in Gurgaon and had been dropped by an office cab. The convicts then took her to Mangolpuri in outer Delhi, gang-raped her and left her at an isolated stretch.Apart from Shamshad, Usman alias Kale, Shahid alias Chhota Billi, Iqbal alias bada billi and Kamruddin were among those convicted in 2014 for the gruesome crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/key-member-of-gang-behind-break-ins-at-atms-arrested/articleshow/81300686.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||BJP's Shams in-charge of National Minority Front for WB||Dehradun: BJP appointed senior party leader Shadab Shams from Uttarakhand as in-charge of National Minority Front for West Bengal. Shams was appointed as deputy chairman of the 15-point programme implementation committee under the minorities’ welfare department by Uttarakhand government in February last year. Talking to TOI, Shams said that the BJP government is dedicated to the welfare of the minorities. “I will try to ensure the party’s victory by reaching maximum minorities in West Bengal. We will use beneficial schemes launched by the BJP government to reach people. We will attract votes on the basis of our work,” said Shams thanking BJP’s top brass for the appointment for the position in the poll-bound state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjps-shams-in-charge-of-national-minority-front-for-wb/articleshow/81299047.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Platform ticket rates hiked to Rs 50 till June||Mumbai: Central Railway has decided to temporarily hike rates of platform tickets to Rs 50 at terminuses as well as stations which have halts for long distance trains in MMR to ensure crowd control. CR used to charge Rs 10 at Mumbai-CSMT, LTT, Dadar, Thane, Kalyan, Panvel and Bhiwandi. “The decision to increase the rate is to reduce overcrowding at platforms due to the summer rush and also due to the pandemic situation. This rate will be applicable till June 15,” CR’s chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said. Manthan K Mehta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/platform-ticket-rates-hiked-to-rs-50-till-june/articleshow/81300698.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||Goa: Antanasio 'Babush' Monserrate panel files nomination papers for polls||Panaji: On the auspicious day of Angarika Sankashti, on Tuesday, 30 members of the BJP Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate panel and some candidates supported by former MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker filed their nomination paper before the returning officer at Panaji for the Corporation of the City of Panaji(CCP) elections. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar and Monserrate’s son, Rohit, were among the 30 who filed their papers. Speaking to reporters, Monserrate said that his panel is “ the only complete panel”. “We are not doing anything last minute, like trying to search for candidates or trying to push candidates to contest. We have got a vision and our people are here to implement the manifesto that is already before the people,” he said “We are all going for elections and we don’t want any seat to get elected unopposed. This is the opportunity to meet the people and it is for the people to decided. I have confidence that people will chose the right candidate and we have placed the right candidate (before them) as far as our panel is concerned.” Expressing confidence, Madkaikar said that at least 15 candidates from the opposition panel will lose their deposits in the CCP election. Former Panaji MLA, Kuncalienker accompanied former BJP Panaji general secretary advocate Vishnu Naik, who is contesting from the St Inez ward, for the filing of his nomination papers. “The CCP election is person-centric and has nothing to do with panel and party. There is no party symbol. It is the aspiration of the Panajikars to give the running of the corporation in good hands,” the former Panaji MLA said. Panaji, Kuncalienker said, needs good people in the council who will be able to resolve the city’s pay parking and casinos issues, among other issues. “I am a citizen of Panaji. It is my responsibility to give the corporation in good hand,” he said. Former BJP Taleigao candidate, Dattaprashad Naik attacked Monserrate over the issue of shifting of casinos from the Mandovi. Naik’s wife Sheetal who is state president of BJP’s Mahila Morcha has been denied nomination in the Babush BJP panel for CCP polls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/babush-panel-files-nomination-papers-for-polls/articleshow/81301725.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: A sticky issue that can be resolved by fixing sites||NEW DELHI: The act of feeding streets dogs is fraught with controversy. After a colony in Vasant Kunj could not come to a consensus among the feeder, residents’ welfare association and local residents on identifying a designated feeding spot for stray dogs and Delhi High Court had to ask the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to intervene, a video surfaced on social media on Monday of similar opposition at a condominium in Gurugram. Animal welfare experts say a 2009 Delhi High Court order permits feeding of strays, though a designated feeding location has to be identified first in agreement with police, the RWA and AWBI. Sonya Ghosh, who identifies feeding sites across the capital on behalf of AWBI, said that while in most cases there is no resistance to people giving food to canine, there have been cases, including in the Vasant Kunj instance, of residents rising in opposition. “The feeding sites, depending on the number of stray dogs in the area, are supposed to be in the corners or the back lanes,” explained Ghosh. “This is to ensure minimal inconvenience to people and to reduce contact with the dogs. Those who wish to feed the dogs can reach any designated point.” According to Ghosh, residential areas that already have designated feeding spots include West End Colony, Sadhana Enclave, Sukhdev Vihar, Vasant Kunj Sector A Pocket B&C, Sector B Pockets 5&6, Sector D Pockets 3&4, Freedom Fighters Colony Neb Sarai, Nizamuddin West, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Malviya Nagar, Dwarka (two areas), Roop Nagar, Palam Colony, Golf Links, Pusa Institute, Khirki Extension, Saket, Supreme Enclave and National Small Industries Corporation in Okhla. “All parties must agree about the feeding spot. Then a board can be installed there. If there are disagreements, then we can help,” said Ghosh, who asked anyone wishing to apply for a feeding spot to approach AWBI. The guidelines emphasise that stray dogs are territorial and so should not be herded to one point. The effort should instead be to identify different points in each territory. “Public causeways, public streets, pedestrian paths and footpaths, which are regularly used by the public and residents for commuting, are to be avoided while feeding community dogs,” the guidelines advise. Animal activist Gauri Maulekhi says feeding of stray dogs by local residents at a pre-identified location serves a dual purpose of both providing food to the dogs and taking steps to sterilise them. “There is growing intolerance among certain RWAs to not allow any kind of feeding of street animals, which can be done in a safe manner,” said Maulekhi. “However, animal sterilisation also needs to be given a bigger push at the national level and funds for his need to be allocated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-a-sticky-issue-that-can-be-resolved-by-fixing-sites/articleshow/81300667.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Of 3.5 lakh Covaxin shots, only 8,400 used in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government has received 3,56,340 doses of Covaxin, of which just 8,468 (2.3%) have been used so far. The unused vials are at the state’s vaccine storage unit here. The Made in India vaccine dispatched during the first phase of vaccination in January has been given to only six institutions in the state. The drug expires in May. As per data of the state health and family welfare department, the used Covid-19 vaccine count includes the first and second doses given to recipients. Covaxin is being administered at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, Ballari; Shivammoga Institute of Medical Sciences, Shivamogga; Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, Chamarajanagar; Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, Hassan; Chikkamagaluru district hospital and Davanagere district hospital. The Phase 3 trial of the drug developed by Bharat Biotech along with ICMR is under way and data is yet to be published. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi took Covaxin on Monday morning at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, several senior citizens here asked why Covaxin can’t be given to them in Bengaluru’s hospitals. “There’s no choice of vaccine as of now, even when senior citizens pay for it. We need to answer these questions patiently and explain to them the benefits of Covishield,” said a doctor heading a private hospital in Bengaluru. While the state has seen 21 serious adverse events following vaccination so far, all were post Covishield vaccination. No AEFIs have been reported in the state post-Covaxin administration. “The public ask valid questions. But for us, the mandate is to administer the vaccine supplied by the government. Earlier, there was hesitation with regard to Covaxin as it needed a form to be signed expressing willingness to be a part of thePhase 3 clinical trial,” sources said. Covaxin from Mid-March Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, Karnataka said Covaxin will be distributed to some districts by mid-March. “The Centre has not put any restrictions on which vaccine should be used where. We’re allocating them based on supplies. We’ll supply Covaxin to some districts by mid-March. But no institution will be given both vaccines as we want to avoid any possible confusion,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/of-3-5-lakh-covaxin-shots-only-8400-used-in-karnataka/articleshow/81302467.cms||Sunitha Rao R
March 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Former MLA rides bullock cart to stress on farm distress||Aurangabad: To put the spotlight on the issue of crop insurance, drought-related waivers and other farmer-related concerns, former Kannad MLA Harshvardhan Jadhav on Tuesday reached the revenue divisional commissioner’s office riding a bullock cart with memorandums signed by many farmers.Jadhav said the villages falling under the Kannad-Soygaon constituency have aanewari (a rough estimate of standing crops) of less than 50 paise, and they should accordingly be compensated by the state government. He demanded implementation of the eight-point programme announced through a GR on November 3, 2015.He also demanded the immediate release of crop loss compensation in accordance with NDRF/SDRF, as the kharif crops in the area have sustained over 33% losses. Jadhav accused the agriculture department officials of conniving with private insurance companies that provide cover to crops. As a result, lower losses were shown on record and this ultimately deprived the farmers of their rightful compensation, he said.He also cited some of the alleged goof-ups by the revenue department employees and pointed out that in some cases, two different reports were filed for the same circle.Jadhav said that the pandemic has caused serious financial losses to the farmers and they should neither be harassed nor bothered by the officials of the state electricity department for recovery of the outstanding electricity bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/former-mla-rides-bullock-cart-to-stress-on-farm-distress/articleshow/81300695.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Voters are being given bribes in Coimbatore, Tirupur: DMK||COIMBATORE: Four days after the 2021 assembly election was announced, allegations of voter bribery by the ruling party have started surfacing in Coimbatore and Tirupur. DMK men lodged a complaint with Coimbatore district collector K Rajamani on Tuesday that AIADMK functionaries have stocked up gifts meant to be distributed to voters in the city. Singanallur MLA N Karthik, who met the collector, said that they have thwarted a bid to distribute gifts at Peelamedu on Monday night, but the attempts to distribute was continuing, especially in the nights. DMK men alleged that gift hampers of dhotis, sarees bearing the images of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa and CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, were stocked at the house of an AIADMK man in Peelamedu, falling in Singanallur assembly segment. “On Monday night, the gifts were taken out in a car belonging to a local AIADMK man to be distributed. DMK ward secretary Madasamy spotted the car with the gift sporting EPS and Jayalalithaa images. Immediately we complained to the police and handed over the car to police. But police let the car go without any action. We have now complained to the election officials,’’ said advocate Krishnamurthy of DMK. After the incident, the AIADMK men have shifted the gifts from the house where it was stocked to another location, Krishnamurthy said. At Dharapuram in Tirupur, the election officials seized 1,700 sarees and 4,500 dhoties from a private college building on Monday night based on a complaint from DMK cadres. On the same college premises, an election flying squad seized 1,950 stainless steel plates stacked in a minitruck. Here again, the dhotis and sarees were wrapped in covers bearing the images of EPS, OPS, S P Velumani and Jayalalithaa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-voters-are-being-given-bribes-in-coimbatore-tirupur/articleshow/81299064.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan completes 10 lakh first doses of Covid vaccination||JAIPUR: Online glitches continued to give a tough time to the health department on second day of the 2nd phase of Covid-19 vaccination for those above 60 and above 45 with specified comorbid conditions, forcing the vaccination team to complete the process offline by feeding beneficiary details on Co-Win app later. The state completed administering 10 lakh first doses of vaccination after 1,41,233 beneficiaries got vaccinated in all categories on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 10,05,225. Despite glitches, the department managed to register a significant rise in beneficiaries. ‘Will set up 300 sites across Jaipur’As many as 1,23,522 beneficiaries above 60 years and 9,500 above 45 years got vaccinated on the second day. This was 55,250 beneficiaries of above 60 years and 3,768 above 45 years on the first day. Over the past two days, 1,78,772 citizens in the above 60 years and 13,268 in above 45 years categories have been vaccinated. The department has alerted the Centre about the frequent glitches in the online system. Officials said that they were in touch with the Centre and were making provisions to allow vaccination centres to file vaccination data till 5pm the next day. The Centre has acknowledged that there were some glitches in the Co-Win platform due to the higher number of registrations suddenly. The app issues resulted in queues of beneficiaries getting longer at vaccination centres in Jaipur. “We asked all vaccination centres not to keep beneficiaries waiting and collect data and feed them online later,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur-I. The department said that though they had plans to increase the number of vaccination centres in Jaipur, due to problems in the software, they had to postpone it. “We want to increase the centres but are unable to do so. In two to three days, we will scale up the drive and set up 300 sites across Jaipur,” said Dr Sharma. In Jaipur, vaccinations are being done at 82 sites. Clarifying the process of online registration, Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunisation), health department, said, “Beneficiaries can register online on Co-Win portal. Co-Win app is only for administrative use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-completes10l-first-dosesof-vaccination/articleshow/81304489.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Highest pre-poll deployment of central forces in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Around 650 companies of central forces were likely to arrive in Bengal before March 25, sources said on Tuesday. These will be in addition to the 125 companies that have already reached Bengal and another 169 scheduled to arrive this week. The total number of companies of central forces (944) that will be in Bengal ahead of the assembly polls, scheduled to begin on March 27, is much higher than that in 2016 assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This, sources said, would be the highest pre-election deployment of central forces in Bengal. ADG (law and order) Jag Mohan, along with senior officers of BSF and CRPF, held a meeting with Bengal chief electoral officer (CEO) Aariz Aftab on Tuesday on force deployment and logistics. A major section of the central force is likely to be deployed in the areas where the polling is slated for March 27 and April 1. The first and second phases of elections in Bengal will cover West and East Midnapore, Jhargram, Bankura and South 24 Parganas. Several of these zones fell in the Maoist hotbeds, which required additional force, sources said. Around 43 companies of central forces have been stationed in Maoist zones from earlier. These companies will not be used for poll-related duties. Sources said that out of the 169 companies expected to arrive this week, 70 will be from CRPF and 13 from BSF. Another 20 will be from ITBP, 25 from CISF and 41 of the companies will be from SSB. The next phase will begin only after polls in other states are completed. EC officials said 650 companies were expected to be deployed for the first phase of elections. On this day, polling will be held at 10,288 booths spread across 30 assembly constituencies. Sources said the arrangement would allow the EC the flexibility to deploy more than six paramilitary personnel per booth. “The entire force will not be used for booth management. Some will also be used for area domination and as flying squads,” an official said. The 294 companies, which will be in Bengal by this week, will reportedly be used mainly for maintaining law and order in the non-polling districts. According to EC sources, the highest deployment of central forces in Bengal till date had been during the 2019 LS polls, when 842 companies of central forces were stationed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/highest-pre-poll-deployment-of-central-forces-in-bengal/articleshow/81299077.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan completes 10 lakh first doses of Covid vaccination||JAIPUR: Online glitches continued to give a tough time to the health department on second day of the 2nd phase of Covid-19 vaccination for those above 60 and above 45 with specified comorbid conditions, forcing the vaccination team to complete the process offline by feeding beneficiary details on Co-Win app later. The state completed administering 10 lakh first doses of vaccination after 1,41,233 beneficiaries got vaccinated in all categories on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 10,05,225. Despite glitches, the department managed to register a significant rise in beneficiaries. ‘Will set up 300 sites across Jaipur’As many as 1,23,522 beneficiaries above 60 years and 9,500 above 45 years got vaccinated on the second day. This was 55,250 beneficiaries of above 60 years and 3,768 above 45 years on the first day. Over the past two days, 1,78,772 citizens in the above 60 years and 13,268 in above 45 years categories have been vaccinated. The department has alerted the Centre about the frequent glitches in the online system. Officials said that they were in touch with the Centre and were making provisions to allow vaccination centres to file vaccination data till 5pm the next day. The Centre has acknowledged that there were some glitches in the Co-Win platform due to the higher number of registrations suddenly. The app issues resulted in queues of beneficiaries getting longer at vaccination centres in Jaipur. “We asked all vaccination centres not to keep beneficiaries waiting and collect data and feed them online later,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur-I. The department said that though they had plans to increase the number of vaccination centres in Jaipur, due to problems in the software, they had to postpone it. “We want to increase the centres but are unable to do so. In two to three days, we will scale up the drive and set up 300 sites across Jaipur,” said Dr Sharma. In Jaipur, vaccinations are being done at 82 sites. Clarifying the process of online registration, Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunisation), health department, said, “Beneficiaries can register online on Co-Win portal. Co-Win app is only for administrative use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-completes10l-first-dosesof-vaccination/articleshow/81304488.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan completes 10 lakh first doses of Covid vaccination||JAIPUR: Online glitches continued to give a tough time to the health department on second day of the 2nd phase of Covid-19 vaccination for those above 60 and above 45 with specified comorbid conditions, forcing the vaccination team to complete the process offline by feeding beneficiary details on Co-Win app later. The state completed administering 10 lakh first doses of vaccination after 1,41,233 beneficiaries got vaccinated in all categories on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 10,05,225. Despite glitches, the department managed to register a significant rise in beneficiaries. ‘Will set up 300 sites across Jaipur’As many as 1,23,522 beneficiaries above 60 years and 9,500 above 45 years got vaccinated on the second day. This was 55,250 beneficiaries of above 60 years and 3,768 above 45 years on the first day. Over the past two days, 1,78,772 citizens in the above 60 years and 13,268 in above 45 years categories have been vaccinated. The department has alerted the Centre about the frequent glitches in the online system. Officials said that they were in touch with the Centre and were making provisions to allow vaccination centres to file vaccination data till 5pm the next day. The Centre has acknowledged that there were some glitches in the Co-Win platform due to the higher number of registrations suddenly. The app issues resulted in queues of beneficiaries getting longer at vaccination centres in Jaipur. “We asked all vaccination centres not to keep beneficiaries waiting and collect data and feed them online later,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur-I. The department said that though they had plans to increase the number of vaccination centres in Jaipur, due to problems in the software, they had to postpone it. “We want to increase the centres but are unable to do so. In two to three days, we will scale up the drive and set up 300 sites across Jaipur,” said Dr Sharma. In Jaipur, vaccinations are being done at 82 sites. Clarifying the process of online registration, Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunisation), health department, said, “Beneficiaries can register online on Co-Win portal. Co-Win app is only for administrative use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-completes10l-first-dosesof-vaccination/articleshow/81304490.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan completes 10 lakh first doses of Covid vaccination||JAIPUR: Online glitches continued to give a tough time to the health department on second day of the 2nd phase of Covid-19 vaccination for those above 60 and above 45 with specified comorbid conditions, forcing the vaccination team to complete the process offline by feeding beneficiary details on Co-Win app later. The state completed administering 10 lakh first doses of vaccination after 1,41,233 beneficiaries got vaccinated in all categories on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 10,05,225. Despite glitches, the department managed to register a significant rise in beneficiaries. ‘Will set up 300 sites across Jaipur’As many as 1,23,522 beneficiaries above 60 years and 9,500 above 45 years got vaccinated on the second day. This was 55,250 beneficiaries of above 60 years and 3,768 above 45 years on the first day. Over the past two days, 1,78,772 citizens in the above 60 years and 13,268 in above 45 years categories have been vaccinated. The department has alerted the Centre about the frequent glitches in the online system. Officials said that they were in touch with the Centre and were making provisions to allow vaccination centres to file vaccination data till 5pm the next day. The Centre has acknowledged that there were some glitches in the Co-Win platform due to the higher number of registrations suddenly. The app issues resulted in queues of beneficiaries getting longer at vaccination centres in Jaipur. “We asked all vaccination centres not to keep beneficiaries waiting and collect data and feed them online later,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur-I. The department said that though they had plans to increase the number of vaccination centres in Jaipur, due to problems in the software, they had to postpone it. “We want to increase the centres but are unable to do so. In two to three days, we will scale up the drive and set up 300 sites across Jaipur,” said Dr Sharma. In Jaipur, vaccinations are being done at 82 sites. Clarifying the process of online registration, Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunisation), health department, said, “Beneficiaries can register online on Co-Win portal. Co-Win app is only for administrative use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-completes10l-first-dosesof-vaccination/articleshow/81300705.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Vadodara||AIMIM bags seven in Godhra municipality||Vadodara: The victory of AIMIM on seven seats in the 44-member Godhra municipality may lead to celebrations as the party made an entry in the town and the district via these seats, but the result was not unexpected or surprising.The AIMIM had contested on eight seats in the town and winning seven out of them. The party may find it difficult to get into any equation that gives it a share of power in the municipality but may emerge as a force to reckon with in the town and the district.AIMIM had successfully cornered the votes of the minority community on seats where it contested as the contestants against it were largely independent. The party had also ensured that the electorate understood that these independents took sides as per their convenience and betrayed the electorate. The party also put across the points that the independents had done little for the western parts of the town where the minority community stayed.The BJP has won 18 seats in the 44-member municipality and needs five more corporators to establish a majority. With 18 independents winning the polls, it will eye support from some of these corporators. One of the independent is a BJP rebel Raju Darji. The Congress managed to win only one seat in the municipality.Opens account in Bharuch tooSurat: Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), which contested on eight seats in Bharuch Municipality, won one seat from ward number 10, while seven of its candidates lost. AIMIM’s Mohmad Fahim Nazir Ahmed Sheikh got 3,756 votes and won the civic poll. AIMIM also fielded one candidate in Bharuch district panchayat’s Palej seat but lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/aimim-bags-seven-in-godhra-municipality/articleshow/81297974.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka minister gets vaccinated at home, Centre asks for report||Bengaluru: State agriculture minister BC Patil on Tuesday triggered a controversy after getting a Covid-19 vaccine injection at home instead of a designated hospital on Tuesday. Patil, 64, and his wife got the jab at his Hirekerur residence in Haveri district. “This is not allowed in the protocol. We have asked for a report from the state,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in New Delhi. The minister and his wife Vanaja got vaccinated at his Hirekerur residence, 330km from Bengaluru, on Day 2 of the drive to cover people aged above 60 years and those 45-plus with co-morbidities. Patil, who tested positive for Covid-19 last August, tweeted about it: “Took the #COVID19 Vaccine with my wife, at my Hirekerur house from the Govt. doctors today. While ‘Made in India’ vaccines are being immensely appreciated by many countries, some vested interest groups are spreading false information about the vaccines.” Dr ZR Makandar, Hirekerur health officer, said that as per guidelines, vaccines have to be administered at designated vaccine centres in taluks and districts. “The minister asked us to vaccinate him at his residence, so we went there,” he said. The Union health ministry took note of it after the video and pictures went viral and he was trolled on social media for the ‘VVIP culture’. Several people raised questions about Patil’s decision. Health minister K Sudhakar confirmed that the protocol is to get a vaccine jab in hospital. He expressed dissatisfaction at Patil’s conduct. “Unless there is prior permission, no one can go home to vaccinate. It’s wrong,” Sudhakar said.The state government issued a show-cause notice to Haveri health officer Dr Jayanand. Netizens were furious because vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and many central ministers went to hospital for the jab. Opposition parties in Karnataka seized the opportunity to attack the Yediyurappa government. “In this government, anyone can do anything they please,” said former chief minister and JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy. Patil said he hadn’t committed any crime and wanted to avoid troubling the public. “Have I committed a theft or robbery? I have only taken the vaccine at home,” he said. He said it was good the incident became public as it would inspire others to take the shot. He said had he gone to the hospital, it would have caused trouble to people waiting there. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa also defended him, saying it’s a non-issue. “It does not matter where he was administered the vaccine. The more important thing is he took it,” he said. BJP invokes NehruDefending Patil, the Karnataka BJP accused the Congress of doublespeak and reminded them of former PM Jawaharlal Nehru’s VVIP culture, citing an anecdote on the website of Madhya Pradesh’s Raj Bhavan. During Nehru’s visit to Bhopal, Raj Bhavan staff realised that they didn’t have Nehru’s favourite cigarette brand 555. The staff sent a plane to Indore to airlift a packet. The BJP state unit tweeted: “Was Nehru a King and democracy rules do not apply to him? There is a lot of difference between smoking cigarettes and getting oneself vaccinated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/minister-jabbed-at-home-centreasks-for-report/articleshow/81302471.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bengaluru||6,300 seniors vaccinated in Karnataka on Day 2||BENGALURU: On Day 2 of the phase II of Covid-19 vaccination drive for elderly citizens and people above 45 years with comorbidities, as many as 6,313 persons received the first dose of vaccine across the state on Tuesday, report Sunitha Rao R & Kiran Parashar. Of them, 1,147 people were in the 45-60 age group with comorbidities, according to the health and family welfare department. In all, 10,046 people, including health and frontline workers, were vaccinated on Tuesday. Since the January 16 launch of the drive, 8.3 lakh have been vaccinated in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/6-3k-seniors-vaccinated-in-state-on-day-2/articleshow/81302474.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Japanese steals chair to expose 'corrupt' cop||BENGALURU: Foisted with a case that was quashed later by the Karnataka high court, a 31-year-old Japanese man stole a plastic chair from the office of the JC Nagar assistant commissioner of police (ACP) in RT Nagar past Saturday midnight, took selfies of his “crime” and took the “booty” to his BTM Layout home. The reason: He wanted to expose the cop as the authorities had asked him to leave the country by February 28, and he thought the best way to stay back in India was to get arrested. Hirotoshi Tanaka, a Japanese student, came to Bengaluru in 2019 to learn English. Later, he was confined after a ‘false’ case was filed against him. The high court quashed the FIR against him, but the FRRO (Foreigners’ Regional Registration Office) set February 28 as deadline for him to exit India. Tanaka says he wants to exit with dignity. The son of a retired Japanese cop is now demanding that the cops arrest him, but police are yet to file a complaint. I ’m not in a position to afford my stay in India. I need medicines, and it takes about Rs 30,000 every month to meet my expenses. It would be better for me to fight from prison so that I get food and medicines free,” says Tanaka. A spokesperson of Consulate-General of Japan said, “We are aware Tanaka is a Japanese national who is staying here. As the matter pertains to the individual himself, we would like to refrain from commenting.” A few days after landing in Bengaluru, Tanaka had an argument with a man and allegedly assaulted him. Though he was asked to give a written apology, police allegedly demanded bribe from him to ‘close’ the matter. A week later, he was told that an FIR was registered against him and police arrested him. After spending 10 days at Parappana Agrahara central prison, he was released on bail. Tanaka approached the high court, which quashed the case against him in November 2020 Had this episode not unfolded, Tanaka would have joinedhis parents in Tokyo in early March 2020. But the criminal case against him forced him to stay back. “I’ve borrowed money from friends and live in a hostel in BTM Layout,” he says. However, Tanaka’s intentions were not just to get clean chit from the court but to show he turned out to be the victim in the episode. In December 2020, he filed a complaint before Karnataka State Human Rights Commission against then RT Nagar police sub-inspector Hanumantharayappa (now retired) for demanding bribe. “I could have got back to my country after the high court quashed the case. But I want to fight the human rights case and show the true colours of this corrupt officer and show how the cops labelled me as a ‘criminal’,” he says. “I want the police department to bear my traveling expenses and punish the corrupt official,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/japanese-steals-cops-chair-for-clean-chit/articleshow/81302479.cms||Kiran Parashar
March 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Himayat Bagh visitors’ timings restricted to protect heritage site||Aurangabad: The heritage site of Himayat Bagh will be open for visitors only during restricted hours in the morning and evening from Tuesday. Authorities said that visitors will be allowed only between 6am and 8am and again, between 5.30pm and 7pm. Himayat Bagh is a rich biodiversity hotspot under the jurisdiction of Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University, Parbhani. Ravindra Nainwad, assistant horticulturist and one of the supervising authority of Himayat Bagh, on Tuesday said a portion of the Mughal-era garden had become a den for addicts. The fencing wall of the historic site has also been damaged by these trespassers. “We have a fruit research station at Himayat Bagh and also carry out different farming experiments at the sprawling site. The free flow of visitors was unwanted as some errant visitors were proving to be a menace to our facilities as well as to the flora and fauna,” he said.Begampura police station, under whose jurisdiction Himayat Bagh falls, deployed personnel to enforce the new entry rules. In-charge of Begampura police station Sachin Sanap said they had begun patrolling at the heritage site. “The authorities concerned are expected to put up proper notice boards, displaying the visiting hours at Himayag Bagh. At our end, we will carry out frequent crackdown,” he said. Historian Shaikh Ramzan said Himayat Bagh has several old trees in its dense green spread. “Strict vigil is a must to protect the site. Official neglect has already taken a very heavy toll . It has lost its fencing and other structures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/himayat-bagh-visitors-timings-restricted-to-protect-heritage-site/articleshow/81300727.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: DMK offers 24 seats to Congress||CHENNAI: At the end of the second round of negotiations between the DMK and the Congress on Tuesday, the DMK increased the offer of seats to 24. The Congress leadership, especially Rahul Gandhi, had conveyed it to the state Congress leaders that anything less than 41 seats, what the party got in 2016 polls, was unacceptable to them. The DMK, which had initially offered 15 seats, scaled it up to 18 and increased it further to 22, of which 16 were in strongholds of the Congress. On Tuesday, it increased the number of seats to 24 and is hoping that it could close the deal at 25 seats. Emerging from the talk with the DMK leaders, TNCC president K S Alagiri said the talks were “smooth” and the number of seats would be finalised soon. Responding to a query, Alagiri said identification of the constituencies was not yet done. Another Congress leader said the details of the discussion with the DMK had been communicated to the Congress national leadership and they were awaiting a response. “They have conveyed their expectations and we have given a number. They will discuss with their leaders and come back. It will be finalised within two days,” DMK organising secretary and a member of the seat-sharing committee, R S Bharathi told TOI. However, the DMK’s talks with the two Left parties remained inconclusive. Leaders of both CPI and CPM, who have chosen to put up a collective bargain, said they were disappointed with the number of seats offered by the DMK. “We are looking at minimum 10 seats each for the CPI and CPM, but the DMK offer was nowhere near that,” said a CPM leader. CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan, however, said talks with the DMK would continue. DMK sources said they would at best offer 20 seats to the two Communist parties, VCK and MDMK. None of these parties are, however, happy with the offer. The MDMK and VCK, which were expected to turn up at Anna Arivalayam for the second round of talks on Tuesday, chose to stay away.  MDMK leader Vaiko, however, said talks were still going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-offers-24-seats-to-congress/articleshow/81299079.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Case count jumps by 1,000 in Vidarbha as testing shoots up||NAGPUR: Vidarbha’s single-day caseload jumped by nearly 1,000 following a substantial increase in daily testing across the 11 districts on Tuesday. A day after cases came down to 2,495, the day’s tally increased to 3,435. Covid fatalities, too, were on the higher side at 33, with Amravati reporting the most number of deaths (12). A record 28,133 tests were performed on Tuesday, as compared to 16,218 a day before. The rise in testing has ensured positive asymptomatic cases don’t go unreported and it will also help protect the vulnerable groups, officials said. With the prevalence of Covid infection increasing in urban and rural areas of Akola and deaths due to lack of proper treatment being a distinct possibility, Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar appealed to citizens to get tested for Covid-19 as soon as they experience any symptoms, and to get admitted to hospitals if they test positive. Bulk of the day’s fatalities were reported in Amravati division, where only Buldhana didn’t see any Covid death in the day. The 33 deaths were from Nagpur (10), Wardha (3), Gondia (1), Gadchiroli (2), Amravati (12), Yavatmal (2), Akola (2) and Washim (1). The region’s toll is 7,447 now. The 3,435 new cases were from Nagpur (995), Bhandara (46), Wardha (160), Gondia (13), Chandrapur (64), Gadchiroli (10), Akola (407), Amravati (636), Yavatmal (511), Buldhana (427) and Washim (166). This took the total cases to 3,25,889. Also, the 2,207 recoveries were from Nagpur (579), Bhandara (20), Wardha (163), Gondia (5), Chandrapur (22), Gadchiroli (7), Akola (312), Amravati (317), Yavatmal (197), Buldhana (354) and Washim (234), taking the total to 2,91,926. Now, 26,625 are under treatment. Wardha: Two men and a woman died due to coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the toll to 347 while 160 people tested positive, pushing the caseload up to 12,582. Meanwhile, 163 patients were discharged and recoveries reached to 11,179. Amravati: A dozen deaths on Tuesday took the district's toll to 533 while 636 new cases took the caseload to 36,452. 317 got discharged today, taking the recoveries to 29,848. This left 6,071 under treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded two deaths, which makes the death toll 470. Another 511 people (303 men and 208 women) tested positive on Tuesday. Currently, 1,803 are undergoing treatment in the district. Out of the 18,086 total cases, 15,816, including 194 on Tuesday, have recovered. Chandrapur: With the detection of 64 new cases and discharge of 22 patients on Tuesday, the district now has 364 active patients. The toll remained at 399 with no death during the day. Gadchiroli: Two Covid deaths were reported, which took the toll to 108. There were 10 new cases, the lowest among all Vidarbha districts. Seven recoveries were reported. The district now has 131 active cases, while total cases are 9,593. So far, 9,354 patients have recovered in the district. Washim: The district reported one death, 166 cases and 234 recoveries. Death toll is now 161 and the case tally is 9,236. Recoveries now amount to 7,685, while 1,389 patients are undergoing treatment. Buldhana: No Covid death was reported, but there were a whopping 427 new cases. According to official data, the district now has 19,213 cases, 16,418 recoveries (including 354 on Tuesday), 194 deaths and 2,601 active cases. Bhandara: The district didn’t report any Covid death. Day’s cases were 46, and recoveries 20. The district has 269 active cases. Caseload is up to 13,746, and 13,149 have recovered in total. The Covid toll is 328. Gondia: The district reported one Covid death. It saw 5 recoveries and 13 new cases. Number of patients under treatment are 141. The new positive patients took the tally to 14,456. So far 186 have succumbed to Covid, while 14,129 have recovered. Akola: The district reported 407 cases and two Covid deaths on Wednesday. Also, 312 recoveries were reported. The caseload climbed to 17,015. So far, 372 people have died here of Covid. The tally of recoveries touched 12,886. The active cases are 3,757.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/case-count-jumps-by-1k-as-testing-shoots-up/articleshow/81300729.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Work for party first before seeking posts, says J P Nadda||JAIPUR: Addressing the BJP state party working committee meeting in the city on Tuesday, party president J P Nadda advised workers and leaders to conduct a self-analysis of their contribution to the party before claiming any position within the organisation. This was Nadda’s first official visit to the state since he became the party’s national president. Speaking at Birla Auditorium, Nadda underlined the message that one has to be relevant in politics, while asking party members to introspect what they have done for the party. “Do you know how much you have contributed to the party? How much have you developed yourself? How useful are you and how much acceptable are you in the party," Nadda asked. Referring to his meetings with party leaders, Nadda said that some of them had said that they had worked 20-30 years for the party and he has done nothing for them. “I asked them what they had done in the last month,” he said. Though he didn’t point fingers at anyone, his remarks were seen as related to the power struggle within the party in the state. This year, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje and state BJP president Satish Poonia had met him twice in Delhi over differences between the two. Commenting on the leadership, he said that you become a leader when you take everyone together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/work-for-party-first-beforeseeking-posts-says-nadda/articleshow/81300738.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||21-year-old arrested for Rs 1 lakh ‘phishing’ attack in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly duping a lawyer of Rs 1 lakh through debit card phishing. The accused has been identified as Tusar Tyagi, a resident of Mandawali. According to police, an advocate, Sadab Khan, lodged a complaint at Malviya Nagar police station that he was cheated after receiving a text message on his mobile phone to redeem his credit cards’ points. After he clicked on the given web link and entered his card credentials, Rs 1 lakh was spent from his credit cards. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said that the accused had used a spoofed SMS service to send phishing messages to the advocate. “Thereafter, the beneficiary’s account and wallets were scanned, which revealed that the cheated amount had been credited in a PayTM account at first and then it was used for purchasing gift vouchers of a multi-brand electronic chain,” Thakur said. “We then contacted the electronics brand store in Kota, Rajasthan from where the gift vouchers were obtained,” DCP Thakur said. Based on inputs from the store manager, a police team conducted a raid on Sunday and arrested a man named Tusar Tyagi. “During interrogation, he confessed his involvement in the crime. He said during lockdown, he came into contact with one Vishal while playing PubG who introduced him to credit card phishing to earn quick money. He even offered Tusar 20% commission on sale of his purchased items through the fraud,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/21-year-old-arrested-for-rs-1-lakh-phishing-attack/articleshow/81300730.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi University sex-harassment case: Both sides unhappy with new panel||NEW DELHI: The Executive Council (EC) of Delhi University has set up a three-member committee to launch a fresh probe and “set things right” in a sexual harassment complaint filed by an ad hoc teacher in 2017 against the then chemistry department head Ramesh Chandra. A year after the complaint was filed, the university had refused to act on the report of the sexual harassment investigative body, the internal complaints committee (ICC). DU then formed a new committee that gave a clean chit to Chandra. Hitting back at DU, the complainant, in a letter to acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi on Thursday claimed that “justice has been long denied” to her. She said it was only through newspapers that she got to know that the EC had in a meeting on February 20 discussed her sexual harassment case against Chandra and aiding and abetting charge against six other professors of the chemistry department. “The incident took place on December 17, 2017 and the ICC submitted its report in May 2018. Since then, there have been several EC meetings, but I have always been kept in the dark about whatever was discussed or decided in my case. It gives me immense pain that committees after committees are formed and legal opinions taken, yet they (the accused) still walk free enjoying all the benefits of their position and authority. The primary accused is, in fact, unabashedly and quite publicly trumpeting about the strong possibility of him getting a clean chit,” her letter mentioned. Calling the new committee illegal, the complainant said, “It does not abide with the guidelines of the UGC (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment of Women Employees and Students in Higher Educational Institutions) Regulations, 2015.” Coming out in her support, members of the DU Academic Council, DU Teachers’ Association and the university court wrote to Joshi on February 24 stating that they had “strong reservations over the constitution of the SL Bhayana committee, ignoring the recommendations of the ICC.” They further alleged that suspended VC Yogesh Tyagi had completely ignored the recommendations of the ICC and formed a new committee, “which was not merely an encroachment upon the domains of the ICC, but legally untenable too”. However, DU dean of colleges Balaram Pani said the new committee was formed to bring clarity to the issue. “The previous administration did not accept the ICC report and formed a new committee that gave a clean chit to Chandra. We wanted to make things clear between the two contradictory reports and the EC took a decision on it. The university wants to bring an end to this issue as the complainant has been waiting for justice for over two years now,” he added. Responding to TOI’s queries, Chandra questioned the formation of the new committee. He said, “An EC sub-committee headed by the pro-VC, proctor and one EC member had concluded that no such case was made out. The Justice SN Dhingra Committee had said the same thing and even the panel led by Justice Bayana didn’t find anything. The seven professors are being harassed due to politics.” The ICC, in its May 2018 report had found Chandra and the fellow six professors guilty. But the Bhayana committee gave a clean chit to the Delhi University professor. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-sex-harassment-case-both-sides-unhappy-with-new-panel/articleshow/81300741.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Goa police book Delhi woman for sexual assault on French woman||A woman from Delhi who identifies herself as a queer rights activist has been booked for “sexual assault” and “wrongful confinement” of a French woman — who also identifies herself as queer — in Goa last week. The French woman has alleged that on February 23 she was “drugged”, “groped” and “so-called shamanic rituals” were performed on her by the accused before she went on to sexually assault her by hand. Based on the victim’s complaint to Pernem police station, the accused was booked under IPC sections 342 (wrongful confinement) and 354 (sexual assault) and arrested on February 25. “On February 23, I went through a tough, traumatic experience, I will probably never forget,” said the 26-year-old, who is a yoga instructor and student of political science in Paris. “I was in Goa since January on business when she (the accused) connected with me on Instagram. Being an activist myself and involved in advocating LGBTQ rights, I felt inspired by her work to support the community and agreed to have lunch together along with a friend of mine the next day,” she told TOI. The victim claimed that her attacker — known in the LGBT community as a queer poet activist and a mental health advocate — wanted to be picked up from her hotel in north Goa. “She insisted that I come into her room. She noticed I had back issues and gave me a pill claiming she was a shamanic healer and this would help me with the pain,” said the French woman. “I felt weak and dizzy and unable to defend myself,” said the victim, claiming that “for four hours” between 1.30pm to 6pm — under the ruse of performing a “shamanic healing ritual” — the accused went on to “molest” her and assault her private parts. The police took cognisance of her complaint and the accused was taken into police custody for a day before being released on bail. A medical examination was also conducted, the copy of which is with the police. “I understand that woman-to-woman sexual assault is very hard to recognise as rape but medical investigations should show that I suffered small lesions between my privates and my chest and back were covered with bruises,” the victim alleged. Though she has likened her assault to “rape”, the legal definition of rape is gender specific and the language of Section 375 of IPC — beginning with “A man is said to commit rape if…” — makes it clear that the perpetrator can only be a man and only women the victims. The law currently does not take into account non-consensual sexual encounters inflicted by a woman on another woman, by a man on another man, on a transgender by another transgender or on a man by a woman. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-based-lgbt-activist-held-in-goa-after-sexual-assault-complaint-by-french-woman/articleshow/81300736.cms||Mohua Das
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Airport fee for flying abroad slashed||NEW DELHI: Come April and flying abroad from Mumbai will get marginally cheaper. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) has ruled that the user development fee (UDF) for outbound international flyers will be Rs 171 from April 1 instead of the Rs 278 at present. The tariff order by the B S Bhullar-headed AERA for the third control period — in force till March 31, 2024, or till the next order comes — of the Mumbai airport has decided to continue with having no UDF for domestic departing passengers. The regulator rejected the Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) plea to levy an ad hoc UDF of Rs 200 and Rs 500 for every domestic and international outbound passenger, respectively, till March 31, 2023, to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. It had in October sought this ad hoc charge to “ensure economic and viable operations of airport”. The AERA order quotes a stakeholder’s request to determine tariff order keeping in mind “the financial health of all stakeholders — passengers, travellers etc — who come from different strata of the society as air travel is no more luxury but a necessity”. The airport operator had on January 5, 2021, written to AERA seeking “cash support” on the grounds of “substantial shortfall of cash to meet operating expense, capex requirement and debt service obligations… interest and loan payment”. It had said that due to a rating downgrade “MIAL may not be able to obtain loans and has sought debt restructuring”. It estimated a shortfall of Rs 4,508 crore, which it wanted to partially tide over by raising Rs 1,396 crore from ad hoc UDF. “MIAL has over-collected revenues [by] Rs 1,462.6 crore in first and second control periods which requires to be compensated to airport users through appropriate reduction in third control period tariff. If ad hoc UDF is allowed, it is unfair to airport users as having already over-paid in prior years… they would have to bear additional burden,” Bhullar’s order states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/airport-fee-for-flying-abroad-slashed/articleshow/81301759.cms||Saurabh Sinha
March 3, 2021||Surat||Naidu to lay foundation of Nirali Hospital in Navsari||Surat: Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu will lay the foundation of Nirali Memorial Medical Trust’s (NMMT), multi-specialty hospital in Navsari on March 5. The hospital that will come up on the eight-acre Trust’s AM Naik Healthcare Complex is part of L&T group chairman, philanthropist and Padma Vibhushan awardee A M Naik’s philanthropic journey to provide medical care to the community at large. Named in the memory of Nirali, granddaughter of Naik, who passed away due to cancer at the age of two, NMMT was set up by the Naik family to offer advanced medical care, especially to those who cannot afford access to quality treatment.The 500-bed hospital will incorporate a range of advanced multidisciplinary equipment and services including cardiology and cardiothoracic surgery, paediatrics, critical and trauma care. “My focus for philanthropy is on South Gujarat, my janmabhoomi and Mumbai, my karmabhoomi. Our mission is to provide the finest and affordable tertiary healthcare available to common people,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/naidu-to-lay-foundation-of-nirali-hospital-in-navsari/articleshow/81298026.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Local body polls: Congress buried under saffron landslide in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The last of the Congress bastions in Gujarat – district and taluka panchayats – were smashed as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bulldozed its way to a landslide victory in the rural local bodies — municipalities and panchayats — polls, whose counting was taken up on Tuesday. Practically out of power in all levels of governance in Gujarat — from the assembly to panchayats — the state unit of the Congress is left without leadership as well, with both state Congress president Amit Chavda and leader of opposition in the assembly Paresh Dhanani quitting after the electoral defeat. Their resignations were accepted by the party high command and new state leadership is expected to be announced by the month end. With the unparalleled electoral success on Tuesday, the BJP has established itself in power at all levels of governance – from the Gujarat assembly to the panchayat level, while the Congress is now faced with the herculean task of putting its house in order before next year’s assembly election. Sitting in opposition in the state assembly and big cities for several years, the Congress was left in power only in a majority of district panchayats and taluka panchayats, which it won in 2015 in the backdrop of the statewide Patidar reservation stir. With the resounding loss in the rural local bodies, the Congress has been reduced to its lowliest position in electoral politics of Gujarat. In the 2015 elections, the Congress had bagged 25 of the 31 district panchayats which went to polls. When district panchayat votes were counted on Tuesday, the Congress could not retain even a single district panchayat in the state. The Congress had pocketed 146 of the 231 taluka panchayats in 2015, but won only 33 this time. “The results do not reflect the kind of response we received from the people during campaigning, raising questions over the election process. Accepting responsibility for the defeat, I have handed over my resignation to the leadership,” said Amit Chavda, Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president. State BJP president C R Paatil credited party workers and government schemes for the spectacular win. “This result is a reflection of how the government and party have worked together for welfare of people. I assure all citizens that the BJP will fulfil all their expectations,” Paatil said. CM Vijay Rupani said the foundation for the BJP’s win in the 2022 assembly election has been laid with this victory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-buried-under-saffron-landslide/articleshow/81299110.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||‘PM has sought investment in maritime clusters’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has invited investment in maritime clusters in Goa and other states. Sawant said that investors can invest in the shipping sector, repair of ships and exports. The investment is not for coal handling, the CM said. Modi inaugurated the ‘Maritime India Summit 2021’ on Tuesday, where the scope of developing maritime clusters in coastal states like Goa, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, etc, was discussed. Sawant said that he will be talking about the investment scope in Goa at the seminar, while Mormugao Port Trust chairman, Captain of Ports and managing director of Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) will talk about the infrastructure available in Goa. Sawant, who attended the webinar on maritime cluster along with other chief ministers of coastal states, said that Modi has invited investment from global investors. Sawant thanked PM for mentioning Goa as being one of the key areas for development of marine clusters at the summit on Tuesday “There is scope in Goa for handling commodities and tourism,” Sawant said, adding that he will speak on the blueprint of new infrastructure which are needed to be raised for expanding the scope of maritime trade in Goa. Mormugao Port Trust is all set to ink 20 agreements with various industry partners and government bodies to the tune of Rs 3,500 crore during the three-day Maritime India Summit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pm-has-sought-investment-in-maritime-clusters/articleshow/81301757.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Cong corners BJP govt over inflation in U’khand assembly, stages walkout||Gairsain: The second day of the 10-day budget session witnessed heated arguments between the Congress and the BJP government in the state assembly over failure to check rising prices of essential commodities like LPG gas cylinder, petrol, diesel and vegetables. Congress MLAs claimed that the people of Uttarakhand have been severely affected by the hike in prices as the state government failed to provide respite on any front. Addressing the House, Congress state chief and Chakrata MLA Pritam Singh said while the international price of crude oil had gone down, the trend is reversing in the country. “When the UPA government was in power, a BJP leader wanted to gift bangle to the then PM (Manmohan Singh), where is that person now?” he said. Former assembly speaker Govind Singh Kunjwal said the recent steep hike of Rs 25 of LPG gas cylinder has dented the pockets of the common people. “How will they survive? The government has failed to provide any relief,” he added. In reply, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik said benefits were being given to ration cardholders and added that several other steps were undertaken by the government to rein in inflation. He said over 23 lakh families were benefiting from various schemes to provide food at subsidized rates. “Under various schemes, including the Antodaya Yojana, we are providing wheat, rice and pulses at highly subsidized rates,” he said, adding that under the Ujjwala scheme, a total of 4.04 lakh LPG gas connection were provided. “As for petrol prices, the rates in Uttarakhand are lower when compared to states like Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal,” said Kaushik. However, the Congress MLAs were unsatisfied by the response and staged a walkout from the House. “We are not convinced by the minister’s response. Therefore, we are staging a walkout,” leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh said. Meanwhile, Bhagwanpur MLA Mamta Rakesh questioned the claims made by the BJP government over open defecation-free (ODF) tag being accorded to Uttarakhand. “Belying the claims of the government, a high number of people are still defecating in the open,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-corners-bjp-govt-over-inflation-in-ukhand-assembly-stages-walkout/articleshow/81298020.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Flyers rate Kolkata airport best in Covid year hygiene||KOLKATA: Passengers that passed through the city airport have given a thumbs up to its hygiene measures, indicating that it inspired confidence among travellers. Based on passenger feedback, Kolkata airport has been adjudged the best airport in terms of hygiene measures in the Asia-Pacific region by Montreal-based Airports Council International (ACI). While Kolkata airport has won accolades from ACI before, what makes this award special is the approval for hygiene in a pandemic year that has wrecked the travel industry. The only dampener is flyers’ response to the level of stress, based on experience, where the airport has scored poorly. ACI, which brings out the Airport Service Quality (ASQ) survey every year, working on flyers’ feedback, added the “best hygiene measures” category in 2020, following the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. The Kolkata airport is joined by two other Indian airports, Pune and Chandigarh, to bag the honour among mid-size airports in the 15 to 25 million category. The ASQ survey is the internationally established global benchmarking programme measuring passengers’ satisfaction across 34 key performance indicators while they travel through an airport. The survey is conducted by ACI, a global non-profit organisation of airport operators. The Kolkata airport has scored 4.99 points out of 5 in the sub-category of “effectiveness of safety and hygiene measures in place” against the world average of 4.3. In the sub-category of “clarity of signage and instructions to inform about safety and hygiene measures”, the airport scored 4.97 against the world average of 4.27. In the sub-category, “ability of staff to apply safety and hygiene measures”, Kolkata airport has scored 4.96 against the world average of 4.28. In the sub-category of “level of stress based on experience”, the city airport scored 1.18 against the world average score of 1.85, indicating there is room for improvement in making the experience more enjoyable. But stress level of people passing through public places, like airports, was high due to safety concerns. “Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, five AAI airports — Kolkata, Chandigarh, Pune, Amritsar and Varanasi — have been declared the best in the world in ACI-ASQ Awards for 2020. They won six awards in two categories,” Airports Authority of India said in a statement. Amritsar and Varanasi feature among a lower category of airports. Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee attributed the honour to his team. Recounting how the airport managed to open for scheduled domestic flights barely eight days after Cyclone Amphan, he said resources had been mobilized to carry out urgent repairs despite the lockdown. “Our team worked round-the-clock. We had to ensure all systems were in place for contactless passenger processing, baggage sanitization etc. Kolkata airport did well in the past nine months to get travellers’ confidence back. My thanks to all stakeholders airlines, CISF, state, and specially to the housekeeping teams,” he said. This year, over 400 airports across 95 countries participated. From India, 28 took part, of which five won the award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyers-rate-kol-airport-best-in-cov-yr-hygiene/articleshow/81299099.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra state government gives Rs6.4cr for Belora airport work||AMRAVATI: The state government has released a fund of Rs6.45 crore to expedite work at Belora airport. Guardian minister Yashomati Thakur expressed the confidence that the airport development work will assume speed following the government releasing the fund to Maharashtra Airport Development Company Ltd. The government had earmarked Rs128 crore in 2020-21 for development of airports in its budget. Accordingly, Rs2.25 crore were earlier released for the airport here. However, more funds were required to complete various works. Thakur pursued the matter with the chief minister and his deputy. The work on the development of the airport was moving at snail's pace for want of funds. Thakur had requested Ajit Pawar to make adequate provision for the purpose in 2021-22 budget. Pawar responded positively and the GAD released the funds to MADA. Gaurav Upshyam, senior manager, MADA, said that the fund would be utilized to develop runway and security wall. He said that works completed thus far included construction of Badnera-Yavatmal state highway diversion, 1 lakh litre capacity GSR at the airport. He said that about 70% work on expansion of runway, taxi way, apron, isolation bay, peripheral road, GSE area and cleanliness machinery have been completed while work on 2.5km long security wall is yet to be completed. He said that it will now be completed as funds have been made available. He said that funds would also be spent on the pending work of administrative building and Phase-I and Phase-II works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-gives-rs6-4cr-for-belora-airport-work/articleshow/81300746.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||6 developers owe BEST Rs 160 crore||Urban development minister Eknath Shinde told the state assembly on Tuesday that six developers owed the BEST Rs 160 crore for development of bus depots in the city. He added that from the principle amount of Rs 533 crore, Rs 529 crore had been paid. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-developers-owe-best-rs-160-crore/articleshow/81300790.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Road dust makes up 2/3rds of particles in Mumbai’s air||MUMBAI: With the city adding more high-rises and highways in the last decade, road dust now makes up over 71% of the particulate matter in Mumbai’s air, as opposed to 28% in 2010, says a study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). The source-identification study for air pollution in Mumbai was repeated recently nearly a dozen years after it was first done in 2010 by NEERI. The findings were presented during a town hall with experts in the run-up to World Environment Day, June 5. TimesViewPolicy makers and urban planners must consider the impact the changing profile of the city would have on its environment. Along with combating the problem of dust, measures must be taken to enable transition towards use of electric vehicles and public transport, thereby reducing vehicle density.The data reveals that 45% of particulate matter is from unpaved road dust and 26.6% from paved road dust. The share of road dust from displacement due to vehicles or during transportation of debris has risen the most in 10 years. The data also shows that 3.1% of road dust comes from Mumbai Metro’s construction. Rakesh Kumar, director, NEERI said over the past decade, emissions from industries and households hasn’t changed much. “But more roads and buildings were built, road repairs and demolitions done, and roads got crowded with more vehicles which now burn more fuel in less space. The city’s profile changed. The sea breeze that diluted pollution doesn’t penetrate the city as much as it did earlier due to high rises, leading to higher pollution levels.” Construction activity also makes up for over 8% of the PM in the air. Another big contributor -- vehicular pollution – is at approximately 7%. MPCB officials said to combat vehicular pollution, a policy for electric vehicles was being drafted and Thane has been nominated the model city for implementation. Sudhir Srivatsava, chairman, MPCB said, “We are looking at providing incentives for 2- and 3-wheeler electric vehicles and related infrastructure.” He added mobile mist vans were planned for deployment along pavements and busy junctions to reduce effects of pollution. NEERI is also auditing 20 construction sites to plan better disposal of construction debris and waste. Among sources whose share in pollution has fallen over the decade were landfills and open burnings, which dipped from 13.5% in 2010 to 3.6% now, and bakeries, whose share went down from 5.8% to 3.5%. The townhall is being conducted by Climate Voices - a collective of 3 organisations, Purpose, Asar and Climate Trends along with the Maharashtra environment and climate change department’s Majhi Vasundhara initiative. Department principal secretary Manisha Mhaiskar said, “Recommendations from the town halls will be incorporated into a dossier to be submitted before the chief minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/road-dust-makes-up-2/3rds-of-particles-in-mumbais-air/articleshow/81300796.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
March 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Ex-jawan of SRPF arrested for Rs 37.7 lakh credit society fraud||AURANGABAD: Jalna police have arrested a 59-year-old former employee of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) for allegedly usurping Rs 37.7 lakh from the credit society meant for Group-III SRPF jawans. The accused has been identified as Bhaskar Achwar. On being produced before the court on Tuesday, he was remanded in six-day police custody. As per the audit report, the alleged usurping of funds took place between April 1, 2019 and March 31, 2020. Sadar Bazaar police station’s senior inspector Sanjay Deshmukh said the accused was the secretary of the society when the alleged fraud took place. Things came to fore after Achwar retired from the service last year. An audit was carried out and the government appointed auditor for societies found that 48 pages detailing monetary transactions were missing from the records. Accordingly, a show-cause notice was shot to Achwar. The accused has confessed to committing the alleged usurping and even submitted a bond paper, assuring to repay the amount to the society. Sensing trouble, Achwar reached out to the court and obtained anticipatory bail prior to the registration of the offence. However, higher authorities took a serious cognisance of the alleged usurping and ordered registration of offence. Accordingly, auditor Sudhakar Patekar lodged a complaint with Sadar Bazaar police station and an offence under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust),420 (cheating), 468 (forgery), 471 (fraudulently using a forged document asgenuine), 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered on February 9. On being summoned by the police, the former jawan produced the copy of the anticipatory bail that the investigation officer challenged before the sessions court and it was immediately cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ex-jawan-of-srpf-arrested-for-rs-37-7l-credit-society-fraud/articleshow/81300751.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 3, 2021||Vadodara||No kidding! These village kids are an authority on migratory birds||VADODARA: She may be just a 13-year-old village schoolgirl, but her profound knowledge of birds, especially about the migratory species, will leave you spellbound. And she also has clicked some of the finest pictures of the winged guests that visit the pond near her home annually. On Wednesday, Nandini Vankar will be put on display all of these in her village to celebrate World Wildlife Day. The Bhayli girl who studies in Class VIII in a government school and stays in a dingy house has developed interest in learning more about the birds only around two years ago. But today, nature lovers who visit the pond to watch the birds are also surprised by her knowledge. “I joined an environment awareness campaign in our village two years ago. It was there that I learnt about the variety of birds that visit a pond in our village. I gradually developed interest and began spending hours at the lake to observe them,” Nandini told TOI. She has recorded 71 different species of birds at the pond and can now identify many of the migratory birds simply by listening to their sounds. Like Nandini, a group of about 10 children from Bhayli has become an expert of sorts on the birds and eco-system in their village. This group also educates the locals about the origins of the birds and their importance in the ecology. “I had joined a lake cleanliness drive initiated by Hitarth Pandya about one-and-half years ago and heard about the variety of birds,” said Harshil Vankar, who confessed he was initially not very interested in birdwatching. “When I began visiting the lake frequently, I learnt a lot about the migratory birds and soon began photographing them from the camera that Pandya sir gave us,” the 10-year-old said. “A number of migratory birds visit this pond in Bhayli every year, but it was filthy then. We began cleaning it up two years ago with the help of locals and nature activists and it was then that I met the children. I began educating them about the ecology and the birds,” Pandya said, adding that these children were very eager to learn more about the birds from the experts and bird lovers. “I also gave them a camera to click pictures of the birds. We are organizing an exhibition of these photographs clicked by the children in Bhayli on Wednesday,” Pandya said. The children now regularly clean up the pond themselves to ensure that more migratory birds visit the waterbody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-kidding-studying-birds-a-serious-business-for-kids/articleshow/81298049.cms||Tushar Tere
March 3, 2021||India||Adhir, Anand spar over Bengal tie-up, Congress says don’t weaken anti-BJP fight||NEW DELHI: The clash in Congress over the G-23 group of dissenters member Anand Sharma’s objection to the party aligning with the Muslim outfit ISF in Bengal as breach of Nehruvian secularism continued to simmer. Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury kept up his fusilade against Sharma and former leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad for playing to the BJP gallery, inviting a firm rejoinder that his criticism is unfortunate. Even as the to and fro continued, Congress urged the dissenters to not weaken the party’s fight against the “communal” BJP. Chowdhury, as per TV reports, said G-23 members had “extracted their pound of flesh” from Congress and were castigating the party because it did not have much to offer in terms of positions. “They thought of appeasing the party that may offer something for their bright future,” he said. Chowdhury also said Congress members should stop singing praises of PM Modi, an allusion to Azad lauding Modi for being true to his roots. As Chowdhury’s attack suggested G-23 members were doing BJP’s bidding, Sharma told ANI, “What I said is expression of my concerns. Not only am I firmly committed to Congress’ ideology, but I’m also one of the historians and ideologues of Congress. There is no politics in this. It’s an unfortunate statement. I believe in civilised political discourse. I have noted what Adhir said but can’t become personal.” AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said, “It’s BJP propaganda... that despite its goonda brand of politics, it has the gall to call others communal. Each one of us and our party members should join in this fight to combat BJP. They should do nothing to weaken this fight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/adhir-anand-spar-over-bengal-tie-up-congress-says-dont-weaken-anti-bjp-fight/articleshow/81302489.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||IIM Kashipur’s annual entrepreneurship summit to start on March 5||Rudrapur: To encourage startups, IIM Kashipur is organising ‘Uttishtha- The annual Entrepreneurship Summit’ on March 5. The event will serve as a platform for providing one-stop solutions for all startup-related activities. It aims to provide startup meets, investor meets, and personalized discussions to fledgling companied. The three-day summit will host a series of events, including, focused group discussions, investors’ meet, entrepreneurs’ meet, school reach-out programs, workshops, competitions and a team-building fair. The group discussions aim help the student fraternity, budding entrepreneurs, and investors to take part in a round table discussion on varied topics led by industry experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iim-kashipurs-annual-entrepreneurship-summit-to-start-on-march-5/articleshow/81312913.cms||Aakash Ahuja
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: 2 workers die in Neeldoh, firm owner & managers booked||NAGPUR: Owner of an iron casting company in Neeldoh, Rajesh Sarda, managers SM Maniknanda Soundaryarajan and Premsingh Rathod were booked for causing death due to negligence by MIDC police after two labourers were killed in an accident on the company premises on January 15. It’s learnt Subhas Tadam and Harendra Singh were declared dead while their co-workers Ajay Verma and Dinesh Kumbhare had survived with burn injuries at the hospital where they were rushed after the accident. A case of accidental death was registered initially. Investigations revealed that the accident had occurred due to negligence of the company owner and managers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-workers-die-firm-owner-managers-booked/articleshow/81300760.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Vadodara||19-year-old girl molested during procession||Vadodara: A 19-year-old girl was molested during a religious procession as her cousin eloped with the accused’s sister in Padra. Based on the girl’s complaint, an offence was registered against Vipul Solanki on Monday. The girl told the police that during the procession in Padra, she was walking. Solanki, who lives in the same neighbourhood, came from behind and gagged the girl. The girl tried to loosen the grip while he was trying to drag her away. Nobody in the procession could listen to her voice due to the loud sound of the DJ. However, a few seconds later, girls turned around and seeing Solanki dragging away the girl, rushed towards her. Solanki escaped from there, but threatened the girl to kidnap her before leaving. The terrified girl was taken to her home where she told her parents about the horror she faced. On Monday, after her father convinced her, she agreed to go to Padra police station and file a complaint. Police said that the accused was trying to take revenge as the girl’s cousin had lured Solanki’s sister of marriage and they had recently eloped. Police are yet to arrest Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/19-year-old-girl-molested-during-procession/articleshow/81298069.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Murder case suspect in police custody||Pune: Murder suspect Bapu Jori (24) was on Tuesday remanded in police custody till March 6, a day after he shot his neighbour, Ajay Sathe (40), dead in a fit of rage at Valen village in Mulshi taluka. Assistant inspector Vinayak Devkar of Paud police said, “The suspect was arrested late on Monday night. We are yet to recover the firearm used by him.” Devkar said besides the murder, the police also booked Jori under relevant sections of the Indian Arms Act. Jori had shot Sathe in his chest with a firearm at Valen village on Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/murder-case-suspect-in-police-custody/articleshow/81299115.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Surat||Surat to host Gujarat’s first-ever bodybuilding competition for cops||SURAT: The city police have come up with a unique way of spreading the de-addiction message, by providing a platform to youths to flex their muscles, literally. The Diamond city will host Gujarat’s first-ever state-level bodybuilding competition for cops, Mr Police, from March 6-7. Along with the Mr Police competition, the city police will organize a state-level Mr Gujarat bodybuilding championship and also a powerlifting competition for fitness enthusiasts across the state. The events will be held at Dayalji Ashram, Majura Gate and police parade ground in Athwalines. This is the first time that the city police department will be organizing such events. The registration process for the competitions has already begun. “Through this competition police want to give a message to the youth to stay away from addictions and strive for good health. This event is part of our campaign against drugs,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI on Tuesday. Bodybuilder Premchand Degra, an International Federation of Bodybuilding and Fitness (IFBB) professional, will be one of the guests at the event. “The competitions are being organized with the support of state bodybuilding and powerlifting associations. Enthusiasts practicing these sports will get an opportunity to prove their talent,” said Tomar. Ever since the MD drugs haul of Rs 1.31cr in September 2020, the city police have launched ‘No Drugs in Surat’ campaign. Apart from catching those involved in the drug trafficking, police are also organizing various events for youth awareness with support of citizen groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-to-host-gujarats-first-ever-bodybuilding-competition-for-cops/articleshow/81298101.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||After 22 years, I bid good-bye to the cigarette||The lockdown was fierce. Everything around was changing, and it was no different for me. Amid it all, the relentless efforts of doctors, nurses, sanitisation workers and others made me realise that the richest possession someone can have is a vivacious, healthy life free of any ailments. I also realised that if my family or I contracted Covid, thehospitalisation cost would drain us of our life's savings and erode our small yet beautiful dream of owning a home, saving for our child’s future education, or meeting anyunforeseen cost ahead. That’s when I took it upon myself to change my existing habits and build a healthy life. Mid-way into the pandemic, I started developing a habit of reading books – I have read about 20 from November to now – and waking up every morning for a run. The 6 km run instilled in me a sense of achievement while also strengthening my perseverance. Ihave also started drinking bitter-gourd and bottle-gourd juice on alternate days to make my lungs, heart and nervous system stronger. But the most important change that I have made is to quit smoking. It’s been over 100 days now. It took me 22 years to realise that life can be lived even without a cigarette – and I am happy I made this move. Playing with my kid at home and spending time with my wife are the two other important tasks that I have now added to my daily routine, apart from the tasks that I hadearlier. And finally, I have strengthened my belief in God. Now, I am even more thankful to him for guiding me towards the right path in life. (The writer works as tax practitioner with an MNC)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-22-years-i-bid-good-bye-to-the-cigarette/articleshow/81300767.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Body found near river in Dehu Road||Pune: An unknown man, aged around 30, was found murdered near Indrayani river on Dehu Road on Monday. Vilas Sonde, senior inspector, Dehu Road police, said the body was found dumped near the drainage outlet close to the river. “There were no clothes on the body. His face was completely smashed and beyond recognition,” Sonde said. He said there were marks caused by sharp weapons all over the body. “If anyone has information about the victim, he/she can contact Dehu Road police station on telephone number 020-27671288,” the senior inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/body-found-near-river-in-dehu-road/articleshow/81299141.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: 14-year-old detained under POCSO Act||PUNE: The police on Monday detained a 14-year-old boy after his neighbour lodged a first information report (FIR) against him for sexually assaulting her five-year-old daughter. The sexual assault happened in the afternoon when the girl had gone to watch television at his house. The boy has been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “The boy has been sent to a correction home by the juvenile justice board,” said an officer from the Bhosari police station. The officer said the boy and girl were neighbours. On Monday, around 3pm, the girl had gone to the boy’s house to watch TV. “As there was no one in the house, the boy sexually assaulted the girl,” the officer said. The girl immediately went home and informed her mother. “Her mother has lodged the complaint,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/14-year-old-detained-under-pocso-act/articleshow/81299165.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Smart fences to keep tabs on New Town garbage disposal||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is planning to set up an Internet-of-Things (IoT)- enabled smart fencing on a 17km stretch on New Town’s main arterial road from Mahisbathan box bridge to Biswa Bangla Gate in Action Area I to track the movement of the vehicles carrying garbage and check whether they are disposing of waste daily. Officials said that currently, there are bamboo-made fences off the main arterial road and median dividers. “The idea is to replace this bamboo fence with steel fencing that will have RFID readers tagged with them. The vehicles carrying garbage will also be tagged with RFID readers as the fencing off the road can detect the vehicles and will send messages to the control room to check whether the vehicles are collecting waste properly,” said an official. The project will, however, not be carried out till the elections are over. The authorities are also planning to introduce a 24-hour monitoring system for 50 dustbins of 240-liter capacity each, installed on the main arterial road in New Town. The waste bins will have level sensing to send alert once they are full. NKDA officials on Monday visited the Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering & Technology (CIPET) Haldia to discuss several issues like testing compostable plastic bags and strength of plastic paver blocks before they start a pilot project to make the markets plastic-free across the township. NKDA officials have placed a few samples of compostable plastic bags to CIPET for tests. “We have sought feedback from them whether better compostable plastic bags and plastic paver blocks are available. We were waiting for this expert opinion and now we will update the project report, based on which the work will start,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/smart-fences-to-keep-tabs-on-new-town-garbage-disposal/articleshow/81299133.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Water bodies can be revived only if sewage inlets plugged||CHENNAI: The floods of 2015 taught us how important it is to look after the two rivers and a canal that cut through the city. Since then the Adyar, the Cooum and the Buckingham Canal have received varying amounts of attention from the authorities and this shows in the uneven results. About 80% of the encroachments along the Cooum have been removed, with people moved from slums to tenements on the city’s outskirts. And there has been a 70% reduction in the domestic sewage that is let into the river, in large measure because encroachers have been moved. Things have not progressed as smoothly along the Adyar. Only about 51% of encroachments along its banks have been removed and there has been just a 37% reduction in inflow of domestic sewage. More worryingly for the health of the river, untreated industrial effluents are still surreptitiously let into it, which often foams. The Buckingham canal project that is estimated at `400cr is yet to be taken up. However, Greater Chennai Corporation has started beautification projects from Kasturibai Nagar MRTS station to the Thiruvanmuyur station. Along the 2km stretch, garbage and debris have been cleared to lay cycling and walking tracks. The civic body began planting 36,000 saplings this week. “The project hasn’t taken off due the lack of tenements. These will not be ready until July 2021. Once the tenements are ready, 21,000 encroachments will be removed along the canal and various drains leading to the Adyar and the Cooum,” said an official. Officials say the work is hampered by people dumping sewage, garbage and construction debris late at night even at locations where restoration work has been completed. Inter-departmental coordination also poses hurdles. The Chennai River Restoration Trust is the implementation agency for the `1,100cr project. The PWD is in charge of desilting and widening the rivers, the corporation has to construct fences and remove garbage and debris. Metrowater has to plug sewage leaks. All these agencies have to pull together to restore the three waterways. Environmental activists raise other issues. They question what they term the secrecy in the government’s efforts and stress that restoration of water bodies can be successful only when sewage inlets are plugged. Green warrior Nityanand Jayaraman said there is very little information in the public domain on the river restoration project. “Rivers cannot be restored in secret. It cannot only be about shifting poor people from the city. The bulk of the money has been spent on it. Very little has been spent on actual restoration of the river. A major problem is untreated or partially treated sewage that enters these water bodies. This should have been the major focus, but is just a small part of the project,” he said. Authorities agree that sewage is a problem. Metrowater has identified 38 points where sewage flows into the Adyar, including through stormwater drains. Work is apace on sewage treatment plants at Todhunter Nagar, Kotturpuram and Kundrathur. But, says city-based historian Venkatesh Ramakrishnan, the Cooum will not come alive again unless there is flow of fresh water in the river. “In the 1880s, the Cooum was tapped for drinking water. In 1941, a dam was constructed and 10 years later population doubled in the city. After a second dam came up on the river, fresh water has stopped entering it. Water was diverted to Chembarambakkam and Poondi lake. Rivers can never be revived by just planting trees,” he said. Senior officials in the corporation, however, reiterate that the course of the river has been widened by removing encroachments, reducing the risk of floods. “By 2023, hopefully, both the projects would be completed and the city will see a drastic change,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/water-bodies-can-be-revived-only-if-sewage-inlets-plugged/articleshow/81299129.cms||Komal Gautham
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Now, corporator to give Rs 1cr worth tarpaulin sheets||Mumbai: After the BMC scrapped Shiv Sena corporator and standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav’s bid to buy jute bags worth Rs 1.4 crore, he has decided to distribute tarpaulin sheets worth Rs 1 crore to the ‘poor and needy’ in his constituency, Byculla. Jadhav has also taken funds to install VIP benches worth Rs 1 crore, sewing machines for Rs 50 lakh, tree pots worth Rs 50 lakh, dustbins worth Rs 1 crore and repairs to community centres, libraries, balwadis and gyms for Rs 1 crore among other items. TimesViewIt is surprising corporators are going on a spree to distribute freebies ranging from sewing machines to tarpaulin sheets when the BMC is facing a cash crunch. There is need for a rethink on whether the civic body can afford to distribute such items to citizens. The BMC must first focus on providing basic amenities like good roads and open spaces.Just last week, the standing committee had passed proposals for distribution of freebies including 30 food and vegetable trucks worth Rs 5 crore in Jadhav’s constituency no. 209. However, the proposal to distribute 84,000 jute bags for Rs 1.4 crore was scrapped by the civic administration. The BMC had directed that such items of individual distribution must not be approved by the local wards. The BJP has alleged tarpaulin sheets are also items for individual distribution and the plan must be scrapped. “We are in favour of helping the poor and needy, but this kind of procurement is in violation of norms. Just like the jute bags, this proposal must be scrapped too,” said BJP corporator Vinod Mishra, party leader in the BMC. “There are a lot of slum pockets in my constituency, so these funds are needed for their development. The BMC administration cancelled the jute bags proposal even though it has no powers. I am taking up the issue with the municipal commissioner,” Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-corporator-to-give-rs-1cr-worth-tarpaulin-sheets/articleshow/81301822.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||‘Malpractices in health dept exam’||The opposition in the legislative council on Tuesday alleged malpractices in the recently conducted exam for C and D class posts in the health department. Legislator Vinayak Mete said, “There are videos of paper being circulated.” Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said they had received complaints. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/malpractices-in-health-dept-exam/articleshow/81300836.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||Goa: Two weeks later, lynchpin in Anwar Shaikh assault case still at large||MARGAO: Two weeks after a gang war broke out in a busy street of Arlem in Margao that led to a deadly assault on gangster Anwar Shaikh, Fatorda police are yet to arrest the prime accused in the case, Vale D’Costa and others involved in the assault. Fatorda police have now issued a look-out notice against D’Costa and one of his accomplices Amir Gawandi. The police have already arrested seven persons in the case, Imran Bepari, 32 of Santa Cruz, Vijay Karbotkar, 31of Porvorim, Harshvadhan Saval, 37 of Mapusa, Sudhan Dcosta, 40 of Seraulim and Mahinder alias Mayur Tanawade, 37 of Porvorim, Ricky Hornekar of Curchorem and Vipul Pattari of Khareband, Margao. While the first five were arrested from Kolhapur on February 21, the last two were arrested earlier. D’Costa is learnt to be the lynchpin in the assault case. Police said that he was present along with his accomplices at their hideout in Kolhapur but managed to escape the police raiding party. D’Costa is learnt to have planned and organized the attack on Shaikh to avenge for tipping off the police in a case that led to D’Costa’s arrest in an illegal drug trade case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Shaikh was assaulted on February 16 with iron rods, a local chopper and sticks and one among his assailants also fired a bullet at him. Fatorda police has booked the case under charges of attempt to murder as well as forming unlawful assembly and rioting with deadly weapons under several sections of the IPC as well as under the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-weeks-later-lynchpin-in-anwar-shaikh-assault-case-still-at-large/articleshow/81301827.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Madras University to double intake of foreign students||CHENNAI: Post Covid-19, University of Madras is planning to admit double the number of foreign students through collaboration with foreign universities and its alumni. At present, the university has 22 students from Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Vietnam, South Africa and other countries. Due to the pandemic, the university had only seven new foreign students in 2020-21. The university plans to start admission process in March and complete it before June 15. “Courses like music, Bharatanatyam, psychology, sociology, public administration, MBA and MCom are popular among the foreign students. We are targeting to double the strength of foreign students in postgraduate and research programmes,” said vice-chancellor S Gowri. The university has a foreign students’ hostel at Taramani that can house more than 100 occupants. “We have identified areas and faculty members to collaborate with foreign universities. We are planning to sign MoUs for student and faculty exchange programmes. Our university alumni can help in bringing more students,” said professor Rita John, director of University of Madras’s International Centre. The university will focus on south east Asian countries and African nations for the next academic year. A majority of foreign students used to come through Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR). “To have more foreign students, the ICCR decided to allow the students to directly contact the universities for admission,” said K Mohamed Ibrahim Khaleel, regional director of ICCR, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Tamil Nadu and Puducherry used to attract more than 200 students every year through ICCR that will provide scholarships to the foreign students. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, we had almost no admissions during last year. ICCR is planning to attract more foreign students. We have asked the universities to share details of popular courses, infrastructure, NIRF ranking with us. We will share it on our website,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-univ-to-double-intake-of-foreign-students/articleshow/81299163.cms||A Ragu Raman
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||The good surge: 240% rise in seniors taking shots in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The turnout of senior citizens and people above 45 years of age with comorbidities rose almost 2.5-fold in Maharashtra on the second day of vaccination, while in Mumbai, the jump was over 240%. Senior citizens led the charge, accounting for 12,300 of the 16,111 vaccinated on Tuesday in Maharashtra. On Day 1, around 7,000 had taken the vaccine from these categories in the state. In Mumbai, where the video of a huge crowd fighting to enter the BKC jumbo vaccination centre went viral on Tuesday afternoon, the number of people who got vaccinated increased from 1,982 on Day 1 to 6,853 on Day 2 — a 246% increase. It included 6,263 senior citizens and nearly 690 from the age-bracket of 45-plus with comorbidities. While the snag at the BKC centre lasted till 11.20 am, most centres said CoWin’s performance was better than Monday though it still was sluggish at times. Juhu residents Vikram and Pallavi Choksi, who got vaccinated at SevenHills Hospital in Andheri, said they could register online and get a slot. 72-year-old R Subramanium and his wife Shraddha said the software must give out narrower slots rather than saying 9 am to 5pm. “That will stop overcrowding in most places,” he said. Chembur resident R Sridhar said people should try accessing CoWin through Aarogya Setu for better experience. However, the 59-year-old could get the earliest appointment on March 29. AMC Suresh Kakani said BMC was activating more centres in the next few days. “We are in the process of creating more centres, more units in each centre and opening more slots. We want to, in the next couple of days, be able to vaccinate 50,000 people in a day,” he said. He added efforts are on to create a centre in each ward. “We may do so at the dispensary or PHC level, thereby ensuring vaccines are available close to where people reside,” Kakani said. A big reason for overcrowding in jumbo centres, he said, was 80% were coming for on-spot registration. “We would urge people to come to centres preferably with scheduled appointments given by CoWin,” he said. At SevenHills, dean Dr Balakrishna Adsul said barring minor glitches in CoWin, the drive had picked up pace. Deputy dean Dr Smita Chavan said crowds swelled towards end of day with people coming from Khar and Juhu to Marol. The centre vaccinated the second highest (1,306). Dr Pradeep Angre, dean of Mulund Covid field centre, said crowds were more manageable than on the first day, though glitches persisted. “We are not able to vaccinate more as we spend a lot of time registering people. It would hasten the process if people register themselves at home,” Dr Angre said. The centre vaccinated 594 people on Tuesday, including 350 senior citizens and 45-plus. In Thane, thousands made a beeline outside the 15 municipal centres even as only 928 senior citizens and 131 from the 45-plus segment got jabs owing to CoWin’s failure. Five private hospitals including Bethany, Jupiter, Horizon prime, Kalsekar and Vedant have been shortlisted for delivering the vaccine but were yet to be commissioned. NMMC chief Abhijit Bangar said over five big private hospitals will soon be finalized for administering vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/the-good-surge-240-rise-in-seniors-taking-shots/articleshow/81300851.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Salt Lake parks get green lease of life||KOLKATA: With elections around the corner, parks and green verges across Salt Lake are getting a facelift. Many of the existing parks have been revamped while small parks are being set up to give a greener look to the township. Several parks in Salt Lake had been lying in neglect for a long time. Now, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation authorities are working on the facelift of these parks. The ward coordinators are developing the existing parks, using the councillors’ funds that were allotted earlier. There are about 50 parks inside various blocks across Salt Lake. “The parks in Bidhannagar are for the children to play as well as for the elderly to roam about. We are cleaning and renovating the parks and removing weeds and bushes. Some new parks are also being developed as well,” said Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s chairperson, Krishna Chakraborty. A new park is coming up at AL Block under Chakraborty’s Ward 29. In Ward 40, the EC Block park has been revamped with the establishment of a meditation centre adjacent to its premises. A new park has come up beside City Centre mall in DC Block. “We are also developing a large open area at CD Block into a park. The land had been lying vacant for several years since the township was developed,” said the Ward 40 coordinator, Tulsi Sinha Roy. Locals are happy over the development. “This open space used to be in a mess with garbage dumped and other nuisance. It is a good move to develop the vacant land into a park,” said Pratul Kumar Das, a resident of CD Block, who lives opposite the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-parks-get-green-lease-of-life/articleshow/81299161.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 3, 2021||Puducherry||Madras University to double intake of foreign students||CHENNAI: Post Covid-19, University of Madras is planning to admit double the number of foreign students through collaboration with foreign universities and its alumni. At present, the university has 22 students from Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Vietnam, South Africa and other countries. Due to the pandemic, the university had only seven new foreign students in 2020-21. The university plans to start admission process in March and complete it before June 15. “Courses like music, Bharatanatyam, psychology, sociology, public administration, MBA and MCom are popular among the foreign students. We are targeting to double the strength of foreign students in postgraduate and research programmes,” said vice-chancellor S Gowri. The university has a foreign students’ hostel at Taramani that can house more than 100 occupants. “We have identified areas and faculty members to collaborate with foreign universities. We are planning to sign MoUs for student and faculty exchange programmes. Our university alumni can help in bringing more students,” said professor Rita John, director of University of Madras’s International Centre. The university will focus on south east Asian countries and African nations for the next academic year. A majority of foreign students used to come through Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR). “To have more foreign students, the ICCR decided to allow the students to directly contact the universities for admission,” said K Mohamed Ibrahim Khaleel, regional director of ICCR, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Tamil Nadu and Puducherry used to attract more than 200 students every year through ICCR that will provide scholarships to the foreign students. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, we had almost no admissions during last year. ICCR is planning to attract more foreign students. We have asked the universities to share details of popular courses, infrastructure, NIRF ranking with us. We will share it on our website,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/madras-univ-to-double-intake-of-foreign-students/articleshow/81307573.cms||A Ragu Raman
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||More citizens opting for walk-in jabs||Ahmedabad: Despite the efforts to popularize CoWIN application to register a session beforehand – either directly from the app or through Aarogya Setu – majority of the citizens, primarily senior citizens opted for the spot registrations, said state health department officials. “We observe that the number of people opting for walk-ins is far higher than the early registration,” said Dr Nayan Jani, state immunization officer. “But it’s just two days of the vaccination, and we hope that with the usage and awareness about the app, the user base would be wider. On second consecutive day, we have recorded over 55,000 vaccinations for the phase III beneficiaries.” Compared to 61,254 vaccinations on March 1 – the first day of the phase III – Tuesday recorded 56,489 vaccinations in Gujarat. In Ahmedabad, 3,902 under the two categories of 60-plus years and 45-plus with comorbidities got inoculated. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that 40-odd private hospitals started vaccination for the phase III. “There were some glitches with the application, but the issue was resolved by afternoon. We could vaccinate over 120 beneficiaries during the day,” he said. Majority of the sites in the city recorded 80 to 90% of the vaccination against their capacity. Experts said that the overall awareness and willingness to get vaccinated is high, and the numbers are likely to improve after the first week when a large number of senior citizens would get the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-citizens-opting-for-walk-in-jabs/articleshow/81299170.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Refused liquor money by wife, man hangs self||RUDRAPUR: A 35-year-old street vendor on Tuesday allegedly committed suicide in his house on Tuesday morning after his wife declined to give him money to purchase arrack, police said. The man, said to be an addict, had had a quarrel with his wife. The deceased has been identified as Nanhu Lal, a resident of Subhash Colony in the city. The wife works as a labourer and had refused to part with her hard earned money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/refused-liquor-money-by-wife-man-hangs-self/articleshow/81299177.cms||Aakash Ahuja
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rise in Covid cases: CBSE schools plan online final exams||AHMEDABAD: Many city schools affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) appear to be changing their decision to hold in-person final exams for the primary and secondary sections, and now intend to hold the tests online. The change in their decision is mainly due to the recent increase in Covid-19 cases and the gradual withdrawal of consent that schools had received from parents. Many parents who had earlier agreed to send their children to schools to take the examinations physically are now opting for the online test. This is also because of the guidelines that ask schools to give parents the option to choose the mode of exams for their children. Director of Nirma Vidhyalaya, Vatsal Vaishnav said, “We have given options of online and in-person tests to parents. Whatever they chose, we are conducting in-person pre-board tests. We have decided to provide free transportation to students. We will finalize the areas for this facility soon. Some 40% of students have agreed to the in-person test. We will conduct the pen-paper tests for Classes 9 and 11 and 46% of students have already consented to this. For our primary section, we are planning online exams.” Through the year, these schools conducted tests online due to the Covid-19 situation and the lockdown. But they were planning final exams in pen-paper mode. Meanwhile, students also started attending classes in classrooms. Before the recent increase in Covid-19 cases, nearly 50% of parents had consented to sending their children to schools to take the final tests, but later the number reduced to 20% to 30%. Some schools decided to conduct final exams in April. Schools like Prakash High School and Nirma Vidhyalaya decided to take the pre-board exams online. There are a few schools, which conduct multiple pre-board tests. The response to in-person pre-board tests has been very good and turnout is nearly 80%. From their experience, schools want to avoid irregularities that were noticed on the part of students during online examinations. Udgam School for Children has decided to conduct their online test with the help of an auto proctoring device for students of Classes 9 and 11. Schools remain circumspect about online tests since most students fared much better. They were found copying and referring to books. This led to minor changes in the mode of the online test and some schools began to conduct oral exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rise-in-covid-cases-cbse-schools-plan-online-final-exams/articleshow/81299188.cms||Bharat Yagnik
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Missing man from Bihar reunited with kin||Kolkata: A 48-year-old man, who had gone missing from Purnea in Bihar since September 2019 after having developed mental health issues and was recently rescued from Beliaghata. He was finally reunited with his family on Tuesday, with the help of cops from the Beliaghata police station. After undergoing treatment at a city hospital, he could gradually recall first his name, and then his hometown. Md Makim, a mason by profession, had stepped out of his home in 2019 after telling his wife that he was going to the market. Since then, he did not return. It isn’t known how Makim survived the lockdown. He was found in a disoriented condition on a pavement in Beliaghata on January 18, 2021. He was put up at a shelter for urban homeless in Beliaghata and taken for treatment at the OPD in Pavlov Institute by Emmanuel Ministries Calcutta (EMC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/missing-man-from-bihar-reunited-with-kin/articleshow/81299175.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Collector, 2 others get 3-month jail as Telangana HC stands by farmers||HYDERABAD: The Sircilla collector and his two subordinates were sentenced to three months’ jail by the Telangana high court on Tuesday for wilful violation of the court’s order in a contempt case. Justice M S Ramachandra Rao said they were guilty of trying to hoodwink the court on compensating displaced farmers. The court convicted collector D Krishna Bhaskar, joint collector Yasmin Basha and revenue divisional officer (RDO) N Srinivas Rao in the contempt case and also imposed a penalty of Rs 2,000. The judge also directed the convicted officials to pay Rs 10,000 towards legal costs to each of the 11 farmers who moved the court against the errant officials. Upon request from the state, the judge suspended his conviction order to allow the convicted officials to pursue their legal remedies. The judge pronounced this order after hearing Ummenthala Mutha Reddy and 10 other farmers from Ananthagiri village in Ellankuntha mandal of Rajanna Sircilla district whose land and houses were taken over by the state for constructing Ananthagiri reservoir as part of its Kaleswaram irrigation project. The petitioners said they were dispossessed from their fields without awarding compensation and rehabilitation as laid down under the land acquisition Act, 2013. Upon completion of the construction of the reservoir, water was released from it resulting in the submergence of their fields and houses. What irked the judge was the way the officials tried to mislead the court by contending that the land and houses of the petitioners were not yet submerged. The judge went through the record of the case, the photos furnished by the petitioners and concluded that the provisions of the land acquisition were not properly implemented in the case despite earlier orders from the court asking them to do so, and none of the petitioners were compensated for the agricultural land they lost. They received some amounts only for the houses and some of the petitioners took it under protest. “The special government pleader appearing for the additional advocate general is unable to show any document proving that Rehabilitation and Resettlement Awards under Section 31 of the land acquisition Act for the agricultural lands of the petitioners which were acquired were passed or that any payment in that regard was made to any of the petitioners,” the Judge said. The judge also directed the state to record adverse entries in the service records of the three convicted officials by citing the conviction in the current contempt case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/collector-2-others-get-3-mth-jail-as-hc-stands-by-farmers/articleshow/81301834.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Varanasi||Covid test must for those coming from Maha, Kerala||Varanasi: The district administration has issued strict directives making Covid-19 antigen test mandatory for every visitor coming from Maharashtra or Kerala in view of the fresh wave of Covid-19 in these two states. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma convened a meeting with chief medical officer Dr VB Singh, other senior health officials and district Covid-19 surveillance team on Monday evening to finalise a strategy for proper monitoring of people coming from Maharashta and Kerala. The DM said that as the number of new Covid cases and active cases have become low, all necessary precautions are being taken to avoid formation of new chain of infection. Sharma asked the CMO to place teams at LBSI Airport to ensure Covid antigen test of all passengers, especially those coming from Maharashtra and Kerala. In case of detection of symptoms the RTPCR test should also be conducted, he added. The health officials have been asked to collect details of people coming by trains, buses or other means of transport from these states, from the transport service providers. He said, “We also appeal to the passengers coming from these states to come forward voluntarily for necessary tests.” The CMO said that teams are being engaged at airport with antigen kits and kits for collecting samples. He said that people coming from these states will have to remain home quarantined for a week while in case of being tested positive, the decision of keeping them in home or facility isolation will be taken. The details of people coming from these states will be made available to district Covid-19 surveillance team to ensure action as per the prescribed guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-test-must-for-those-coming-from-maha-kerala/articleshow/81300852.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||EOW arrests Peter Kerkar, 2 others of Cox & Kings||Mumbai: The city economic offences wing (EOW) on Tuesday took the custody of Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar, promoter of the travel firm M/s Cox & Kings Ltd (CNK), Anil Khandelwal, former chief financial officer of the firm and its auditor, Naresh Jain for their alleged role in a case of taking loan of Rs 1,030 crore and not repaying it. Prakash Rao, Vice President, Axis Bank, had lodged a complaint with the Cuffe Parade police station and the probe was transferred to the EOW’s banking unit. The police booked the accused for breach of breach of trust, cheating, forgery andcriminal conspiracy. A team led by Niket Kaushik, EOW chief, DCP Dr Shrikant Paropkari, senior inspector Kishore Parab and inspector Anjali Khare began the probe. The police team had filed an application before a special court for taking the accused in custody. Their plea was granted. Kerkar was taken into custody from Arthur Road jail while Khandelwal and Jain were taken into custody from Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. Khandelwal was earlier arrested by the EOW in other cases, registered against CNK, andwas sent to judicial custody. “The CNK had taken loan from the complainant’s bank during 2010 and 2019. The accused did not repay the loan. They fabricated the facts and concealed the actual position of travel businesses. They created 15 fictitious subsidiary travel companies and showed fictitious business between these companies and CNK,” said an officer. The police source added that the accused showed outstanding repayment from these fake companies to CNK and availed credit facilities from Axis bank. “A forensic auditor firm has been appointed to trace the money trail in this case,” said the officer. The CNK is facing at least five cases registered in various police stations in the city and being probed by the EOW. The total cheating amount involved in these cases is around Rs 2,000 crore. The three accused will be produced before a court on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eow-arrests-peter-kerkar-2-others-of-cox-kings/articleshow/81301837.cms||Mateen Hafeez
March 3, 2021||Pune||Cops write to civic body for action against illegal building in Warje||Pune: The city police have written to the civic body’s building permission department seeking action against a four-storied under-construction building, which has come up without valid permission on a 2,800sqft land at Warje.The building has been raised by Sachin Pote, a criminal on police records, who is on the run in a cricket betting and extortion case registered by the Airport police on February 10, police said.Pune crime branch inspector Rajnish Nirmal told TOI, “We came across this building while searching for Pote. In fact, we realised illegality of the construction after studying documents related to the project. We found that the structure had no valid permission from the civic body and other authorities concerned.”He said, “We wrote to the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) building permission department on February 24, stating that this is an illegal building and appropriate action needed to be taken against the same. We will also probe details of the land on which the building stands.” An official from the building permission department (Zone 3) said, “Action will be taken against illegal construction and the structure will be demolished.”Nirmal and his team had arrested Ajay Shinde (36) of Khadak police colony and Gaurav Ahuja (21) of Shukrawar Peth after Vimannagar resident Umesh Mulchandani (23) lodged a complaint of extortion against them with the Airport police. “Shinde is a criminal on police record and a close aide of Pote,” Nirmal said, adding, “He repeatedly used Pote’s name to extort money from Mulchandani.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-write-to-civic-body-for-action-against-illegal-building-in-warje/articleshow/81299178.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||I learnt to push harder; rediscovered myself||Covid has yet again shown us that life is too uncertain. Longing for things that can happen in the future, and not living the present, is a sin. So, as I indulged in self-reflection during the lockdown I realised it was time to bring to back to the fore, things that had been pushed to the back-burner. Physical fitness (I am sure it is true for a lot of us) was one of them. After being caged in for a while, I realised the value of all the places that we had taken for granted in this beautiful city and the longing for fresh air. I took up cycling as soon as the lockdown eased a little. I covered every nook and corner of Hyderabad – from the bylanes aroundCharminar to the modern Durgam Cheruvu bridge, and documented my trips on social media. Result: many of my friends were inspired to take up cycling and, soon, I had company on my rides. As the fitness journey progressed, it also woke up the food connoisseur in me. I started experimenting with recipes from across the world. These experiments too were liveon social media, which led to request for recipes pouring in from all over. These little developments helped me realise one thing – which was perhaps the biggest takeaway from the lockdown. And it is: If you don’t challenge yourself, you will neverrealise what you can become or discover your limits. This theory further gained ground after my trip to Kedarnath. That trek was a life changing experience with temperatures falling below -3 degree Celsius at an altitude of 11,750 ft. In fact, the adventure that began in Kedarnath compelled me to continue even after I returned to the city. It made 2020 a little more extraordinary. In all, it was year of learnings – learning to push oneself harder, but to also appreciate what we have and be content with that rather than mindlessly running the rat racecalled life. It also helped us be more grateful for our frontline warriors and inspired us to do our part in protecting and reviving the environment. An example of this is -- thefarm revolution that started in every household. Every rooftop, balcony and courtyard became a mini-farm; bringing the farmer is us to the forefront. As we progress through a new year, I hope we can all carry our learnings, stay grounded, be patient, empathetic and love and respect the lives we are blessed with. (The writer is managing partner, Tranquil Properties)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/i-learnt-to-push-harder-rediscovered-myself/articleshow/81300848.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Shastri receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in city||Ahmedabad: The Indian cricket team's head coach Ravi Shastri on Tuesday received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at a city hospital here. Shastri, who is 58, thanked the staff at the Apollo Hospital for their co-operation and support."Got the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Thank you to the amazing medical professionals & scientists for empowering India Flag of India against the pandemic,” the former India cricketer tweeted.India's inoculation drive entered its second phase on Monday in which the coverage was expanded to include everyone above 60 years and those over 45 years with co-morbidities. No other member of the Indian team's support staff was inoculated, a BCCI source confirmed.The Indian cricket team is locked in a Test battle against England here.The fourth and final Test of the rubber will start in Ahmedabad on Thursday. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shastri-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-city/articleshow/81299226.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Sonegaon undetected murders would be probed again: Nagpur City Police||NAGPUR: City police chief Amitesh Kumar, during an informal chat with the media on Tuesday, said he intended to reinvestigate the undetected murders of Sonegaon, including the one which an activist had brought to fore last week claiming it was politically motivated. Kumar said several undetected murders, like that of Eknath Nimgade, are being reopened to ensure they are freshly tackled to crack them, if possible, even after considerable lapse of time. “We are looking at some of the undetected murders from fresh angle, even if they are with different agencies,” said the top cop. It’s learnt city police are now left with a challenge to bring to fore the truth behind a blind murder case, in which a skeleton was found in July 2014. Advocate Satish Uke had claimed the victim was eliminated by politically connected persons. “We are cracking down on criminals, and regularly summoning them and taking action,” he said, adding that anti-social elements and illegal activities are regularly brought under the scanner. On the Covid front, CP said around 42 personnel are corona positive at present but vaccination drive is also underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sonegaon-undetected-murders-would-be-probed-again-cp/articleshow/81300841.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||DD to record statement of New Alipore cop team||Kolkata: The detective department probing the New Alipore cocaine case — in which BJP leaders Rakesh Singh and Pamela Goswami were arrested, along with four others — are likely to record the statements of all police officers involved in the raid on the New Alipore’s Nalini Ranjan Avenue on February 19. The DD sleuths said the idea is to know how the cops managed to reach the spot so quickly after being informed that cocaine was being transported in the car. “Goswami has been alleging from day one that she was being framed. While it is now clear that absconding accused Amrit Singh did call someone from the phone, we need to know details of how Pamela had waited at the spot before the local police arrived and arrested her along with two of her associates. Since Goswami has also alleged a cop was part of the conspiracy, we will have to look into all angles,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. “The police have failed to find anything against Singh. They have seized two vehicles but didn’t find any evidence. It is clear that he is being framed. We have cited Supreme Court orders that show that when nothing has been found on him, he is fit for bail,” said Francis Samson Correa, the defence lawyer for Singh. The police actions on Tuesday, claim Goswami’s aides, show that her claims were right all along in demanding a DD probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dd-to-record-statement-of-new-alipore-cop-team/articleshow/81299195.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Two Army havildars arrested in recruitment exam paper leak case||PUNE: Two serving Army havildars posted on exam duty were arrested on Monday night for their role in the soldiers’ recruitment exam paper leak case registered with the Wanowrie police. Pune police crime branch inspector Vitthal Patil and his team zeroed in on the havildars, Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) and Uday Dattu Awati (23). Koli is attached to one of the training battalions of the Corps of Engineers in Dighi, while Awati recently completed his refresher recruit training course and was awaiting attachment to one of the regiments of the corps. “We have established their role in the crime,” joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said, but refused to elaborate any further. With the Monday night’s development, the city police have so far arrested seven persons in two separate cases related to the paper leak, registered with the Vishrantwadi and the Wanowrie police. Kishor Mahadev Giri (40) of Malegaon in Baramati and Madhav Sheshrao Gite (38) of Vishrantwadi were arrested in the case registered with the Wanowrie police. “Gite retired from army on January 31 and is one of the main conspirators,” a police officer said. In the case registered with the Vishrantwadi police, two ex-servicemen, Mahendra Sonawane and Ali Akhtar, and civil defence cook Azad Khan, were arrested on Saturday. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “We shall soon form a special investigation team (SIT) to conduct a further investigation into the two cases related to the paper leak. Close to 30,000 aspirants across 40 centres in India were to appear for the army recruitment examination on Sunday. But the paper leak prompted the authorities to cancel the exam.” Gupta said, “Gite had called about 15 aspirants to a lodge at Vishrantwadi and had circulated the leaked exam paper among them. The suspects were using online platforms to circulate the exam paper. We took utmost precaution so that the technical evidence remained intact.” A senior Army officer, requesting anonymity, said, “There is a possibility that the arrested havildars were in contact with other suspects and ex-servicemen for scouting job aspirants who would pay to get the leaked question paper. What is important to find out is how and where the question paper got leaked. It could be either at the level of the Director of Army Recruitment office in New Delhi or at the Army Recruiting Office (ARO) in Pune. The paper can’t be leaked without the involvement of an insider. We are mainly focusing on this aspect of the investigation.” Also, the police are examining the nexus between the Army personnel and people associated with the four private defence recruitment coaching academies in Pune, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-army-havildars-arrested-in-recruitment-exam-paper-leak-case/articleshow/81299229.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Wetland at Delhi Development Authority park to clean waste water||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s seventh biodiversity park, which is coming up next to DND Flyway on the Yamuna floodplain, will get a “constructed wetland system” by next month, which will purify the wastewater from nearby residential colonies before it enters the river. The South Biodiversity Park was approved by Delhi Development Authority (DDA) in April 2019 following orders of National Green Tribunal. DDA plans to purify sewage coming from nearby residential colonies, the biggest being Kilokri, through a natural process it has perfected at Neela Hauz Lake, which is the authority’s biggest success story in the exercise of restoring and rejuvenating waterbodies in the capital. Rajeev Kumar Tiwari, DDA’s principal commissioner (horticulture), recently told TOI that Neela Hauz was a success story and the agency was replicating the model at South Biodiversity Park. “Work has started and the wetland is being created. Almost 60% of the work is complete and we are expecting to complete it by April,” he added. Explaining the procedure carried out at Neela Hauz Lake, Tiwari said, “At Neela Hauz, primary and secondary treatment of water is carried out. First there is a retention tank, where a lot of effluent and dirt is collected. The water then passes through boulders and stones, which causes turbulence and oxidation and a layer of microbes and aerobic bacteria is formed. This works as a natural media and purifies the water.” “In the end, we put plants for biomediation, which absorb heavy metals. This is how the water quality is improved,” added Tiwari. The biodiversity park is being developed over 115 hectares on the western bank of the Yamuna, where nine drains dump sewage. A part of it is also being used for dumping waste. DDA also plans to develop a recreational area there. An initial cost of Rs 2 crore was estimated for the project in 2019 and it is expected to be completed by 2024. A senior official said that the South Biodiversity Park was created after professor CR Babu, professor emeritus at Delhi University and head of Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems (CEMDE), gave an action plan to DDA regarding it. “After receiving the action plan, we informed the monitoring committee in a meeting, in which officials of South Delhi Municipal Corporation were also present. The project’s primary aim is to clean the quality of water in the area. The water quality at this location is very bad, which will be cleaned by professor Babu and his team through the constructed wetland system,” said the official. CEMDE has been working on Delhi’s six other biodiversity parks too, which include Yamuna Biodiversity Park, Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park, Tilpath Valley, Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Neela Hauz Lake and Kamala Nehru Ridge. “We will also remove hyacinth, which is the only way to improve water quality,” said the official. This is the first time that a constructed wetland system is being built on the river. If the project is successful in cleaning wastewater naturally, the system can be replicated for other rivers too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wetland-at-dda-park-to-clean-waste-water/articleshow/81300862.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ABVP to send 11,000 postcards to governor over student issues||JAIPUR: After its big scuffle with NSUI students on the Rajasthan University campus, the ABVP has decided to send 11,000 postcards to the governor. It has demanded necessary steps for students’ employment and advertising new vacancies. The postcards have been purchased and soon they will be sent to the governor in a complaint form. ABVP has been on an indefinite strike in the Rajasthan University campus for the last eight days demanding fulfillment of their promises by the government and also to resolve many problems students are facing at present. Now, student leaders are requesting the students to fill up the postcards with the problems they are facing that will be sent to the governor. "We have been sitting on an indefinite strike for the last eight days but we were attacked by the NSUI students. We protested against it in the university campus but we are now back to focusing on the issues of students. We are going to different classrooms making students aware about this campaign," said Hushyaar Meena, state president of ABVP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/abvp-to-send-11k-postcards-to-guv-over-student-issues/articleshow/81300844.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Rajah Muthiah med students protest again||Cuddalore: Students of Rajah Muthiah Medical College Hospital (RMMCH) and allied institutions at Chidamabaram in Cuddalore district are back on protest mode from Sunday after the government, which had earlier issued an order reducing the fees for medical and dental education on a par with other government medical colleges, insisted they pay the old fees. The students said the government on February 1 had passed an order fixing Rs 13,610 per annum (pa) as fees for MBBS course and Rs 30,000 pa for MD/MS courses on par with other government colleges in the state. However, the college issued instructions a couple of days ago directing the students to pay Rs 5.4 lakh pa for the MBBS course and Rs 9.6 lakh pa for MD/MS courses, fees collected before the order was passed. "The Tamil Nadu government conceded to our demand after our 60-day protest and passed an order reducing the fees for medical, dental and paramedical programmes on par with other government colleges in the state. We called off the protest on February 4 after the government passed the order. But the college has now issued instructions to pay Rs 5.4 lakh pa for the MBBS course and Rs 9.6 lakh pa for MD/MS courses. We feel we have been fooled by the government," said a member of the students' council. The government, in January, had handed over RMMCH and its allied institutions affiliated to Annamalai University to the health and family welfare department from the administrative control of the higher education department. The government also announced that RMMCH would be treated as a government medical college for Cuddalore district. The government asked the director of medical education to send a detailed proposal on taking over the properties and liabilities of the RMMCH and allied institutions. The value of the movable and immovable properties of the institutions on 113.21 acres is estimated at Rs 249.99 crore. The pending liabilities, including salaries, pension, stipend, PF, and loans, is Rs 840.93 crore. The government had also asked the director to initiate efforts to bring the colleges under the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajah-muthiah-med-students-protest-again/articleshow/81300845.cms||Bosco Dominique
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Jilted lover stabs woman in Telangana, arrested||HYDERABAD: A 29-year-old software employee was stabbed by a jilted lover at Narsingi on Tuesday night. The victim, who suffered multiple injuries, is recuperating in the hospital, while the accused is in police custody. According to Madhapur DCP M Venkateshwarulu, the accused—who is a hair dresser at a salon chain in Sun City area of Rajendranagar—went to the victim’s flat in Hydershakote, Narsingi at 7.30 pm. “The accused rang the door bell and as soon as the victim’s mother opened the door, he barged in. When the victim came out of her room, he started attacking her with a sharp edged weapon. The victim’s mother, who rushed to her rescue, also suffered cuts on her hands. The accused then fled the spot,” the DCP said. The injured victim was rushed to a hospital in Tolichowki, where she is recuperating. “The victim is out of danger. She suffered multiple lacerations on her hand, cheek and back. We have taken the accused into custody,” Narsingi inspector Gangadhar said. During the preliminary probe, police found out that the victim had come in contact with the accused, a native of Haryana, during her visit to the salon three years ago. After the incident, BJP state president, Bandi Sanjay went to the hospital and spoke to the family members of the victim. An attempt to murder case was registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jilted-lover-stabs-woman-arrested/articleshow/81300869.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Pranayama is helpful in getting relief from mental disorders: Yoga expert||On the second day of the International Yoga Festival organised by the state tourism department in association with TOI, yoga scholars conducted sessions on different yoga techniques. Yoga expert grand master Askhar performed yoga and Pranayama. He said, “Dhanurasana is an important practice in yoga to make the body strong and flexible while Pranayama is helpful for people suffering from mental disorders. Anybody can get relief by doing Pranayama.” Addressing the yoga learners virtually, religious Guru from the Art of Living Sri Sri Ravi Shankar described the health benefits of meditation. He said, “The Art of Living is a concept of living a good and healthy life. We can improve our life through yoga and meditation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pranayama-is-helpful-in-getting-relief-from-mental-disorders-yoga-expert/articleshow/81313012.cms||MS Nawaz
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Bizman on the run nabbed for Rs 63cr GST fraud||Mumbai: A businessman, on the run for fraudulently claiming input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 63.5 crore, was arrested by CGST (Navi Mumbai) officials. Ashok Singh, floated six firms to avail of bogus ITC and pass it on to hundreds of units across the country, which used it to set off GST liability. Singh approached Supreme Court after lower courts denied him relief. When SC denied him relief, he went into hiding. Availing ITC exceeding Rs 5 crore without receipt of goods is a cognisable offence under CGST Act, 2017. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bizman-on-the-run-nabbed-for-rs-63cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/81299243.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai University to rent out helipad on Kalina campus||MUMBAI: After a request from a leading business house, Mumbai University plans to revive its helipad on the Kalina campus and allow commercial use. In a management council meeting on Monday, the members unanimously agreed to rent out the helipad. The money generated will be used for students’ welfare and university development schemes. With this move, the university is also planning to build an industry connect. But it was clear the helipad won’t be allowed to be used for political purposes. “We were told that the proposal has come from a university alumnus. Members felt it is best to put the helipad to some use. While we have agreed to rent it out, there will be a set of guidelines to be followed,” said a member, adding that the university’s location is likely to make it popular. “There are few recognised helipads in the city,” he added. The alumnus from the leading business family has requested to use it only for a day. A three-member committee, comprising management council members Neel Helekar, Ravikant Sangurde and Mahadappa Gonda, has been formed to chalk out the guidelines for future use.“The university does not own a helicopter, and this was the best way to make use of the helipad. We can sign MoUs with the companies interested in the helipad and collaborate for CSR projects, research, internships, etc. Students can also directly connect with industry,” said a member. The committee will also work out the rental going by market rates. During former vice-chancellor Sanjay Deshmukh’s tenure in 2017, a small group of students was taken for a joy flight in collaboration with Pawan Hans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mu-to-rent-out-helipad-on-kalina-campus/articleshow/81301841.cms||Yogita Rao
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Today 5 private hospitals in the city to begin corona-vaccination; Vidarbha receives 2.22L doses||NAGPUR: The administration on Tuesday received 2,21,800 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, which will enable the 11 districts of Vidarbha to increase centres in government as well as private hospitals for age-appropriate groups. Five trust-run and private hospitals will start inoculation for these groups from Wednesday in the city. Beneficiaries of these groups increased to 4,850 on Tuesday as against 1,805 on Monday in the region. The government has given permission to RST Cancer Institute near Tukdoji Putla chowk, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital at Variety Chowk, Mogre Children Hospital at Sakkardara, all of them empanelled under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) scheme, and Gillurkar Hospital and Sengupta Hospital at Ravi Nagar Square, both empanelled under PMJAY, to start vaccination of 60+ and 45+ comorbid citizens. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “RST, Lata Mangeshkar and Mogre hospitals vaccinated 72 people from age-appropriate groups on Tuesday as part of trial run. All five hospitals will start full-fledged inoculation from Wednesday. We have issued 50 vials to each of the five hospitals,” he said. Beneficiaries will have to pay Rs250 at these hospitals. Joshi said, “I will talk to the government on status of other hospitals empanelled under CGHS and PMJAY on Wednesday. It will help prevent crowding at government vaccination centres. Also, it would be convenient for eligible citizens as these hospitals are situated across the city.” There are another 28 private hospitals in the district empanelled under CGHS and PMJAY. The government had on Sunday announced vaccination centres at these hospitals but nothing happened. Medical superintendent of Lata Mangeshkar Hospital Dr Harsh Deshmukh told TOI, “Government allowed vaccination of only pre-registered citizens at our centre. We will not do on-spot registration and vaccination as being done in government centres. There is no limit but initially we have kept target of covering 100 people.” With arrival of doses, NMC is likely to increase centres at its hospitals and government hospitals where vaccination will be free of cost. Till now, all districts were giving jab to age-appropriate groups using doses received for healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs). In two days, 6,655 from age-appropriate groups took the jab in the region. With receipt of 2,21,800 doses, 1,10,900 senior citizens and comorbid can be covered. An official from state’s public health department said, “Doses received are for two shots of beneficiaries. Second dose is supposed to be given after 28 days, as clarified by the government when distributes doses. It also includes 10% wastage. At least double the number of doses is likely to come next week, so chances of shortage seems bleak.” On Tuesday, the 11 districts of the region received 1.60 lakh doses of Covishield. Six districts — Bhandara, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Amravati, Buldhana and Washim — also received 61,800 doses of Covaxin. Earlier, the region had received 5,75,760 doses. With latest lot, total number of doses has increased to 7,97,560. ---------------------------- District-Wise Receipt Of Doses District-------Doses Nagpur------49,900 Bhandara---19,000 Chandrapur-10,800 Gadchiroli----23,100 Gondia--------10,600 Wardha-------15,400 Ngp Div--1,28,800 Akola--------12,700 Amravati----31,100 Buldhana---15,700 Washim----16,800 Yavatmal---16,700 Amt Div---93,000 Vidarbha----2,21,800||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-pvt-hosps-in-city-to-start-c-vax-today-vid-receives-2-22l-doses/articleshow/81300908.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘We waited for 3 years to hear her speak after 3 surgeries’||Ahmedabad: The Masani family of 15 was overjoyed when Mahavir, the eldest brother among five siblings, gave news of a childbirth four years after his marriage. The Sanand-based family was however crestfallen when they got to know that the child had cleft lip, had a hole in her heart, could not hear, had three and four toes on her legs and six fingers on one of her hands.“But I could not easily lose hope – the god had given me a gift in form of a daughter, and as a father I was ready to do anything it takes to ensure that she gets a shot at a better life,” recounts Mahavir, manager of a brick-kiln near Ahmedabad.As Priyanshi, who would turn four this May, is going to sing at an event at GMERS Gandhinagar to mark World Hearing Day on Wednesday along with a group of children who got implants or hearing aids, her parents give a peek into the struggle they went through to ensure that she gets a chance to explore her potential. Thus, the ordeal for the family started with heart surgery when Priyanshi was a little over six months old. Before she turned three, she also underwent the surgery to dislodge her tongue which was stuck to her palate along with the cleft lip. The last challenge was to get her the sense of hearing, and by extension speech.“The MRI scans did not show the canal which was required for the cochlear implant to succeed. We were turned down at four hospitals, as the doctors warned us that the surgery might not be successful. But we were ready to take a chance,” says Mahavir.Dr Neeraj Suri, associate professor at GMERS Gandhinagar and ENT surgeon, said that they performed the surgery without giving any hopes to the family. “But it was successful,” she says. “We waited for three years to hear her speak. Who wouldn’t want their child to speak to them,” says Mahavir, adding that the bottom line is to never give up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/we-waited-for-3-years-to-hear-her-speak-after-3-surgeries/articleshow/81299231.cms||Parth Shastri
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana cops probe gang faking murders as mishaps for insurance money||HYDERABAD: Nalgonda police are investigating a gang allegedly committing murders for insurance money. Police are interrogating a few suspects to find out details about the fraud. The insurance amount in some cases, claimed by the gang members, was nearly Rs 50 lakh. On February 24, D Koti Reddy, 42, a liquor store worker from Kondrapole village in Nalgonda district, was found dead on Addanki-Narketpalli road. Initially, the family thought it was a hit-and-run case. But after the post-mortem, doctor informed police that injuries indicate he was beaten to death and later run over. Police then found out that Reddy’s wife Harika along with a friend and an insurance agent, Raju Naik, had committed the murder. The accused confessed that the murder was for insurance money. Police took Raju Naik into custody and found out that the gang was involved in similar offences. Police discovered that between 2013 and 2017 five similar incidents happened in the surrounding areas of Miryalaguda, where for insurance amount accused had killed the insured person and made the incidents look like road accidents. “Apart from the family members of the victims, there was involvement of insurance agents and bank employees. We are also verifying the role of forensic doctors and police officials,” an official, involved in the probe, said. The gang selects mostly victims suffering from severe illness or people unhappy with their spouses. After striking a deal with the family of the potential victim, the insurance company agent opens a policy in the name of the victim. The gang members even pay a few monthly instalments before killing the victim and then stage a road accident. A part of the claim amount goes to the victim’s nominee, while the rest would be shared equally among the gang members, police said. Police are interrogating the suspects to find out more details about the racket. The main accused, Raju Naik was earlier arrested by Tenali police in 2017 in a similar case and trial is yet to commence in that case. “After AP police arrested him, Raju Naik laid low for a while and started the criminal activity again. The insurance amounts claimed by the gang members is about 50 lakh in each case,” a Miryalaguda police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-probe-gang-faking-murders-as-mishaps-for-insurance-money/articleshow/81301839.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||3,102 applicants to bid for 1,669 liquor shops in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: To allot composite liquor stores, the excise department will organise an e-auction, which it was forced to postpone earlier, on Wednesday. Under the new policy, Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor both will be sold in the same shop. Before organising the e-auction again, the department had to amend the new policy (2021-2022) as it received poor response from traders. On Wednesday, 1,669 shops including 81 from Jaipur will be put under the hammer. An official said, “The lottery will be organised in five phases. Till 6pm on Tuesday, the department received 28,742 registrations out of which 7,581 deposited the application fee to participate in the bid. Till 8pm, total of 3,102 applicants deposited fee to bid for 1669 shops on Wednesday.” To participate in bidding for a shop having a reserve price of Rs 50 lakh, an applicant has to deposit Rs 40,000 application fee along with Rs 50,000 security money. Similarly, for shops having a reserve price more than Rs 50 lakh and up to Rs 2 crore, the application fee will be Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh security money. Applicants will have to pay Rs 60,000 application fee along with Rs 2 lakh security money to bid for a shop having a reserve price more than Rs 2 crore. To lure developers to participate in the bid process, the state finance department also made amendment in the excise policy 2021-2022. As per the amendment, instead of 8% advance annual guarantee fees, the shop owners now have to pay 5%. Similarly, security fees has been reduced to 2% from 4% and will be returned to the shop owners at the end of the financial year. Providing relaxation the department has also allowed the shop owners to deposit 50% of the composite fee after three months and 50% has to be deposited before March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3102-applicants-will-bid-for-1669-liquor-shops-today/articleshow/81300859.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Business||Ambuja Neotia likely to tie up with Taj for 4 new properties||Kolkata: Ambuja Neotia group will develop a hotel in Darjeeling, a safari lodge in Gorumara and resor- ts in Sunderbans and Sikkim’s Labong after it completes ongoing projects. In all the develop- ments, it hopes to tie up with the Taj brand of IHCL. The Ambuja Neotia group currently has five deals with IHCL — two in Kolkata and one each in Kurseong, Gangtok and Patna. They add up to 500 rooms developed at an investment of Rs 800 crore. Of these, the Kurseong property, Taj Chia Kutir, is operational. In addition, the hotel at City Centre II (formerly Swissotel) is being refurbished and Taj Guras Kutir that is under development in Gangtok are expected to open later this year. The timeline for completion of two other properties — a 57-room Taj resort hotel at Eco Park and 126-room Taj hotel in Patna — is 2022-23. Only thereafter will the land parcels in Darjeeling, Gorumara, Sunderbans, Labong be taken up for development, said group chairman Harshvardhan Neotia. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ambuja-neotia-likely-to-tie-up-with-taj-for-4-new-properties/articleshow/81300882.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Implementation of NEP left to boards of UoH schools||Hyderabad: Implementation of the national education policy (NEP) was has been left to the board of studies in respective schools of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) in the academic council (AC) meeting held on Tuesday. “We strongly opposed the implementation of NEP and also gathered support from some of the faculty members. Following this, the AC decided to leave the matter to the respective board of studies in each school,” said Abhishek Nandan, president, UoH students union. With respect to the UoH entrance test being given to the National Testing Agency (NTA), it was decided that the test will be held by the university. “Many professors were of the view that tying up with the NTA will expand the avenues of the university entrance exam. Faculty members from the social sciences departments opposed the move and suggested that the university should continue to hold the exam independently,” said Gopi Swamy, general secretary, students union. The meeting witnessed protests from various student organisations. While the Students Federation of India (SFI) opposed the NEP implementation and the NTA examination, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) demanded establishment of a committee to implement the recommendations of NEP, 2020. The life sciences building where the AC meeting was held witnessed strong sloganeering from both the student organisations. “The academic council discussed in detail implementation of National Education Policy and about whether UoH should join a common national entrance exam for our admissions or continue like now. We will take some decisions on these in the next AC meeting on March 26,” said Vinod Pavarala, spokesperson of UoH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/implementation-of-nep-left-to-boards-of-uoh-schools/articleshow/81300912.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Virus claims scribe’s life||Jaipur: A senior journalist, Sanjay Bohra, 50, died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital in Jaipur on Tuesday. He contracted the infection recently and was rushed to RUHS Hospital when his condition deteriorated five days ago. His wife and daughter also tested positive. Bohra had worked with several newspapers during his 24 years in journalism. City’s journalists and politicians condoled his death. “Sad to learn about the passing away of senior journalist Sh. Sanjay Bohra. His contribution in the field of journalism shall always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to his family members& friends in this hour of grief, may God give them strength. May his soulRIP.#Rajasthan,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted. “When he was brought to the hospital five days ago, his condition was not good. His oxygen saturation was not upto the mark. We immediately put him on oxygen support. But, his condition continued to deteriorate and we had to put him on ventilator,” said Dr Ajit Singh, superintendent, RUHS hospitals. Another city’s senior journalist Nanhe Khan passed away on the same day, who had made his contribution in sport reporting for decades due to age-related illness, he was 70.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-claims-scribes-life/articleshow/81300902.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Varanasi||Sanskrit scholar from Spain receives gold medal from guv||Varanasi: A Sanskrit scholar from Spain was awarded gold medal and a degree of Acharya by UP Governor Anandiben Patel at the convocation of Sampurnanand Sanskrit University on Tuesday. The scholar, Maria, gave credit to his guru for her academic feat and said that she came to Varanasi as she wanted to learn Sanskrit. After completing (graduation), she then cleared the Acharya (PG) examination in Purva Mimansa. “I am very happy to have received the gold medal from the UP Governor,” she said, adding that she wanted to see Sanskrit being propagated across the world. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sanskrit-scholar-from-spain-receives-gold-medal-from-guv/articleshow/81300911.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||HC clears decks for RAS 2018 recruitment||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday cleared the way for the recruitment of RAS 2018 by cancelling the single bench order. The single bench in December last year had stayed the interview and merit list directing the RPSC to prepare a revised merit list with a common minimum qualifying mark for all categories of candidates instead of different qualifying marks for different categories.The RPSC had declared different cut-off marks for various categories which the single bench had declared illegal.The division bench of Justice Sabina and Justice M K Vyas gave the order on an appeal by the RPSC and the state government against the single bench order. The division bench upheld the merit list of RAS and allied services examination 2018 and given the green signal to go ahead with the recruitment as per the earlier merit list.“The court set aside the single bench order and directed the RPSC to carry on with the interviews per the previous merit list. The selection process will continue as per the previous merit list prepared on 1:5 ratio,” said M F Baig, counsel for the RPSC.The single bench order had said, “The action of the RPSC in laying down different cut-off marks for different categories is prima facie illegal.”The RPSC had to determine a common qualifying mark and if persons from SC/ST category are not found to be available, relaxation up to 5% of such qualifying marks has been allowed for them alone.”The single bench had also ordered to include more candidates for interview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-clears-decks-for-ras-2018-recruitment/articleshow/81300872.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Retd principals wait for pensions||Ahmedabad: As many as 15 principals, who retired from grant-in-aid colleges, have made a representation before the state higher education department, asking that their pension benefits be released, as they have been denied the benefit of this for the last year. These principals have not been granted post-retiral benefits in the form of pensions because a circular issued by the finance department last year made it obligatory for retired teachers of grant-in-aid colleges to establish their continuity in service, in case of changing jobs with different institutions, to be entitled to pension benefits. This was earlier applicable for teachers at government colleges only. These principals found it difficult to gather proof of service continuation and complained about other government departments not cooperating. The principals’ association also raised this issue with the government. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/retd-principals-wait-for-pensions/articleshow/81299248.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Hope for revival in case merger plan nixed, says Rupee Bank||Pune: The city-based Rupee Cooperative Bank, while announcing the extension of its banking licence by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), said in case its proposed merger with the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB) did not go through, it would apply for a revival. The Rupee Bank in a statement said barring a negative net worth, its auditors or the RBI had no negative remarks about the bank in their inspections. The bank had also made a cumulative profit of around Rs53 crore over the last five years. Its losses at the end of January stood at around Rs625 crore, with deposits at the bank, run by RBI-appointed administrators, were around Rs1,300 crore, the statement said. Its liquidity stood at around Rs800 crore till January-end. The joint merger proposal by the Rupee and MSC Banks were submitted in January 2020. But after various clarification and compliance requirements by the RBI, a revised proposal was submitted by the state cooperative department on November 24, 2020, which had been awaiting clearance from the central bank. “The proposal for the merger with MSCB is still pending with the RBI, and we await the RBI’s decision. However, if it doesn’t materialize, we shall request the RBI to grant an in-principle approval to revive and reconstruct the bank, in cooperation with stakeholders such as existing account holders in the Rupee Bank. Deposit liability can be converted to equity, if the depositors agree,” Sudhir Pandit, administrator of Rupee Bank, said. Depositors, however, slammed the revival plan. “It is a misleading picture presented by the current administrators, when the merger is pending, and the inquiry report against the ex-directors and employees is still to be released. The bank still has over Rs1,300 crore in deposits and we demand our money back with 7% interest,” said a depositor at the Rupee Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hope-for-revival-in-case-merger-plan-nixed-says-rupee-bank/articleshow/81299268.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||15 days after double murder, KTR hints at new law for lawyers’ safety||Hyderabad: A fortnight after lawyer couple Gattu Vaman Rao and his wife PV Nagamani were murdered near Peddapalli, TRS working president KT Rama Rao said the state government will try to bring a new advocates’ protection Act for their safety. He said the government will study if there is any such Act in other states before bringing it here. Addressing lawyers in Telangana Bhavan on Tuesday, KTR said he will talk to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on the new advocates protection Act. “The CM is very particular on maintaining law and order. There is no compromise on this issue,” he said and added that all the accused in the lawyer couple murder case would be punished as per the law. KTR’s remarks assume significance as lawyers have been demanding a special protection Act for themselves in the aftermath of the killing of Vaman Rao and Nagamani on February 17. KTR said he felt bad over the killing. He said a local TRS leader was immediately suspended from the party following allegations against him in the murder case. The TRS is focusing on enlisting the lawyers’ support for the March 14 graduates MLC elections, especially Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar where the BJP has fielded sitting MLC N Ramchander Rao, who himself is a lawyer. During his speech, KTR recalled the role played by the advocates association during the separate Telangana movement and how the TRS has worked with them closely. He said when AP was united, none of the advocates was made an advocate general. But, the TRS government has made this happen, he said and added that the government has taken up several welfare measures for the advocates. He said the TRS government has developed the state on all fronts by creating over 14 lakh jobs directly and indirectly. “The BJP and Congress are making baseless allegations against the TRS government on social media. Ramchander Rao should tell what has Narendra Modi government has done for the lawyers. He did not talk about high court division. You (lawyers) should expose these lies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-days-after-double-murder-ktr-hints-at-new-law-for-lawyers-safety/articleshow/81300906.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Tweaking building regulation can reduce housing cost by 34%: Study||Ahmedabad: At the end of each decade, the apex urban development authority in Ahmedabad AUDA, suggests an urban development plan for the city. The aim is to ensure optimum use of land so that essential services like housing and civic services become affordable and accessible to all. But today, urban experts argue, Ahmedabad’s existing building regulations impose costs on building construction, making them less affordable to middle-income and low-income households, and deprive them access to legally built housing, and fuel the formation of slums.In a research paper by urban planners from Cept University — Bimal Patel, Auburn University, US and Sweta Byahut — and independent planner Brijesh Bhatha, the experts have claimed that rationalizing existing building regulations can reduce housing cost by 34% and increase supply by as much as 75% without significantly lowering quality or compromising safety.The much needed tweaks that experts have suggested is an alternative layout plan which can accommodate 1,120 housing units, organized in 20 buildings of four floors each, each floor having 8 units as against the present affordable housing plans where only 640 units have been constructed on the same site. The experts have also suggested that since most affordable houses refuse to go beyond 3 floors to avoid elevators, an existing floor can be constructed to take total building height to 15 metres and avoid elevators. “The total area of internal streets in the urban housing should be increased form 29% to 32%. Also by decreasing minimum distance between two buildings from existing 4.5 metres to 3 metres can save space,” claims paper. Also the FSI for affordable houses has been suggested to be raised to 1.8 from present 1.2 for buildings for optimum use of space.The experts point out that only 40% Amdavadis can actually afford the existing formal sector housing in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tweaking-building-regulation-can-reduce-housing-cost-by-34-study/articleshow/81299282.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Varanasi||Students of IIT-BHU shortlisted for startup award||Varanasi: The students of IIT-BHU have been shortlisted for the prestigious one-million-dollar startup award of the Hult Prize Foundation. The Foundation announced that Appedata, a startup impact enterprise founded by Akarsh Vatsa, Shashwat Khare and Vibhanshu Chaubey of IIT-BHU has been shortlisted for the 2021 Hult Prize US1M Challenge regional final round. In partnership with the United Nations Office of Partnerships, the Hult Prize Foundation organizes the world’s largest startup program aimed at social impact and offers a grand startup prize of US$1 million awarded at the United Nations Headquarters on an annual basis. “It’s an amazing experience being selected for the next round and we truly believe our idea can and will change the world,” said Shashwat. The team is now preparing for the next stage where they will travel to the Hult Impact Summit in Kuala Lumpur. This coming spring, where they will pitch for a coveted spot in the Hult Prize Global Accelerator - a best in class programme, regularly ranking as the world’s number one accelerator for social impact. According to them, this year’s 2021 Hult Prize Challenge asks entrepreneurs to rethink food and build the foundations of a venture that will create jobs, stimulate economies, reimagine supply chains and improve the overall outcome for 10,000,000 people by 2030.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/students-of-iit-bhu-shortlisted-for-startup-award/articleshow/81300944.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||‘Don’t lower Covid guard, follow social distancing’||Jaipur: A lot of citizens who followed Covid protocols for almost a year and started stepping out now are getting infected with the virus as people outside are not following the protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Doctors said people should continue to take necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the virus.Take the example of a 45-year-old man, who remained indoors following Covid protocol, but when the cases reduced, he started moving out and got infected with the virus. “We are not reporting cases of re-infection, almost all the cases we are witnessing are first timers. They are those who have followed the protocol during lockdown and post-lockdown. Since they do not have any antibodies to fight against Covid, they get infected easily. Though daily new infections have dipped, people who are stepping out of their houses should continue to follow Covid protocols,”said Dr Ajit Singh, superintendent of RUHS Hospital. The restrictions, which were imposed earlier, are no more in effect. The health department along with home department have been creating awareness and enforcing strict implementation of Covid protocol. Despite that, a lot of people can be seen flouting the norms as they do not wear masks and defy social distancing guidelines. The state reported 102 new infections on Tuesday taking its overall tally to 3,20,557. The casualty figures stand at 2,787. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur(19), Udaipur (14), Jodhpur (14), Kota (14), Rajsamand (13), Ajmer (6), Barmer(6), Pratapgarh (4), Banswara (4), Hanumangarh (2), Baran (1), Bharatpur (1),Bhilwara (1), Bikaner (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Jhunjhunu (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dont-lower-covid-guard-follow-social-distancing/articleshow/81300939.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||3 ministers take Covid-19 vaccine||Thiruvananthapuram: As part of confidence-building measures among the people on the Covid-19 vaccine, health minister K K Shailaja, along with revenue minister E Chandrashekaran, took the vaccine at Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. Meanwhile, minister of ports and museums Kadannappally Ramachandran got the shot from a hospital in his home district, Kannur. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is likely to take the vaccine on Wednesday. All the cabinet ministers have decided to take the Covid-19 vaccine in the state in the coming days, it is learnt. The health minister said there is tremendous response to the Covid-19 vaccine from the general public. Even though there are some technical glitches in getting registered for the vaccination, it is being rectified now. The minister said till date, along with the health care workers and frontline warriors, over four lakh people have taken the Covid-19 vaccine. Not even a single issue of side effects after taking the vaccine has been reported in the state. At present over thousand vaccination centres have been set up in the state and the people are responding well for the vaccination. A mass vaccination camp was also organised in the state capital for which there was a good response, she added. Urging people to take the second dose also without any fail after 28 days, Shailaja said they should not assume that they would be immune after receiving the first dose. Immunity would be achieved only 14 days after that, she said, adding people should be vigilant till then. The minister said the state has been fighting against the pandemic scientifically. Even though the first case in the country was reported in Kerala, the state witnessed the peak last in the country. When the caseload had a rapid increase in other states, there was also a corresponding increase in the death rate. However, in Kerala we could bring down the death rate. The percentage of deaths that has occurred in the state is still 0.4%. It has also to be noted that the deaths due to other diseases also came down during this period here. Even the sero-survey conducted by the ICMR in the state had found that the caseload was very low here, said Shailaja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/3-ministers-take-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/81298195.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Month-long wait for vaccine date leaves seniors upset||KOLKATA: Seventy-one-year-old Karuna Singh had been waiting for the launch of the vaccination programme for senior citizens. When the gateway opened on Monday, the Alipore resident registered herself on the Co-WIN portal with the hope of getting inoculated immediately. But she was disappointed when she saw that she had been allotted a time slot on March 28 at Woodlands Hospital. Singh said the pandemic has hampered her work and her personal life. She works for an organisation dealing with environmental issues and was not prepared for another three-week wait for the shot. “I know some people who got registered on Monday and have already been inoculated. I am puzzled why I have been given such a delayed slot. I have barely stepped out of home all these months. I wanted to visit my children who live in other cities once I get inoculated. But the wait is only getting longer,” said Singh. Singh is not alone, many other senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities are being allotted vaccination dates as late as March-end. Many, who have got slots on March 28, fear they won’t be able to reach their vaccination centres since it’s Dol Purnima. That apart, several others have been allotted vaccination centres that are not situated in the city. Southern Avenue resident Pankaj Maloo had been trying to register his 61-year-old mother Devi since Tuesday morning. He could log on only around 4pm on Tuesday and was surprised to find that his mother’s booking was confirmed on March 28 and that too at ILS Hospital in Howrah. “I wonder if this is due to an error in the system. We live a stone’s throw away from AMRI Salt Lake and my mother has got a hospital in Howrah on a day when everything would be shut in Bengal. I wonder whether there will be any vaccination on that day,” said Maloo. Bishnu (58) and Kanta Mittal (56) of Hazra, too, have been given March 28 as their vaccination date. The couple with co-morbidities, however, have been allotted Chittaranjan Seva Sadan that is closer to their resident as the vaccination centre. “I did not find any issue in logging into the portal. But I found no option for choosing the date. So, when I finished the registration for my parents, I found their vaccination date was March 28. I think the website design should be more user-friendly,” said the couple’s son, Ajay Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/month-long-wait-for-vaccine-date-leaves-seniors-upset/articleshow/81299301.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||40 sub-stations in Telangana too faced attack from Chinese hackers||HYDERABAD: On a day central power minister RK Singh denied reports of Chinese cyberattacks leading to a major power outage in Mumbai last year, top Telangana electricity officials said they had received alerts about Chinese malware entering 40 sub-stations from the Central Electricity Authority. Late on Monday evening, the CERT-In (Indian Computer Emergency Response Team) reported from a trusted source that China-based threat actor group command and control servers were trying to communicate with systems belonging to Telangana SLDC (State Load Dispatch Centre) and asked the Telangana power utilities to take all protection and safety measures. The SLDC monitors power supply situation in the state and the malware had entered 40 substations, but efforts by the hackers were successfully thwarted by state government agencies. “After we got an alert from the central authorities, we have removed all malware in 40 substations in SLDC and strengthened our firewall. Telangana is one among seven states that Chinese hackers tried to communicate with the power systems,” Telangana Transco and Genco chairman and managing director D Prabhakar Rao told TOI on Tuesday. He said various measures were taken by TS Transco, including blocking server IPs communicated by CERT-In, temporarily disabled control function for remote operation of circuit breakers from SLDC among other measures. “We ensured smooth power supply to all consumers of the state,” Prabhakar Rao said. Read AlsoChinese hackers target Indian vaccine makers Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech: Security firmA Chinese state-backed hacking group has in recent weeks targeted the IT systems of two Indian vaccine makers whose coronavirus shots are being used in the country's immunisation campaign, cyber intelligence firm Cyfirma told Reuters. India produces more than 60% of all vaccines sold in the world.This is not the first time Telangana power utilities were targeted by the hackers. In April 2019, the website of Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) that supplies power to various districts, including Greater Hyderabad, was attacked by ransomware. The hacker, who had launched Robinhood ransomware attack on TSSPDCL website, demanded ransom in bitcoins. As a result, the services of the TSSPDCL were stalled for three to four days before the IT wing of the power utility successfully removed the ransomware. A New York Times report on Sunday quoted a report that said Chinese hackers were possibly behind the massive October 12, 2020, power outage in Mumbai. But the Union power ministry on Tuesday attributed it to “human error”. They, however, admitted malware getting into north and south load dispatch centres, short of the operating systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-sub-stations-in-t-too-faced-attack-from-chinese-hackers/articleshow/81301846.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Chandrayangutta women feel safer after GHMC fixes street lights||Hyderabad: Commuters regularly using the poorly-lit stretch connecting Keshavgiri in Chandrayangutta to Balapur are finally relieved. Following a grievance aired by a citizen reporter on TOI’s app – about dysfunctional street lights -- the issue has been fixed by civic authorities. The issue was published in these columns on February 2. The same day, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials swung into action and resolved the problem. Locals said that the stretch witnesses very high footfall, and thanked TOI as well as GHMC for addressing their concern on war-footing. “The road is used by dozens of people every day and the visibility has been very poor. The stretch is also used by central government employees. I am happy that the grievance has been resolved before an accident could happen,” said Abdul Aleem a local of the area. Residents said that the stretch had also become unsafe for women due to poor illumination. “Due to poor visibility on the road, people used to feel unsafe and some women I know even avoided using that road,” said R Ashok from Chandrayangutta. “Due to poor Illumination, some youngsters even parked their vehicles there and whiling away time during the wee hours,” he added. GHMC officials said that there were issues with the electric cables. “Our staffers immediately repaired the cables. The issue pertaining to cable points on the poles has been repaired. The lights will be monitored regularly. The staffers have also shared their contact numbers with a few locals so that they can reach out in case of an issue later,” said Subash, GHMC deputy executive engineer, electricity wing. He also said that new lights will be installed soon. “We want to replace the old lights along that stretch with new ones after installing CCTV cameras. Earlier the newly installed lights were stolen,” said the engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chandrayangutta-women-feel-safer-after-ghmc-fixes-street-lights/articleshow/81300941.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||Old Goa locals upset over coastal plan||Panaji: Non-inclusion of houses across four wards and two nullahs linked to the Carambolim lake in the coastal zone management plan (CZMP) and the helipad issue dominated the Old Goa gram sabha on Sunday. The meeting chaired by sarpanch, Janita Madkaiker discussed non-inclusion in the coastal plan of many houses in Sao Pedro, Bainguinim, Dauji and Panelim, along Mandovi river bank. The CZMP plan available in separate sheets is small and difficult to read or understand. Members requested that a government official explain details to them. The areas of Corlim and Carambolim, north of the Carambolim lake - an important birding and diversity area - have been shown as ‘influence zone’. But some areas in Old Goa and two nullahs which drain rain water from the old city into the lake have not been shown. Members expressed concern about operating a seaplane from the Old Goa jetty and the proposed helipad at Dauji. Aircraft flying in the area may endanger monuments at world heritage sites, they said. Madkaiker said there is no proposal for using the helipad and only a compound wall was inaugurated at the site. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/old-goa-locals-upset-over-coastal-plan/articleshow/81301848.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Owaisi slams Ranjan Gogoi for remarks||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi took potshots at former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi while expressing his support for farmers and warned Bihar government of chakka jam in Seemanchal, reports Nabinder Bommala. “What did you do to unshackle judiciary, today Narendra Modi made him an MP, his government made him,” said Owaisi, reacting to Gogoi’s remark on the judiciary at a conclave. He said that as he is ex-CJ he may not be addressed as Lordship. “MIM has the power to do a chakka jam in Bihar. If Nitish Kumar’s government does not render justice to people of Seemanchal, then we will resort to chakka Jam in Seemanchal and close the National Highway,” said Owaisi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisi-slams-ranjan-gogoi-for-remarks/articleshow/81300933.cms||Nabinder Bommala
March 3, 2021||Delhi||‘Info leak’: Every accused has right to fair trial, says court||NEW DELHI: After the issue of the contents of a police chargesheet related to the northeast Delhi violence being “leaked” to the media again cropped up during a hearing, the court noted that media reporting, particularly on social media, remained “charged up” all the time. The court further pointed out that there was a world of difference between an accused and a convict. “There should, at least, be a disclaimer when reporting whether it is the version of the police or prosecution or the accused instead of presenting as if it is order of the court,” said additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat. “Labelling the police as completely unfair or the accused as a convict itself is not a healthy sign and which impacts the process of the criminal justice system. The principle and tenets of free and fair trial are sacrosanct and inviolable,” he added. Observing that the media is “free to cover the stories”, the judge said “but they must also be conscious of remaining careful and objective in their approach. It is the fundamental right of every person accused of any offence to be provided the opportunity to defend himself”. Rawat pointed out that “there is also a disturbing trend about the reporting of the exact contents of the chargesheet before cognisance is even taken or counsel for the accused are provided copies of it”. It is one thing to report generally about the chargesheet, “but quite another to reproduce it as it is and thus, obviously, the question of leakage would arise”. He called it “grossly unfair and unjustified” and said “the court expects that it would not occur in future”. A few of the accused and their counsel alleged that the media carried extracts and played the video footage even before the court took cognisance of the chargesheet. Advocate Adit S Pujari, counsel for Devangana Kalita, urged the court that he be supplied a copy of the chargesheet before cognisance is taken. The media has a copy even before the accused, he argued. Pujari also played a video, submitting that police hadn’t investigated the aspect of other such clips. “Has police investigated why these cameras are being broken (by police personnel)?” Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad pointed out that the copy of a chargesheet could not be supplied before the cognisance was taken. He stressed that various media reports had tried to create their own narrative against police. Following the submissions, activists Umar Khalid, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Sharjeel Imam and Khalid Saifi raised the issue of media trial and how it was impacting their rights of fair trial and well-being. “Media reports have held us guilty before the trial. It is happening again and again,” said Khalid. He also pointed out that the accused were not rioters, but activists. Saifi also addressed the court from jail, stating that he had asked for a 20-page explainer as he couldn’t understand the exact charges from the chargesheet. Due to media reports, Saifi said, he was being labelled a terrorist. “Because my name is Khalid, I am a terrorist.” The court subsequently took cognisance of the offences under IPC sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) alleged against the 18 accused. But the judge also pointed out, “During the proceedings, an important question of media trial was raised. It is indubitably true that every accused has the fundamental right to free and fair investigation as also trial.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/info-leak-every-accused-has-right-to-fair-trial-says-court/articleshow/81301025.cms||Aamir Khan
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Doctors tell elderly to take jabs as they are most vulnerable||JAIPUR: Vaccination drive for people above 60 years of age has come as a welcome relief as they are most vulnerable when it comes to fatalities from the virus. Acording to the health department, more than 1,500 people above the age of 60 years have died of Covid in the last one year, which comprises 55% of the total fatalities in the state. Doctors treating elderly Covid patients have advised them to get the jab without delay. Doctors, who have been treating Covid patients since the first case was reported, say the elderly population require more intensive care than the younger population. “People aged 60 and above have low immunity to fight against most of the diseases. They also have associated comorbid condition such as high blood pressure, diabetes, heart problems, asthma and cancer and their immunity is compromised. There are statistics which show that over 55% Covid deaths in state are above 60 years. They are more prone to develop severe complication due to Covid, which is why the government also wants to give them protection on priority basis,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, head of the expert Covid-19 treatment group constituted by the state government and principal and controller, SMS Medical College. Among elderly people, course of disease tends to be more severe resulting in higher mortality. “It is the same disease, but when infected young population, it remains mild to moderate in majority of the cases. The associated comorbid conditions in elderly people is the major reason of complications due to Covid, which is why elderly population should get vaccinated against Covid to have protection,” said Dr Virendra Singh, member of state advisory committee on Covid. Elderly people, for the past one year, have spent a restricted life following Covid protocol to ward off risk of getting infection. They have not travelled to other cities and other countries to stay safe. The doctors say that the time has come for the elderly to get the jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-tell-elderly-to-take-jabs-as-they-are-most-vulnerable/articleshow/81300913.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Business||Coal India import substitution drive||Kolkata: Coal India’s (CIL) drive for import substitution backed by a set of multiple measures facilitated coal consumers to opt for around 71 million tonne (MT) of indigenous coal ending February of the current FY.According to CIL, Predominant among them was a robust 43.5 MT increase in e-auction bookings during April-February, 2021, compared to the year-ago period.“The slew of measures undertaken by CIL include allowing its coal companies to sign MoUs under import substitution with 17 power plants linked with them. Additional coal was offered to non-regulated sector (NRS) against fuel supply agreements up to 100% of annual contracted quantity (ACQ). Trigger level for the power sector was increased from 75% to 80%. ACQ for power plants was enhanced to 100% of normative requirement from 90%,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coal-india-import-substitution-drive/articleshow/81300974.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||2,060 people sans masks pay fines for violating norms||Pune: Police on Tuesday penalized 2,060 people across the district for not wearing face masks while moving around in public places. Those fined were in violation of the Covid-19 norms. The police collected Rs7,76,300 in fine from them. The Pune city police cracked the whip on 1,222 people for violating the face cover norms put in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus and collected a penalty amounting to Rs5,98,200. The Pimpri Chinchwad police took action against 66 people and recovered from them Rs33,000 in fine. The Pune rural police, on the other hand, collected a fine of Rs1,45,100 from as many as 772 people. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation also took action against 13 people and collected Rs13,000 in fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2060-people-sans-masks-pay-fines-for-violating-norms/articleshow/81299313.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Cos must encourage youth for entrepreneurship: Guv||Jaipur: Industry should encourage and facilitate the youths who want to take up a career in entrepreneurship because startups have a huge potential for contributing to the economic progress of the country and create jobs, said governor Kalraj Mishra on Tuesday. Addressing the business community at an event organized by CII-Rajasthan, Mishra said that today the youths in general want to complete the studies quickly and do a job. “This thinking has to be changed. Those who pursue technical or higher studies also need to be given the ecosystem by the companies to develop their skills further,” added the governor. He said that if the youths of the state are given professional training, they will play a key part in attracting investments in the state and industry bodies like CII should facilitate such training. Drawing attention to tourism, Mishra said there is a lot of potential in tourism sector. “I believe if the tourism potential of Rajasthan is explored and marketed effectively by turning the internet into a ‘tournet’, then its far-reaching presence can be utilized to raise the level of income of the local people.” Secretary industries and MD RIICO Ashutosh Pednekar said the state is set to provide state of the art industrial land to global investors at its Petroleum, Chemicals & Petrochemicals Investment Region (PCPIR) by July2021. “PCPIR is emerging as a lucrative investment destination in petrochemicals and ancillary industries due to advantages of location, connectivity, resources and policy incentives being offered by the government.We are expecting huge job opportunities in the PCPIR region,” added Pednekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cos-must-encourage-youth-for-entrepreneurship-guv/articleshow/81299314.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Missing prof’s body fished out of well||Chennai: Three days after an engineering college professor, Gopalakrishnan, went missing from his house in Mugalivakkam, police fished out his body from a well. A few residents of Malayambakkam alerted fire and rescue services personnel about a body floating in the well. Police established Gopalakrishnan’s identity from a man-missing complaint his father had lodged. Preliminary interrogations revealed that the 47-year-old was not on good terms with his wife, Priya. Following a quarrel last month, she left for her parents’ home. Since then, Gopalakrishnan was disturbed and remained indoors, police said. On February 27, he left home informing his father that he was going to a temple in Mangadu. When he did not return, his father filed the complaint at the Mangadu police station. The man’s phone was switched off, police said. Police distributed Gopalakrishnan’s photographs in the locality and searched for him with the help of CCTV camera footage. Police said the body that was fished out had decomposed. An investigating officer said Gopalakrishnan might have taken his life although he did not leave behind a suicide note. “There were no external injuries on the body,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/missing-profs-body-fished-out-of-well/articleshow/81299321.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||After transplant, 13-year-old becomes youngest heart recipient in east India||KOLKATA: A 13-year-old boy from Odisha underwent a successful heart transplant surgery at a Howrah hospital on Tuesday. He became the youngest such patient in eastern India. This was also the second paediatric heart transplant in Bengal. The transplant was possible after the family of Basudeb Das Adhikari agreed to donate his organs after the 21-year-old Sabong resident was declared brain dead in the city. Adhikari had met with a road accident post-midnight on February 27. He was riding his bike back home after attending a musical soiree. When he did not return home till late at night, his family started calling him up but there was no response. The worried family launched a search and later he was found lying in a pool of blood with severe head injury about 3 km from his house. “We found him around 3.30 am in that condition. It seems an animal had come in his way. In order to save the animal, he slammed the brake and met with the accident,” said cousin Nanda Das Adhikari. The youth was rushed to the Midnapore Medical College where the primary treatment was done. But as the CT scan report suggested severe head injury, the family took him to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on February 28. “On Monday, we were told that he was brain dead and the condition was irreversible. They counselled us for donating his organ. He got married a few months ago and his wife conceived two months ago. But we consented to the donation as it would give a new lease of life to at least four persons,” said the accident victim’s cousin. The heart was allotted to Narayana Superspecialty Hospital (NHS). The ambulance carrying the heart left Apollo at 4pm to reach the Howrah hospital where the transplant team was ready for the surgery on the 13-year-old boy from Keonjhar in Odisha. “The boy suffers from Ebsteins anomaly which is a congenital heart condition usually treated by advanced valve repair surgery. But by the time the parents came to us, his condition had deteriorated. The disease had reached the end stage,” said Debasis Das, cardiothoracic and heart transplant surgeon. The NSH team completed the surgery and shifted the boy to ICU around 9.20pm. This was the second paediatric heart transplant at the facility. The first one was done on a 17-year-old girl during pandemic on August 17, 2020. While the liver and kidney were allocated to Apollo, the other kidney went to SSKM Hospital through ROTTO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-transplant-13-year-old-becomes-youngest-heart-recipient-in-east-india/articleshow/81299317.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Jawan from Jhunjhunu dies during exercise in Ladakh||JAIPUR: An Army jawan was killed in action in Ladakh on Saturday night after getting buried beneath a tank as the vehicle fell into a ditch. The deceased soldier was part of an Armoured Corps regiment and hailed from Jhunjhunu. He is survived by his wife and two children. The cremation will be held at his native village after his mortal remains are brought there on Wednesday. The jawan was identified as Vikram Singh who hailed from Bhodki village in Jhunjhunu and had joined the Army in 2002 after passing Class XII examination. “We received information through phone that during a routine exercise the tank in which Vikram was patrolling fell into a ditch due to which he suffered fatal injuries. We are in a state of complete shock as he was the youngest of the six siblings. His two children are still very young and we do not know how to tell them about their father’s demise. His wife also fell ill after hearing the news,” said a relative of the jawan. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot also expressed condolences on the martyr’s demise and wrote, “Salute the martyrdom of Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan’s braveheart Lance Naik Vikram Singh Naruka, who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty in Ladakh. My heartfelt condolences to his family. We all stand with them. May they find strength in this difficult time.” The jawan’s mortal remains were brought by flight to Delhi and from there to Jhujhunu by road following which he will be cremated with military honours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jawan-from-jhunjhunu-dies-during-exercise-in-ladakh/articleshow/81300975.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||This Indian team believes in winning: Parthiv||Ahmedabad: Dismissing speculations that India might look for a draw in the fourth and final Test against England here, former India wicket-keeper Parthiv Patel, who announced his retirement from all forms of the game recently, said he was confident that this Indian team would never go in with the mindset of playing for a draw. Even a draw in the final Test starting on Thursday will see the Indian team through to the World Test Championship finals at Lord's. “ This Indian team believes in winning Test matches,’’ said the 35-year-old, in an exclusive interview with TOI. Parthiv, the former Gujarat Ranji captain, also heaped praise on Axar Patel and Jasprit Bumrah, both of whom prospered under his leadership during his Ranji days. Parthiv has undoubtedly been the best skipper as far as Gujarat is concerned (Winning the Ranji trophy, Vijay Hazare and Mushtaq Ali trophy). “Axar has the accuracy much like Anil Kumble who used to bowl stump to stump. Axar can build pressure and deceive the batsmen with his flight. That’s a brilliant quality and he can therefore do well even on pitches which are not turners. Jasprit is a prime example of working hard at the nets and the results are showing,’’ said Parthiv, who earned his Test cap at the age of 17 against England at Nottingham in 2002. On who should come in place of the the speedster from Ahmedabad, Parthiv was prompt in saying that it should be none other than Umesh Yadav. "Umesh bowled well in the pink-ball Test at Adelaide last year before he got injured. Also he has been a brilliant performer in the last few years at home. Thus just like Ishant Sharma got a chance ahead of Mohammed Siraj, I would like to see Umesh getting the opportunity this time,'' said Parthiv, who represented India in 25 Tests, 38 ODIs and 2 T20Is. The former India wicketkeeper had no hesitation regarding the abilities of Rishab Pant. “Without doubt Pant will play this Test also. The way he batted in Australia and the way he kept wickets at Chennai and in the third Test here, Pant showed tremendous improvement in his wicketkeeping,''. However, Parthiv feels that dashing wicketkeeper-batsman Ishan Kishan has deservedly got a chance in the Indian squad for the T20Is. "Whoever gets the opportunity and makes use of the same will play for India for a long time,'' said Parthiv .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/this-indian-team-believes-in-winning-parthiv/articleshow/81299413.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||3,509 people take vaccine in district||Coimbatore: Thousands of senior citizens and middle-aged people with comorbidities flocked to both the private and government vaccination centres in the district to get inoculated on the second day of the drive to vaccinate them. They were found to be more enthusiastic and willing, compared to the health and frontline workers. On Tuesday, 3,509 people were vaccinated, of which 3,249 were senior citizens and middle-aged people with comorbidities. Most of the multi-speciality hospitals in the city achieved their target of 100 doses a day. A large chunk of the people also seemed more comfortable with getting vaccinated at private hospitals. As per the data available with the health department, 53% of the 3,249 people took the vaccine from private hospitals. At least 3,187 beneficiaries took Covishield on the day, mainly because only that could be administered in private hospitals, small government hospitals and primary health centres. The Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), meanwhile, administered Covaxin on 62 beneficiaries. No adverse effects were reported on the second day, at least during the 30 minutes of observation. Big private hospitals said the response was encouraging and they expected the number to spike in coming weeks. Poornima Raja, operations head, Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, said, “More than 60 people turned up for vaccination from 10am to 1pm and 50 of them were aged above 60 years. We expect the numbers to cross 100 a day from tomorrow (Wednesday), as we are getting a lot of inquiries.” More than 70 people were inoculated at the Gem Hospital. “We are getting a lot of inquiries from residential associations and old-age homes, etc. They want to book an entire half day slot and know if walk-ins are allowed,” a hospital spokesperson said. The health department, which has more than 1 lakh doses in stock, is relieved at the good response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3509-people-take-vaccine-in-district/articleshow/81299322.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Chennai||HC seeks govt reply on corpn’s battery carts||Chennai: Social activist K R ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy has moved the Madras high court alleging unauthorised and illegal use of battery-operated vehicles by a private solid waste management agency engaged by Greater Chennai Corporation. Admitting the plea on Tuesday, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the state transport department and the corporation to file their replies in four weeks. Claiming that the battery-operated three-wheelers are being run by the contractor without registration or insurance cover, Ramaswamy wanted the court to initiate action against erring officials who failed to stop the illegal use. “The private contractor of the corporation is plying 3,000 battery vehicles in Chennai and is openly refusing to register them. The state has not initiated action against the plying of such vehicles,” the petitioner said. This is despite the fact that the Tamil Nadu government has exempted payment of registration fee for battery-run vehicles, he said. If any person gets hit by these vehicles, the victim cannot claim compensation for the injuries suffered since the vehicle is neither registered nor insured, Ramaswamy said. This apart, if such vehicles are stolen, it cannot be traced easily without proper registration which would hamper day-to-day collection of garbage in the city, he said. Saying that such three-wheelers are being operated across the city for the past 18 months flouting rules, the petitioner said the authorities are turning a “blind eye” towards the issue despite several complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-corpns-battery-carts/articleshow/81299309.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Raj board’s practicals from April 1||Ajmer: The practical exam of class XII regular students of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education will start from April 1 and end on April 30. The practicals of private students will be April 26 to 30. For conducting the practical examinations, the RBSE has appointed 10,000 teachers as external examiners.Board chairman DP Jalori said for arts and science subjects, there will be 11 practical examinations with 30 marks each and examiners have been directed to load the marks online immediately after conducting the exam in school. The board exams for classes X and XII will start from May 6 and it is expected that more than 20 lakh students will sit for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-boards-practicals-from-april-1/articleshow/81300955.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Varanasi||Sanctum sanctorum of KVT to be out of bounds||Varanasi: Preparations at Kashi Vishwanath temple are in full swing for Mahashivratri which is slated on March 11. This time, devotees will not be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. But they will be able to offer prayers and perform jalabhishek to Lord Vishwanath from the four doors of Garbhgrih. The three-day Mahashivratri Mahotsava will comprise of many performances, including that of Bollywood singer Kailash Kher. During a meeting with officials, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “In view of the possibility of huge crowds gathering at the entry of the temple, devotees will not be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum for sparsh darshan. However, they will get the opportunity to offer prayers from the four doors of Garbhgrih.” Due to the ongoing constructions inside Kashi Vishwanath Dham and of the road between Godowlia and Maidagin, crowd control during Shiv Barat will be a challenging task for the district administration. The commissioner said that the devotees queuing up on Maidagin and Godowlia roads will get entry in the temple premises from Chattadwar and Bansphatak-Dhundhiraj Ganesh Gali points respectively. Devotees standing in queues will be able to watch the the live telecast of the rituals performed inside Garbhgrih on LED screens. A large stretch between Godowlia and Maidagin has been dug up for the construction of roads. Commissioner Agrawal said that agencies concerned have been asked to ensure that this route is made fit for taking out the Shiv Barat on the eve of Mahashivratri. As no vehicular movement will be allowed between Maidagin and Godowlia, the traffic officials have been asked to demarcate areas for parking of vehicles. “The three-day Mahashivratri Mahotsava will commence along the Ganga at Rajghat on the eve of Mahashivratri. On thr inaugural day, local artistes will perform, while a Kavi Sammelan will take place on March 12. On the last day of the mahotsava, Kailash Kher’s performance will be the main attraction,” informed Agrawal. As thousands of devotees also perform Panchkoshi Parikrama on the occasion, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma asked all the agencies concerned to ensure proper cleaning of roads, dharamshalas, halts, police toilets apart from lighting, drinking water facility and other arrangements for devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sanctum-sanctorum-of-kvt-to-be-out-of-bounds/articleshow/81300991.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Kochi||Give the ear, headphones a break||Kochi: The digital learning and work from home (WFH) wherein people use earphones or Bluetooth devices could have long-term impact on the ear if people don’t take precautions, say ENT specialists. Expressing this as a new concern which people may not realize immediately, doctors suggest that people should use the earphones only for their educational or professional purposes and try to avoid using it for hearing music. “Earlier, people would listen to music using these devices very rarely. But since Covid-19, most of us are only digitally connected and hence the use of hands-free devices has increased. Most people engage the ear continuously even after the professional/educational hours and unconsciously raise the volume. This is very dangerous for the hair-cells, which are present in the inner ear, and damage to these cells lead to hearing loss,” said Dr V D Pradeep Kumar, ENT specialist and chairman, Kerala chapter of IMA’s national initiative for safe sound. The ideal normal hearing level is 25 decibels and only sudden loud explosions like gunshot or bomb blast can cause sudden hearing loss. “Those sounds would be at 90 decibels and it could lead to complete deafness. Even if somebody hears sounds of 65 decibels, there could be a temporary loss which could recover in 24-48 hours,” said Dr Abraham Paul, pediatrician. He said that listening in normal volumes would not be a problem. Often in case of such sudden loud sounds, which leads to complete loss of hearing, people rush for medical aid. However, it is not so when the loss is gradual. “The person will not realize and he/she will just keep increasing the volume until a day when they realize that they can’t hear at all. Youngsters who wake up and start listening to music, then sit for their class and then go on to further entertainment and even sleeping with earphones on should be careful. Because it could lead to hearing loss. After your professional/educational use, set the headsets aside and listen to music, which is a safer option,” said Dr Kumar. He said that it is important to remember that there is no medical solution to damaged hair cells of the inner ear. If it is a temporary loss where one feels a humming sound or lack of any sound, it could get corrected in 24/48 hours. The condition is called temporary threshold shift and it can be identified only through an audiogram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/give-the-ear-headphones-a-break/articleshow/81298210.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||MLA gets threat call, caller demands Rs 50L||Hyderabad: Karwan MLA Kausar Mohiuddin has lodged a complaint with the Banjara Hills police alleging that an unknown person threatened to kidnap his son if he did not pay Rs 50 lakh. On Monday evening, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) MLA approached Banjara Hills police with a complaint against the unidentified caller. In his complaint to police, MLA Kausar Mohiuddin mentioned that when travelling to Siddipet on February 28, an unknown person called him at 2.30pm demanding Rs 50 lakh. The MLA went to Siddipet to hold a meeting with local party workers. “After demanding the money, the caller threatened to kidnap my son if I failed to pay the amount,” the complainant alleged. The MLA gave the phone number of the offender to police and a case was registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mla-gets-threat-call-caller-demands-rs-50l/articleshow/81301008.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Water tanker runs over nursing student in Pune||PUNE: A 19-year-old nursing college student, who was riding pillion on a scooter with her friend, was run over by a water tanker on Monday morning at Narhe, off Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. The Sinhagad Road police said the victim, Sakshi Appa Bate (19), was a resident of Dhayari. Her friend, Ragini Balaji Kankule (19), a resident of Kirkatwadi on Sinhagad Road, suffered injuries in the accident. The water tanker driver, Sudam Soma Jadhav (50) of Dhayari, was arrested on Monday night after Kankule lodged a police complaint. According to the Sinhagad Road police, the two students were heading to their nursing college at Narhe on the scooter. Kankule was riding the two-wheeler behind a water tanker on the Abhinav College road in Narhe. The police said water was spilling on to the road from the tanker. The police said the tanker driver all of a sudden applied brakes, compelling Kankule to do the same. Her scooter skidded because of the water on the road, and both the students fell off the two-wheeler as a result. The police said Bate fell in front of the scooter because of the sudden application of the brakes. At that moment, the tanker reversed a bit and Bate came under its rear wheel. Water tankers supply water to many societies in the Narhe village because they do not get tap water. Local residents claimed that many accidents had occurred in the area because of reckless drivers of water tankers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-tanker-runs-over-nursing-student/articleshow/81299325.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: PHED to replace 30-year-old water pipes in 3 localities||JAIPUR: The public health and engineering department (PHED) has decided to lay new pipelines parallel to the old ones in three colonies of the city to tackle the water supply problem. Shayam Nagar, Vasundhara Colony and areas adjoining Sector 7 in Pratap Nagar will get new pipelines to cater to the growing population. The current pipeline was laid in these areas around 30 years ago, after which there has been a massive population and infrastructure growth. Superintendent engineer of city circle south (Jaipur PHED) Satish Jain said tenders of Shayam Nagar and Vasundhara Colony have been floated and the bid will be finalised within 20 days. “After financial sanction, we will immediately apply for road cutting permission so that work can begin soon. We will not be replacing the old pipes but our aim is maximum utilisation of old and new infrastructure. The three areas are growing and have become really congested,” said Jain. Shayam Nagar pipeline will cost around Rs 236 crore, Vasundhara Colony pipeline will be Rs 142 crore and Pratap Nagar tenders will be float within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phed-to-replace-30-yr-old-water-pipes-in-3-localities/articleshow/81300996.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Co-WIN glitch hits drive as turnout goes up at hospitals||KOLKATA: With the Co-WIN portal still not functioning smoothly, senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities swarmed hospitals for vaccine resulting in serpentine queues, with many forced to wait for hours — some had to wait for as long as ten hours — to get inoculated. Some recipients had to be asked to come back on Wednesday as hospitals could not accommodate them on Tuesday. “I reached my vaccination site around 10am with the hope that I would get the shot in the morning itself. But by then there were already a huge number of senior citizens. I got vaccinated only at 8pm,” said Debanjana Biswas (67), a resident of Joka. Dipankar Ghosh, a retired general manager of an IT company, reached AMRI Dhakuria around 2 pm as he was given the afternoon slot. But the Behala resident’s turn came more than five hours late. He was inoculated only at 7.40pm. While the turnout had gone up manifold on Tuesday, technical glitches in the Co-WIN system also slowed down the process with many centres resorting to maintaining the data manually to be uploaded later. “The portal just crashed barely 45 minutes after the inoculation started. Even as it came back within a few minutes, the problem was on and off slowing down the whole process. Dealing with senior citizens is a sensitive issue. A few of them could not wait and they went back,” said an official at RG Kar Medical College where the turnout of 60-plus on Tuesday was almost three times than that of Monday. The vaccination went on till 8.30pm at AMRI Dhakuria. Even as 370 recipients were vaccinated that included 298 senior citizens and six with co-morbidities, it had to send back 246 registered recipients, asking them to return on Wednesday. Around 600 recipients with pre-registration had turned up at the hospital. At AMRI Mukundapur, a total of 330 got vaccinated which included 290 senior citizens, and 12 people with co-morbidities. Eighty-two people had to be sent back. “Both our units faced some glitches on the Co-WIN platform but we are trying to overcome these and vaccinate as many people as possible. Although many could not be vaccinated on Tuesday since the numbers had gone much above our daily limit, we will ensure they get vaccinated in subsequent days,” said Rupak Barua, Group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. At Medica Supersepcialty Hospital, 835 persons turned up on Tuesday, a large number being senior citizens. On Monday, only 123 seniors had turned up. “Number of senior citizens on Tuesday was almost four times of what we had on Monday when we vaccinated a little above 100 recipients only,” said Joy Basu, vice president Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. “The portal was not functioning properly throughout the day. Session sites could not be created as per plan,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director, health services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/co-win-glitch-hits-drive-as-turnout-goes-up-at-hosps/articleshow/81299326.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Cop booked for raping, blackmailing woman in Rajasthan's Alwar||ALWAR: A cop has been accused of raping a married woman on the pretext of marriage and helping her in a domestic violence case for two and half years in Alwar on Tuesday. The cop, ASI Ramjeet Gujjar, posted in Aravalli Viharpolice station has been booked by the Mahila police station. Police say the complainant is a resident of Lal Diggi, Ramanand Nagar in Alwar was married to Malkhan Singh in 2018 who is a resident of Bharatpur. “She had filed a case of dowry harassment in the Mahila police station in Alwar against her husband and visiting the police station regularly for her case. During one visit, she met with Gujjar who offered her help in the case and promised her of arresting her husband,” said the police. The complaint further added that Gujjar lured her into marrying her once she will seek a divorce from her husband. He took the address of the complaint and started visiting her house in Alwar. “He told me that he is a bachelor and raped her first on Dushera in 2018. Since then, he has been raping me repeatedly. He took my objectionable pictures and video and threatened me of dire consequences if I share the incident with anyone,” said the complaint who further alleged that she once became pregnant and her abortion was done in a private hospital by the accused. Choutmal Singh, in-charge of Mahila police station, said that they have registered a complaint and have started investigating the case. “The victim’s medical has been done and we are ascertaining the facts stated by the victim,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-booked-for-rapingblackmailing-woman/articleshow/81301022.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman drops 3-year-old from building in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Upset that her husband was giving a lot of attention to his brother’s three-year-old son, a 21-year old housewife dropped the boy from the second floor of a building in Kummarwadi in Hyderabad on Tuesday. With critical injuries, the boy succumbed while undergoing treatment at a local hospital. Ayesha Bano had married Sujauddin, a muezzin from Kummarwadi Colony in Edi Bazar, 16 months ago. “Ayesha Bano was upset that she has not been able to conceive. Sujauddin was very affectionate towards children and he used to spend a lot of time with his elder brother Ehteshamuddin’s three-year-old son, Numaanuddin. Ayesha was upset with her husband’s affection towards the boy. On Tuesday morning, she dropped Numaanuddin from the second floor of their building,” Bhavani Nagar inspector N Venkateshwarulu said. The boy suffered a severe head injury and he succumbed while undergoing treatment at a local hospital. Police have registered a murder case against Ayesha under Section 302 of the IPC and took her into custody. After post-mortem examination, the boy’s body was handed over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-drops-3-yr-old-from-bldg/articleshow/81301023.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||RIICO plans to develop EV research & mfg zone in NCR||Jaipur: RIICO is planning to develop an Electric Vehicle (EV) Research and Manufacturing Zone in the NCR part of the state to take first mover advantage in the sector. EV sector has been included as one of the thrust sectors in the government’s Industrial Development Policy-2019. A host of incentives such as investment support on SGST, employment subsidy, electricity duty exemption, rebate in power tariffs, stampduty relief, mandi fee exemption, and rebate on land conversion charges areoffered to industry in the Rajasthan Industrial Promotion Scheme-2019. But those sectors classified under the thrust sector get additionalincentives. In the industrial policy, the government has announced that it would separately rollout a new policy for the sector which is in the works nowby the transport department. “We have a throbbing automobile manufacturing ecosystem inthe state, especially in the Bhiwadi and Neemrana area. This will certainly complement our efforts for setting up a cluster for EV segment,” said a senior RIICOofficial. In the recently announced Budget for 2021-22, the governmenthas brought down the criteria for offering incentives to EV and its component manufacturers. Companies with an investment of Rs 25 crore will be eligible for benefits. Earlier, investments of above Rs 50 crore were allowed to avail the incentives. The official said that while Tesla’s entry into India may not have large-scale direct impact on the sector because its cars are very costly and the volume would be very less, but it would certainly expedite thedevelopments in the EV industry. This would require a network of component manufacturers and suppliers. In fact, RIICO has already written to Tesla to consider Rajasthanas a base for its future manufacturing operations, and offered to make land available wherever the company wants. The official said that they are currently on finalizing thelocation where the Electric Vehicle (EV) Research and Manufacturing Zone would come up. Also, the incentives package may be announced in the EV policy to be rolled out soon. To encourage the support infrastructure for EVs, e-chargingand swapping stations were also accorded thrust sector status in the 2021-22 Budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/riico-plans-to-develop-ev-research-mfg-zone-in-ncr/articleshow/81299319.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Denied borewater for 45 days, residents block Avinashi Road||Coimbatore: About 150 residents of Kanjapally village panchayat blocked a portion of Avinashi Road for almost half an hour on Tuesday morning in protest against panchayat officials for not releasing borewater regularly. Residents said they were forced to buy small water tanks every week for the past 45 days, as they didn’t receive borewater. They said even drinking water was supplied only once in 20 days. The residents blocked the road holding empty plastic pots and demanding officials to sort out water supply issues. “We are managing with drinking water they supply once in every 20 days. But for other purposes, we are struggling to get water. Officials could release borewater at least once in every three days,” said S Manikandan, CPM block level committee member. “While borewater supply was irregular earlier, for the past 45 days, they stopped it altogether. The village panchayat president and other officers keep coming up with some excuses like cable and pipe issues, etc,” he said. Most of the families of Kanjapally village, which houses around 2,000 residents, depend on farming for their income. “They spend Rs 500 per week for tank water, which ends up costing Rs 2,000 per month. That’s a huge burden on many families,” Manikandan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/denied-borewater-for-45-days-residents-block-avinashi-road/articleshow/81299355.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Seven pharma barons in 10 from Hyderabad in global billionaire club||HYDERABAD: As many as 10 billionaires from Hyderabad, seven being pharma barons, have made it to Hurun Global Rich List 2021 with a cumulative wealth of nearly $23 billion (Rs 1,65,900 crore). This puts Hyderabad fifth in India after Mumbai with 60 billionaires, Delhi (40), Bengaluru (22) and Ahmedabad (11). As many as 209 Indian billionaires made the cut as compared to 1,058 billionaires from China. Leading city’s billionaire club is Divi’s Lab’s Murali Divi and family at 20th in India and 385th globally with a wealth of Rs 54,100 crore, which is more than double the wealth of second on list -- Aurobindo Pharma’s promoter PV Ramprasad Reddy & family (56th India & 1,096 global) with Rs 22,600 crore. Hetero Drugs’ promoter B Parthasaradhi Reddy & family made an entry onto the coveted global richie list this year with a wealth of Rs 16,000 crore that puts him on third spot in Hyderabad and 83rd in India (1,609 global). The fourth and fifth richest in the city are Dr Reddy’s Labs’ K Satish Reddy & family and GV Prasad along with wife G Anuradha with Rs 12,800 crore and Rs 10,700 crore, respectively. Interestingly, infrastructure and construction biggies have captured the sixth, seventh and eighth spot in the Hyderabad billionaire list and share the 2,383rd rank globally. In terms of India rankings, Megha Engineering & Infrastructures’ P Pitchi Reddy stood on 134th spot with Rs 10,600 crore, My Home Industries’ Rameswar Rao Jupally & family ranked 138th with Rs 10,500 crore and Megha Engineering’s PV Krishna Reddy at 140th place with Rs 10,200 crore. The two remaining billionaires from Hyderabad on the global rich list also include pharma barons -- M Satyanarayana Reddy & family of MSN Labs at 2,530th spot globally (143rd all India) with Rs 9,800 crore and Natco Pharma’s VC Nannapaneni at 2,686 spot (164 India ranking) with Rs 8,600 crore. Anas Rahman Junaid, managing director and chief researcher, Hurun India, said that Indian wealth creation is dominated by cyclical and traditional industries as compared to tech driven wealth creation in USA and China. “When the tech driven wealth creation reaches full potential, India could potentially beat USA in terms of the number of billionaires,” he said. The global rich list this year ranked 3,228 billionaires from 2,402 companies and 68 countries. Interestingly, Asia accounted for the biggest chunk of the world’s billionaires at 51% with 45% of the total wealth, as compared to North America that accounted for 24% of billionaires with 33% of the wealth. As per the report, despite the Covid-19 pandemic the wealth of billionaires globally jumped by US$3.5 trillion (32%) to US$14.7 trillion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-pharma-barons-in-10-from-hyd-in-global-billionaire-club/articleshow/81301855.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Man who collapsed seconds after vax jab in Mumbai wanted to visit Punjab hometown||Mumbai: The family of the Goregaon man who died on Monday soon after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine said the 69-year-old was eager to get inoculated as he had planned a trip to his hometown in Punjab this month. Harjit Singh Kartar Singh Nagi, a retired businessman, had collapsed on the chair within seconds of being administered the 0.5ml vaccine dose at Millat Nursing Home, Oshiwara, on Monday afternoon. Doctors said he crashed even before the syringe could be withdrawn from his arm. Attempts to resuscitate him in the adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) room attached to the vaccination area on the hospital’s first floor and later at its ICU failed. He was declared dead at 5.05pm. He was given the vaccine at 3.37pm. Nagi didn’t go with the plan to get vaccinated, rather he only wanted to find out about the steps. A known case of diabetes and hypertension, he had developed left ventricular dysfunction about six years ago. The family, though, said he was completely fit at present and had even got a go-ahead from their family physician to get vaccinated. “He had gone only to enquire, but on reaching Millat, he found out that it was not too crowded, and he had the necessary documents to get vaccinated,” said Nagi’s son-in-law Pratik Desai. The next thing they heard was that he was critical. Civic officials said his cause of death was under investigation. An autopsy was carried out at Byculla’s J J Hospital on Tuesday. Dr T P Lahane, head of medical education, said the cause of death will be finalised after the histopathology and chemical analysis reports arrive. Dr Talha Dhukka, CEO of Millat Nursing Home, said his doctors believe the death could have been caused by cardiac arrhythmia (heart beats too slowly or too fast). “But it is our assumption, and only autopsy findings can tell definitively. We gave him adrenaline injection too, which should have shown some effect if it was a case of anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction),” he said, adding that the hospital had a physician and cardiac care expert attending to him. Dhukka said the drive at Millat remained unaffected as over 200 got vaccinated on Tuesday. Veteran cardiologist Dr Dev Pahlajani, who consults with Breach Candy Hospital, said a sudden cardiac event can be precipitated by fear or anxiety. “Vaccination is safe even for cardiac patients. In selected cases, those on anticoagulants, may stop their medicines for two days before taking the vaccine,” he said. The family said he was looking forward to his trip to Ludhiana. “He visited a gurudwara every year and had been preparing for the trip,” said Desai. “We hope to get some answers. We still don’t know why he died so suddenly,” he said. The family carried out Nagi’s final rites on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-who-collapsed-seconds-after-vax-jab-in-mumbai-wanted-to-visit-punjab-hometown/articleshow/81416517.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||2 burnt alive in fire, roof caves in at provision store||Jaisalmer: Two persons were charred to death while one suffered serious burn injuries after a provision store caught fire and its roof collapsed on them at Digga village in Mohangarh police station area in Jaisalmer district on Tuesday evening. The injured person was referred to Jodhpur. On getting information, Mohangarh SHO Arun Choudhary reached the spot and started the rescue operation. Local villagers doused the fire. Police have started the investigation. It is told that some inflammable items were kept in the store due to which massive fire broke out. The reasons of fire are being probed. Choudhary said that at 54 RDSBS near Digga village, Kundan Singh runs a provision store. On Tuesday evening, a fire broke out and three persons in the store could not escape in time and in the meantime, the roof of the shop collapsed. Two persons were burnt alive, who were identified as Ramkumar (45), a resident of Rawatsar (Hanumangarh) and Gemar Singh (40), a resident of Salkha (Jaisalmer). He said the shop’s owner Kundan Singh has suffered serious burn injuries and was referred to Jodhpur. Villagers tried to douse fire with their resources and managed to rescue three persons, of which two died on the spot. According to sources, flammable items were sold in the shop illegally and the fire was caused due to a lit bidi/cigarette. The cylinder kept there must have exploded due to which the roof collapsed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-burnt-alive-in-fire-roof-caves-in-at-provision-store/articleshow/81301059.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Child commission rescues 27 boys from unregistered ashram in Chomu||JAIPUR: The state child rights commission has rescued 27 boys from an unregistered ‘ashram’ that was being run in Chomu near Jaipur. All the minor boys are all from the northeast, UP and Nepal. Two boys are yet to be found. Officials alleged that the ashram was being run by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and they suspect that it is a case of child trafficking. Claiming it to be a tip of an iceberg, officials said possibly the children were brought for child labour as the villagers initially protested and helped two of the 29 boys escape when the child commission’s team reached the ashram, Bharatiya Vidya Niketan, late on Monday night. Sangeeta Beniwal, chairperson, Rajasthan State commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) told TOI, “All the rescued boys are minors and aged between 7 and 16 years. They come from states like Nagaland, Meghalaya and few even from Uttar Pradesh as well as Nepal. We had received complaint about this children’s home and last week had asked the caretaker to come to us with the documentation which we found to be incomplete and decided to inspect the shelter ourselves.” Beniwal added, “There is involvement of VHP in this shelter and possibly the support of the villagers as well though we are looking at a violation due to non-registration. None of the boys is from Rajasthan.” VHP leaders, on the other hand, alleged that their ‘charitable’ organisation was being targeted. Suresh Upadhyay, a regional minister of the outfit said, “The inspection and transfer of boys from the shelter is illegal as we had previously run schools for children as well and repeatedly asked the child commission to recognise this centre which they failed to do.” Upadhyay added, “We are not running an orphanage and are helping students from the northeast to pursue their studies with the approval of their parents. Apart from this, even local women practice tailoring skills. In fact, the commission’s claim that two boys ran away is untrue as they stayed with their friends in the village.” The child commission chairperson claimed that during the inspection it was found that the boys were staying in a pathetic condition with inadequate diet. “When we went there, we found that few of the boys were working even at that hour and carrying gas cylinders. When asked about it, they told us that the shelter staff beat them up and made them work,” said Beniwal. She said, “At present 27 boys have been shifted to a shelter in Virat Nagar and after their medical examination, we will speak to them again.” Officials claimed that there was a larger nexus at work which was getting children from far flung places to push them into child labour. According to the team, the children claimed that they have not spoken to their parents for years but want to do so. The state child commission chairperson has asked for registration of FIR, though, the police are yet to receive a formal complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-commission-rescues-27-boys-from-unregistered-ashram-in-chomu/articleshow/81301030.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Dalit activist under protection killed||RAJKOT: A Dalit RTI activist, who was provided police protection after threat to life, was murdered near his house in Sanodar village of Bhavnagar’s Ghogha taluka, on Tuesday evening. The victim Amra Boricha was attacked by some people in sharp-edged weapons and sticks. Boricha died on the spot, but the community members and family refused to take the body for cremation until the assailants are arrested. After receiving threats, Boricha was earlier given SRP unit protection, which was later withdrawn and replaced with Gram Rakshak Dal (GRD) jawans, Dalit rights activists claimed. When contacted, Bhavnagar range IG Ashok Yadav said, “I have handed over the investigation to DySP of SC/ST cell and asked him conduct a detailed probe. We are investigating all the allegation made by the family and activists.” Deputy superintendent of police, SC/ST cell, DV Kodiyatar added, “It’s also a matter of investigation how he was attacked despite having the protection of GRD jawans.” Talking to TOI, Mavji Sarvaiya, a Dalit leader in Bhavnagar alleged: “Boricha was attacked by some people of a community five years ago and he had suffered permanent damage in legs. He was under pressure to withdraw the FIR and settle the issue. His house was set on fire once and his daughter attacked.” Boricha is survived by wife, a daughter and two sons.Boricha’s body was kept in Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dalit-activist-under-protection-killed/articleshow/81298555.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Bengal’s RT-PCR rule for Maharashtra flyers triggers anxiety, confusion||PUNE: Kolkata resident Rajendra Agarwal, who had a flight back from Pune on Sunday noon, was surprised to find Air Asia staff denying him boarding without a negative RT-PCR report. “When he told the staff he didn’t have one, they just said he can come back on Monday with the result,” Agarwal’s son-in-law Pramod told TOI, adding officials remained unmoved when told the test result cannot be procured in such short notice. Agarwal ended up staying another night at his hotel in Pune. On Monday, he booked a SpiceJet flight from Pune to Patna, and then onwards to Kolkata. He paid an additional Rs 15,000, which included money for last-minute tickets and the extended hotel stay. “It’s a lot of hard-earned cash in these troubled times,” Pramod said. The family added that Air Asia has promised a refund. Travel curbs by the Bengal government on passengers from four states, including Maharashtra, has left scores of flyers fuming. The rules require a negative RT-PCR test conducted 72 hours prior to departure — essentially making emergency travel a challenge. Sarmishtha Dutta, a teacher, said, “Last month, my father had a heart attack and I had to rush to Kolkata. I dread to imagine how I’ll deal with such an emergency with this new rule. It's nearly impossible to get an RT-PCR test within a few hours. The Kolkata airport also does not have an on-site RT-PCR test facility for arriving domestic passengers, unlike Pune or Mumbai. Airline sources TOI spoke to — including IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoAir and Air Asia — said they were only following directives. A GoAir source said, “We are checking RT-PCR report of all passengers traveling between Pune and Kolkata and those without it are being denied boarding.” A source from Kolkata airport said an on-arrival RT-PCR test facility (currently available for international travellers) will be activated for domestic passengers next week. Another official said passengers arriving in Kolkata without negative RT-PCR reports were being sent to quarantine centres for tests. “On Sunday, four passengers without the reports were asked to go to quarantine centres for tests,” the official confirmed. Rashmi Singhal, set to travel to Kolkata from Pune next week, is confused. “If I’m travelling to Kolkata on Monday, does it mean now I have to get tested on Friday? Airlines not letting passengers board is harassment. This is making travel riskier, considering the fact that there is no guarantee that one will get the test results in time. Moreover, how does a RT-PCR negative report ensure one is safe at a crowded place like an airport?” A SpiceJet source said that a proper order from the Bengal government is awaited. “We are being a little flexible when it comes to travellers who are making emergency trips. But in other cases, passengers without the negative RT-PCR report have to convince the local staff that they will have the report with them as the flight lands. Currently, the whole thing is based on interpretation, but it cannot be said that all passengers are being allowed,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bengals-rt-pcr-rule-for-maha-flyers-triggers-anxiety-confusion/articleshow/81299370.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 3, 2021||Allahabad||HC sounds caution over Covid, directs adherence to norms||Prayagraj: Reiterating its earlier directions to check the spread of coronavirus, the Allahabad high court on Monday observed that “while normalcy is returning, the people are forgetting that they have to protect themselves from the deadly Covid-19” . The court also directed the police to see that one and all wear masks and non-compliance entails penalties. Hearing a PIL relating to Covid-19, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar further observed, “From the newspaper reports as also from the individuals present in our chamber we have been informed that life was gradually coming back to normal and people were going back to work, etc. It has also been informed that while normalcy was returning people were forgetting that they had to protect themselves from the deadly Covid-19 virus. It has also been informed that marriages and other social functions were taking place without observing any of the guidelines framed by the state government for Covid-19.” Fearing that the virus might once again engulf the Uttar Pradesh state, the court once again reiterated its earlier directions that people must observe hundred per cent masking, and also directed the police to see that one and all wear masks. “Non-wearing of masks should entail penalties as have been enumerated in the Pandemic Act and other relevant laws,” the court directed. Besides, the court directed that the crowding should be stopped with immediate effect. In addition to it, the court also directed that the control of number of guests in marriages and other social functions, etc., should be observed and any violation should be strictly punished. “Schools and colleges, where small children go, should not be asked to start physical classes. If, however, for any reason schools are physically functioning then all guidelines issued by the state government should be followed in letter and spirit,” the court further directed. The court also directed that the institutions where students above the 10th class have to compulsorily attend classes, it should be seen that they observe social distancing and that they also wear masks. In addition to it, the court also directed that the eateries should see that no food is served in the open, that is to say, people should take covered food in packets and should eat them at their home. “Within the restaurants, table should be laid in such a manner that social distancing is properly observed,” the court directed. Regarding its earlier stand, the court said, “With the decrease in the number of cases country-wide and also with the decrease in number of corona cases in the city of Prayagraj, we had put our guards down. In the recent past, it has been noticed that the population of state of Uttar Pradesh as also the administration, being guided by the fact that the number of cases were lessening, had reduced the strictness vis-a-vis the wearing of masks.” The court passed these directives on March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-sounds-caution-over-covid-directs-adherence-to-norms/articleshow/81301057.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Five days after theft, ‘bird remains’ found in Kolkata zoo||KOLKATA: Body parts of a bird — suspected to be that of one of the toucans that were stolen from Alipore zoo last week — were allegedly found on the zoo premises on Tuesday. While zoo director AK Samanta could not be contacted despite repeated attempts, sources from local Watgunge police station claimed that the beak and feathers of a bird were found inside the zoo. They claimed that the body parts were found on a spot where the enclosure of the toucans is located. According to police sources, wildlife officials have collected samples from the spot to do forensic tests to find out if they are body parts of toucan. It may be noted that three exotic birds — two toco toucans and one keel-billed toucan — were stolen from their enclosure inside the zoo on February 25. The birds were rescued by BSF while being traded “illegally” last year — in August and December. The zoo is now left with only one keel-billed toucan, which was also rescued last year. The thieves had seared open the iron net of the shelter attached to the enclosure — there was a 3ft X 3ft opening in the net. A day after, three security personnel were suspended by the zoo and the case was taken up Kolkata Police’s detective department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-days-after-theft-bird-remains-found-in-zoo/articleshow/81299388.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kochi||Galaxy frog selected flagship species at Mathikettan park||Idukki: Galaxy frog (Melanobatrachus indicus) has been selected as a flagship species in Mathikettan Shola National Park in Idukki. After 15 years, in 2019 the Galaxy frog was spotted by EDGE (evolutionarily distinct and globally endangered) fellow Rajkumar K P and his team in the national park. Munnar wild life warden R Lakshmi said, “By selecting the frog as the flagship species of the park, we can conduct a micro-level study about it. For the first time, such a level of study was conducted in the park. Mathikettan Shola National Park is known as for its rare species of flora and fauna.” “As part of the management plan, the entire shola ecosystem will be preserved. In addition, we can also study the details of other rare species in the park,” Lakshmi said. “The 15-year management plan also aims to develop the ecosystem and protection activities in the park. A mobile app was also developed as part of the management plan,” she added. Galaxy frogs, in the genus of narrow-mouthed frogs in the family of microhylidae, are listed as endangered by the IUCN (International Union of Conservation of Nature) red list. The frog, though small in size, is known by that name due its galaxy-like appearance with striking blue and yellow colour on its skin. Looking like a microcosm of a galaxy with a million stars, the galaxy frog is one of the 13 amphibian species of around 8,280 in the world listed as most important in terms of EDGE. Galaxy frog grows almost up to 3cm in size and is one of the rarely-encountered frogs in India. The first sighting of the frog was reported in 1878 at Anamudi in Munnar by a British scientist, and since then it remained elusive for long. In Mathikettan, it was first sighted by Dr Bhupathi and team in 2004. The forest department provided a special training to 10 forest officials at Shola National Park last week about the problems faced by the Galaxy frog and the precautions they can take to protect it from extinction. The officials were also trained to collect information on other frogs, snakes and lizards and weather data from the park, said Lakshmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/galaxy-frog-selected-flagship-species-at-mathikettan-park/articleshow/81298266.cms||Sandeep Thomas
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Girl and mother die, sister critical as slab collapses||Ahmedabad: A 35-year-old woman and her four-year-old daughter were killed, and her 12-year-old daughter suffered grievous injuries when a concrete slab of a 50-year-old building collapsed at Kadiakui on Relief Road in Kalupur on Tuesday evening. A woman resident of the building was rescued by police and Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) personnel. The collapse occurred when the woman and her daughters were passing under the dilapidated building. The deceased were identified as Naziyabano Shaikh, 35 and Aqsabano Shaikh, 4, residents of Shaheen Flats in Jamalpur. Naziyabano’s older daughter, Shahrabano Shaikh, 12, was critically injured and has been admitted to SVP Hospital. Naziyabano and her daughters were walking towards Saudagar Pol to meet someone. “When they were below the building, a part of the slab of the third floor suddenly fell on them and they were crushed under it,” said an officer of AFES. “It was a three-story building where the first and second floors were vacant, and a footwear shop was being run on the first floor. A 62-year-old woman, Halimabano Mansuri, who lived on the third floor was rescued by fire brigade personnel,” said the officer. The two girls and their mother were taken to SVP Hospital in the Ellisbridge area, where the younger daughter and mother were declared brought dead. Shahrabano had suffered multiple fractures and was critical. The bodies of both the deceased were taken to the Asarwa Civil Hospital for postmortems, said Inspector D J Chudasma of Kalupur police. He said a case of accidental death was registered, and an investigation is on. A police officer said it was difficult to control the crowd after the collapse as they were furious about the lackadaisical approach of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) towards removing dangerous structures. After the incident, the AMC swung into action and issued a statement showing their work after the collapse. “We have removed a dangerous part of the building and put up a sign board and barricaded the area around it,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girl-and-mother-die-sister-critical-as-slab-collapses/articleshow/81299306.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Injured seriously too: Khar killing accused||Mumbai: Twenty-two-year-old Shree Jogdhankar, an accused in the New Year’s Eve murder of Jhanvi Kukreja (19) at Khar, has submitted that he too suffered severe injuries in the attack at the hands of the “real killers” and required urgent medical help. “The applicant is himself assaulted brutally and has suffered grievous injuries at the party, and had been rendered unconscious, and his assailants wanted to kill him. Rather than registering a case of attempted murder of the applicant (Jogdhankar), the police has chosen to cast the accusation of death of the deceased girl on him and the co-accused,” the accused said in his interim bail plea. The additional submissions are part of the interim bail Jogdhankar submitted before the sessions court. The plea said he had sustained an eight-inch head injury that required consultation with a neurosurgeon. It further said he suffered a rib fracture and dislocated his spinal cord which was causing him tremendous pain. “There is all possibility of the applicant (Jogdhankar) getting permanently paralysed or could even lead to his death due to lack of urgent and proper medical evaluation of his condition and treatment, especially of the fractured ribs and the spinal cord,” the plea said. He also sought a pillow and mattress along with good food to recover at the earliest. Jogdhankar is accused of assaulting and killing the teenager along with co-accused and the victim’s childhood friend Diya Padalkar (18) on January 1. He had moved the interim bail plea to take his final exams in Bachelor of Hospitality and Hotel Administration course scheduled this month. Jogdhankar’s plea said he was required to attend regular online lectures and also complete 75% attendance. He sought the court’s directions to Taloja jail superintendent to allow his parents to provide books, study material, a laptop and internet connection for exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/injured-seriously-too-khar-killing-accused/articleshow/81297800.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Aggrieved lovers die by suicide||Chandrapur: A 22-year-old man from Samudhrapur in Wardha and a minor girl from Bhadrawati allegedly ended their life by jumping before a speeding train on Warora-Majri track near Mahakali Nagri in Warora during the wee hours of Monday. The deceased youth, identified as Aakash Meshram was a labourer. Sources said Aakash and the minor girl were in a romantic relationship. While both wanted to marry each other, but the girl being a minor, her family was against the relationship. Sources said the youth and the girl then decided to die by suicide. Sources said Aakash and the girl went up to Mahakali Nagri in the dark of night. Aakash left his bike at Mahakali Nagri and duo jumped before the running train on down line at around 2.45am. A guard in another train travelling on up line saw the bodies on the track and informed the Warora station master Roop Singh who intimated the RPF. Railway cops shifted the bodies to Warora sub-district hospital for post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aggrieved-lovers-die-by-suicide/articleshow/81312098.cms||Mazhar Ali
March 3, 2021||Goa||FDA’s essay contest on healthy diet||Panaji: To promote healthy diet among children, the directorate of food and drugs administration (FDA) has rolled out an ‘Eat Right District Challenge’, where an essay competition on the subject is being conducted for students from Class VIII to XII. The contest is open to students of government, government aided and unaided secondary and higher secondary schools, as also to children from special schools. The essay has to be made up of 1,200 to 2,000 words and has to be submitted by March 7, in typed format, director of education Santosh Amonkar has told schools. The essays have to be necessarily written in English, Amonkar said. “A screening committee constituted by the FDA will first review the essays received. The selected essays will then be submitted to a panel of judges for final review. The top three ranked essays will receive cash prizes as follows: First Rs 7,000, second Rs 5,000, third Rs 3,000; following four entries will get consolation prize of Rs 1,500 each,” schools have been told. To supplement their essay, students can also include with it two pictorial depictions which have to be the original work of that particular student, FDA has said. “The participant will be required to declare any assistance received during writing the essay. Sources/references used in writing the essay should be duly acknowledged in the essay,” FDA said. All works will be checked for plagiarism, stated FDA. The contest is being held as per the food safety related initiative launched by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) under the ‘Eat Right India’ banner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fdas-essay-contest-on-healthy-diet/articleshow/81301098.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Nehru Bal award to be given to child rights activists||Jaipur. The Nehru Bal award will be given in the state to encourage the people associated with child rights and in promoting their protection. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot gave financial approval and the draft of the guidelines for the ‘Nehru Child Protection Award Scheme-2021’ on Tuesday. As per the proposal, the annual financial burden of this award scheme, to be operated under the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) scheme, will be Rs 5.59 lakh, which will be borne by the Juvenile Justice Fund. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nehru-bal-award-to-be-given-to-child-rights-activists/articleshow/81301102.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur cops plan cameras on elevated roads to control accidents||JAIPUR: Alarmed over rising accidents on elevated roads, Jaipur traffic police plans to install overhead speed monitoring cameras to check the rash driving. So far police have sent proposals to the smart city project limited and the state transport department for getting cameras which cops believe would help in curbing accidents. A day after a man on a bike collided with the pillar and died after falling down from the elevated road, additional commissioner of police (law and order) Rahul Prakash, said, “For the past three months, we have deployed our men during daytime with hand held speed gun to check speeding by the vehicles. Every day, we have been penalising 15 to 20 people as per the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.” He said Jaipur had witnessed incident in which additional chief secretary, government of Rajasthan, V S Singh killed by rashly driven car while he was standing on the road divider and waiting for traffic to clear. “I don’t think deployment of our men on the elevated road will fetch us long term results. As he too might become victim of some rash driving as except some road dividers there is nothing for him to sit or stand. So, we have been pursuing the issue in all our traffic control board meetings. The permanent solution is the installation of overhead speed monitoring cameras which will enable us to check rashly driven vehicles and we will send the penalties to the owners of these vehicles on their addresses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-plan-cams-on-elevated-roads-to-control-accidents/articleshow/81301114.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||Jhalawar man ends life after killing wife||KOTA: Persistent family scuffle claimed life of a couple at Suwaliya Kunja village under Panwar police station of Jhalawar district on Monday. A 58-year-old man slashed his wife’s neck killing her on the spot in his house in the afternoon and later consumed poison that led to his death during treatment at a local hospital in the evening. Police registered a case and handed over the two bodies to the family members after post mortem on Tuesday. The deceased couple was identified as Bansilal Meena (58) and his wife Dwarkabai (55). The couple had been engaged in a family dispute of over a year and scuffle and exchange of hot words was a daily routine between them, Panwar SHO Jagdish Prasad said. Following a routine scuffle on Monday afternoon, Bansilal slashed his wife’s neck with a sickle and then hit her with a stone killing her on the spot, Prasad said, adding the husband then consumed poison. He was rushed to Khanpur CHC where he died during treatment, the SHO said. The couple is survived by a son and daughter-in-law. The son was away in the market to sell crop while the daughter-in-law was in another portion of the house when the incident took place. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhalawar-man-ends-life-after-killing-wife/articleshow/81301078.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||To save water & time, Konkan Railway unveils automatic coach washing plant||Panaji: The Konkan Railway’s indigenously developed automatic coach washing plant at the Margao railway station has many advantages, but perhaps the most important is its capacity to save huge amounts of water. The multistage external cleaning system for coaches and trains uses high pressure water jets, horizontal and vertical rotating nylon and cotton combination brushes and is able to clean the exterior of a rake of 24 coaches in just about 15-20 minutes while being placed on the pit line for primary or secondary maintenance. It also treats the discharged water in an effluent treatment plant. “This helps us release water of a quality that is almost potable or used for gardening purposes,” KRCL’s chief mechanical engineer Deepak Tripathi told reporters on Tuesday. The first such automatic coach-washing plant was supplied to the Kolkata Metro, he said, and added that it was a robust alternative to expensive washing plant facilities presently being used in the country. Each wash is touted to save at least one lakh litres of water. “If I use manpower, the cleaning process takes four to five hours as opposed to the plant that can clean a train in 15 minutes. If I save five hours for a train that provides a national service, it is not only saving resources but also providing passengers with more trains” Tripathi explained. The plant comprises a prewash unit that wets the coach’s walls and roof through low velocity jets to help loosen the dust and dirt. In the second stage, a pressurised soap solution is sprayed and then brushed onto the exterior with four vertical brushes that are powered by gear-motors. This is followed by under-gear cleaning, where pressurised jets of water and disinfectant are directed towards the toilet discharge areas to clean beneath the toilets which are otherwise not accessible. These jets also clean the under-gear portion of the trolleys and the disinfectant spray prevents breeding of cockroaches. A control room is provided with an underground tank of 20,000 litres and an overhead plastic tank of 5,000 litres for soap solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-save-water-time-konkan-railway-unveils-automatic-coach-washing-plant/articleshow/81301115.cms||Lisa Monteiro
March 3, 2021||Goa||No change, public hearing for coastal plan on Mar 7: Cabral||Panaji: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday said that the public hearing to finalise the draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) for Goa will be held on March 7 as scheduled. The hearing in North Goa will be held at the Taleigao community hall while in south it will be held at Ravindra Bhavan, Margao. “There was a hearing on CZMP at the high court and the court said that they cannot interfere and the hearing will be held on March 7,” he said, adding that he has visited all talukas in the state a year ago to resolve problems that people expressed. Referring to objections raised by people that their houses were not shown in the plan, Cabral said, “CZMP is not to show houses on the plan. CZMP is focused on the hazardous line, the high tide line, sand dunes, eco-sensitive areas, etc.” He also said that the plan will demarcate areas as per the coastal regulation zone notification. “After this plan is notified the process of showing houses on the map will begin. I can’t think why there is apprehension,” Cabral said. The draft plan has been uploaded on the website of the Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA) so that it can be accessed by people. The district-level maps are available at the office of both the district collectors while the village-level maps are available at the village panchayat offices. There has been angry reaction from the coastal areas to the draft CZMP. Some gram sabhas have rejected the draft while others have demanded correction. Cabral had told TOI last month, that the National Green Tribunal, had given Goa a deadline of January 31 to complete the plan, but due to delay, the final plan will be ready after sometime before it is submitted to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change for final notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-change-public-hearing-for-coastal-plan-on-mar-7-cabral/articleshow/81301887.cms||Murari Shetye
March 3, 2021||Allahabad||High Court lawyers continue work boycott||Prayagraj: Working in the Allahabad high court remained disrupted as the boycott of work initiated by the lawyers in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill continued for the eighth consecutive day on Tuesday. The Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) had been protesting against the Bill, which provides for setting up of the principal bench of the Education Service Tribunal at Lucknow, instead at Prayagraj. In a resolution passed on Tuesday, HCBA again resolved to continue to boycott judicial work on Wednesday on the same issue. On Tuesday, a meeting of the lawyers was organized near the high court along with several leaders of traders’ organizations in protest against the said Bill. The speakers criticized the state government for gradually shifting all important organizations from Prayagraj to Lucknow. Regarding Education Tribual, they said that it would weaken the judiciary, as the jurisdiction of Allahabad High Court would be lessened by it. According to HCBA joint secretary (press) Rajendra Kumar Singh, in the meeting, which was presided over by HCBA president Amrendra Nath Singh and conducted by secretary Prabhashankar Mishra, it has been resolved that in order to intensify their on-going agitation, the councillors of Nagar Nigam will be invited to Wednesday’s meeting to discuss the said issue with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-court-lawyers-continue-work-boycott/articleshow/81301109.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
March 3, 2021||Goa||Experts ask Lucknow institute to study Khotode’s petrified wood||Keri: A committee of experts constituted by Goa State Biodiversity Board has decided to study the unique rocks found in Khotode, Sattari as being formed from petrified woods or banded chlorite schist. At a recent meeting of the experts, it was also decided to involve Birbal Sahani Institute of Palaeosciences, Lucknow which is dedicated to both fundamental and applied aspects of plant fossil research. A Pune-based geomorphologist Shrikant Karlekar visited the horticultural plantation belonging to Arvind Sawaikar of Khotode on the left bank of river Mhadei, declaring that a specimen of rocks was petrified wood. A team of professional geologists from the Geological Society of Goa then visited the site. The team found that the rock specimen was not petrified wood but banded magnetite quartzite as they did not find any conclusive field evidence to confirm the presence of petrified wood or fossil forest in the area. Member secretary of the biodiversity board, Pradeep Sarmokadam, told TOI, “Recently a meeting was held to discuss the Khotode rock specimen in detail, which is mentioned in people’s biodiversity register of the village panchayat as petrified wood or plant fossil. In this matter, it was decided to approach Birbal Sahani institute of Palaeosciences, Lucknow to throw more light on this geological heritage.” For more than a century, scholars and researchers have been visiting Khotode and have said that the rock could either be petrified wood or a fossil forest. A specimen of these rocks has also been displayed at the museum of Deccan College post graduate and research institute, Pune, the department of archaeology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/experts-ask-lucknow-institute-to-study-khotodes-petrified-wood/articleshow/81301143.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
March 3, 2021||Allahabad||Woman donates her body to MLN Medical college||Prayagraj: 91 years old Geeta Chakravarty, a resident of Sangam Vihar, Haveliya, Jhunsi, breathed her last on Monday. Chakravarty could have been any common lady of our neighbourhood but her pledge, of donating her body to the department of Anatomy of Motilal Nehru Medical College and her family members fulfilling her last wish, made the nonagenarian special even after her death. Her body reached the department on Monday, thereby becoming the 14th cadaver which would be now preserved for conducting the practical classes of the students of the department.The anatomy department of the Motilal Nehru Medical College-Prayagraj struggled for cadavers to conduct practical classes before 2011. Thanks to awareness drives, the department has a pool of cadavers today.Department’s associate professor Dr Badal Singh said prior to 2011, students did not have even a single cadaver for eight years. An awareness drive by the department and NGOs resulted in having 14 bodies at the cadaver laboratory. Taking an inspiration from saint Dadhichi, 550 people have pledged to donate their dead bodies to the department since 2011.“Today, the department is quite ‘rich’ in terms of having cadavers as we presently have 14 corpses which are enough to conduct practical classes for next two years. On an average, the department gets around seven bodies each year and since 2011, the department has received 70 bodies of these ‘modern day’s Dadhichi’, But still, there is a long way to go,” he said.“In 2011, then divisional commissioner, Allahabad, Mukesh Mesharm, present principal of the college Dr SP Singh and Manoj Sanger of Dadhichi Deh Dan Samiti of Kanpur launched an awareness drive in the city. As a result, 550 people have pledged to donate their bodies to the department,” said Dr Singh.He said the first 10 hours after the demise of the donor is crucial and the family should inform the department as soon as possible. “The body starts decomposing after 10 hours of the death and when the cadaver reaches us, we preserve them for practical classes,” said Dr Singh. He said even if the department gets around 10% of the pledged bodies, it is a big achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/woman-donates-her-body-to-mln-medical-college/articleshow/81301154.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Contractor held for labourer’s death||A 30-year-old sub-contractor has been arrested for the death of a labourer at a construction site on the Western Express highway in Andheri on Monday. The victim, Burhan Shaikh, died after a gunny bag filled with debris fell on him from a higher floor. The contractor has been booked for negligence. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/contractor-held-for-labourers-death/articleshow/81301187.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||8 booked under MCOCA for assaulting revenue officials||Yavatmal: Local police have slapped stringent Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA) on eight gangsters, who were arrested by Umarkhed police on charges of assaulting revenue officials on January 23. According to police, eight members of the gang of sand smugglers, including kingpin Avinash Chavan, had assaulted and stabbed naib tehsildar Vaibhav Pawar and talathi Gajanan Surose, when the revenue officials had intercepted tractors carrying illegally mined sand on road leading to Dhanki in Umarkhed on January 23 night. Demanding action against the culprits, Tehsildar Sanghatana had boycotted work and demanded police security to revenue officials. Umarkhed police had registered offences under sections 307, 397, 395, 353 and 34 of IPC and launched a manhunt to nab the culprits. The police had, on January 27, nabbed the eight accused, including Chavan. A proposal for invoking MCOCA provisions was then forwarded to deputy commissioner of police of Amravati for his approval. After receiving the nod, Yavatmal police have slapped MCOCA on all the eight accused. Superintendent of police Dilip Bhujbal Patil said similar action would follow in other parts of the district against sand smugglers. SDPO of Umarkhed Walchand Mude is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-booked-under-mcoca-for-assaulting-revenue-officials/articleshow/81312120.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Jaipur||JDA uploads 167 illegal colonies on website||JAIPUR: After blacklisting 167 illegally developed colonies, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) uploaded the list on its website. To save residents from getting duped, an appeal has also been made not to purchase plots in colonies which are illegally developed without JDA’s approval. Out of 16 JDA zones, these illegal colonies have mushroomed in 10 zones in past 14 months. With a spurt in population and increase in demand for land, the illegal construction and development of colonies in the city is on the rise. A senior JDA official said, “Our agenda is to act against the mafias who are using agricultural land for non-agricultural and commercial purpose after illegally developing a colony. We have taken strict decisions to curb the practice,” he said. A list of illegal buildings constructed in violation of building bylaws has also been uploaded on the website. In the last three years, the enforcement wing has sealed 44 illegally constructed buildings in different areas. JDA has also initiated action to strip the ownership of the land owners who have illegally developed colonies on agriculture land. The zone commissioners have written a letter to tehsildars and sub-division officers for the same. An official said, “To discourage such practices in future, proceedings for cancelling ownership have been implemented under Section 175 of Rajasthan Tenancy Act against land holders has initiated.” The JDA on Monday also revived the status of colonies of private developers who did not develop facilities after getting colonies approved from the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-uploads-167-illegal-colonies-on-website/articleshow/81301128.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kochi||Tourism dept in trouble for construction at Papanasam||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) is mulling the course of action to be taken regarding alleged illegal construction at ecologically sensitive Papanasam beach by Tourism Department after it received reports from district town planner which cited lack of scientific study in initiating the project. KCZMA received a complaint from Sanjeev SJ, president, Environmental Protection and Research Council and it sought reports from the district town planner and municipality secretary. As per the complaint submitted by Sanjeev, the department started conversion of a walkway into a road on Papanasam beach, which will destroy the natural ambiance and quietness of the beach. He also informed that the road construction has started along and on top of the seawalls that are subject to constant coastal erosions. The district town planner conducted a site inspection and reported that the construction started for a 200-metre walkway in Papanasanam beach near the cliff after demolishing the hill. The officials from Irrigation Department who were present at the site, reported to district town planner that Tourism Department started the walkway construction in Varkala beach under the Govt Flagship Programme with the permission of Varkala municipality. According to the agenda note presented in the latest KCZMA meeting, Irrigation Department issued stop memo for the construction activities which were carried out by demolishing the hill and also by removing the seawall after receiving the complaint. KCZMA has learnt that the seawall constructed by Irrigation Department was removed approximately for a distance of 200 m for the construction of walkway and now activities are undergoing to reconstruct the demolished seawall. The district town planner, also reported that walkway construction began without any scientific study and also the existing construction is dangerous to the public since during every raining season the cliff used to collapse. The secretary, Varkala Municipality explained to the district town planner that they gave permission to the Tourism Department for the project for rejuvenation of beach, but this was misused by Tourism Department by demolishing the hill and the secretary issued stop memo against the constructions. The district town planner reported that the permission for the construction in ecologically sensitive areas can be carried out only on the basis of scientific study. The secretary also informed the district town planner that the application for CRZ clearance for the above project was sent to KCZMA, however KCZMA has not received any such application. Sanjeev said that repeated complaints were filed to authorities concerned regarding the construction. However, no action was taken to check the activity in an ecologically-sensitive area. KCZMA has deferred the decision regarding the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tourism-dept-in-trouble-for-construction-at-papanasam/articleshow/81298274.cms||Aswin J Kumar
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Man kills drunk daily wage labourer for picking parotta from his plate||Coimbatore: A 52-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for beating a 25-year-old daily wage labourer to death for taking a piece of parotta from his plate without his consent at an eatery on Anaikatti Road at Thadagam on the outskirts of the city.Police said the incident took place when S Jayakumar, 25, a resident of Edayarpalayam, along with two of his friends Krishnakumar and Suresh, who were working at a brick kiln, were roaming near a bus stop at Thadagam after consuming liquor on Monday night.“Jayakumar found a man, identified as R Vellingiri, 52, of Othakalmandapam, having parotta at the eatery near the bus stop. He couldn’t resist the craving to taste parotta and suddenly picked a piece from Vellingiri’s plate without having a word,” a police officer said.Jayakumar’s act didn’t go down well with Vellingiri, who entered into an argument with the former. Drunk, Jayakumar started to abuse him verbally and at one point attacked him with a brick, the officer said. “Vellingiri suddenly grabbed a wooden log that was on the road and started beating Jayakumar indiscriminately until he died.”People in the vicinity alerted the Thadagam police, who recovered the body and sent it to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.Jayakumar’s mother, 48, lodged a complaint with the Thadagam police, who registered a case against Vellingiri under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him. He was later produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-kills-drunk-daily-wage-labourer-for-picking-parotta-from-his-plate/articleshow/81299427.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur standing panel chief election on Friday||NAGPUR: Even though the ruling BJP in the NMC has declared first-time corporator Prakash Bhoyar as standing committee chairman for the year 2021-22, election for the post will be held on Friday. The process to elect standing committee chairman will start with acceptance of nomination forms on Thursday. Withdrawal of nominations, if any, announcement of candidates in the fray and polling will be conducted at NMC’s Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh standing committee hall. Collector Ravindra Thakare will be the presiding officer for the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/standing-panel-chief-election-on-friday/articleshow/81301155.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Goa||CoWin glitches continue, pvt hosps give vax without it||Panaji: As the 15 private hospitals roped in for vaccination and empanelled under the Deen Dayal Swashtya Seva Yojna (DDSSY) and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) health schemes were unable to register on the CoWin portal even on Tuesday, they were permitted to vaccinate beneficiaries offline. “Even today, the private hospitals were unable to register on the portal. Hence, this afternoon, they were granted permission to administer vaccination offline. However, the arrangement stands valid only for the day,” an official from the directorate of health services said. On Monday, the private hospitals were unable to be part of the vaccination drive due to glitches to register on the portal and it was expected that the problem would be sorted out by Tuesday morning. “It is a pan-India problem. We are hoping that the problem will be resolved by Wednesday morning and private hospitals will be able to register on the CoWin portal. If not, we would have to work out some other arrangement as we can’t allow them to vaccinate people in the offline mode for a long time due to monetary issues,” the health official said. People getting their vaccine shots at a private facility are charged Rs 250, as per the capped rate of the government of India. It includes Rs 100 as service charge of the hospitals and Rs 150 towards cost of the vaccines, which the hospitals have to return to the government. Of the 37 government vaccination sites, except for three sites, others did not face any problem in registering candidates. “Those who were unable to register the details of candidates on the portal today have written them in their registers, which will be uploaded as and when the portal issue is sorted out,” the DHS official said. To a query, he said, people who are forced to do on-the-spot registrations, for being unable to register on the portal, “will not be sent back even if there are candidates who arrive at the vaccination site with prior appointments”. “There is no bar on the number of people that could be vaccinated in a single day,” the health services official said. A senior citizen from Panaji who got vaccinated on Tuesday said the system moved slowly, and she had to wait for almost three hours for her turn. “Since their system was down, people had to go out and get photocopies of their Aadhaar card. Some had their relatives standing for them in the queue with a token. This should not be allowed and a proper queue system should be followed as it is unfair to others patiently waiting in the line for their turn,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cowin-glitches-continue-pvt-hosps-give-vax-without-it/articleshow/81301178.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||AIADMK trying to woo voters with gift hampers, says DMK||Coimbatore: Just four days have lapsed since the announcement of state assembly polls, but allegations of voter bribing by the ruling party have already started surfacing in Coimbatore and Tirupur districts. DMK men lodged a complaint with Coimbatore collector K Rajamani on Tuesday, stating that AIADMK functionaries had stocked up gifts for distribution among the voters in the city. Singanallur MLA N Karthik, who met the collector, said they had thwarted a bid to distribute the gifts at Peelamedu on Monday night. “But their attempts to distribute the gifts is continuing, especially at night.” DMK men said the gift hampers of dhoties and saris, which were wrapped in covers bearing the images of the late chief minister J Jayalalithaa and the incumbent CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, were stocked at the house of an AIADMK man at Peelamedu in Singanallur assembly segment. “On Monday night, the gifts were taken out in a car belonging to a local AIADMK man for distribution. DMK ward secretary Madasamy spotted the car and we immediately complained to police and handed over the vehicle to them. But police released the car without taking any action. We have now petitioned election officials,” said advocate Krishnamurthy, of the DMK. After the incident, he said, AIADMK men had shifted the gifts to another location. At Dharapuram in Tirupur, election officials had seized 1,700 saris and 4,500 dhoties, which were also wrapped in covers bearing the images of EPS, OPS, S P Velumani and Jayalalithaa, from a private college building on Monday night based on a complaint lodged by DMK cadres. An election flying squad also seized 1,950 stainless steel plates from a mini-truck that was found on the college premises. “There was no one in the college when we seized these items. None have claimed ownership of these items and the college authorities have disowned them. So, we are probing if these were gift items meant to be distributed to voters,” said an election officer. The officials have, however, sealed the two rooms in the college where the dhoties and saris were kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-trying-to-woo-voters-with-gift-hampers-says-dmk/articleshow/81299441.cms||Mayilvaganan
March 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||K-MAT online test on March 28||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala Management Aptitude Test (K-MAT) for admission to MBA course for the academic year 2021-2022 offered by government-accredited institutions in the state would be held on March 28. The entrance test would be conducted online. Those who are studying for the last-year degree course and are awaiting their results may also apply for KMAT 2021, a statement from the office of the commissioner for entrance examinations said here on Tuesday. The date of submission for application and other details in this regard would be notified forthwith, the statement said. For more details regarding the examination, contact on telephone number: 0471-2525300.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/k-mat-online-test-on-march-28/articleshow/81311547.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kochi||Major fronts busy selecting candidates for Kerala assembly polls||KOCHI: With less than a fortnight remaining to start filing nominations for the assembly elections, major fronts are busy with negotiations with constituent parties in Ernakulam. Though speculations are rife regarding the candidates of various fronts, clear picture will be evolved after a week or more. “We are yet to finalize the list of candidates. There will be a clear cut idea on the candidates by the weekend,” said sources with the CPM. While Paravur and Muvattupuzha seats will be allotted to CPI, Angamaly will be given to JDS. CPM candidates or party independents are likely to be contesting from all other segments in the district. There may be certain changes if Kerala Congress (M), the new entrant into the LDF, is to be given some of the seats in the district, sources said. Sitting MLAs of CPM, except S Sharma, will be given another chance. Eldho Abraham of CPI, the sitting MLA from Muvattupuzha, may be contesting from the same seat. M Swaraj, K J Maxi and Antony John who are the CPM MLAs representing Tripunithura, Kochi and Kothamangalam constituencies, respectively, will be allowed to contest from the same seats, sources said. The BJP leadership is also yet to finalize their candidates from the district. The names of heavyweights like Metroman E Sreedharan are doing the rounds from Tripunithura constituency. In the UDF, sitting MLAs may be allowed to contest from their seats. Ernakulam DCC president T J Vinod is learnt to have given permission to contest. There are reports that Mathew Kuzhalnadan, a young Congress leader, may enter the fray from Muvattupuzha. In Tripunithura, there are nearly half a dozen candidate aspirants from Congress. Former minister K Babu, former MP K P Dhanapalan, former deputy mayor of Kochi corporation A B Sabu, former mayor Soumini Jain are the contenders for the seat. Muslim League leader and former minister V K Ebrahim Kunju may not get the chance to contest in the elections, thanks to the vigilance case and controversies over Palarivattom flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/major-fronts-busy-selecting-candidates-for-assembly-polls/articleshow/81298284.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
March 3, 2021||Goa||Class XII exam to begin from Apr 24: Goa Board||Panaji: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has announced the final date sheet for the Class XII public exam, which will begin from April 24. This is two days earlier than the date announced in the tentative exam time-table in January this year. The Class XII exam will begin for students across the streams from April 24, with English and Marathi first language papers. The exam will end for vocational students on May 8, and for other stream students on May 17. “General stream practical examination will commence from March 26 (Friday). However, the detailed programme of the practical examination will be notified later through the heads of institutions. The candidates are advised that they should get the same ascertained from the heads of institutions,” the circular of the state board reads. SOPs for the conduct of the examinations will be intimated well in advance, Goa Board has said. Around 15,000 students take the Goa Board Class XII public examination each year. The exam in a normal year begins in the last week of February or the first week of March. Its conduct has been delayed by over a month this year due to the pandemic’s altering the academic schedule for 2020-21. The examination will be held everyday starting at 9.30am, the board has said. Last year, the exam for some Class XII papers was held in the midst of the pandemic with thermal scanning of students carried out and volunteers put in place to ensure wearing of masks and social distancing by students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/class-xii-exam-to-begin-from-apr-24-goa-board/articleshow/81301193.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mhada nets Rs 4 crore rent arrears in 1 month||In a significant recovery, Mhada has received Rs 3.85 crore in rent arrears from residents of its transit camps during the month of February. Owners and tenants whose dues were pending were offered 60% rebate on interest. The second phase of the scheme offers 40% reduction in interest to those who pay up their rent arrears by March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mhada-nets-rs-4-crore-rent-arrears-in-1-mth/articleshow/81301265.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||Maharashtra government moves SC ‘to establish democracy’ in council polls||PANAJI: The state government on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court challenging Monday’s high court order cancelling the election to five municipal councils, advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, when asked if the order was a setback to the government, said, “We are trying to establish democracy”. Speaking to TOI, Pangam said that one of the grounds of appeal is that “the courts cannot stall the democratic process like this”. He also said that as per Article 243 ZG of the Constitution, there is complete bar on courts interfering in the election process. On Monday, the high court had noted that the respective municipal councils’ term had come to an end, that it is under the control of a body of administrators, and that the SEC had granted extensions on two occasions with the outer line stipulated to be April 15, 2021. In the appeal before the SC, Pangam said that a point has been raised that elected representatives should hold positions in municipal councils, and that they can’t be run by administrators. The high court had set aside a recent order on elections to five municipal councils, as it was done in breach of constitutional and statutory mandate. The court also slammed the state election commission (SEC), holding that the silence on the part of a constitutional functionary is “highly detrimental” to Indian democracy. On February 22, the SEC had declared elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji and 11 municipal councils to be held on March 20. The high court has cancelled elections in Mapusa, Margao, Mormugao, Sanguemand Quepem municipalities. Soon after the order, chief minister Pramod Sawant met Pangam, party office-bearers and government officials, and decided to move the Supreme Court challenging it. Pangam had earlier asked the HC to stay the order, submitting that the state wanted to test its correctness in the Supreme Court. Since this was not granted, the SEC kept the election process to Margao, Sanguem, Quepem, Mormugao and Mapusa municipalities in abeyance, and lifted the model code of conduct with immediate effect. Refuting the government’s stance that the court cannot interfere when elections are declared, the high court said, “We have ensured that the election programme which would be notified after rectifying the order issued by the director, thereby prescribing the reservation in different wards of the municipal councils, is done with utmost promptitude, so that the entire election process is completed on or before April 15, 2021”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-moves-sc-to-establish-democracy-in-council-polls/articleshow/81301228.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kanpur||‘Ensure arrival of first Metro train set in Sept’||Kanpur: Since Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) is eyeing to conduct trial of Kanpur Metro in November this year, the UPMRC officials have been instructed to complete all the preparations and arrangements related to the arrival of the First Metro Train Set in September. MD, UPMRC, Kumar Keshav passed necessary instructions to the officials regrading the same. He reviewed the ongoing construction work at the Kanpur Metro project site during his two-day visit to the city on Monday and Tuesday. He visited the construction site and Metro depot at Government Polytechnic. Keshav instructed the officials to accomplish all the preparation and arrangements related to the arrival of the First Metro Train Set in September so that to ensure that the trial run of the Metro can be conducted in November. While reviewing the work on the Priority Corridor of the Kanpur Metro project, Kumar Keshav said that initially eight Metro Trains will be operational between IIT-K and Motijheel on Priority Corridor while a total of 39 Metro Trains with three coaches will be run on both corridors. Director (functions and infrastructure) Sanjay Mishra and director (rolling stock and systems) Atul Kumar Garg were also present on the occasion. On Tuesday, Keshav visited the construction site. He inspected all technical rooms at IIT Metro Station and directed officials and contractors to install electrical, signalling and telecom system as soon as possible. He also got an overview of arrangements and lighting samples to be made at the IIT station. “The loss of work caused by the lockdown in view of Covid-19 has been offset by a fast decision-making strategy and a commitment to complete the work on time,” said Kumar Keshav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ensure-arrival-of-first-metro-train-set-in-sept/articleshow/81301237.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||Prioritise safe return of students to schools, private institutes tell DoE||Panaji: The new academic year for CBSE affiliated schools will begin from April. While the state government has only allowed physical classes to be held for students from Class IX to XII as of now in Goa, private schools have requested the directorate of education (DoE) to consider the schedule of unaided schools as well. The number of CBSE and CISCE affiliated schools, which are privately run unaided institutes, is small in Goa, with the majority schools being under the state board. These state board affiliated schools, which are either government run or aided, will see their academic year begin in June. And private schools are worried that if the decision on allowing physical classes is taken only based on academic calendar of state board schools, CBSE and CISCE affiliated schools may lose time. “Schools have started in many other states. We have submitted a representation requesting the state to consider private schools as well. Academic year for CICSE schools has already begun and for CBSE schools it will begin in April,” said Deepak Khaitan of All Goa Government Recognized Unaided Schools Association. Private schools have told the DoE that schools have been shut now for nearly a year since March 2020 and keeping schools closed for longer will also have an impact on pay and job security of teachers and other staffers of smaller unaided schools. “The impact on other stakeholders - including parents, teachers, and schools themselves, is also significant. Extended school closure will undoubtedly impact teachers in private unaided schools - especially the majority in low fee schools. With schools unable to collect fees from families who are themselves economically impacted; teaching and non-teaching staff salaries have also dipped significantly,” the representation by private schools to the state government states. Khaitan said private schools are in favour of actively prioritising safe return of students to schools. “It is well documented that school closure during summer vacations causes a ‘summer slide,’ in which children can lose as much as 25-30% of what they learn in the school year. School closures can also prove to be particularly damaging for younger children who are trying to pick up foundational skills like reading which will help them learn over their remaining school years,” DoE has been told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prioritise-safe-return-of-students-to-schools-private-institutes-tell-doe/articleshow/81301220.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Kochi||Container road most sought-after destination for septage disposal||Kochi: For many, morning walks are as important as the air they brethe and the food they eat. But, those who set out for a walk or jog along the Container Road in Vallarpadam, the experience is different, thanks to septic tank cleaners who dump toilet waste on this stretch. An additional thanks to police who shut public’s mouth saying ‘it’s none of your business’. Cyclists, joggers, street vendors and those who come to these roads to cut grass for their cattle are at the receiving end of this ‘stinking’ issue. Incessant dumping of septic waste on the shoulders of the road near Moolampilly bridge has even parched grass and the soil has turned black. Motorists exacerbate the situation by dumping waste from their houses on roadsides. With none to act against them, this Container Road stretch become most sought-after destination of septic tank cleaners to empty waste collected from houses and other establishments in the district. “Many farmers from nearby areas like Varapuzha and Ponnarimangalam come here to cut grass for their cattle, but finding clean grass is a almost impossible here. Those who dump septic waste here bribe police to go scot free,” alleged Sanu Xavier, a resident in Mulavukad. Another major issue is these waste water getting mixed with waterbodies polluting them. Residents and farmers who depend on Vembanad lake and its tributaries for various purposes have raised concern about the same. Meanwhile, people who dare to raise voice against the cleaners are forced to face their wrath. “They ransacked my vending cart for questioning them. They have been dumping the septic waste behind the parked container trucks. Seeing this, a container driver questioned the cleaners. Instead of taking action against the cleaners, police asked the container driver to keep quiet saying it is none of his business,” said George Antony. While, district administration, local bodies and police are bound to act against illegal dumping of septic waste, they have been turning a blind eye to the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/container-road-most-sought-after-destination-for-septage-disposal/articleshow/81298303.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Traceless positive patients poser on contact tracking||Pune: The civic authorities were clueless about the whereabouts of nearly 300 Covid-19 patients in the last fortnight in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits because they did not give correct contact details and address while registering for the RT-PCR tests, posing challenge to the contact-tracing process. Kalpana Baliwant, a senior official of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s health department, said, “If we can’t locate these positive patients, tracing the high-risk and low-risk people coming in contact with them becomes tough. It adversely impacts the overall tracing.” A senior civic official said though Adhaar cards were mandatory for the RT-PCR tests, some people were managing to conceal their address citing that they were carrying only the PAN card for identification. “A few others are managing to give the officials the slip because of the rush,” he said.On an average, daily 15-20 patients have been misleading contact information.“Some people are deliberately giving wrong contact information while getting the Covid-19 test done, so that they cannot be tracked if the report comes positive. They feel that going incommunicado will save them from getting isolated and there will be no restrictions on movement. But this kind of attitude can cause the virus to spread,” said a PMC official.Ashish Bharti of the PMC’s health department told TOI, “We have conducted a meeting with all the officials involved in contact tracing. Health officers and ward office staffers have been instructed to get all the contact details, including cellphone number, of people coming for tests. If any person is found to have given wrong contact information with ill intent, legal action can be taken. Even private labs should follow the same process.” PMC officials stated that nearly 20 people for every patient, including family members, friends, colleagues and neighbours, were being tested through contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traceless-positive-patients-poser-on-contact-tracking/articleshow/81299460.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Control room set up for handling all poll-related plaints||Coimbatore: The district administration has received 85 election-related complaints since the model code of conduct came into force in the state and set up a control room at the collectorate to handle the same.Collector K Rajamani on Tuesday said only 15 complaints were received from political parties regarding poll code violations like distribution of cash and gifts. The remaining complaints, he said, were from the public, seeking clarifications on election-related doubts. “We have addressed most of the complaints.” Requesting both the public and political parties to register their election-related grievances without any hesitation, the collector said the same would be addressed at the earliest. “We have set up the control room at the collectorate to exclusively handle poll-related issues. People could reach us at 1800-425-4757 and 1950,” he said.The district administration, along with the police department, has identified 788 sensitive polling stations spread across 112 locations. According to Rajamani, most of the sensitive polling stations are in the city corporation limits and they were classified so based on the 2016 assembly poll and the 2019 parliamentary election situation. “Polling stations with a large number of voters have also been considered sensitive. The list will be revised if we identify more polling stations that are prone to report law and order issues.” The collector said three flying squads and a static surveillance team have been stationed at each of the assembly constituencies and they would work in three shifts to impose model code of conduct strictly. “Nodal officers have also been deployed to monitor them.” Rajamani said posters and banners of political parties were removed from most of the places in the district and directions were issued to remove the remaining materials at the earliest. This time, ballot voting is extended to the people aged above 80 years, disabled people and Covid-19 patients. To avail the facility, people would have to submit applications before March 16. The district has 64,680 voters aged above 80 years and another 20,000 who are disabled people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/control-room-set-up-for-handling-all-poll-related-plaints/articleshow/81299465.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants bail to ex-CEO of BARC in TRP rigging case||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Tuesday granted bail to Partho Dasgupta, former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) accused in the TRP manipulation scam. Special public prosecutor Shishir Hirey had objected to the bail plea saying Dasgupta was the “mastermind” in the crime. Justice P D Naik observed that 15 accused were arrested in the case and 14 granted bail. Dasgupta “cannot be incarcerated in custody till the arrest of another accused,” he said. The HC directed Dasgupta’s release on a cash bail security of Rs 2 lakh. He has to deposit his passport, not tamper with evidence, visit the police DCB CID office once a month for six months and furnish the cash bail security within six weeks. The HC observed that Romil Ramgarhia, COO of BARC, who according to the prosecutor also played an “active role in manipulation of TRPs,” Vikas Khanchandani, CEO of Republic TV and Vishal Bhandari, an employee of Hansa Research Group who “had spilled the beans about manipulation of TRPs” were all granted bail. The judge found it “relevant” that Bhandari “had not disclosed the involvement of (Dasgupta) in any manner.” The judge said he had perused the documents. The FIR was filed on October 6, 2020 by Kandivli police and is “based on information provided by Bhandari.” The 4,000-page chargesheet includes witness statements and “purported WhatsApp chats between the accused,” the HC said. The HC said B N Mistry, arrested on October 6, was also granted bail. “He was allegedly involved and tagged as mastermind,” the court said. “Material part of investigation is completed,” the trial court had said when granting Ramgarhia bail. Ramgarhia was arrested on December 17, 2020 and Dasgupta on December 24. Hirey had said Ramgarhia had disclosed Dasgupta’s “involvement.” Dasgupta’s counsel Aabad Ponda and Shardul Singh said the 55-year-old “cannot be kept in custody indefinitely under the garb of further investigation.” They said his health was deteriorating and as the chargesheet had been filed, continued custody was no longer essential. They cited all the bail orders related to the co-accused, and said no advertiser had yet complained of being cheated. The prosecutor said a channel had sent BARC a notice. Hirey had argued Dasgupta “was not entitled for parity as role attributed to the accused who were granted bail can be distinguished.” He said the state would be seeking cancellation of Ramgarhia’s bail. Hirey said Dasgupta had “admitted” to playing a role in “manipulation of TRPs” and “he also admitted a huge amount was received by him from the owner of Republic TV.” The prosecution pointed to ornaments recovered from Dasgupta. The HC said, “It is settled law that the statement of the accused made while in custody admitting guilt is inadmissible in evidence. Recovery of ornaments is linked to crime on inferences.”  The prosecution had expressed apprehension of Dasgupta tampering with evidence. The HC order recorded his submission that the question of tampering does not arise as he is no longer with BARC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-grants-bail-to-ex-ceo-of-barc-in-trp-rigging-case/articleshow/81299531.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Minor girl raped in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: A minor girl of Nepali origin was allegedly raped by a Nepali man late on Tuesday. Station officer of Mussoorie Devendra Aswal said that the victim’s family lives in Bata Ghat, about 6 kms from Mussoorie. He informed that the survivor was hospitalized at Mussoorie but later referred to Dehradun as her condition worsened. Till the time of filing this story, no formal complaint had been lodged by the parents of the victim. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-girl-raped-in-mussoorie/articleshow/81299459.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||Maharashtra targets 1.5 lakh senior citizens for jab, aims to give 4,000 a day||PANAJI: The directorate of health services (DHS) targets to vaccinate about 1.5 lakh senior citizens and another 1.5 lakh people living with comorbidities, in the 45-59 age bracket. While no time has been fixed to complete the vaccination of the target population, a DHS official said they plan to complete the task as early as possible, with a daily average of 3,700 to 4,000 persons. “We want to finish at the earliest vaccinating people who are over sixty years old and those who have comorbidities,” an official said. “To mobilise people in big numbers, the help of the directorates of panchayats and municipal administration has been sought,” an official said. He further said they are prepared to vaccinate the entire target population, but it hinges on the response from senior citizens. Hence, civic bodies are engaged to convince people to get vaccine shots. Since kick-starting the inoculation of citizens who are sixty-plus and the other category of people having comorbidities on Monday, the health services has so far vaccinated 3,240 people, of which 2,020 beneficiaries received their first shot of the vaccine on Tuesday. In this regard, a meeting with officials of the directorates of panchayats and municipal administration was held on Monday, the DHS official said. “We have the infrastructure, plus vaccines. But what’s most important is the response of the people. It is a multifactorial task,” he said, in response to a query about the time frame they are looking at for vaccinating three lakh citizens. On Tuesday, the official said, they have received an additional 52,070 doses of vaccines. In addition to the 37 health services manned vaccine sites, 15 private hospitals have been engaged for administering vaccines. However, those opting to get vaccinated at private hospitals will be charged Rs 250. While he said they are attempting to cover the target population, it is likely that the elderly who are immobile or bed-ridden may be left out as things stand now. “We haven’t received any instructions regarding them or how to reach them,” he said. Another senior official said cancer patients should get vaccinated provided they are not undergoing chemotherapy or at the end-stage of the disease. Meanwhile, the directorate of health services expects to complete the first stage of the vaccination covering health care workers (HCW) by March-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-targets-1-5l-sr-citizens-for-jab-aims-to-give-4k-a-day/articleshow/81301295.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 3, 2021||Kochi||Kochi corporation plans to install GPS on garbage trucks||KOCHI: Following the directive of the district-level monitoring committee (DLMC), Kochi corporation is planning to install global positioning system (GPS) in its vehicles transporting solid waste. DLMC, in its meeting convened on December 29, 2020, had asked the corporation to install GPS in all its trucks transporting the waste, without delay. If the GPS is installed, authorities can monitor the movement of vehicles from collection point to the destination, quantity of waste transported, fuel consumption, number of services operated and illegal transportation of waste, if any. Though the local body had always maintained that they would install GPS in vehicles transporting waste, the successive governing bodies failed to implement it, thanks to unwillingness on their part and objection from private vehicle operators engaged in the work. A corporation official said they have taken steps forward and held discussion with owners of private vehicles regarding installation of GPS. Health standing committee chairperson T K Ashraf said the local body would install GPS on the vehicles owned by the corporation. While on private vehicles, GPS will be made mandatory for hiring and it will be included in the next tender conditions. “A monitoring system will also come into place to supervise the movement of vehicles. Currently, the local body spends around Rs 3 crore per year on hiring vehicles for waste transportation. We will hold a meeting soon to understand how many corporation-owned vehicles are in running condition ,” he said. While pollution control board officials said DLMC had been directing the local bodies to install GPS in vehicles for long, but no avail. Around 70 loads of non-biodegradable waste are being transported to Brahmapuram waste management plant daily and 30 to 40 loads of degradable waste daily. Of this, major transportation is done by hired private vehicles. Only five compact vehicles and a small number of other vehicles of the local body are currently involved in garbage movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-plans-to-install-gps-on-garbage-trucks/articleshow/81298307.cms||T C Sreemol
March 3, 2021||Bareilly||Death-row convict Shabnam shifted to UP's Bareilly jail after her pics with fellow inmates turn up on social media||Bareilly: A woman, 38, awaiting death sentence for killing seven members of her family has been shifted to UP’s Bareilly jail from the Rampur prison, where she was lodged for the last two years, after her photos with some fellow inmates surfaced on social media platforms recently. Two guards of Rampur prison were placed under suspension on Monday after jail authorities found that they had clicked the photos with their phones and later circulated them. The death row convict, Shabnam, was brought to Rampur district jail in 2019. Jail administration officials said that the pictures were most likely taken on January 26 this year inside the jail premises. “It is a breach of security and violation of the jail manual,” an official said. Another inmate of the same jail -- who was also seen in photos-- was also shifted to Bareilly prison. The order to transfer them was given by Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar, officials said.Rampur jail superintendent PD Salonia said, “Rampur district administration had issued the orders to shift both the convicts to Bareilly district jail. They were taken to Bareilly on Monday.”Salonia added, “An inquiry revealed that a male prison guard and a woman guard deputed in the jail had taken the photos of the convicts. A report in the matter was sent to the divisional prison Moradabad which ordered suspension of the two guards.”Confirming the development, Bareilly jail superintendent P Singh said, “Shabnam and another convict were shifted from Rampur to Bareilly district jail for security reasons.”Shabnam Ali and her lover Saleem were convicted in 2010 for killing seven persons in Babankhedi village in UP’s Amroha. In April 2008, seven members of Shabnam’s family -- her mother, father, two brothers, sister-in-law, cousin and a 10-month-old nephew were found murdered. They were given sedatives-mixed milk and, when they fell unconscious, their throats were slit.The Shabnam’s family was against her relationship with Saleem.Shabnam has recently filed a fresh mercy petition before UP Governor Anandiben Patel and President Ram Nath Kovind. While an official death warrant is yet to be issued, preparations are on to hang her in Mathura, which has the only jail in the country with gallows for women. Shabnam, now 38, might become the first woman to be hanged in independent India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/death-row-convict-shabnam-shifted-to-ups-bareilly-jail-after-her-pics-with-fellow-inmates-turn-up-on-social-media/articleshow/81297460.cms||Maria Khan
March 3, 2021||Goa||416 take jab at T B Hospital on Day 2 of second phase||Margao: Day 2 of the second phase of the vaccination drive saw 416 people getting vaccinated at the T B Hospital, Margao, the vaccination site of Hospicio hospital, Margao. Of these six were among those between 45 to 59 year-range with comorbidities, and the rest, senior citizens, Dr Ira Almeida, nodal officer for the vaccination programme, told TOI. Sources in the Hospicio hospital said the second day was also marked with enthusiasm among the beneficiaries. “We had several elderly people in the 90s who were vaccinated today. They were eager to take the jab. As they were confined to their homes since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, the vaccine has infused a new hope for freedom and a sense of confidence in them,” a senior doctor said. While the last two days were open sessions, Almeida said that since Wednesday, the system will be modified to restrict only 40% of the total beneficiaries of the first dose to walk-in public across all vaccination centres. “The rest will be those who registered themselves on the online portal; besides those healthcare workers coming in for the second dose,” she said. After initial technical glitches, the CoWin portal has started working well, it was informed, though health workers were engaged in updating the backlog of the offline records on the portal until late Tuesday evening, sources from the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/416-take-jab-at-t-b-hospital-on-day-2-of-second-phase/articleshow/81301242.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Scores of elderly brave long lines, intense heat for shots||PUNE: The long unmanaged vaccine queues from Monday reappeared on Tuesday at sites across the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). But despite the chaos, data was encouraging. Over 1,400 senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities were vaccinated on Tuesday in the PMR. It’s a three-fold increase from Monday, when the drive started for members of the public. The PCMC areas had the highest number of elderly beneficiaries in the district, with 785 inoculated across eight sites. A total of 534 beneficiaries were vaccinated in PMC limits and in Pune rural, 398 got their jabs . But scores on Tuesday had to wait for hours for their shot. At Sassoon, Kamala Nehru and Sutar hospital, vaccination started late for the second consecutive day. Bal Gurjal, 71, who was given a slot at Sassoon after registering on the CoWIN portal said, “For a year, I managed to keep myself safe from the virus. I’m now worried about catching it here.” Another senior citizen, Vijay Bijalani, who was in the Sassoon queue at 9am, said she had not received the shot even by 1pm. “This has been a very hot day. I’m tired of waiting,” she said.  Dr Manju Telikarkar (69), who was at Sutar, said she understood the pressure hospital staff were facing. “They can’t help it if the server is down. They were helpful and courteous.” Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC's health department said, “A time slot between 9am and 5pm was given to all beneficiaries who had registered online. But walk-ins caused the rush.” Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services for Pune region, said key sites will now be asked to increase the number of booths and have fans or coolers in place for beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scores-of-elderly-brave-long-lines-intense-heat-for-shots/articleshow/81299458.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Probe into pub flouting Covid rules to decide Worli cop’s fate||Mumbai: The opposition in the legislative council on Tuesday demanded that the Worli police station inspector be suspended for allegedly failing to implement Covid-19 norms at a pub. Replying to the opposition demand, home minister Anil Deshmukh said an inquiry had been instituted and based on the report, action would be taken against the inspector. A pub at Kamala Mills Compound, Lower Parel, which is part of environment minister Aaditya Thackeray’s Worli assembly constituency, was allegedly open past midnight on Sunday with patrons without masks. MNS activists had attacked the pub “as it remained open past midnight despite complaints”. Opposition leader Pravin Darekar raised the issue of the pub at a discussion during question hour on hookah parlours in Thane district that sell drugs and violate Covid-19 norms. On Monday, the Worli pub issue was raised in the legislature, following which a case was registered. In the council, when the opposition persisted with its demand for suspension of the police officer, chairman Ramraje Nimbalkar said it would be in violation of the principles of natural justice. “We can send him on compulsory leave but suspension without giving him an opportunity to explain would only go against us. Let us wait for the report,” he said. BJP legislator Niranjan Davkhare said hookah parlours operated all night on Ghodbunder Road. Deshmukh said the anti-drug squad had raided 11 locations and action had been initiated against 42 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/probe-into-pub-flouting-covid-rules-to-decide-worli-cops-fate/articleshow/81298324.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||This winter was country’s third warmest since 1901||Pune: The average winter temperature in January-February 2021 was the third warmest for India in recorded history since 1901, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The other two years were in 2016 and 2009.The average night temperature in the country during January-February 2021 was the second highest at 15.39 degrees celsius since 1901. Also, northwest India, the coldest region in the country, witnessed its warmest average day temperature in the last 61 years in February. The warming winter trend has been more apparent in the last two decades with the warmest winters in 2016, 2009, 2021, 2006 and 2017, weather bureau officials told TOI. D S Pai, scientist and head, of climate research and services, IMD, Pune, said, “Broad climatic conditions can be attributed to the year-to-year variation in temperatures. But, global warming could be the reason for the overall warming trend in India in the past few decades. Year-to-year variations are over and above global warming, during which a few years are warmer than some other years.”Pai said the winter of 2021 was warmer than most others winters in the last century because of weather conditions which caused the flow of relatively warmer and moist southwesterly winds over central and extreme north India. “Both maximum and minimum temperatures in most parts, except extreme northwest India, were close to normal or slightly above normal. In northwest India, February’s maximum temperatures were also above normal. The month was significantly warm for northwest India, while there were thunderstorms in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, parts of central India during the month. Instead of the influence of cold, dry northerly winds affecting parts of central and northwest India, we witnessed the influence of southwesterly winds not only up to central India but also parts of northwest India,” Pai said.Both day and night temperatures were relatively higher because of these conditions. Not only was warm air flowing into these regions, day skies were also clear causing maximum solar radiation penetration towards the surface. “India also recorded less cold waves in February 2021 than what is normal for the month,” he added. O P Sreejith, scientist at the Climate Monitoring and Prediction group of IMD in Pune, told TOI, “The actual observed average maximum, average minimum and mean temperature for the country as a whole during winter 2021 were 27.47 ºC, 15.39 ºC and 21.43 ºC respectively, against the normal of 26.70 ºC, 14.59 ºC and 20.65 ºC between 1981 and 2010. Thus, the average maximum, average minimum and mean temperatures for India were higher than the normal by 0.77 ºC, 0.80 ºC and 0.78 ºC respectively.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/this-winter-was-countrys-third-warmest-since-1901/articleshow/81299489.cms||Neha Madaan
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Govt school HM runs away with Rs 49 lakh||Coimbatore: The district crime branch police on Monday booked the headmistress of the government elementary school at Ponnegoundenpudur near Annur on the outskirts of the city for duping seven of her friends of Rs 49.50 lakh and launched a manhunt for her. Police identified the accused as Malathi, 56. A police officer said Malathi had borrowed Rs 10 lakh from her friend D Karthik Kumar, a private schoolteacher at Annur, for the wedding expenses of her daughter in 2017. “She later borrowed another Rs 10 lakh from him to pay her son’s college fees, by promising to repay him in a year.” The officer said Malathi had also borrowed lakhs of rupees from six other friends, who had, in fact, loaned the amount from moneylenders. “They didn’t hesitate to borrow her money, as she was working in a government school.” When her friends asked her to return the borrowed money, Malathi gave them cheques, which bounced as she didn’t have sufficient fund in her bank account. As she vacated her house and went into hiding, Karthik lodged a complaint with the crime branch police, who registered a case against Malathi under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code. “We have launched a search for her,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-school-hm-runs-away-with-rs-49-lakh/articleshow/81299491.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Goa||Now, plea to relook at ward reservation at Cuncolim MC||Panaji: A day after the high court set aside elections to five municipal councils over reservation of wards, a petition has been filed before the director of urban development and state election commissioner (SEC) to review the order of reservation for women in the Cuncolim municipal council. “Although the court has gone into the merits of the said order in respect of the five municipal councils, it is incumbent on the part of the director and SEC to review the order in light of the judgment, to the extent where reservation for women falls short of one-third of the number of seats,” said advocate Elvis Gomes in one such petition, representing Sandhya Dessai of Cuncolim. He said that in the case of the Cuncolim municipal council, with the total number of wards being 14, the number of wards that should be reserved for women has to be five, and the order specifies four. “The reservation order thus needs to be reviewed so as to meet the mandate of law by applying the ratio of the said judgment,” Gomes said Gomes thus called upon the authorities to review the February 4 order (concerning reservations) in respect of the CMC, and increase the number of wards reserved for women to five. On Monday, in a major embarrassment to the state government, the high court of Bombay at Goa on Monday set aside the order on elections to five municipal councils, as it was done in breach of constitutional and statutory mandate. The court also slammed the SEC, holding that the silence on the part of a constitutional functionary is “highly detrimental” to Indian democracy. “Although the court has gone into the merits of the said order, it is incumbent on the part of the director and SEC to review the order in light of the judgment, to the extent where reservation for women falls short of one-third of the number of seats,” said advocate Elvis Gomes in a petition, representing Sandhya Dessai of Cuncolim||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-plea-to-relook-at-ward-reservation-at-cuncolim-mc/articleshow/81301898.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Civic body plans to introduce mobile swab collection vans||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation is planning to introduce mobile vans, in case of an emergency, for faster collection of swabs of people showing flu-like symptoms from the areas recording more Covid-19 cases. These vans will be attached to the local swab collection centres. The administration has started a swab collection centre in each civic ward. Besides these, three additional swab collection centres are operational in Hadapsar and Warje because of the increase in cases in these pockets. A PMC official said the mobile vans were operational in various parts of the city during the outbreak of the pandemic last year. At present, the situation in most parts of the city is under control, but the administration will keep the plan ready in case of an emergency, officials said. Sanjeev Wavre, PMC’s assistant health chief, “We are keeping the plan ready to avoid last minute rush. People are advised to undergo tests if they develop symptoms. Early medical assistance is crucial.”Meanwhile, the civic health authorities have also planned to coordinate with local doctors running dispensaries in Covid-19 affected areas, to seek details of symptomatic patients. The step will help monitor and increase contact tracing, an official said. “ We are in the process of establishing contact with the local doctors to get details of such patients,” a civic official said.Areas such as Hadapsar, Warje-Karvengar, Kothurd-Bavdhan, Sinhagad Road have reported more cases in the last 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-plans-to-introduce-mobile-swab-collection-vans/articleshow/81299480.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 3, 2021||Pune||Day’s Covid tally at 1,211 in Pune Metropolitan Region, 5 deaths take toll to 9,258||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday recorded 1,211 new Covid-19 cases as against 987 recoveries, pushing active cases in the region above 10,000. Health officials attributed the rise in cases to increased testing. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 688, followed by the Pimpri Chinchwad civic areas (288) and the rural pockets (235). With this, PMR’s infection tally has increased above 4.10 lakh. The caseload in the rural and Cantonment areas increased beyond 1 lakh-mark on Tuesday evening. As per the data released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar, as many as 11,095 samples were tested in PMR on Tuesday. Of these, as many as 6,124 tests were conducted in the PMC limits, while more than 2,200 samples were checked in the rural pockets and 2,727 in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas. So far, over 23.38 lakh samples have been tested in the region. When it comes to recoveries, 498 people were discharged in the PMC limits on Tuesday, followed by the PCMC limits (261) and the rural areas (228), taking the total recoveries in PMR above 3.90 lakh. Besides, the region reported five deaths, all were from the PMC limits. No deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas on Tuesday. The tally of deaths in the region has now increased to 9,258. As per the district data, PMR’s active caseload increased to 10,567 on Tuesday. Of these, as many as 5,841 patients were in home isolation and 4,726 were admitted in various hospitals for the treatment. The PMC areas have reported 5,091 active cases, the highest in the region. The active cases in the region have increased steadily in last two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-tally-at-1211-in-pmr-5-deaths-take-toll-to-9258/articleshow/81299490.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 3, 2021||Goa||WRD: Rlys damaged water bodies at Chandor for double-tracking||Margao: The recent site inspection by the water resources department (WRD) at Guirdolim, Chandor, has vindicated villagers’ apprehensions about the damage caused to water bodies owing to the ongoing track-doubling work of the South Western Railway (SWR). In a letter addressed to the South Goa collector, WRD executive engineer Ankush Gaonker said that following the site inspection in the presence of officials of Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL), it was observed that “due to the construction of double-tracking of SWR, some of the water bodies are already damaged, and some are anticipated to be affected, directly or indirectly, on account of the proposed construction.” Villagers were recently up in arms over the filling of water bodies by RVNL, and had forcibly stopped work until the boundaries of the railway property were properly demarcated. The WRD has now recommended several restoration works, besides protective measures, to be undertaken by RVNL with respect to the water bodies in the vicinity of the double-tracking project in the village. “The nullah connecting the tributary of the Zuari river has been damaged and needs to be reconstructed. The (two) damaged sluice gates are to be reconstructed along with the connecting outlet,” the letter stated. For water bodies that are likely to be affected owing to double-tracking, the department has recommended several measures. Desilting of the tributary of the Zuari river and stabilisation of its bank, improvement of an existing pond, improvement and desilting of the Macasana tank and improvement to the flow of the nullah downstream of the Macasana tank are among these. RVNL officials told TOI that all the measures proposed by the WRD will be implemented. “The damage caused to the water bodies, however, was unintentional,” a senior RVNL official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrd-rlys-damaged-water-bodies-at-chandor-for-double-tracking/articleshow/81301359.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
March 3, 2021||Pune||PMPML passenger traffic records significant drop||Pune: The imposition and extension of night curfew as well as closure of schools and colleges has hit the passenger traffic and the revenue of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML). A senior PMPML official told TOI that the daily passenger traffic has reduced by almost 30%. “The administration has extended the night curfew until March 15. For businesses like ours, it is not a good sign,” the official said. According to the official, the daily passenger traffic had reached 7.50 lakh in January. “The passenger traffic has reduced by more than 2 lakh. While we have not decreased the number of buses plied each day, we might have to consider the change if the passenger traffic continues to fall. After the divisional commissioner told us not to allow standing in buses, we had increased the daily buses from 1,400 to 1,525,” the official added. Another official said that the restrictions scared many people. “The government had spoken about a possible lockdown. We believe that it is one of the reasons for the decline in passenger traffic. The closure of schools and other educational institutions also had an impact,” the official added. The Pune district administration imposed night curfew on February 21 in addition to many restrictions until February 28. The curfew was later extended to March 15. “Last month, after a long time, the revenue on a single day touched Rs1.10 crore. Now, the revenue has dropped to Rs80 to Rs85 lakh, per day. The opening of schools helped us a lot. Monday was better in terms of traffic and revenue but the overall trend is not encouraging,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-passenger-traffic-records-significant-drop/articleshow/81299528.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 3, 2021||Madurai||Plea to censor contents on social media platforms dismissed by HC||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed a plea seeking to regulate, control and monitor the contents and to form a panel of censor members for social media platforms. The court also observed that it is open to the petitioner to live in the stone age or to protect his family or his children from the advances of technology. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Umamaheswaran, an advocate from Tirunelveli district. The petitioner has also impleaded YouTube and Facebook as respondents in the petition.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice R Hemalatha observed that the petitioner seeks the high court in exercise of the extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution to play the role of a conservative censor board to monitor and control the content of what is broadcast over the social media.The judges observed that though specific complaints may be entertained, courts are not there to impose guidelines on how the media or even social media operates and it is for the other agencies to do so, based on the policy decision taken by the legislature or the executive.The judges observed that it will be open to the petitioner to propagate the kind of philosophy that he seeks to espouse and the rights of choice that are constitutionally guaranteed will not stand in the way. The petitioner may approach the appropriate legislature or executive to effectuate the petitioner’s ideas and the courts cannot impose the conditions as his desires, observed the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-censor-contents-on-social-media-platforms-dismissed-by-hc/articleshow/81299527.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Erode||Madras HC orders satellite imaging of lakes to check encroachments||CHENNAI: Dismayed over largescale encroachment of water bodies across TN, the Madras high court has ordered satellite imaging of all water bodies and public lands within a fortnight. Making it clear that every district collector will remain personally liable for ensuring satellite images of all talukas in the relevant district being downloaded, the court said that the task must be completed, and images uploaded in the website by every district collector by March 17. “It is imperative that satellite images of all talukas be prepared by March 15 so that there will be a reference point to indicate the water bodies that exist. As has been repeated by this court, water bodies are the lungs that allow human habitation and they cannot be allowed to be encroached on or even touched to maintain whatever is left of the ecology,” the first bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said on Tuesday. There is disregard to the law and orders, unfortunately even by revenue authorities who are tasked with the obligation to preserve and protect public land and water bodies, the court added. “To repeat, all the images must be as on March 15, the compilation of all images must be put up in the special website to be created by every district collectorate by March 17,” the court said. The bench added that the master file in PDF format containing the images of all talukas should be reached to the chief secretary by March 24 for the records to be maintained at the state secretariat. A copy of the same should be forwarded to the registrar general of this court to be preserved as a reference mark in future matters, the judges said. The court passed the order on a PIL moved by K Shanmugasundaram, president of a water bodies protection organisation based out of Erode. It wanted the court to direct the district authorities to refrain from disturbing or altering the Perupalla Odai in Kathirampatti village in the guise of implementing smart city projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/hc-orders-satellite-imaging-of-lakes-to-check-encroachments/articleshow/81303777.cms||Suresh Kumar
March 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Vehicle vandalism continues despite strict police warning||PUNE: Police’s assurance of ‘stricter’ action against people indulging in vehicle vandalism appears to have had no effect on the troublemakers in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, as at least 22 two- and four-wheelers were damaged in four incidents in Phulenagar and Jai Jawannagar in Yerawada in Bhosari MIDC and Wakad over the past two days. In Phulenagar & Jai Jawan Nagar Four cars and three bikes were damaged in an attack near Gharonda housing society in Phulenagar, while another car and an autorickshaw were damaged near a gurdwara in Jai Jawan nagar. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh on Tuesday said, “We have arrested 10 people and detained a minor boy in connection with the two cases. Most of them are young men and have been arrested for the first time. The incidents occurred because of a prior dispute between two groups.” Inspector (crime) Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police said, “The suspects in both the cases are friends. One of the suspects had a fight with his friend over some issue. One of them, in turn, called his friends from Katraj for teaching the other a lesson. Around 12 men on two-wheelers reached Phulenagar in search of the friend but he was not found.” Waghmare said, “The suspects, brandishing sickles and sticks, vandalised vehicles parked on the roadside, hurled abuses and created terror among residents. They beat and attacked Vineet Bhalerao (20), a first-year arts graduate student, on his head with a sickle and sped away.” “Five of the suspects later visited Jai Jawan nagar and vandalised a car and an autorickshaw and brutally attacked the latter’s driver, Ravi Chavan (31), and pelted stones at him before running away. Chavan and Bhalerao have lodged two FIRs relating to rioting and attempt to commit murder,” the officer said. Chavan told TOI, “I have not used my vehicle after the incident because it has been badly damaged. I will have to spend Rs6,000 for repairing it and I am at a loss regarding where I’ll get the money from.” In Bhosari MIDC area The Bhosari MIDC police on Monday arrested a 19-year-old youth, Kapil Pawar, on the charge of attempting to kill a 21-year-old man with a sharp weapon and vandalising 10 vehicles in Landewadi. Ganesh Kamble had lodged an FIR against Pawar. The police said Kamble was standing near his parked motorcycle in Landewadi on Sunday night when Pawar approached him and began abusing him. When Pawar tried to assault Kamble, the latter dodged the blow and ran away. “Pawar then smashed Kamble’s motorcycle with the weapon. While leaving the spot, Pawar damaged nine more two-wheelers parked along the road,” police said. In Wakad In another incident in Kalewadi on Sunday around 10pm, a gang of 10 men created a ruckus and assaulted a person with a sharp weapon and beat up another. The suspects also pushed down three parked two-wheelers. Sanjay Ghodke (49) of Nadhenagar in Kalewadi has lodged an FIR with the Wakad police. A M Shingare, sub-inspector of the Wakad police said the suspects and complainant had been part of a brawl on February 24 over some petty issue. “On Sunday night 10 men came to Nadhenagar and began beating Ghodke. The suspects assaulted one Sagar Shinde, when the latter tried to intervene,” Shingare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vehicle-vandalism-continues-despite-strict-police-warning/articleshow/81299503.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Central officials sent list of CoWIN niggles that have ‘delayed’ vax drive||Pune: The state health department has now sent the Centre a list of problems with the CoWIN system, which they said had caused delays in the vaccination process for senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities. A state health department official said, “There have been issues related to site creation, because of which the number of session sites for vaccination is currently limited. Other issues include server hiccups, problems while logging in, instances of automatic logouts and problems in generating time slots.”Officials said the list of problems was communicated to the Centre via email, phone and video conferencing sessions and the Central authorities replied saying the niggles are being fixed.Another official said vaccination sites are created on a daily basis on the CoWIN system. “The names of these centres have to be fed into the system for vaccine allocation. Only then can the sessions start. Once the glitches on the CoWIN portal are resolved, the state can increase the number of vaccine sites,” he said.However, a key problem in CoWIN has been the validation of beneficiaries after registration. Only after the validation, can an applicant receive the vaccine. Such issues are causing the process to slow down," the state health department official said. Dr Subhash Salunke, adviser to the state government on Covid-19 control, termed the CoWIN issues as “unfortunate”. “The Centre should ensure no issues come up in the vaccination drive because of the CoWIN system. Such issues can prove to be counter-productive in the mission to generate community-wide protection.”He added, “Since the vaccination drive started, states with huge populations such as Maharashtra have been facing CoWIN-related issues. Had it been a smoother system, scores would have geared up for vaccination.”State health officials said as per the new system, healthcare and frontline workers who have still not registered now have the option of visiting a vaccine centre for on-site registration and vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/central-officials-sent-list-of-cowin-niggles-that-have-delayed-vax-drive/articleshow/81299519.cms||Neha Madaan
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Madras HC orders satellite imaging of lakes to check encroachments||CHENNAI: Dismayed over largescale encroachment of water bodies across TN, the Madras high court has ordered satellite imaging of all water bodies and public lands within a fortnight. Making it clear that every district collector will remain personally liable for ensuring satellite images of all talukas in the relevant district being downloaded, the court said that the task must be completed, and images uploaded in the website by every district collector by March 17. “It is imperative that satellite images of all talukas be prepared by March 15 so that there will be a reference point to indicate the water bodies that exist. As has been repeated by this court, water bodies are the lungs that allow human habitation and they cannot be allowed to be encroached on or even touched to maintain whatever is left of the ecology,” the first bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said on Tuesday. There is disregard to the law and orders, unfortunately even by revenue authorities who are tasked with the obligation to preserve and protect public land and water bodies, the court added. “To repeat, all the images must be as on March 15, the compilation of all images must be put up in the special website to be created by every district collectorate by March 17,” the court said. The bench added that the master file in PDF format containing the images of all talukas should be reached to the chief secretary by March 24 for the records to be maintained at the state secretariat. A copy of the same should be forwarded to the registrar general of this court to be preserved as a reference mark in future matters, the judges said. The court passed the order on a PIL moved by K Shanmugasundaram, president of a water bodies protection organisation based out of Erode. It wanted the court to direct the district authorities to refrain from disturbing or altering the Perupalla Odai in Kathirampatti village in the guise of implementing smart city projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-orders-satellite-imaging-of-lakes-to-check-encroachments/articleshow/81299507.cms||Suresh Kumar
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Clogged drain makes life miserable for Rangaswamy Naidu Layout folk||Coimbatore: A few residents of Rangaswamy Naidu Layout have voiced concerns over the clogged drain in their area, stating the same has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. They also complained about the stench, which they said had made life miserable for them. The residents, who live just opposite Kamaraj Road, said the city corporation was yet to lay proper drainage pipes in their area and connect the same to the main lines. While the corporation workers had dug trenches and laid slabs on the street three weeks ago, they are yet to complete the work. V Balasubramaniam, a resident, said the civic body had laid drainage pipelines in the area almost seven years ago, but by excluding three houses that were on the tail end of the road. “We had written to the chief minister’s cell and petitioned the corporation commissioner, Singanallur MLA Karthik and ward councillor, but to no avail.” Since the civic body did not respond to their complaints on the issue in 2014, the house owners had laid a pipeline themselves and connected that to the main line. “However, sewage water hasn’t been flowing smoothly for over a year now because of the clogged drain. When the sewage water from our neighbouring building doesn’t flow out, it stagnates below our building. We fear it might damage our building,” said Mohammed Younus, who runs MM Fruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/clogged-drain-makes-life-miserable-for-rangaswamy-naidu-layout-folk/articleshow/81299529.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Pune||Maha plea to tweak portal to avoid overcrowding at inoculation sites||Pune: The Maharashtra government wants the Centre to make some changes in the CoWIN portal to allow citizens first check the walk-in slots and then proceed to the Covid-19 vaccination facilities. State health officials, while taking part in a video conferencing conducted by the Centre on Tuesday evening, said the local authorities should ensure staggered walk-ins at the vaccination sites during the next three days. A senior state official said the hospitals on the vaccination list should put out “slots allowed for walk-ins” information through means such as separate counters and display boards. National Health Authority chief executive officer Dr R S Sharma said the state could make necessary changes locally to ensure visibility of walk-ins and ensure that there was no rush at the vaccination centres. Hecited the example of trains to drive home his point. “A train has reserved compartments and the unreserved ones, where one can walk in. Local authorities should alert the person walking in on the vacancies available,” he said. A Maharashtra government official, however, said CoWin portal was managed by the Centre and the state could not make any change in it. Suryakant Mukhyan (75), who had to wait for long with his wife at a vaccination site, said, “Many people in our age group are not comfortable using gadgets. The hospital staffers have to ensure that there is no crowding and give us a time slot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-plea-to-tweak-portal-to-avoid-overcrowding-at-inoculation-sites/articleshow/81299542.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 3, 2021||Kanpur||6 killed as truck overturns in Kanpur Dehat||Kanpur:At least six persons including three children were killed and 16 others injured when a coal-laden truck carrying them overturned in Maukhas village under the limits of Bhognipur Kotwali police station in Kanpur Dehat district on Monday night. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief and offered condolences and directed district authorities to provide proper medical aid to the injured. The victims, mostly labourers of Hamirpur, were going to work in potato farms in Sirsaganj area of Firozabad in the truck when the mishap took place. The police identified the deceased as Ramesh (41), Pinki (45), Chandawati (14) of Barnav area of Ghatampur area of Kanpur and Radha (42), Komal (8) and Suraj (4), of Hamirpur district. Of the 16 injured, eight were shifted to district hospital as their condition was described as critical. Eight others are recuperating at a Community Health Centre in Pukhrayan. Reports said the incident took place when the driver of the truck apparently lost control over the vehicle and it overturned near Maukhas village on the Kanpur Dehat- Etawah road under the limits of Bhognipur Kotwali police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/6-killed-as-truck-overturns-in-kanpur-dehat/articleshow/81301331.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha records highest vaccination on Wednesday||Nagpur: In 11 districts of Vidarbha, over 16,301 people took Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday which was the highest on a single day since the rollout of the vaccination programme on January 16. In all, 10,948 from the 60 and above age group and those 45 and above with specified comorbidities took the jab in the region on Wednesday. The number of vaccinated people will be much more than 16,301 on Thursday. The data released by the state’s public health department did not include vaccination of Amravati district, probably due to the delay in sending data by the district to the government. Despite the start of the inoculation for the age-appropriate group along with the first and second dose for healthcare workers (HCW) and first dose of frontline workers (FLW), the number did not increase in the region in the first two days. In all, 6,460, including 1,805 from the age-appropriate group turned out for the inoculation on Monday. The number increased to 9,181 on Tuesday of which 4,850 were senior citizens and comorbid. It means that the number of beneficiaries from age-appropriate group doubled on Wednesday compared to that of Tuesday. This is for the fifth time when the number of beneficiaries crossed 10,000 on a single day. 10,436 were vaccinated on February 18, 10,688 on February 20, 12,827 on February 22 and 10,122 on February 26. A good response is being witnessed from the age-appropriate group for vaccination across the region. There is no apprehension towards Covaxin among age-appropriate group. All districts are likely to increase the number of vaccination centres on Thursday as crowding was witnessed at many centres. This will increase the number of beneficiaries in the region on Thursday and further. The issue of the availability of the vaccine was also over a day ago. Eleven districts of the region received 2,21,800 doses on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-records-highest-vaccination-on-wednesday/articleshow/81318585.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 3, 2021||Madurai||‘Increase cold storage facility at airport’||Madurai: Exporters have urged the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to increase the cold storage facility at the cargo terminal in the Madurai airport. The airport has one cold storage facility each for export and import, with a 5 tonne capacity each. The facility, which was put to use in 2019 after a long wait, was crucial as 80% of the export items like flowers and vegetables, were perishables. It will allow the exporters to preserve perishable items fresh in case there is a delay in flight movement or consignments missed the flight. Temperature between 2C and 8C is ideal for keeping vegetables and flowers fresh. Storage of seafood requires sub-zero temperatures. Flowers and vegetables are shipped mostly to the Middle East and South East Asia, with flowers alone shipped to 12 countries. Garments, consignments from India Mail, snacks and automobile spare parts are also being shipped for domestic and international destinations. Although there is good potential for the export of seafood, the sector is largely underutilized, say exporters. Office-bearers from the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) said that The Agricultural and Processed Foods Export Development Authority (APEDA) has provided cold storage facilities in airports like Chennai and Coimbatore to promote export of processed foods. They said that they had approached APEDA officials, to provide similar facilities in Madurai also. But, officials at the airport should take up the initiative by sending a request. They also have to do the civil work required for the facility, they said. President of TNCCI N Jegadeesan said when facilities like terminal building and runway are being expanded keeping in mind the future development, importance should also be given to cold storage facilities. “Various issues impede cargo movement. Madurai will realise its potential if the issues are sorted out. It includes unavailability of permanent plant quarantine officer and absence of round-the-clock operation of the airport. Exporters are opting for Trichy and Coimbatore due to these issues,” he said. “We have been demanding AAI to include Madurai airport in the bilateral aviation safety agreement (BASA), which will enable foreign carriers to operate flights to Madurai,” he added. Director of Madurai airport, S Senthil Valavan, however, said that the present cold storage facility itself is underutilized at present. “Only export is being done. There is hardly any import of perishable commodities. Hence, the available capacity is adequate. The plant quarantine officer is making himself available at late nights on a need basis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/increase-cold-storage-facility-at-airport/articleshow/81299573.cms||V Devanathan
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||With just 1 ‘satisfactory’ AQI count in February, air quality in Kolkata continues to nosedive||KOLKATA: The air quality in the city continued to deteriorate across the six automatic air quality monitoring stations last month. There was a sharp rise in the number of ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ days in February compared to the corresponding period last year. Track the pollution level in your city There was a significant drop in the number of ‘moderate’ days as well. South Kolkata saw a sharper decline in air quality and Jadavpur, particularly, was the worst-affected. In fact, there was just a single day in February when the air quality was ‘satisfactory’. Times ViewTuesday morning was a reminder that a bad smog could be a summer phenomenon as well. We cannot control weather fluctuations but need to do everything within our means to make our air quality better.During the winter months, the air around us gets vicious because pollutants hang lower for longer periods of the day because of thermal inversion. Moreover, automobile emission, emission from thermal power, tanneries, garbage burning and road dusts make it more poisonous. In fact, an analysis of the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) showed Kolkata saw the highest increase (13%) among megacities as far as the increase in PM2.5 count in the air is concerned. The study of the AQI calendar shows that the Jadavpur CAAQMS (Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station) had three ‘satisfactory’ (AQI 51-100) days and 19 ‘moderate’ (101-200) days in February, 2020. Last year, Jadavpur showed the best air quality in the city with more than half of the month showing reasonably good readings. However, there was not a single ‘satisfactory’ day this February, with ‘moderate’ days reduced to just 11. There was a four-fold increase in the number of ‘very poor’ days (301-400). The situation at north Kolkata was no better. At Rabindra Bharati University CAAQMS, ‘poor’ days (201-300) dropped from 14 last February to 11 last month. But the number of ‘very poor’ days went up sharply from one to 14. Salt Lake (Bidhannagar) in the east of the city, which is considered to be the cleanest with a lot of greenery, also showed a decline — ‘moderate’ days dropped to 11 from 13 and ‘poor’ days increasing from 9 to 16. Fort William, the headquarters of the Eastern Command at the heart of the city, also saw a sharp decline in the number of ‘moderate’ days from 20 February last year to six last month. The number of ‘poor’ days jumped to 20 from just five. “Kolkata’s pollution, different studies indicate, is not a problem of the city alone. It is a problem of the larger area of the Indo-Gangetic plain, where trans-boundary travel of pollutants plays a huge role. We are trying our best to contain local pollution. But it requires a much bigger zonal containment action plan. Meteorology plays a major role in the betterment or worsening of AQI,” said WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-just-1-satisfactory-aqi-count-in-feb-air-quality-in-city-continues-to-nosedive/articleshow/81298338.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tax waiver may be cut to 60% after March 31||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) brass has extended the deadline for the 100% interest waiver scheme till March 31, hoping to mop up Rs 200 crore more in another one month. After this deadline expires, KMC is likely to introduce a 60% waiver on interest accrued on property tax dues. According to a KMC assessment department official, of around 1,00,000 property tax defaulters who had applied for the 100% interest waiver scheme, 80% of them have already paid their dues, helping the civic body mop up Rs 450 crore. The 100% waiver scheme was introduced on October 1 last year. The deadline for the scheme — that was initially on December 31, 2020 — has been extended thrice. However, witnessing a rush to avail of the 100% waiver scheme and enabling defaulters to take advantage of the scheme, the civic brass has decided to extend the deadline to March 31.  “We have to give a chance to 20,000 applicants to clear their dues by March 31. If other defaulters are willing to take advantage of the waiver scheme and apply afresh, they need to apply and pay their dues within March 31,” a KMC assessment department official. A KMC revenue department official expressed satisfaction over collection of revenue from the scheme. “Of around 3,00,000 defaulters, around 1,00,000 applicants had applied for the 100% waiver. Of them 80,000 defaulters have paid up, which has helped us mop up Rs 450 crore. We hope to collect Rs 200 crore more from the rest of the applicants and from fresh applications by March 31,” the civic official said. Of the 80,000 applicants who have cleared their dues, a majority of them belong to middle-class families who could not pay their property tax on time because of several financial constraints,” a KMC official said. However, the civic official maintained that a section of major defaulters also paid their dues, thereby helping the civic body mop up huge revenue. “We received applications from a section of major defaulters who have paid their dues amounting to over Rs 100 crore. A few of these defaulters have paid Rs 5 crore or more individually,” said a senior KMC revenue department official. However, the civic brass has decided to conduct raids on addresses of a few big defaulters who are yet to apply for the scheme. “We are keeping a vigil on a section of habitual defaulters in large areas of the central business district. We have prepared a list of defaulters in the city's prime commercial areas spreading across 10 south Kolkata wards. We will conduct raids on these properties once the deadline expires,” a KMC revenue department senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tax-waiver-may-be-cut-to-60-after-march-31/articleshow/81298332.cms||Saikat Ray
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Passenger dies on city bound flight||LUCKNOW: A passenger apparently died of heart attack in a Lucknow bound IndiGo flight on Tuesday early morning while the plane was in Pakistan airspace. The deceased was identified as Raza Habibur Rehman Ali, who was on wheelchair assistance and was travelling from Sharjah to Lucknow. Sources said the flight left Sharjah around 1:50am on Tuesday with 158 passengers and had to reach Lucknow by 6:55am, but the pilots had to make medical emergency landing at Karachi airport around 3:20am when Raza fell unconscious apparently after suffering a heart attack. “On arrival at Karachi airport, the passenger was declared dead. Abhishek Jaiswal, PRO of Lucknow airport, said, “The victim’s body was alighted at Ahmedabad airport and sent to a local government hospital. The entire aircraft was sanitised before leaving for Lucknow.” The flight landed at Lucknow airport at 1:47pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/passenger-dies-on-city-bound-flight/articleshow/81301396.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||RTO to get driving simulators; many question its relevance||Pune: It will soon be possible to ascertain your driving skills on a simulator before taking the final driving test in order to get a licence but many question the relevance of it without any binding regulation in place.All the regional transport office (RTO)s in the state are set to get simulators. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne told TOI that while it will not be mandatory for an aspirant to pass the simulator test to go for the final driving test, the simulators will help the RTO officials in many ways. “Even before the aspirant takes to the wheel for the final test, he can be evaluated on the simulator. It will help the examiners ascertain the shortcomings of aspirants,” he said. Sources in the state transport department told TOI that 65 simulators for four-wheelers would be given to all the RTOs in the state. “While the Pune RTO will get two simulators, the Pimpri Chinchwad office will get one. The simulators present a virtual road where the aspirant can drive while controlling the steering, brakes and accelerator. They would also have to manoeuvre around people and turns, keeping in mind signals and road signs,” an official said.A section of driving schools, however, termed the simulators “a waste of time”. “It makes no sense till there is an obligation that one has to pass the simulator test to appear for the final driving test. During the final test, the aspirant is more careful. I don’t think simulators will be of much help unless there is a regulation,” a proprietor of a driving school in Wanowrie told TOI. Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde told TOI that more directions from the transport department were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-to-get-driving-simulators-many-question-its-relevance/articleshow/81299549.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Voters’ awareness programmes to begin in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: In a bid to create awareness among voters about electronic voting machines (EVM), the district administration dispatched 45 EVMs to each of the three constituencies — Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur — in the Nilgiris district on Tuesday. The machines were taken from the locker room at the additional collectorate in Ooty in the presence of collector J Innocent Divya, representatives of political parties and other officials. “The machines will be kept under the custody of the returning officers of the concerned constituencies till they are brought back to the locker room after awareness programmes,” the collector said. The machines will be taken to various public places in the constituencies to educate people, she added. Divya said the district has 1,503 ballot units, 1,140 control units and 1,197 VVPAT units. The first-level checking of these units showed that they are in good working condition. The number of polling stations in the district has been increased from 683 to 868, she said. “Due to the Covid situation, the polling stations having more than 1,050 voters were bifurcated,” she said. The collector inspected a few of the polling stations in the Coonoor constituency. “The inspection was as per the instruction of the election commission so as to ascertain that basic facilities provided at the polling stations,” she said. Meanwhile, N Kannan, TASMAC assistant manager of Nilgiris district, has been deputed to monitor the day-to-day sale of liquor in the hill district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/voters-awareness-programmes-to-begin-in-nilgiris/articleshow/81299601.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Madurai||Unaccounted cash seized by flying squad in Sivaganga||Madurai: The first seizures of unaccounted cash by the flying squads ahead of this year’s assembly elections was reported in Sivaganga on Tuesday, when Rs 19 lakh cash was seized from three vehicles in various parts of the district.A flying squad led by special tahsildar Mayilavathi was conducting searches in Kalavasal in the Madurai-Sivaganga road junction, when they found that Rs 6.5 lakh was being transported in a vehicle coming from Chennai. As the owner of the vehicle did not produce any records, the money was seized and handed over to the treasury.In another incident, the flying squad led by Sethunambu, conducted searches in Devakottai and seized a sum of Rs 10.5 lakh from a vehicle near Puduvayal, which did not have proper records; hence, it was handed over to the treasury.A static surveillance committee led by officer Nehru conducted a search in Kandanur in the district. They seized Rs 2 lakh unaccounted cash from a vehicle, which was coming from Pudukottai district.Meanwhile, Madurai district collector, T Anbazhagan inspected the election control room on Tuesday. He said that people could call up the control room numbers on 0452-2531 006, 0452-2531 007, 2531 008 or toll free number 1950 for any complaints with regards to election violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/unaccounted-cash-seized-by-flying-squad-in-sivaganga/articleshow/81299602.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||Salaries on hold, colleges want fee reimbursement||Pune: The Association of the Management of Unaided Institutes in Rural Areas has complained that the state has not given any tuition fee reimbursement for 2020-21 in lieu of admissions to reserved category students, leading to massive financial losses to the colleges. Reserved category students get a fee concession with some categories getting up to 100% off. This amount is reimbursed by the government to the colleges which they typically do in two instalments in October and February. However, according to Ramdas Zol, president of the association, no college has yet received any fee reimbursement for 2020-21 which accounts for almost 70% of the total fee collected by the colleges, forcing the management to cut the salary of their staff. “Colleges have also not received the full reimbursement amount for 2019-20 academic year too. Due to lack of funds, salaries of teachers and teaching staff cannot be paid on time, thus affecting the quality of teaching. We have written several letters to the authorities. Between 2003 to 2010, the colleges were given 90% of the reimbursement within the first month of admission while the remaining amount was given after an audit was conducted. Everything was running smoothly then. But now, it has become very hard to sustain professional colleges,” Zol added. The association said the students are made to submit the online forms for scholarship and upload the same documents that are submitted during the admission. “This entire process is started by the government late and then problems also crop up during the submission of online forms, further delaying the process. We can avoid this loss of time, energy and resources if the admission department, whether it is Directorate of Technical Education or the Common Entrance Test cell, ports the admission data directly to the scholarship department,” Zol added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/salaries-on-hold-colleges-want-fee-reimbursement/articleshow/81299581.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tunnelling of E-W final stretch gets under way||KOLKATA: Tunnelling of the East-West Metro project resumed on Monday night after a month’s hiatus. During this time, the tunnel borer was being equipped for its “main” drive. Engineers of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the implementing agency of the corridor, expect the tunnelling of the last 720m stretch to be completed by May. On January 4, tunnel-boring machine (TBM) Urvi started its journey from below Sealdah station to bridge the last 800m gap of the west-bound tunnel. It stopped on January 27. When a TBM starts digging, it initially burrows 80m to create space to shove its own 75m length inside. For, only the main 9m of the machine — comprising cutterhead, front and middle bodies and tailskin — can be lowered below the ground at the initial stage. The rest of the body parts — or “backup gantry” — were added over the last one month to prepare for the “main” drive. The machine can now go full steam, with its optimum speed of 12-15m a day. Because it was on its “initial drive”, Urvi could only dig 6m a day to cover the 25m across Sealdah flyover. Urvi took less time in its earlier stint in October last year when it was building the east-bound tunnel. From Monday night, Urvi started digging from Koley Market, near the Church of Our Lady of Dolours on BB Ganguly Street’s Baitakkhana area. Even as the TBM was resting in between drives, the team led by ITD-ITD Cementation’s chief tunnel engineer Suvajit Bisai was working overtime to add the “backup gantry” through the shaft (an exposed square portion of Sealdah Metro station).  The assembling took 10 days. Then a wider platform was built for a second loco train or “man-rider”, which carries back muck excavated by the giant borer. With increased speed, the TBM generates more muck in its “main” drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tunnelling-of-e-w-final-stretch-gets-under-way/articleshow/81298345.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 3, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: RTE registration starts today, tight race for seats||PUNE: The registration for admissions to private schools under the Right to Education (RTE) Act for students will start from Wednesday across the state. This year, the seats have been reduced by nearly 6,000 and parents will have fewer options will choosing the nearest school. The registration will take place till the end of March. Parents will have to create login identification on the RTE portal https://rte25admission.maharashtra.gov.in. Primary education director Dattatray Jagtap, said, "The parents will get time till March 21 and the deadline may extended by a week considering the response for registrations. Parents should be careful while filling the preferences and give accurate addresses of their residences as the allotment is largely based on this information." Jagtap said they are trying to complete the entire process by end of April. Single parent Rupesh Johri from Gokhalenagar said, "My elder son has got admission to a nearby private school two years ago to class II. I am also trying the same school for my younger one this year, but everything looks uncertain. The admissions are also happening late this time but it will be a relief if it is the same school." Another parent Laxmi Raut, a househelp from Sahakarnagar area, said, "I want my daughter to learn in a good English medium school and I was waiting for the RTE admission to begin. Many neighbours have availed this facility and they have benefited. I hope for the same."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rte-registration-starts-today-tight-race-for-seats/articleshow/81299608.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||12 years on, soldier’s widow wins legal battle to get dues from Army||LUCKNOW: An Army soldier’s widow who was denied pension for more than 12 years will now get her due after several years of legal battle. The regional bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal has directed the Chief of Army Staff and other respondents to provide family pension to Savita Singh, wife of a lance naik Shailendra Singh, who was invalidated from service in 2003 owing to disability. A bench of Justice UC Srivastava (judicial member) and Vice Admiral Abhay Raghunath Karve (administrative member) passed the order on the application of the husband, but later substituted by the wife after his death. Allowing the application, the bench cautioned the Army to give effect to the order within four months otherwise default would invite interest of 8% per annum till actual payment. Further, it ordered to provide the pension from 2008 in which year the husband had died. It also said that arrears of the pension would be restricted to three years preceding the date of filing of the case before the tribunal in 2017. The soldier was enrolled in the Indian Army on January 1, 1996 and was invalidated out of service on March 17, 2003, after having rendered more than seven years in low medical category P-5 due to disability ‘Recurrent Anaplastic Astrocytoma Left Temporo Parietal Region’ (OPTD), a rare malignant brain tumour. The bench agreed to the plea of the wife that her husband was enrolled in the Army in medically and physically fit condition and there was no note in his service documents with regard to suffering from any disease prior to the enrolment and hence any disability suffered by her husband after joining the service should be considered as attributable to or aggravated by military service and she should be entitled for family pension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/12-years-on-soldiers-widow-wins-legal-battle-to-get-dues-from-army/articleshow/81301423.cms||Arvind Chauhan
March 3, 2021||Madurai||Leaders organise feasts in disguise of family events of cadres||Madurai: Many villagers in Sivaganga are having a good time enjoying ‘Kida virundhus’, goat meat feasts, as the local MLAs have decided to appease their village deities by sacrificing goats.Offering worship to their village deities and gods to whom people from the same families have been worshipping for many generations is considered as the best way to ensure victories in some of the difficult situations. Though the model code of conduct specifies that people should not be treated to feasts with a political motive, at times such events are difficult to monitor.Three days ago, Thirupathur MLA K R Periyakaruppan of the DMK, who has won three elections in a row in Sivaganga, participated in a feast where goats were sacrificed at Gana Karuppar, Malaiyan temple, in the foothills of Piranmalai in Singampunari in the district and organised a grand feast in which hundreds of people including DMK members participated. There were no women or children in the feast, though it was claimed that it was being held in connection with the boring ceremony of a local DMK functionary. A DMK member said that the former minister was seeking a ticket to this constituency again, that the offering was being made to ensure the seat.S Nagarajan, who won the by-elections to the Manamadurai constituency in 2019, also participated in a feast held at the Madapuram Bathirakaliamman temple. Though it was claimed that the MLA was organising it, there were no posters or banners to confirm it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/leaders-organise-feasts-in-disguise-of-family-events-of-cadres/articleshow/81299576.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Chennai||TN forms wilderness experiences corpn for promoting eco-tourism||Chennai: Tamil Nadu’s vast forest tracts are ideal for promoting eco-tourism. In an effort to propel the state to the top slot in the field, the forest department has formed an organization that will help offer exclusive experiences for tourists/wildlife enthusiasts like in a corporate set-up. The Tamil Nadu Wilderness Experiences Corporation will create quality experiences in a non-intrusive and sustainable manner, with minimal impact on the environment. It will promote the identified destinations on a commercial basis and enhance the livelihood opportunities for local communities, said an official. The corporation will not look for newer areas or locations as the department already holds eco-tourism events in the four tiger reserves and wildlife sanctuaries. Under the existing arrangement, a tourist coming to visit the Mudumalai tiger reserve and also planning to go to the Avalanche area has to pay different tariffs at the destinations as there is no uniformity in the events organised there despite the locations coming under the state forest department. Charges vary for guest houses, the food served. The ost of safari trips varies too. The forest department should take a cue from the state tourism department at whose facilities the tariff for accommodation, food and other amenities are the same across the state, the official said. Another problem is that tourists have to obtain permission from too many officials to visit different spots in a place. Again, Udhagamandalam is a classic example, where one needs to obtain permission from the district forest officer to visit Avalanche and approach the field director for approval to go to the Mudumalai Tiger reserve, both located in the same area. Such problems can be overcome by appointing an officer of the rank of conservator of forests to look into eco-tourism related booking, cancellation and maintenance of the guest houses for visitors. At present, range officers in tiger reserves are managing both the tiger reserves and the protection and conservation activities within their jurisdiction. The new corporation will plug all these loopholes and provide better facilities for tourists, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-forms-wilderness-experiences-corpn-for-promoting-eco-tourism/articleshow/81299632.cms||P Oppili
March 3, 2021||Goa||Responsibility should be fixed for municipal polls fiasco: Godinho||Panaji: After the high court of Bombay at Goa on Monday cancelled polls to five municipal councils for breach of Constitution and law over the reservation of wards, transport minister Mauvin Godinho on Tuesday said the responsibility should be fixed for the fiasco so that the entire government does not have to take the blame for the wrongdoings, if any. While he clarified that he was not pinpointing anyone in particular, Godinho who represents Dabolim constituency, appeared to take veiled digs at cabinet colleague, minister for municipal administration Milind Naik. Hours after the high court order on Monday, BJP’s Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida reiterated his demand for dropping Milind Naik from the cabinet. “All I can say is, we should think well for others. Sometimes when we think ill of others and want to bring them down, we end up slipping down ourselves. We should remember this. If we have gone wrong somewhere, our party is such that it will carry out whatever necessary actions required. If someone has gone wrong then they have to bear the consequences, everyone should not be held responsible for it,” he said. Party leaders have taken note ‘of what has happened’, said Godinho speaking to the media on the sidelines of a function on Tuesday. “The blame should not be borne by the entire government. Responsibility should be fixed. But I do not want to point fingers at any specific person. But whatever has happened is in public domain. People have a lot of expectations from the BJP and they know that if something has gone wrong steps will be taken to correct it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/responsibility-should-be-fixed-for-municipal-polls-fiasco-godinho/articleshow/81301490.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Contempt case: HC tells Khammam collector to mind his language||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Tuesday warned bureaucrats convicted in contempt cases to be wary of the language they or their counsels use in the appeal petitions they file against such convictions and punishments. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy came across one such contempt appeal filed by IAS officer RV Karnan and issued him a fresh contempt notice for the intemperate language he used against the single judge who slapped a fine of Rs 500 on him for causing inordinate delay in implementing the court order. The appeal copy of the IAS officer, who is currently district collector of Khammam, has some insinuations against the single judge. Chief Justice Kohli took objection to one such phrase in the collector’s petition wherein he charged the single judge with passing an order against him with a pre-determined view. The collector was present before the virtual court on Tuesday. “You (collector) went to the extent of casting aspersions on a high court judge. You thought that levelling allegations against the judge would make it easier for you,” an angry CJ said addressing both the contemnor and the state counsel defending him. The state counsel tendered an unconditional apology. The district collector also apologised. The counsel informed the bench that the single judge punished the IAS officer even after implementing the orders of the court. “He is a young IAS officer and this punishment would adversely affect him,” the state counsel pleaded. The bench told him that the IAS officer was more worried about the punishment entering his service record through the annual confidential report. “Both of you have to explain your conduct,” the judges said. The state counsel too received criticism from the court for approving such an affidavit filed by the collector. Upon repeated requests, the bench recalled its fresh contempt notice and posted the case to March 10 with a direction to the collector to appear before the court on that day too. It allowed the collector and his counsel to file a fresh affidavit this time duly removing the insinuations they made against the single judge. The bench agreed with the views expressed by the single judge, who was critical of bureaucrats for taking steps only after beleaguered citizens move courts and that too at the stage of contempt cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/contempt-case-hc-tells-khammam-collector-to-mind-his-language/articleshow/81299667.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Pune||MPSC coaching classes seek approval to reopen||Pune: A group of teachers from various competitive examination training centres in Pune city met district collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Monday requesting him to allow the reopening of training centres in view of the MPSC preliminary examinations scheduled on March 14. The closure of the coaching centres has been a big blow to students, especially those from rural areas without access to online classes, they said.  The teachers also requested the divisional commissioner to allow reopening with 50% attendance so that state students are not left behind when it comes to qualifying for the exams. Vishwambhar Bhopale, an MPSC aspirant, said students who are in the city, for MPSC/UPSC coaching are facing a lot of problems due to Covid-19 restrictions. “All of us have paid the full fees at these coaching institutes. We have also paid for the library or reading rooms where only 50% attendance is allowed which means not all can access it. Then there is no clarity over when the restrictions will be lifted which means we can’t go home and save on the rent. The MPSC keeps postponing the examinations which is causing stress because there are many students for whom this is the last chance, either because of the age limit set by the MPSC or by their own decisions. Hence, it would be really great if the coaching centres are allowed to restart,” Bhopale said. Bharat Patil, a teacher from one of the institutes said, “Representatives from various organisations met the district collector and also submitted a letter at the divisional commissioner’s office requesting him to reopen the competitive examination centres. It is not possible to teach all students online as many do not have the resources to study online. Many students come to Pune just to prepare for these exams and with the exams nearing, it is imperative that coaching classes be allowed to teach, at least with 50% attendance.”  Hundreds of students from the rural parts of the state come to Pune every year to study for these exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mpsc-coaching-classes-seek-approval-to-reopen/articleshow/81299652.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 3, 2021||Madurai||HC seeks report in plea to shift murder case to CB-CID||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a status report from the police on a plea seeking to transfer the investigation to the CB-CID in a case where Kunnathur village president Krishnarajan and his friend Munusamy were hacked to death in October last year in Madurai district. Justice R Hemalatha was hearing a petition filed by R Baskaran, brother of the deceased Krishnarajan.The petitioner stated that a person Senthil had approached Krishnarajan before the rural local body election held in December 2019 and sought his support to elect his wife, Malarvizhi, as a councillor from Kunnathur village. Krishnarajan had pledged his support, however, he helped the wife of Pandi of Kunnathur win the election.As a result of this, Senthil and his friend Balaguru murdered Krishnarajan on October 11, 2020. The duo also murdered Munusamy who had witnessed the murder. He stated that the Karuppayurani police have registered a case and subsequently arrested Senthil and Balaguru.He stated that there are several people behind these murders and several lapses in the manner in which the police are investigating the case.Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking to transfer the case to the CB-CID or any other agency to ensure a fair investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-in-plea-to-shift-murder-case-to-cb-cid/articleshow/81299664.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bareilly||Death-row convict Shabnam shifted to UP's Bareilly jail after her pics with fellow inmates turn up on social media||BAREILLY: A woman, 38, awaiting death sentence for killing seven members of her family has been shifted to UP’s Bareilly jail from the Rampur prison, where she was lodged for the last two years, after her photos with some fellow inmates surfaced on social media platforms recently. Two guards of Rampur prison were placed under suspension on Monday after jail authorities found that they had clicked the photos with their phones and later circulated them. The death row convict, Shabnam, was brought to Rampur district jail in 2019. Jail administration officials said that the pictures were most likely taken on January 26 this year inside the jail premises. “It is a breach of security and violation of the jail manual,” an official said. Another inmate of the same jail -- who was also seen in photos-- was also shifted to Bareilly prison. The order to transfer them was given by Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar, officials said. Rampur jail superintendent PD Salonia said, “Rampur district administration had issued the orders to shift both the convicts to Bareilly district jail. They were taken to Bareilly on Monday.” Salonia added, “An inquiry revealed that a male prison guard and a woman guard deputed in the jail had taken the photos of the convicts. A report in the matter was sent to the divisional prison Moradabad which ordered suspension of the two guards.” Confirming the development, Bareilly jail superintendent P Singh said, “Shabnam and another convict were shifted from Rampur to Bareilly district jail for security reasons.” Shabnam Ali and her lover Saleem were convicted in 2010 for killing seven persons in Babankhedi village in UP’s Amroha. In April 2008, seven members of Shabnam’s family -- her mother, father, two brothers, sister-in-law, cousin and a 10-month-old nephew were found murdered. They were given sedatives-mixed milk and, when they fell unconscious, their throats were slit. The Shabnam’s family was against her relationship with Saleem. Shabnam has recently filed a fresh mercy petition before UP Governor Anandiben Patel and President Ram Nath Kovind. While an official death warrant is yet to be issued, preparations are on to hang her in Mathura, which has the only jail in the country with gallows for women. Shabnam, now 38, might become the first woman to be hanged in independent India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/death-row-convict-shabnam-shifted-to-ups-bareilly-jail-after-her-pics-with-fellow-inmates-turn-up-on-social-media/articleshow/81297462.cms||Maria Khan
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||BMC files FIR against Kurla eatery, in third action against it in a fortnight||MUMBAI: BMC filed an FIR against Kurla’s Baba Falooda at Vinoba Bhave police station on Tuesday for allegedly violating Covid-19 protocol—its third action against the eatery in a fortnight. Officials said a crowd of around a 100 was found not maintaining social distancing or wearing masks at the eatery.  Manish Walunju, assistant municipal commissioner of L Ward, said, “In the past fortnight, repeated action has been taken against the food joint. We first initiated a seizure action and then our nuisance detectors levied a penalty. Despite this, there was crowding on Monday night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-files-fir-against-kurla-eatery-in-third-action-against-it-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/81298361.cms||Richa Pinto
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||India’s social distancing goes for a toss at funerals, prisons||HYDERABAD: Social distancing is considered the best vaccine to curb Covid-19, but a comparative analysis of Covid-19 physical distancing policies in six low and middle-income countries (LMICs) including India, shows how social distancing norms go for a toss in funerals. Telangana fares badly in social distance index when it comes to funerals. Many superspread cases have been reported especially when people have attended funerals, including the recent incident in Rekurthi village in Karimnagar where 33 people tested positive after attending a funeral of a cancer patient. Officials immediately took samples of the entire populace of over a 1,000. They were worried about the spread of the virus at a time when positive cases were on the wane. A post-funeral gathering in January this year turned into be a super-spreader event in Suryapet with 22 members of a family testing positive for coronavirus. “In many cultures across the world, including India, people become emotional during funerals. They try to console each other or hug each other. This must be the reason for spreading of the virus, as it does spread not from the bodies,” Dr Kiran Madala, an Indian Medical Research Council-certified researcher, said. In Telangana, at least dozen incidents were reported where minimum 10-15 people were infected with the virus after attending funerals. The first super-spreader was a 65-year-old woman from Hyderabad’s Old City, who was declared Covid-19 positive after she died on April 11. She had infected 17 members of her family during the funeral.  The six LMICs that were taken into consideration by department of global health, University of Washington, were India, Botswana, Jamaica, Mozambique, Namibia and Ukraine. According to the social distance index study, India largely follows the physical distancing norms, but throws caution to the wind at funerals and in prisons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indias-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-funerals-prisons/articleshow/81299661.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 3, 2021||Madurai||Wrapped statues cast an eerie feel, hoardings defy order||Madurai/Trichy: The model code of conduct has made the statues of political leaders in public places in Madurai city covered in white gada cloth, which is used to wrap corpses in hospitals, casting an eerie feel to the onlookers. Removing political posters and banners in public places is a must as soon as the model code of conduct comes into effect and a lot of money is spent on it. Usually, the statues in public places are covered with gunny bags, or sheets. But, this year, the statues have been wrapped tight, which looks like a white figure standing. “It is eerie during night, as the figures look like they are flying in dim light, and the authorities should find a better way of doing it,” said K Shivakumar of K K Nagar, who was shocked to see the wrapped statues of the late chief ministers MGR and J Jayalalithaa at the arch junction. Among the statues wrapped is the newly-installed statue of late chief minister M Karunanidhi at Simmakkal junction. The statues are landmarks by which a place is remembered, and even if they are wrapped, people will not forget they exist there, hence this exercise is a waste, said P Pandi, a DMK cadre. An official said that more than the influencing factor, statues are covered to prevent any desecration by rival parties, which could lead to tension during election. Assistant commissioner of the Madurai Corporation Prem Kumar said that the wrapping is being done by political parties themselves, and that they did not have much to do. Meanwhile in Trichy city, fresh hoardings have cropped up on the medians at Mambalasaalai junction in Srirangam, defying the Madras high court order. Citing the squally weather and the gusty wind, road users said that the authorities should remove the hoardings instead of waiting for a disaster to happen. The hoardings attached to the traffic signal near Srirangam MLA office have attracted public criticism recently. City police removed the hanging advertisements on the traffic signals in 2019. The Madras high court directed the state government to remove all the illegal advertisements placed on medians across the state in April 2012. But the directive is being ignored by various parties in the city. Apart from the illuminated hoardings near the district court complex at Cantonment, at least four new hoardings have come up on the median of Mambalasaalai Road. “The hoardings cause inconvenience to the road users, while taking turns,” H Ramachandran, a resident of Varaganeri, said. City police sources said that advertisements were placed by firms who have come forward to bear the maintenance of traffic signals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wrapped-statues-cast-an-eerie-feel-hoardings-defy-order/articleshow/81299629.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Owner of private cardamom firm held for GST fraud||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore zonal unit of directorate general of GST intelligence on Tuesday arrested the proprietor of a private cardamom company for his involvement in fake invoice trading without actual supply of goods in Theni district. Based on a tip, the officials searched the residence and business premises of the accused - M Ravikumar - on Monday and seized incriminating documents like sales and purchase copies of the fake companies, cheque books, passbooks and debit cards that were obtained in the name of fake firms. Ravikumar had made 10 GST registrations in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala and Tamil Nadu to generate and pass on fraudulent input tax credit. All these firms dealt with cardamom trade in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, said a statement from the unit. While some of the firms were registered under his own PAN number, others were registered in the name of his friends and relatives and it was used to generate and receive invoices to offset the outward GST liability, the statement added. The firms have received invoices without supply of goods with a taxable value of about Rs 840 crore, thereby passing on fraudulent ITC of around Rs 44.85 crore to various entities, the statement added. Subsequently, the accused was arrested and produced before the judicial magistrate who in turn remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/owner-of-private-cardamom-firm-held-for-gst-fraud/articleshow/81299642.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Pune||DoT offers online course on tourism facilitator||Pune: The state directorate of tourism has adopted an online Incredible India Tourist Facilitator (IITF) certification programme designed by the Union ministry of tourism. A statement issued by the directorate said this is a digital initiative that aims for the creation of an online learning platform to facilitate tourism learning at the candidate’s own time, space, path and pace, eventually paving the way for the creation of certified tourist facilitators and guides for Maharashtra tourism. The basic online course will be available in Hindi and English with seven modules of various tourism aspects. The overall programme registration fee would be Rs 2,000 while the examination fee will be Rs 500, the statement added. DoT will refund the programme fee of Rs 2,000 to those who complete the programme. Candidates between the 18 and 40 with a minimum standard XII passing and candidates aged above 40 years should have passed at least standard X, will be eligible for the programme. More information will be available on the department portal: http://iitf.gov.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dot-offers-online-course-on-tourism-facilitator/articleshow/81299621.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Injured monkey holds on to saviour for dear life, succumbs||HYDERABAD: In a heart-wrenching incident, a monkey refused to let go of a man who helped it survive after it was hit by a vehicle on Yathalakunta-Cherukupalli road in Khammam district. However, tragedy struck as the simian lost its battle with life four days later. A video of the monkey holding on to the T-shirt of the good samaritan’s friend has gone viral on social media. In the video, the monkey was seen struggling for life as Dinesh held it in his arms. The good samaritan, Chandu Racharla, of Sathupalli said they tried to save the life of the monkey, but it died on February 23 after being in their care. Chandu and his friends later performed the last rites of the simian. “Initially, we took it to veterinary hospitals but they were all closed,” Chandu told TOI. Finally, they were able to take it to a doctor on February 19 who administered injections and gave saline. “While it had some external injuries, it appeared to us that the monkey was heartbroken. We could make out that it was missing its baby,” he said. At many places in Khammam district, monkeys come out of the forest area and wait on the roads for food from passers-by. As they come out onto the roads, monkeys get killed in road accidents. Watch Telangana: Injured monkey holds on to good samaritan for dear life, succumbs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/injured-monkey-holds-on-to-saviour-for-dear-life-succumbs/articleshow/81299713.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Over 3,500 poultry birds die, Ranikhet disease suspected||Hyderabad: As many as 3,600 birds have died at a poultry farm in Peddapalli district. The deaths have occurred in the last four days. District veterinary and animal husbandry officer Narayana on Tuesday said the birds may have died of Ranikhet disease, which is caused by a virus and is contagious and highly fatal. He said the samples have been collected and sent to the laboratory for tests. “The chicks are a cross breed. They are neither broilers nor layers,” Narayana told TOI. The poultry deaths occurred in the farm of Dasari Swamy of Peddampet village in Kalwasrirampur mandal. The farmer is learnt to have suffered loss of a few lakhs of rupees because of the poultry bird deaths. “What is important is that vaccination has to be done at proper intervals and the required feed has to be given, which should be a mix that will help in growth of young chicken,” Narayana said. As this cross-breed looks like a ‘desi bird’, poultry farmers think they can make a good deal of money by selling it as a ‘desi bird’. “Those who consume its meat once, will never eat it again,” an official said. Recently, hundreds of poultry birds at another farm close by had also died due to Ranikhet disease, it is learnt. “If vaccination is done and protocols are followed, the poultry will be safe,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-3500-poultry-birds-die-ranikhet-disease-suspected/articleshow/81299702.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 3, 2021||Madurai||Goat thefts on the rise in Madurai||Madurai: The district has been witnessing an increase in number of goat theft incidents in the last month as police say that five incidents of goats being stolen from sheds and agricultural fields have been reported in February alone even as many of incidents go unreported, especially thefts involving only single goats. Only those who lose two or more goats report it to the police as it creates considerable financial setback for them. Goat thieves mostly prowl at night and use cars, auto rickshaws and two-wheelers to ferry the stolen animals, police added. Although the Madurai rural police have arrested people behind some of the incidents, thefts continue to take place. Most of the thefts take place in Thirumangalam, Vadipatti and Melur, police said. Farmers from areas like Kalligudi are keeping vigil at nights as frequent incidents were reported from the area. P Arunachalam, a farmer from Kallgudi said, “One person has to stay awake at the night to safeguard the goats. Although the local police have increased patrolling at nights, the incidents continue,” he said. A police source said that mostly thefts targeting goats take place on Friday and Saturday as they can sell them immediately during the weekends as demand is high. The worth of a goat depends on its weight and even a mid-sized one can fetch Rs 10,000. A police officer from rural police said that night rounds have been increased throughout the district to check various crimes including thefts. Recently, three youths were arrested from Othakadai and Melur for stealing goats using an auto rickshaw. The vehicle was also seized, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/goat-thefts-on-the-rise-in-madurai/articleshow/81299685.cms||V Devanathan
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||160 cases, one death in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 163 new cases of Covid-19 and one death, taking the total count of cases so far to 2,99,086. The death toll till date stands at 1,635. While there are 1,907 active cases in the state, a total of 2,95,544 have recovered from the coronavirus infection. On Tuesday, 40,181 samples were tested for the virus. With this Telangana has now completed 87.6 lakh tests and has reached 2.35 lakh sample testing. Of the total number of patients in the state 40% are women while 60% are men, while nearly 70% of patients have had a milder form of the disease and were asymptomatic. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 27 new cases of Covid-19, while Medchal Malkajgiri recorded 13 and Ranga Reddy recorded 12 cases. Except Jayshankar Bhupalpally, Jogulamba Gadwal and Nirmal, all the remaining districts in the state recorded new cases on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/160-cases-one-death-in-t/articleshow/81301994.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Madurai||Kids document parents’ struggles||Madurai: In an attempt to bring out the difficulties faced by the cleaning workers from their children’s perspective, a few of them who underwent training on photography displayed photos they clicked, while their parents and relatives were at work. The one-day photography exhibition titled ‘Hope’ was organised by ‘Photography for Environment and Peace Collective’ at Dr Ambedkar Evening Study Centre for Children at Komespalayam in Madurai on Sunday. The organisation selected 11 students of Class IX and above from Madurai and have trained them for the past two weeks in photography. The 120 photographs, which they have clicked, were displayed at the exhibition. M Palanikumar, cinematographer, who trained the students, said the main objective of this programme is to document the life of the cleaning workers through their children and also to let them know about the importance of education that can change the lives of their future generation. A Class IX student and participant, A Yuvasri said, the workers are cleaning sewage to support their children’s education. She said the pictures clicked by them speak about the hardships faced by the cleanliness workers. M Vennila, a college student, said while travelling with her parents and relatives for the project, she felt the pain they undergo when they start working at 5am. She said we are very sure that the children of their generation would not go for such works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kids-document-parents-struggles/articleshow/81299707.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: 9 staff of hotel test Covid +ve in random drive||Lucknow: Nine staff members of a prominent hotel on Cantonment road tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday during a targeted random sampling drive by the health department. With this, the number of people found to be infected during the drive has gone up to 22. However, the overall prevelance rate is a miniscule 0.03%. Total 55,928 samples have been tested so far during the campaign which was launched on February 10. The tests were done both through rapid antigen method and RT-PCR technique. “Four housekeeping workers and five kitchen staff were among the nine tested positive on Tuesday. All the patients are asymptomatic due to which they and their employers were unaware about the infection. We have asked them to isolate themselves while the hotel has been closed for 48 hours for sanitisation,” said additional chief medical officer Dr Milind Vardhan. “Samples of 60 hotel staff and 24 guests were sent for testing on Tuesday while samples of 14 other staff members on night duty will be collected on Wednesday. Families of the employees will also be tested on Wednesday through RT-PCR method,” he added. Targeted random sampling drive is being conducted at schools, religious places, slums, malls, shops, bus stations, railway stations, airports, hotels, toll plazas and areas with high incidence rate like Gomtinagar and Indiranagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9-staff-of-hotel-test-ve-in-random-drive/articleshow/81301437.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Virus bugs 25 more in city, highest count in last 19 days||Lucknow: Fresh cases of Covid-19 spiked in the city on Tuesday with 25 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection. The figure was highest in the last 19 days and soared due to detection of nine cases from one place alone. The new infections included four from Indiranagar, three from Gomtinagar and two each from Chinhat and Rae Bareli Road, among others. Lucknow’s tally was also the highest in the state on Tuesday and accounted for nearly 24% of the total infections. However, no casualty was reported in the city in past 24 hours. Five patients also recovered in the same period. Currently, there are 274 patients with active infection. Of these, 120 are in home isolation while the remaining are in hospitals. With this, the overall caseload of the city now stands at 81,915. Of these, 80,455 (98.2%) have recovered so far while 1,186 (1.4%) could not survive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-bugs-25-more-in-city-highest-count-in-last-19-days/articleshow/81301455.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Business||An Indian mission in Moscow to reset Russia ties with energy||NEW DELHI: India on Tuesday opened a first-of-its-kind ‘Energy Office’ in Moscow, seeking to put energy investments at the centre stage of its strategic ties with Russia as defence transactions showed signs of waning. The office, housed in the well-known landmark Federation Tower, combines the might of five Indian government oil and engineering companies – ONGC Videsh, IndianOil, GAIL, Oil India Ltd and Engineers India Ltd – to present a common interface for expanding cross-investments in the energy sector. The office, inaugurated by petroleum secretary Tarun Kapoor, coincides with Russia courting Indian oil majors for participating in the Vostok project in the Arctic and New Delhi looking for buyers for India’s second-largest state-run oil refiner and fuel retailer, Bharat Petroleum. One can say commercial viability would dictate the prospects of a successful deal in each case. But at a time India is grappling with high oil prices and working towards creating a gas-based economy, closer ties with Russia, a heavyweight in the OPEC-Plus grouping and one of the world’s largest gas producers, has strategic benefits. One, it offers an alternative for India to reduce dependence on West Asian suppliers. Two, it adds heft to India’s leverage with other producers as the world’s third-largest oil consumer. “The idea of opening the energy office came from oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan when he was in Russia around the time of the prime minister’s (Narendra Modi) September 2019 visit to Vladivostok as the chief guest at the Eastern Economic Forum,” a senior diplomat at the Indian embassy told TOI, requesting anonymity. Pradhan, the diplomat said, wanted Indian companies to look beyond investing in Russian fields for opportunities in technology, engineering and operational expertise to open doors for cross-investments. “Energy ties have remained confined to Indian companies investing about $15 billion in several Russian oil fields and an LNG deal with Gazprom. Russian investment into India has been static at a Rosneft-led consortium buying a refinery (Essar’s refinery in Gujarat) for $13 billion. India wants to expand the horizon and inject dynamism in such investments,” the diplomat said. It was Modi’s Vladivostok summit with Russian president Vladimir Putin that had set the new course by adopting a five-year road map to establish a ‘Far Eastern Energy Corridor’. While nuclear cooperation between the two countries remained on a firm footing as ever, the emphasis shifted on Indian companies developing projects in the Far East and Arctic for shipping oil, gas and coking coal to India. On its part, Russia had expressed its readiness to participate in major infrastructure anded other projects in India. The new investment horizon appeared more promising in the backdrop of Russia’s share in the Indian arms market declining to 56% in 2019 from 72% in 2015, though Moscow still remains New Delhi’s largest arms supplier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/an-indian-mission-in-moscow-to-reset-russia-ties-with-energy/articleshow/81302592.cms||Sanjay Dutta
March 3, 2021||Madurai||Covid-19 vaccine drive picks up pace in Madurai, Virudhunagar||Madurai: The vaccination drive is picking up pace in Madurai as 1,256 beneficiaries received the vaccine on Tuesday, from 293 on Monday, which is a four-fold increase. Out of the 1,256 recipients, 848 were those aged above 60 years while 408 were those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities. A total of 825 took the vaccine at government facilities while 431 took the vaccine at private hospitals. Tuesday also saw a record number of Covid-19 vaccinations in Madurai as 2,609 beneficiaries including frontline workers received the jab. In Virudhunagar, 948 beneficiaries aged above 60 years and above 45 years with comorbidities received the Covid-19 vaccine in the last two days under the Sivakasi health unit district. 287 beneficiaries took the vaccine on Monday while 661 on Tuesday. Out of the 661 beneficiaries from the general public to get the vaccine on Tuesday, 439 were above 60 years. Health officials said that efforts are being made to increase awareness among the public about Covid-19 vaccination and how and who can benefit now. “We are setting up routine public announcements at various public places. We are reaching out through mini clinics and calling up eligible beneficiaries using data from the non-communicable disease programme,” said a health official from Sivakasi. Health officials are also trying to rope in associations of retirees and resident welfare associations to create awareness among senior citizens. According to the district health department, eligible beneficiaries can avail the vaccine at any of the 25 government vaccination sites in Madurai district at free-of-cost, which include eight government hospitals, 13 primary health centres and four urban primary health centres. Apart from these vaccination sites, 35 authorised private hospitals in Madurai are also offering the vaccine for Rs 150-250. To receive the Covid-19 vaccine, eligible beneficiaries can either do on-site registration or register online on selfregistration.cowin.gov.in and select time slots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-vaccine-drive-picks-up-pace-in-madurai-virudhunagar/articleshow/81299730.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||With fewer beds on record, Gandhi struggles for funds||Hyderabad: Gandhi Hospital, that has been operating 1,900 beds, has just 1,053 as per official records, making it difficult to access resources. Since the number of beds is lower on paper, this means the hospital gets less staff, infrastructure and budget allocation, leaving it over-stretched for resources. In fact, the bed strength has not increased on record since 2003 when the hospital was established. When the pandemic hit, a library for medical students was quickly converted into a ward, increasing the bed strength by 500. PPE kits and even human resources such as ward boys and nurses are shared among the additional in-patients that the hospital takes care of. “Since we are the final tertiary care centre, we cannot turn away patients. It’s not just the infrastructure, but also manpower that is a perennial crunch. A single nurse handling 30 patients is a regular phenomenon,” said Dr Sashidhar Reddy, president Junior Doctors Association (JUDA), Gandhi unit. Reddy said, “In the medical wards, there is a shortage of beds every single day. Usually floor beds are made to accommodate the patients and they are later shifted to a proper bed when its vacant.” He added that proper space needs to be created for increasing the bed strength.  While requests for increasing the bed strength on record have not yielded results, hospital authorities have again approached higher ups. Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent, Gandhi Hospital, admitted to the difficulties and said a request has been made to the health minister. Meanwhile, the state health minister Eatala Rajender during a felicitation event announced Rs 35 crore for upgrading organ transplantation unit at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-fewer-beds-on-record-gandhi-struggles-for-funds/articleshow/81299755.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 3, 2021||Madurai||Control room to curb black money in polls||The director general of income tax (investigation), TN and Puducherry, has set up a 24x7 control room with a toll-free number, and WhatsApp facility to connect with the public on unaccounted funds for electioneering. The toll free number is 18004256669, email ID is itcontrol.chn@gov.in and WhatsApp number 9445394453.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/control-room-to-curb-black-money-in-polls/articleshow/81299751.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS, MIM neglected Old City: Uttam||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the state government neglected Old City and alleged that both the TRS and MIM want the region to remain backward. “KCR neither visited Old City in the last seven years nor held a review meet to resolve problems there. CM promised to develop Old City on lines of Istanbul a5nd Hyderabad as Dallas,” Uttam said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mim-neglected-old-city-uttam/articleshow/81299754.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||More pandemics in store, warn experts||HYDERABAD: Even as Covid-19 enters year 2.0 and several countries, and states in the country, continue to grapple with its onslaught, experts say this is just the beginning and many more pandemics may be in the offing in the near future. Also, we are still unprepared for such emergencies, but we are continually working towards bringing them closer, they added. Covid-19 like the earlier SARS, which swept the globe, has its origin in wildlife. It is the increasing intrusion of humans into wildlife, is what might bring in the future pandemics too. “Pandemics will keep coming because the world is mixing dangerously, we are encroaching too much into wildlife. We should not go and mess around with nature and wildlife,” city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Dr Rakesh Mishra said. “Going into the forest, bring something wild and eating it or taking our cattle into forest, where they interact with other wild animals, allows viruses and parasites, hosted by wild animals to come to humans. Humans then will spread it to each other and one of these viruses will modify and become infectious. That is why pandemics happen and will happen unless we stop this abuse of nature,” he added. While stressing that close interaction of humans with the wildlife was almost impossible to stop, HS Pabla, retired chief wildlife warden, Madhya Pradesh, said, “The risk of pandemics emerging from wildlife is there, but happens only accidentally once in decades or hundreds of years. While totally stopping wildlife consumption is not realistic, we have to take care only when it happens and for that we need to be prepared. In places where mass markets exist, there is a need to avoid overcrowding and congestion.” The global trend of countries allowing optimal use of wildlife resources for food security would only make it further difficult to stop interaction. Wildlife expert Rajeev Mathew said, “Globally, game meat (meat from hunting of wild animals) is in huge demand and it is growing. Countries are increasingly allowing consumption of game meat because it is the most ethically harvested meat, in comparison to farm-raised cattle, poultry or fisheries, where tons of antibiotics and fertilisers are pumped into the meat.” “Wild animals do carry viruses, but game meat has been consumed for centuries by humankind and has been considered safe. While we need to be cautious, rejecting wildlife resources, especially when there is such a huge protein deficiency in the population, is not a good idea,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-pandemics-in-store-warn-experts/articleshow/81299726.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Gift of the gaffe||Chennai: During the 2019 election campaign in Nagercoil, Rahul Gandhi said, "That is why we respect the people of Tamil Nadu", but the audience heard it as: "Narendra Modi is the enemy of Tamil people". It was not because Gandhi’s English was bad, but because his Tamil translator Congress leader K V Thangkabalu had made a translation blooper.Non-Tamil speaking national leaders have found that communicating with the electorate is easier said than done. A mistranslation can reduce the most serious speech into a ludicrous one.Any doubts? Ask former TNCC president K V Thangkabalu, who was trolled to the hilt and meme creators had a field day over several instances of his poor translation in 2019. An embarrassed Thangkabalu, in his defence, blamed it on the ‘echo’ from the sound system.Translating speeches of national leaders is not only difficult, but also a thankless job. One has to be proficient in the two languages and closely follow the flow of the speech to understand the context. While a neat translation is accepted as a fact, any error is blown out of proportion, in the age of social media.This Sunday, a gaffe was averted when Union home minister Amit Shah during his party campaign in Villupuram corrected his translator H Raja. Shah was referring to two and three generations of Maran and Karunanidhi being in power in the state, but Raja had initially translated it to two TV channels of Maran and three TV channels of Karunanidhi. "Raja is not translating properly," Shah had said with a laugh before repeating his comment."A translator has to ensure that he stands close to the mike, so that he gets to listen carefully to the orator," says BJP leader H Raja, while trying to brush aside the ‘drip irrigation’ problem he had faced in 2018 with Amit Shah’s speech (see box). The designated translator of Hindi speeches into Tamil, Raja says, "I have been doing this since 1994, starting with L K Advani. And he used to appreciate my translation every time he addressed a public meeting."Speeches are of three categories, says senior Congress leader Peter Alphonse, who has the responsibility of translating the English speeches of the Gandhis into Tamil. "One is the prepared text mode being followed by Modi on a teleprompter, where the translation is done by someone and it is also read from the text on the stage. The next category is what is being followed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, where there is a prepared text. But she also tends to make certain observations on her own. The third category is what Rahul Gandhi does — extempore. He does not believe in a prepared text and hence that is the most difficult when it comes to translation," he says Alphonse. "In an extempore speech, the speaker tends to go fast and tries to strike an emotional chord with the audience. We have to not only cope with the speed, but also make sure that the emotion is not diluted," says Alphonse, who succeeded in matching the rising tempo of Gandhi’s speech at a recent public meeting in Puducherry. Alphonse had earlier translated speeches of Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, P V Narasimha Rao, Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh.While Alphonse has restricted his job only to the public meetings, the party tends to use the services of several local leaders for road shows. Alphonse too had his share of goof-ups, including at a recent meeting in Dharapuram and at Nanguneri last Saturday. "In Nanguneri, I chose the wrong side of the stage. Whenever he was turning away from the mike, a word or two got lost due to the direction of the wind. Having misquoted Nagpur knickerwallahs as Nagpur liquorwallahs in Dharapuram, I chose to clarify it from him at Nanguneri, whenever I missed those words," says Alphonse and adds that Gandhi was understanding of the situation."In a speech at Tirunelveli once, Indira Gandhi mentioned the phrase — Titans of Indian politics. While trying to get a grip of a suitable Tamil word, I translated it as — ‘Indhiya Arasiyalin Jaambhavaangal’. I could hear a leader on the stage say ‘sabaash’ and Indira Gandhi smiled," he recalled, stressing on the power of vocabulary.Capturing the essence and context of a speech is essential, says former civil servant Sasikanth Senthil. "Some tend to literally translate the speech. Instead, the focus should be in conveying the message. This is a necessity in translating Rahul Gandhi’s speeches as he tends to get emotive and tries to be interactive with the audience. The onus is on us to convey it the right way," says Sasikanth, who recently joined the Congress, and was on the job in Gandhi’s interactions in Tuticorin and Puliangudi over the past couple of days.The politician whose words are being translated also remains inquisitive about how the translation was. "MGR had once organised a conclave of national political leaders in Vijayawada in 1983. He knew my second language was Telugu and took me along. He addressed the public meeting in Tamil and I translated it in Telugu. After the meeting, we all met for dinner. MGR asked N T Rama Rao about my translation and whether I went overboard. He is your disciple and he did a marvellous job, responded the Telugu Desam leader," recalls veteran politician H V Hande.At least, there was no social media then as Puducherry chief minister V Narayanaswamy would rue now. Recently, while translating Rahul Gandhi’s interaction with the fishing community, when a woman charged that Narayanaswamy had not visited them after the cyclone, he smartly translated it as an appreciation of his work during Cyclone Nivar. But his ploy was exposed soon on social media and he had to face trolling by fellow politicians.Email your feedback with name and address to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gift-of-the-gaffe/articleshow/81299743.cms||D Govardan
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||CM should be wary about his fate: Bandi||Hyderabad: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao should be wary about the fate of former CMs like Lalu Prasad in Bihar and M Karunanidhi in Tamil Nadu. He demanded that BJYM activist Bhanu Prakash be released by police immediately. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-should-be-wary-about-his-fate-bandi/articleshow/81299767.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Madurai||AIR to broadcast radio series on AI||Madurai: A new radio science serial on artificial intelligence (AI) by Vigyan Prasar, an autonomous organization under the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, along with Tamil Nadu Science Forum (TNSF) and All India Radio (AIR), will be broadcast from March 6. The radio series titled ‘Ini yavum nunnarive’ (Future is Artificial Intelligence) will be broadcast on AIR every Saturday at 8pm. The serial will focus on the science, potential and research in AI in India and across the world. It will also look AI in literature, industrial and social sectors, futuristic society and apprehensions around it. Madurai AIR will produce the serial and will be relayed on six MW stations of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry. According to Vigyan Prasar, these programmes were produced in 19 languages and broadcast from more than 121 AIR stations to cover more than 85% geographical area of the country. The Tamil Nadu Science Forum has identified and mobilised script writers for the radio serial from Madurai Kamaraj University, colleges and schools and also conducted a workshop on scriptwriting. Each episode will have a docudrama, expert opinions and interviews. Some episodes will also have discussions with listeners’ question and opinions. Interactivity will be ensured by asking two questions at the end of each broadcast. For correct answers, the selected winners will be rewarded with Vigyan Prasar books and kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/air-to-broadcast-radio-series-on-ai/articleshow/81299764.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||Plaint against villagers of Siolim-Marna||Saligao: Siolim-Marna panchayat has filed a police complaint against a few villagers for misbehaving at the gram sabha held on Sunday. The accused were involved in cancelling the signatures and tearing off pages from the register of gram sabha proceedings.  The ruckus happened after some villagers objected to signing on the proceedings register claiming that there should be two separate books — one for signatures of the gram sabha attendees and the other to record the resolutions. However, the secretary continued to read out the proposals and the discussions were carried on. Later, when the secretary opened the register, it was noticed that the pages having the signatures of all those who attended the meeting at the gram sabha were cancelled In the complaint to Anjuna police, Sarpanch Monali Pednekar said destroying evidence of the gram sabha proceedings amounts to destroying government records. “The BDO directed us to file an FIR against the villagers for destroying the evidence of the gram sabha and not allowing a government servant to record the proceedings and minutes of the gram sabha.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plaint-against-villagers-of-siolim-marna/articleshow/81302037.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Trichy||South TN reports 55 fresh Covid cases, central region 50||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state on Tuesday reported 55 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,37,626, which include 366 active cases, 1,35,121 recoveries and 2,139 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 50 fresh cases taking its tally to 77,135, which include 310 active cases. Both the regions recorded no deaths. Madurai reported 14 cases, the highest in the south TN, followed by Kanyakumari (9). On average, Madurai has been consistently reporting 10 cases daily in 2021. On Tuesday, both Dindigul and Madurai recorded 60 active cases each. Kanyakumari and Virudhunagar have 48 active cases each. Ramanathapuram has only 13 active cases, whereas Tuticorin (20), Theni (16) and Virudhunagar (16) have 20 or less active cases. On Tuesday, the rest of the districts in the southern region all reported six or less cases while Ramanathapuram, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar reported two new cases. Thanjavur continued to be on top in the central region with the highest number of 19 fresh cases pushing its tally to 18,145, the highest in the region. Trichy reported 12 fresh cases taking its tally to 14,996. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Tiruvarur (6), Pudukottai (5), Nagappattinam (4), Karur (2), Perambalur, Ariyalur (1), Dindigul (6), Tenkasi (6), Tirunelveli (6), Sivaganga (5) and Theni (3). Thanjavur has 128 active cases. With no casualty the regional toll remained at 961.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-reports-55-fresh-covid-cases-central-region-50/articleshow/81307169.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Ajit Singh murder case: HC stay on FIR into encounter||LUCKNOW: The high court on Tuesday stayed the order passed by Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) whereby the Hazratganj police was directed to lodge an FIR to investigate the matter of police encounter of Girdhari Vishwakarma alias Kanhaiya alias Doctor during police custody in connection with the Ajit Singh murder case. A bench of Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh passed the order on a revision petition moved by the state government seeking quashing of the CJM’s order issued February 25, 2021. Passing the interim order, the HC also issued notice to the complainant Sarvjeet Yadav, fixing March 15 as the next date of hearing in the matter. Arguing for the state government, additional advocate general VK Sahi assisted by additional government advocate First Anurag Verma had pleaded that CJM’s order was bad in law and against set legal principles. It was argued that two FIRs were already lodged in the matter and the third FIR was directed to be lodged only on the basis of the suspicion. “There was no order of prosecution sanction on record before the CJM, though the alleged offence was committed in course of official discharge of duty,” argued Sahi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-stay-on-fir-into-encounter/articleshow/81301470.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Wildfires: 10 acre Amrabad tiger habitat in Telangana goes up in smoke||HYDERABAD: Wildfires destroyed 10 acres of tiger habitat in Amrabad tiger reserve early on Tuesday, causing huge damage to the environment and habitats of many creatures. Local villagers first noticed the forest going up in flames near Neelaram Banda region of the forest in Domalapenta range. “Within few minutes, the fire spread up to 2 km inside the forest area. The entire ground along with some hundreds of shrubs and small trees turned into ashes in front of our eyes. We have seen forest fires in this region before, but this was the biggest so far,” said Edla Kishore, a witness. “We couldn’t see anything except for this massive fire tearing through the forest. The entire area has been cordoned off till morning,” he added. The forest is the second largest tiger reserve after Nagarjunasagar Srisailam Tiger Reserve in AP and is home to great biodiversity, consisting of 70 species of mammals, more than 300 avian varieties, 60 species of reptiles and thousands of insects. Nagarkurnool district forest official, Kista Goud said, “It was a ground fire, and it burnt shrubs, grass and undergrowth, before it was controlled by the staff. The fire was man-made and no animal was caught in the fire. It is also the time before Shivratri festival when more pilgrims take the forest route to reach Srisailam, camping and cooking on their way. People taking this route should understand that even a spark originating at a distance can be carried by winds to cause a massive wildfire.” “Just two days ago, there was one fire near Lingamayya Swamy temple near Mannanur. It was put off after we informed the forest officials about it,” said Lingaiah, a resident of Mannanur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wildfires-10-acre-amrabad-tiger-habitat-goes-up-in-smoke/articleshow/81299793.cms||Moulika.KV
March 3, 2021||Chennai||Policy of scrapping vehicles needs to go beyond age factor||By R Kannan The much anticipated vehicle scrappage policy which is expected to set a time limit on the number of years a car can be used, needs a lot of thought especially in the context of the middle class for whom a car is a lifetime aspiration. The intention is to phase out polluting vehicles, but what if they are sparingly used and well maintained, and not polluting. Should age be the only criteria to determine the sell-by-date of an automobile? The Gandhian ethos is to use resources as sparingly as possible. This also results in the philosophy repair and reuse of old vehicles. The middle class usually uses vehicles sparingly. Even after 20 years, they may not have used it for 1 lakh kilometres, while the engine is rated for 2 lakh kilometres in cars manufactured from 2000 onwards. A lot of investment goes into their repair and to keep them in a good condition. To force people to scrap their vehicle or impose prohibitive green tax is to force them to sell their cars. At present, it is more difficult for people to afford new cars as they are groaning under high fuel prices, having to pay motor vehicle tax, all while being financially hit due to Covid. Many people buy cars just a few years before retirement and intend to keep them for their lifetime. They will be forced to sell their cars for a pittance which will in turn affect their finances and retirement planning. Further, many cannot afford a new car after retirement. The policy of forcing to scrap privately owned cars seeks to emulate the West, where the idea of use and throw is common. In the US and Europe, there are scrap yards for vehicles. Though they claim to recycle, in reality they become huge landfills polluting water and air. If a vehicle scrappage policy is implemented in India instead of reducing pollution, it will be the cause of major environmental disasters considering the density of population. The aim appears to be to help car manufacturers by forcing people to abandon their old cars. The market forces anyway dictate whether an old car can be retained or not. Most car manufacturers do not sell spares 10 years after a model is made. They are repaired by experienced small garage mechanics. This method results in the best scrapping as almost nothing goes waste. It also creates livelihood for lakhs of small mechanics. The new policy will put an end to their business as cars less than 15 years old will have to be repaired by car manufacturers. The market forces themselves dictate whether an old car can be retained or not. The disappearance of Hindustan Ambassadors, Premier Padminis and the Maruti 800s, demonstrate these forces. Senior citizens are sentimentally attached to their cars. To force them to get rid of their favourite car is cruel. Several retired government officers have cars that are more than 30 years old. So to prevent destruction of history and heritage, the policy needs to look at sustainable reuse. (The writer is a retired IAS officer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/policy-of-scrapping-vehicles-needs-to-go-beyond-age-factor/articleshow/81299796.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Madurai||South TN reports 55 fresh Covid cases, central region 50||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state on Tuesday reported 55 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,37,626, which include 366 active cases, 1,35,121 recoveries and 2,139 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 50 fresh cases taking its tally to 77,135, which include 310 active cases. Both the regions recorded no deaths. Madurai reported 14 cases, the highest in the south TN, followed by Kanyakumari (9). On average, Madurai has been consistently reporting 10 cases daily in 2021. On Tuesday, both Dindigul and Madurai recorded 60 active cases each. Kanyakumari and Virudhunagar have 48 active cases each. Ramanathapuram has only 13 active cases, whereas Tuticorin (20), Theni (16) and Virudhunagar (16) have 20 or less active cases. On Tuesday, the rest of the districts in the southern region all reported six or less cases while Ramanathapuram, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar reported two new cases. Thanjavur continued to be on top in the central region with the highest number of 19 fresh cases pushing its tally to 18,145, the highest in the region. Trichy reported 12 fresh cases taking its tally to 14,996. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Tiruvarur (6), Pudukottai (5), Nagappattinam (4), Karur (2), Perambalur, Ariyalur (1), Dindigul (6), Tenkasi (6), Tirunelveli (6), Sivaganga (5) and Theni (3). Thanjavur has 128 active cases. With no casualty the regional toll remained at 961.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-55-fresh-covid-cases-central-region-50/articleshow/81299788.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Super spreaders continue to ring alarm bells in T||Hyderabad: In the last one year, Telangana has had its share of super-spreaders of coronavirus. Not only did they create fear and shock among officials, but also caused a sudden spike in positive cases. A postman from Wanaparthy district was one such super-spreader who infected 110 people in a small village in August last year. The postman came had come to disburse pension among the villagers. “Firstly, the beneficiaries who he contacted tested positive, followed by their primary contacts. In a span of six days, he infected 110 people after visiting various houses to distribute pension amounts,” an official recalled. the village has a population of 2,500 and the first positive case was reported on August 20. In April, a woman running a dry fish stall turned out to a super-speader in a Suryapet market. About 75 people were infected. The woman was asymptomatic and was a primary contact of a person who returned from Delhi. More than 70% of the cases were linked to the vegetable market in Suryapet town. In May last year, an apartment complex with 15 residential units in Madannapet was much in news after t 25 inmates tested positive after they attended a birthday function in one of the flats. The first super-spreader was a 65-year-old woman from Hyderabad’s Old City, who was declared Covid-19 positive after she died on April 11. She had infected 17 members of her family. Super-spreaders are usually individuals who are unaware that they are infected and pass the virus on unknowingly. In fact, a lot of Covid incidents around the world have been associated with single events where a superspreader may have infected people. For example, a choir practice in Washington state infected over 50 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/super-spreaders-continue-to-ring-alarm-bells-in-t/articleshow/81299780.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Raw deal for T in Mudra loans: Vinod||Hyderabad: Telangana state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar alleged that the Centre is meting out injustice to the state in sanctioning Mudra loans under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana. In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Vinod Kumar said Centre is allocating more loans to BJP-ruled states while giving a short shrift to other states.  TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raw-deal-for-t-in-mudra-loans-vinod/articleshow/81299818.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: LMC inks pact, takes city closer to its first biogas plant||LUCKNOW: The city is a step closer to getting its first compressed biogas plant which will convert cow dung into energy, fuel and fertilisers. A 150-tonne capacity plant will be set up at Kanha Upvan, the cattle shelter home. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) for this was signed between Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC), Bharat Biogas Energy Ltd and JBM Renewable Pvt Ltd at Raj Bhawan on Tuesday. According to the agreement, the civic body will give a 7.5-acre land to the private companies to set up a fully automated plant with production capacity of 15,000 cubic metres of biogas every year. As a by-product, 20,000-30,000 tonnes of organic fertilizers and 1-1.5 lakh litre of liquid fertiliser will also be produced here annually. Kanha Upvan has about 10,000 cattle whose dung will be used for production of biogas and fertilisers. The deal will be finalised after getting a green signal from the state government. The initiative will reduce dependence on petrol and diesel and protect the environment, besides helping in increasing production of crops. LMC will use the products for itself and also sell them. The income will be shared with the private partners, said mayor Sanyukta Bhatia, who was present on the occasion. The idea for the plant was mooted by LMC in 2014. However, it got wings after governor Anandiben Patel motivated the civic body to go for it following a presentation on biogas made by Bharat Biogas Energy Ltd at Raj Bhawan recently. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was also present during the presentation. Thereafter, LMC had prepared a report. TOI was the first to highlight the report on February 9. Cow dung is a major source of biogas, which is an environment-friendly biofuel naturally produced from the decomposition of organic waste. The digester in a biogas plant converts chemical compounds in dung into biogas which can be used as a source of energy like heat, electricity and fuel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-inks-pact-takes-city-closer-to-its-1st-biogas-plant/articleshow/81301477.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Minors’ rape: Eight booked for hiding info on headmaster in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Bhadradri Kothagudem police booked eight school education department officials under POCSO Act for failing to inform either them or women and child welfare officials on the activities of the headmaster of a government primary school, who allegedly sexually assaulted five minor girl students. He is charged with rape. The trial will commence soon. In December 2020, Laxmidevpally police registered a case against the 40-year-old headmaster for raping five girls aged between seven and 11 years inside the school premises multiple times since August 2020. The incident came to light after a seven-year-old girl, studying class II, took ill and was hospitalised. While undergoing treatment the girl told her mother about her ordeal, Laxmidevpally SI Anjaiah said after registering the case. During the investigation, police found out that despite knowing about the headmaster’s despicable acts, some of the neighbouring school teachers did not report the matter to law enforcement agencies. “We have booked eight persons, including a mandal-level official, under section 21(1) of POCSO Act for failing to report about the incident to law enforcement agencies,” said a police official. If convicted under section 21(1) of the POCSO Act, the accused may have to undergo up to six months imprisonment or pay fine. Bhadradri Kothagudem district SP Sunil Dutt told TOI that the trial will commence on a fast-track basis once a special court for POCSO cases in Kothagudem starts functioning from March 8. On February 18, police filed a chargesheet in the case. The main accused is currently in judicial remand.  Meanwhile, the women and child welfare department has extended Rs 25,000 compensation to each girl’s family, while the tribal welfare department officials sanctioned Rs 1.25 lakh worth loan to procure cattle for each family. The girls were given admissions in gurukul schools in nearby towns. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minors-rape-8-booked-for-hiding-info-on-headmaster/articleshow/81299828.cms||Mahesh Buddi
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Restore Sun temple, MPurges guv||Hyderabad: Bhuvanagiri MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy of Congress has urged governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to use her good offices and direct the officials of state government and Union culture ministry to expedite the restoration works on the ancient Sun temple located at Shaligowraram village in the undivided Nalgonda district. In a letter to the governor on Tuesday, Komatireddy said it is a long-pending demand of the people to restore the ancient Sun temple. “In October 2020, on your directions, the district administration did a preliminary survey. On February 21, 2021, a team of officials from the Archeological Survey of India also visited the site and submitted a report to their head office in Delhi,” he stated in the letter. Presently, the temple is in a dilapidated condition. There is an immediate need to take up restoration works on the temple which has historical, spiritual and devotional importance, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/restore-sun-temple-mpurges-guv/articleshow/81302035.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||7 months on, these seniors breathe easy, stay healthy||Hyderabad: For 24 inmates of an old age home in Kondapur, it was a matter of life and death. The inmates — in the age group of 65-104 years — were infected with coronavirus. That was in August 2020 when Covid-19 was at its peak. As Telangana marked one year of the discovery of its first Covid-19 case (on March 2, 2020) on Tuesday, 23 of them are breathing easy having returned to normal life seven months later. “Except for 104-year-old Paruchuru Ramaswamy who passed away on February 6, all the others are fit and able to get on with their lives,” said Dr K Rajini, who takes care of the elderly at the CR Foundation Home. The state was witness to 11,686 people in the age group of 61 plus testing positive in the last one year but the story of 23 elderly persons combating the virus successfully is nothing short of a miracle. Among those recovered is a 94-year-old man. “Life is a great leveller. My fight with Covid-19 is the source of many a heartening tale,” he said. The best part is that no one had any deteriorating condition after the recovery from the deadly virus. Despite being most vulnerable to the virus attack, these elderly persons are high on energy and their immunity levels are good thanks to intake of a nutritious diet. According to Dr Rajini, all the elderly cooperated with quarantine rules. Some Covid-19 restrictions are still being followed. “The food is kept at their door and no mingling is allowed. Even though they play indoor games, they maintain social distancing and wear masks,” she said. Dr Rajini said they first came to know about the virus when an elderly person had died. The infection then spread from his attendant. Unfortunately, we have lost three elderly persons above 80 years,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-months-on-these-seniors-breathe-easy-stay-healthy/articleshow/81299824.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||8,500 elderly take jab in state as vaccine drive picks pace||Hyderabad: A day after the roll out of Covid vaccination for people above 60 years and for those with comorbidities between 45 and 59 years of age began, the drive picked up pace substantially in the state. While 74% of the target set for vaccination at government facilities was met on Tuesday, at the private facilities 94% of the target was met. A total of 8,528 beneficiaries from these two categories were vaccinated on Tuesday, against a target of 10,103 set for the day. Over the last two days, 13,081 beneficiaries from the two categories have been vaccinated. Meanwhile, vaccination of first dose of frontline workers and second dose for healthcare workers too was carried out on Tuesday. While 484 healthcare workers took the first dose, 1,923 took their second dose. Also 125 frontline workers have taken the first dose of the vaccine on Tuesday. With this the state has vaccinated a total of 4,59,170 beneficiaries up to Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8500-elderly-take-jab-in-state-as-vaccine-drive-picks-pace/articleshow/81299832.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Plan for free healthcare for all in T||Hyderabad: An action plan for making healthcare free for all in the state is currently under preparation, said health minister Eatala Rajender, speaking at a felicitation ceremony at Gandhi Hospital, which had been the nodal centre for Covid-19 cases. The minister expressed confidence that the state will be able to handle any future pandemics too, stressing that the state had been foremost in the country in managing the pandemic and preventing a second wave. He also said that operation theatres for organ transplantation centre at the hospital will be upgraded with an investment of Rs 35 crore, following which transplantation, a costly affair, will become free of cost. Nearly 200 healthcare workers at the hospital were felicitated during the ceremony. Meanwhile, Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent, Gandhi Hospital thanked cops for providing necessary security service and to donors who supplied PPR kits, essentials etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plan-for-free-healthcare-for-all-in-t/articleshow/81299842.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Amid Covid lull, libraries bring cheer to Gadchiroli kids||Nagpur: For school students in remote villages of Naxalite-infested Gadchiroli district, Covid days pass as if time’s frozen in some sci-fi type suspended animation, until a few days ago. As schools remain closed for primary kids and no chance of entertainment also for these tribal kids, the monotony is being broken thanks to small libraries being set up at government schools by a private trust. With no smartphones and in places no Internet connectivity either, these libraries are actually a window to the outside world for these students. Under the banner of Parag Granthalya (library), an initiative of Tata Trusts, around 50 schools in Gadchiroli district have benefited. Sanjay Duga, coordinator of the project in remote Bhamragarh tehsil, said, “We want children to develop reading habit and the best way to do that is through colourful story books. Our members visit schools regularly and teach children how a book is to be read, how that story is to be narrated to others and how to also critically analyse points made therein.” Dharmanand Meshra, block education officer of Bhamragarh, said, “For students, it’s a welcome change as they get to read different books. In those books, activities like colouring and sketching are also there, which make it all the more interesting for students. Last week, I visited Tadgaon zilla parishad school and it was apparent that students loved the concept.” Rameshwar Jadhav, science teacher at Tadgaon ZP school which has around 80 students on roll, says, “Though school has students from Std I-VII, but currently only the last three classes are allowed to operate, hence very few students are present. The activities for children mentioned in the books help engage them creatively as well,” said Jadhav. Tata Trusts is also providing stationery for students as part of this initiative. Duga said, “Right from books to colour crayons, we will ensure that students are able to complete activities mentioned in these books. We have stocked around 200 books for now and will keep adding in the coming months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-covid-lull-libraries-bring-cheer-to-gadchiroli-kids/articleshow/81299847.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Abetment FIR filed after sister’s suicide||Ahmedabad: An earlier complaint at a police station in UP which ended in a ‘compromise’, and narrating the misery of her married life to her brothers went in vain for 20-year-old Annapurna Badhik, married for just about 10 months, as she hanged herself at her marital home in Ramol due to the alleged torment of her husband and her in-laws, and continual demands for dowry. Her 24-year-old brother, Vehpal Singh Badhik, a resident of Khirnibaug in Shahjahanpur district, on Monday filed an FIR at Ramol police station accusing his sister’s husband and in-laws of abetting her suicide. Badhik stated that his sister Annapurna hanged herself on February 27, at the house in Muktanand Park in Ramol, where her husband had rented one part from his sister. In his complaint, Vehpal stated that as their father had died in 2000, he was the head of the household and has four siblings. His younger sister, Annapurna, on April 4, 2020, was married to Rajkumar Singh Badhik, who was also from their native village, Lakshmanpur in Shahjahanpur district. “At the time of the wedding, we gave our sister a dowry appropriate and fitting to our circumstances,” Vehpal stated in his complaint. “Her in-laws kept her well for about a month, but then her husband began making demands that she get him a motorcycle and the money he had spent on the wedding from her brother,” the FIR reads. “On October 1, after Rajkumar had evicted her from the marital home in Lakshmanpur, she came back and told us about the harassment she was being subjected to. We then took her to Banda police station. On October 6, her in-laws were summoned to the police station and an internal compromise was arrived at, in the presence of our village pradhan. Rajkumar even gave an undertaking on a Rs 10 stamp paper, that he would not harass Annapurna anymore,” Vehpal stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abetment-fir-filed-after-sisters-suicide/articleshow/81299235.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Panchayat min takes vaccine||Warangal: Telangana panchayat raj and rural development minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao took the first dose of the Covid vaccine at MGM Hospital in Warangal on Tuesday. He appealed to people to take the vaccine at government hospitals to protect themselves from the pandemic. Rao said, “There is no need for people to panic. People should be vigilant, adhere to physical distancing and wear masks in public gatherings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panchayat-min-takes-vaccine/articleshow/81299845.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
March 3, 2021||Patna||12 electric vehicles debut as Bihar CM launches 82 buses||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday flagged off 82 new luxury buses, including 12 eco-friendly electric buses, during a transport department event held outside ‘Samvad’ hall of the CM secretariat. This is the first time the eco-friendly buses will run on Bihar roads. The CM also inaugurated, through remote, four modern district transport offices at Buxar, Gaya, Jehanabad and Madhepura, built at a cost of Rs 10.37 crore. After flagging-off the new buses, the CM sought information about the facilities available in the electric buses. Nitish and some accompanying ministers and officials also took a ride on one of the electric buses and went to the Vidhan Sabha premises to attend its ongoing budget session. “These electric buses are very comfortable,” CM said after reaching the Vidhan Sabha. “It is a matter of great happiness that electric buses were rolled out in the state today. It’s a big initiative for environment protection. Total 25 electric buses are to arrive in Bihar. Twelve of them have already arrived. The rest 13 electric buses will arrive by the end of this month,” Nitish said and congratulated the state’s transport department for starting the electric buses. CM also said the number of electric buses would be increased once its operation becomes smooth in the state. In a minor hitch, one of the two electric buses that reached the Vidhan Sabha premises hit the boundary wall of a park inside the premises while negotiating a turn, causing some cracks on the boundary wall. The air-conditioned electric buses are equipped with modern technology, including a CCTV camera, panic button, mobile charging points, public address system, speed governor and fire safety devices and few other things. “65% of the seats in the electric buses will be reserved for women passengers,” a transport department official said. Most of the electric buses will operate within the state capital while one each will go up to Rajgir and Muzaffarpur from the state capital, the official said. Besides the 12 electric buses, the CM also rolled out 70 deluxe, semi-deluxe and luxury buses for long-distance routes. These buses would operate on 43 routes across the state covering the majority of the district towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-launches-12-electric-and-82-luxury-buses-in-bihar/articleshow/81299844.cms||Madan Kumar
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||HC cancels bail order given by sessions judge||Nagpur: Considering serious allegations against an additional sessions judge, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court cancelled the pre-arrest bail granted by him to two accused on January 3.While transferring a case from him, justice Rohit Deo directed the principal district judge (PDJ) to rehear the entire case and submit the report in seven days. He directed both the accused to remain present before PDJ.Pointing out that PDJ had found some substance in the complaint lodged by petitioner Vidya Kotangale, a widow, against the sessions judge, justice Deo stated that stakeholders’ confidence in the justice dispensation system must not be eroded. “Without in any manner suggesting any wrongdoing on the part of the sessions' judge, in my considered view, the pre-arrest protection granted to accused will have to be cancelled. The Miscellaneous Criminal Application (MCA) will have to be reheard on merits by any judge other than him,” he said.The petitioner was seeking cancellation of pre-arrest protection granted to the accused duo in connection with the crime registered at Jaripatka police station for cheating and forgery under Sections 306, 420, 467, 468, and 471.According to her, the judge had earlier rejected the pre-arrest bail application moved by both the accused on September 13, 2020. However, the same application was allowed on January 3, after the accused changed their lawyer, the petitioner claimed.According to the petitioner, the judge’s order of September 13 rejecting the pre-arrest bail was signed and even uploaded on the website. It was also seen by one of the co-accused’s counsel. On the same day earlier, the accused abruptly replaced their lawyer with a new one. The latter then submitted an application before the judge for adding certain sections of IPC in the MCA after which the accused got the bail.Justice Deo stated it would not be necessary to consider in detail the allegations on basis of which the accused are implicated in the alleged crime.“Certain allegations are made on oath, which are extremely serious. It is made clear the PDJ shall not be influenced by any observation in this order nor by the fact that in view of unpleasant controversy, the matter is directed to be heard by him and not the sessions judge, who granted pre-arrest protection to the accused,” he said.# What HC said:* PDJ found some substance in complaint lodged by petitioner* Pre-arrest protection to accused will have to be cancelled* Application to be reheard on merits another judge * Certain allegations made on oath are extremely serious * PDJ shouldn’t be influenced by any observation in HC order* Confidence in justice system must not be eroded||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-cancels-bail-order-given-by-sessions-judge/articleshow/81299849.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Set up fire lines stretching up to 1,000 km: Official||Hyderabad: Wildfire in Amrabad tiger reserve on Monday night which reduced about 10 acres of forest land to ashes, has once again raised the long-standing issue which has been a challenge for the forest department. “We have created fire lines stretching up to 1,000 kms in the forest areas prone to fires,” said Nagarkurnool district forest official, Kista Goud. Sounding caution against forest fires during summers, the principal chief conservator of forests R Shobha put the district level officials on high alert . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/set-up-fire-lines-stretching-up-to-1000-km-official/articleshow/81299851.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong seeks white paper on jobs||Hyderabad: Congress has demanded that the Centre and TRS government in the state publish a white paper on the vacancies filled up by each government and number of new jobs created in the last seven years. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka said Congress is ready for a debate with both governments on this issue. As per the latest statistics of the labour bureau, unemployment rate at the national level is 21.6 per cent, while it is 33.9 per cent in Telangana, he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made an election promise of giving 2 crore jobs per year and the total comes to 14 crore jobs in seven years. Instead of giving jobs, it is open to see for every one that lakhs of people lost jobs due to wrong decisions and policies of the Modi-government,” Bhatti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-seeks-white-paper-on-jobs/articleshow/81302042.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Results of Covaxin study on monkeys out||Hyderabad: After prestigious medical journal The Lancet published the Phase I human clinical trial results of India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, now another reputed, peer-reviewed British medical journal has published results of non-human primate studies conducted on the vaccine candidate. The study titled `Immunogenicity and protective efficacy of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidate, BBV152 in rhesus macaques’ was published in the Nature Medicine on Tuesday. The non-human primate study was conducted on 20 rhesus macaques, that were divided into four groups of five animals each, said the paper by Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology, Pune, researchers. “One group was administered a placebo, while three groups were immunized with three different vaccine candidates of BBV152 at 0 and 14 days. All the macaques were challenged with SARS-CoV-2 fourteen days after the second dose. The protective response was observed with increasing SARS-CoV-2 specific IgG and neutralizing antibody titers from 3rd-week post-immunization,” the researchers said. “This study demonstrates that a two-dose vaccination regimen using 3-µg dose of the vaccine candidate with adjuvant B induces a significant immune response and provides effective protection in animals challenged with SARS-CoV-2,” the paper said. According to the researchers, the safety and immunogenicity of BBV152 had already been established in mice, rat and rabbit models.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/results-of-covaxin-study-on-monkeys-out/articleshow/81299850.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Quack, aide held with Rs 7.50 cr heroin||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana unit of Special Task Force (STF) arrested a quack and his accomplice for peddling drugs on Tuesday.STF officials said besides smuggling heroin, the accused also prepared narcotics powder at the clinic. The cops have recovered 1.5kg heroin, 10kg chemical powder and eight bottles of a liquid chemical from their possession. The recovered heroin is worth Rs 7.50 crore in the international market. The arrested have been identified as quack Ajay Kumar, 30, of Mahadev Nagar, and his aide Davinder Singh, 43, of Uttar Pradesh. His other accomplices who are on the run are his namesake Ajay Kumar and Malti Parsad Verma of Uttar Pradesh.Inspector Harbans Singh said, “Ajay is a quack and runs a clinic in Jaspal Bangar village. Devinder is unemployed. Ajay said due to debts, he started smuggling drugs and Devinder, an addict, joined him to make easy money and meet his drug needs.” During questioning, the accused told police that Malti Parsad Verma provided them heroin, some chemicals and acids. “Using those chemicals and acids, the accused prepared a powder that looked like heroin. They would mix the acid and powder in heroin and sell it to their customers. They have been into the business for the past three years. We are trying to trace the rest of the accused,” he added.Davinder is already facing trial in a drug peddling case lodged against him in Uttar Pradesh.A case has been registered under the NDPS Act against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/quack-aide-held-with-rs-7-50-cr-heroin/articleshow/81297541.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bareilly||SI forces kin to sign compromise, court orders FIR in molestation case||Pilibhit: The police, on Monday evening, booked a 22-year-old man for allegedly molesting a 17-year-old girl. The accused who belongs to a village under Sungarhi police station had also assaulted vthe girl's parents with bricks when they tried to rescue their daughter. Following the order of the court of the chief judicial magistrate, police booked the man. Earlier, the police had refused to lodge the FIR and sub-inspector Achal Singh had allegedly forced the girl’s father to sign a compromise with the accused. The girl's father claimed that a man from his native village, identified as Chaman, had been harassing his minor daughter and passing derogatory remarks since sometime. On September 2 last year, when the victim had gone to get water from the borewell handpup of the district administration, the accused, along with his friends, allegedly stalked her and molested her. As he rushed to rescue his daughter, the accused and his friends allegedly abused him and threatened him. Later, the accused barged into the girl's house and assaulted her parents with bricks. The man claimed that he had filed a written complaint at the Sungarhi police station but the FIR was denied. When he persistently pursued the matter, sub inspector Achal Singh forced him to sign a compromise with the accused. He then filed a complaint with the superintendent of police but again, in vain. Finding no other way, he knocked at the door of the court which ordered the police to lodge the FIR in the matter, he added. SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said that the accused has been booked under section 354 A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by means of any instrument for shooting, stabbing or cutting, or any instrument which, used as a weapon of offence), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/si-forces-kin-to-sign-compromise-court-orders-fir-in-molestation-case/articleshow/81297539.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS, MIM neglected Old City: Uttam||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the state government neglected Hyderabad, especially Old City, in the last seven years and alleged that both the TRS and AIMIM want the Old City to remain backward. The TPCC chief along with party candidate G Chinna Reddy, who is contesting from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates MLC constituency, addressed a series of meetings on Tuesday in various assembly constituencies of the Old City and later went to Musheerabad constituency in Secunderabad. They also held a meeting with leaders of the Shia community. “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao neither visited the Old City in the last seven years nor held a review meeting to understand and resolve the problems faced by residents of this part of the city. KCR had promised to develop the Old City on the lines of Istanbul and Hyderabad as Dallas. Many graduates from the Old City have no job opportunities and they often face discrimination at their workplace due to their area of residence,” Uttam said. Uttam and Chinna Reddy performed puja at the popular Mahankali temple at Lal Darwaza and later paid their respects at Yousufain Dargah in Nampally. Uttam Kumar attacked the AIMIM also. He said the MIM is contesting elections in various states and fielding its candidates to help the BJP win due to division of secular votes. “MIM president Asaduddin Owaisi is calling it as the party’s expansion. If it is true, why is MIM not contesting the MLC elections? Why is Owaisi silent on which party his MIM is supporting in the March 14 elections?” Uttam asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mim-neglected-old-city-uttam/articleshow/81302049.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Bhopal||331 new Covid cases but no casualty across Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: A total of 331 new covid-19 positive cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday taking the tally of Covid-19 patients in state to 262433. No deaths were reported in the state on Tuesday; it was the third day in this year when no Covid death was reported in MP.  Earlier, it was on February 7 and 13 this year when no death cases were reported. Prior to this, it was only on April 2, 2020 after the first Covid death case was reported in the state on March 25, that no deaths were reported. On Tuesday new cases were reported only from 37 of the 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported on Monday include Shivpuri, Narsinghpur, Morena, Shahdol, Dewas, Khandwa, Sidhi, Seoni, Bhind, Umaria, Alirajpur, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Dindori and Niwari. Of these 37 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from 6 districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Indore where 134 tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 46 tested positive and 19 patients were found in Chhindwara district. On the brighter side, 259 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these, total count of people who have recovered so far from Covid in the state reached 255595. A total of 15019 samples were tested on Tuesday and out of it, 336 tested positive, thus positivity rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Tuesday stood at 2.2 percent. As on March 2, there were 2973 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/331-new-covid-cases-but-no-casualty-across-state/articleshow/81297543.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||State govt constitutes panel to mitigate human-wildlife conflict||Hyderabad: In the wake of different incidents in which two persons were killed by tigers, the state government has constituted a committee which will propose measures ‘to avoid recurrence of the incidents of tigers killing human beings’. The state-level committee will be headed by the environment and forest minister. In addition to the chairman, there are nine others in the committee, including Rajya Sabha member KR Suresh Reddy.  The committee that has been constituted will have to evolve a mechanism for ‘mitigating human-wildlife’ conflict. It will also review the compensation package that will have to be given to the victim’s families and propose guidelines for settling the claims not just for human deaths, but also injury, cattle kills and crop damage. In a GO issued on March 2, the environment, forests and science and technology department said the committee should submit its report within three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govt-constitutes-panel-to-mitigate-human-wildlife-conflict/articleshow/81299857.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Indians behaved well in bars||Hyderabad: India’s social distance graph was not so impressive when it came to transportation hubs (bus stations and railway stations, airports). Interestingly, among 16 parameters that were taken into consideration, people in India maintained fairly good physical distancing in bars. The parameters were: social gatherings, religious gatherings, funerals, stay at home orders, restaurants, bars, movie theatres, hair salons, barbers, indoor gyms, non-essential retail stores, childcare, schools, higher education, nursing homes and prisons. The highest peak daily physical distancing intensity of 4.60 was by Botswana, followed by India (4.40) and Ukraine (4.40). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indians-behaved-well-in-bars/articleshow/81299858.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Six more KGBV students from single campus test positive||HYDERABAD: After 12 students of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV), Jharasangham, in Sangareddy district tested positive for Covid-19, another seven — six students and a staffer — from the same campus have tested positive. Of the 138 people, which comprises 18 staff members and 120 students, who gave their samples for RT-PCR test, seven tested positive. They had earlier tested negative in Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). Officials were forced to close the campus for the time being as parents of all the students withdrew their consent and took their daughters back home. “We have tried to counsel parents, but all of them wanted to take their daughters back. As parent consent is mandatory, we had no option except to send children back,” said N Rajesh, district education officer, Sangareddy. Of the 18 students who tested positive, five are from class 9, six each are class 10 and intermediate first-year students, and one is studying in the intermediate second year. The staffer is a woman guard. Officials said to have got the entire campus sanitised three times. The DEO said that all the students were asymptomatic and had no complications. “All Covid-19 positive students were advised to be under home isolation. They were counselled and given Covid-19 kits,” said Rajesh. He said that they were planning to reopen campus after the studetns test negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-more-kgbv-students-from-single-campus-test-positive/articleshow/81299854.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||UP now secure under robust law, order: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday submitted in the UP assembly that people in the state felt more secure now because of the robust law and order situation. He also said that communal amity was at its best in UP and the state has not witnessed any riot in the recent times. Yogi said his government was taking all steps to stop harassment of minorities and as a result of this, minorities’ faith in the ruling dispensation has been growing. Yogi’s submission came on a query raised by SP legislator Sanjay Garg whether the government had any plan to make the state free of crime and fear. In a written reply submitted in the assembly, Yogi said that between March 20, 2017 and December 31, 2020, as many as 129 hardened criminals were gunned down while 2,823 got injured in encounters with the police. During the same period, 13 police personnel lost their lives and 1,039 got injured during clashes with the criminals. The CM stated that his government has ensured 100% arrest of criminals and has put them behind bars. The CM added that the state government was also framing schemes to crackdown on active criminals. He said the government was also conducting checking of vans carrying jailed criminals and other suspicious vehicles. Yogi said the UP government has put a check on terror and Naxal activities. For women security, Yogi said, the state government has rolled out Mission Shakti scheme and has stepped up foot patrolling alongside stopping crime against women with the help of anti-Romeo squads. The CM also informed the House that the response time of UP112 has improved from 38 minutes in 2017 to 10.30 minutes at present. This shows that the police are reaching the troubled spot more swiftly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-now-secure-under-robust-law-order-cm/articleshow/81301491.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Fuel rates dip in city as IRDP cess goes||Nagpur: Consumers in city were finally relieved of an over decade-old add-on to the fuel rates from Tuesday. Prices of petrol and diesel at pumps within the municipal limits were loaded with an extra 68 paise and Rs1.97 Integrated Road Development (IRDP) cess, respectively. The IRDP cess will no longer be applicable now. This has led to a drop in the fuel prices, which were constantly on the rise by 25 to 30 paise almost daily for the last two months. On Tuesday, petrol and diesel rates dropped 68 paise and Rs2.04, respectively. This resulted in petrol costing Rs97.40 a litre and diesel Rs87.11 a litre in city.Now the rates are back to the fortnight-old level. This has delayed the price of petrol touching Rs100-mark by at least 10 days or so. So far, there has been an average increase of 25 to 30 paise each day. Supposing the rates again increase each day by 25 paise, it may still take 10 days to take petrol rates to Rs100.Petroleum Dealers Association members were told by the officials that the reduction was due to doing away of the cess.The cess was levied to recover the cost of road development projects in 200-2001 when T Chandrashekhar was the municipal commissioner.Rather tenure of the IRDP cess itself had ended. Though the road development project was taken up in 2000, the cess was levied in 2009. Originally it was supposed to be there till 2015, but it was extended twice by three years each time. Finally, the tenure ended on March 1, 2021. As there has been no extension order, it is deemed that the cess is no longer to be levied. The funds collected through the cess by oil companies went to Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).Since there was no extension, the oil companies stopped adding the cess in the retail prices, said a source.Vilas Salpekar, executive member of Federation of All Maharashtra Petroleum Dealers Association (FAMPEDA), said dealers who noticed a major drop got it confirmed from the authorities that the cess has been done away with.“There was a long-pending demand from the dealers having outlets within the municipal limits that the cess should be withdrawn. It was because the tax made fuel costlier for outlets within city limits and pumps just a little away from city had a lesser price.In Vidarbha, petrol rates are over at Rs98 a litre in towns like Gadchiroli, Gondia, Yavatmal, Washim and Amravati. Rest are in the range of Rs97.77 to Rs97.50||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fuel-rates-dip-in-city-as-irdp-cess-goes/articleshow/81299865.cms||Shishir Arya
March 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Shortage of thalassemia medicine at civil hospital, patients protest||Ludhiana: A few medicines for thalassemia are unavailable at Ludhiana civil hospital, forcing some patients to either take half doses or stop them completely. On Tuesday morning, about 40 thalassemia patients reached the civil hospital and staged a protest. Two protesters were allowed to meet senior medical officer Dr Amarjeet Kaur, who, they said, asked the patients to wait for one more week. Haibowal’s Sukrit Bassti, 18, said, “My brother and I are thalassemic. Our monthly expense for the medicine is approximately Rs 14,000. My mother works as a receptionist. We were getting medicines from the civil hospital, but these are not available for the past one month. I visited the hospital several times to enquire about the stock arrival, but every time I was asked to wait for a few more days. Therefore, we all decided to stage a protest, but the SMO failed to give us a satisfactory reply. She told us to take another medicine that is available in the hospital, but it does not suit everyone. Now she has asked for another week’s time to arrange the drug.” Another patient, Sippi, 22, said, “I work as a labourer and earn Rs 500 per day. The medicine I take costs over Rs 6,000 to Rs 7,000 per month, which I cannot afford. Since the medicine is unavailable at the civil hospital, I have stopped taking it. The government should think about poor people like us.”He alleged, “My friend had enquired from the Chandigarh office of National Health Mission and was told that the medicine stock was available. Government hospitals of other districts have taken it from there except the Ludhiana hospital.” The protesters said if they did not get the medicine in a week, they would stage a peaceful protest outside the house of the health minister in Chandigarh. Senior medical officer Dr Amarjeet Kaur said, “The medicines of one company are out of stock, while those of another firm are available. But patients are not willing to take those. Soon, we will restock the medicines. Besides, the thalassemia ward is open and patients can come from 9am to 3pm. If anyone faces any issues in getting treatment at the ward, they can approach me at my office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shortage-of-thalassemia-medicine-at-civil-hospital-patients-protest/articleshow/81297574.cms||Payal Dhawan
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Gang stole blood from poor after giving sedatives, sold it to needy||LUCKNOW: It is blood money of a different kind. Gonda police have busted a gang which used to lure starving beggars and rickshaw-pullers on the pretext of free meals and draw their blood after sedating them. The gang members would then sell the blood to the needy through a network of touts in blood banks and staff in district hospitals and nursing homes. While five persons have been arrested, efforts to nab nine others are underway. Those arrested were identified as Basantu Gupta, Salahuddin, Imran, Iliyas and Almas Khan, who is also the owner of Golden Blood Society, a private blood bank in Gonda. Gonda district magistrate Markandey Shahi told TOI that the district administration and drug department along with police were working to trace the gang members involved in the extraction and supply of illegal blood. The case came to the fore after a video had gone viral in which a customer was asked to pay Rs 7,000 to get blood from the gang. “Two gang members and the customer are seen creating a ruckus over money,” said Shahi. Investigation has also found the involvement of two people associated with the district hospital: driver of hearse car Chandra Prakash and blood bank supervisor RK Chaudhary. He used to work with private blood banks illegally. Pharmacist KK Mishra, who worked in a private hospital called SPCM Hospital, is also involved. All three have been detained for interrogation. The gang members used to extract blood from poor people using a syringe at any spot available, often on the street or in a park. They would target rickshaw pullers or labourers. This blood was given to blood banks in government hospitals through touts. “The gang also hunted for people individually in need of blood and offered them blood at exorbitant rates,” the DM said. “A probe has been ordered under city magistrate into Golden Blood Society and SPCM Hospital,” he added. Drug inspector Om Prakash has filed the FIR in the case. A house in Awas Vikas Colony was also registered under Golden Blood Society. This ‘blood bank’ is not registered by the chief medical officer of Gonda. Others detained are Kalim, Saheb Alam, Kalia and Siddharth Mishra. The charges in the FIR are cheating by impersonation, dishonesty, and charges drug and cosmetics Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gang-stole-blood-from-poor-after-giving-sedatives-sold-it-to-needy/articleshow/81301495.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||NHAI maths not right: 43k saplings planted, 71k survive||Nagpur: Can the survival of saplings be more than the number of saplings planted? For the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which has always been in the eye of the storm for poor plantations, it is possible.According to information received under the RTI Act by city-based green activist Jaydeep Das, the project implementation unit (PIU-I), Nagpur, felled 48,376 trees for road widening of highways and other construction activities and planted 82,401 trees under its jurisdiction. The information pertains from 2001 till 2020.Under PIU-I, projects include road widening of NH-6 & NH-7 and Umred road and Saoner-Gondkhairi roads, ROBs at Pardi and Butibori, inner ring roads from Kalamna-Manewada, construction of flyovers at Lakhni, Sakoli and Hinganghat junction among other projects. However, on two stretches, the NHAI has claimed more survival than the number of trees planted. As per the RTI, on an 80km stretch on NH-6 Bhandara-Deori, the NHAI cut 10,701 trees and planted 21,560. However, on the survival and current status of these trees, NHAI says as per its survey till August 31, 2020, 24,123 trees have survived. Similarly, on NH-7, between the Borkhedi-Jam-Wadner section, it planted 21,428 trees but claimed 47,094 trees survived.“How is it possible that fewer trees are planted and more survive? Only a miracle can make it happen. When subsequent plantations of even the forest department, which is said to have expertise in planting trees, have poor survival, how come NHAI plantations survived more than 100%?,” asked RTI activist Das.He pointed out several flaws in the RTI reply. “The NHAI chopped 48,376 big trees on NH-6 & NH-7 for four-laning 279km of roads. Against this, the highway's authority planted over 82,400,” he said, adding, “Considering the Indian Road Congress (IRC)-2009 norms of planting 666 trees per km, NHAI had to actually plant over 2.62 lakh trees but planted 82,400 trees, a deficit of over 1.79 lakh.”On several occasions NGT had rebuked the highway authority by not adhering to the Green Highways (Plantation, Transplantation, Beautification & Maintenance) Policy, 2015, and planting trees along the highways, said Das. “We are not against development but NHAI should also value the environment and both tree felling and compensatory tree plantation should be done simultaneously as suggested by the NGT, Pune bench, while disposing of a petition against PWD,” said Das.The RTI data reveals that while the NHAI is in a tearing hurry to fell trees for road projects, it is slack when it comes to plantations. In the present case, of the total 48,376 trees felled, the Nagpur PIU-I is yet to take up plantations against 8,950 trees felled in the last two years.Project director NL Yeotkar said, “I’ll check the mismatch about fewer trees planted and more survival. It must have happened due to human error. Secondly, trees against the felled 8,950 will be planted once the ongoing structures and road works are completed.”During Das’ recent visit to NH-6 on Bhandara-Deori road, the survival of plantations is poor. The worst part is that while NHAI felled big and tall trees for road widening, it considers median plantations (middle of the road) as tree plantation, which are basically done to beautify roads. Against the felled 48,376 trees, the data shows the highways authority planted over 1.5 lakh plants on the median.THE NUMBER GAME * NH-7: Kamptee-Kanhan-Nagpur 77km bypass: Trees felled: 24608, Planted: 24,200. Survival: 13,200* NH-6: Wainganga Bridge-Deori (80km): Trees felled: 10,701. Planted: 21,560. Survival: 24,123* NH-6: Nagpur-Wainganga Bridge (46km): Trees felled: 3,620. Planted: 12,353. Survival: 11,875* NH353D: Nagpur-Umred (48km): Trees felled: 4,374. Planted: 0* NH547E: Saoner-Dhapewada-Gondkhairi (37km): Trees felled: 2,454. Planted: 0* ROBs/Bypass: Trees felled: 2,122. Planted: 0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nhai-maths-not-right-43k-saplings-planted-71k-survive/articleshow/81299907.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 3, 2021||Ludhiana||City exporters to dock ship of woes to govt port||TNNLudhiana: Grappling with various problems, the city exporters organised a brainstorming session to thrash out a solution and take up major issues with the authorities. According to businessmen, their incomes have taken a hit due to the hike in charges levied by shipping companies, withdrawal of several incentives by the Centre, inclusion of genuine businessmen into the risky exporters’ list and delay in release of IGST and drawbacks. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), said at the session, “Doing exports is becoming challenging as our costs have increased significantly. There is panic among exporters due to high rates charged by shipping firms and withdrawal of schemes for exporters. In addition to this, there are several other challenges like shortage of labour, delays in transportation of raw material and finished goods and increase in the number of formalities. If these problems are not resolved soon, Punjab’s exporters will be out of business and will have to look to alternative businesses. Therefore, we need immediate government intervention.”Ahuja informed that they had formed an export promotion committee that would work closely with departments, like the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT), ministry of commerce, customs commissionerate and banks, to keep exporters updated with the latest guidelines. “Shortly, a meeting with top official of these departments will be arranged to discuss the problems and seek a resolution,” he added.Pankaj Sharma, another businessman, said, “There are many innocent businessmen whose names have been included in the risky exporters’ list. As a result, their GST refunds and drawbacks are blocked and they are subjected to investigations and verifications. This is leading to a huge blockage of capital and halt in business activities. It is our request to the government to adopt a standard procedure with a time-bound redressal system in the GST department to help genuine exporters.”Speaking against a number of incentives and subsidies for exporters that have been withdrawn, Sarvjit Singh, co-convener of the Export Promotion Committee, said, “We request the government of India to at least consider the benefits available to the exporters of neighbouring countries and give us a package in comparison to those so that we can compete on a level playing field.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-exporters-to-dock-ship-of-woes-to-govt-port/articleshow/81297568.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Ludhiana||5 teachers and 1 school student among 115 positive for Covid||LUDHIANA: As many as 115 Covid-19 cases were reported in Ludhiana on Tuesday. These included five teachers and a school student. Chief medical officer Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district case count has now increased to 27,295. The new cases included a student of Government Primary School, Peeru Banda, Salem Tabri, five teachers of Khalsa College, Sudhar, Government Primary School, Giaspura, Sacred Heart School, Utala, Samrala, GSS Smart School, Payal, and Devi Bharwa School of Salem Tabri. Besides, 20 are contacts of positive patients, 25 are from OPD, 53 from flu corner and one through tracing process. On the day, a patient from Sangrur lost his life at a hospital in the city. The district toll tally stood at 1,030 and that of outsiders has risen to 510. So far, 25,635 (93.91%) patients have recovered. On Tuesday, 2,965 samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-teachers-and-1-school-student-among-115-positive-for-covid/articleshow/81297544.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Bookie held with nearly Rs5 lakh cash||Nagpur: In one of the biggest cash seizures from a bookie operating in city in the recent times, special squad of Zonal DCP Vinita Sahu arrested Rajesh Ballare and recovered nearly Rs5 lakh cash and a car from his residence at Manav Seva Nagar in Surendragarh locality on Monday. Ballare, having 17 offences in the past, was also operating a ‘satta’ (gambling) den. Sahu said following a tip-off, Ballare was caught accepting bets on cricket matches using his social media accounts. “Earlier, we had busted a ‘satta’ den operated by one Rupesh Parsodkar and his elder brother Ashish at Manavta Nagar. Interrogation of Parsodkar brothers led to the arrest of Ballare,” she said. “In 2020, Gittikhadan police had raided Ballare’s den four times,” said the DCP, adding police would contemplate stringent preventive measures like MPDA and externment as he continued illegal activities despite preventive actions and raids. We are probing all of Ballare’s links,” she said. The raid was conducted by assistant police inspector Dilip Chandan, who was accompanied by head constables Aditya Yadav, Rajesh Sonwane, naik constable Amitkumar Singh, constables Parag Fegde, Allen Khan and Kalyan Parate. Two offences have been registered against Ballare. He has also been made co-accused with Parsodkar brothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bookie-held-with-nearly-rs5-lakh-cash/articleshow/81299890.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Two stab truck driver, escape with Rs 9 lakh||Ludhiana: The police on Tuesday booked two men for stabbing to death a truck driver near Chownkimann village at Ludhiana-Jagraon highway around 10.30pm on Monday. After killing Inderjit Singh, 45, of Landeke village, Moga, the accused escaped with Rs 9 lakh he had collected after delivery of scrap in Mandi Gobindgarh. Inderjit was returning to Moga when the incident took place. The case has been registered against Harpal Bhalla, also a truck driver and resident of Moga, and his unidentified accomplice on the statement of Inderjit’s son Pardeep Singh.Inderjit worked with a scrap company in Moga. The matter came to light when his employer approached the Jagraon police on Tuesday morning. His employer, Prince, told the police that their truck was stranded near Chownkimann village since Monday night and driver Inderjit was unreachable. Prince came to know about its location through the GPS installed in it. On reaching the spot, police found Inderjit’s body inside the truck.  Deputy superintendent of police Jatinderjit Singh said, “Prince told us that Inderjit had collected Rs 9 lakh from Mandi Gobindgarh. But we did not find any cash in the truck. It seems the accused killed Inderjit and escaped with the money.” CCTV cameras installed on the route have captured Inderjit with Harpal and the unidentified man. They had liquor at a vend on Ludhiana-Moga road. “We checked the location of Harpal which was the same as the murder spot. Pardeep, too, has given a statement that he suspected Harpal. Therefore, we have registered a case against Harpal and his unidentified accomplice. We are trying to trace them,” the DSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-stab-truck-driver-escape-with-rs-9-lakh/articleshow/81297557.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Doc driver dies mins after 2nd vaccine dose||Bhiwandi: A 40-year-old healthcare worker died shortly after getting the second dose of the Covid vaccine in the Bhagya Nagar area of Bhiwandi on Tuesday. Sukhdev Kirdat worked as a driver with an eye specialist in Bhiwandi. His wife Sonali has demanded a probe into whether he died due to the vaccine. Till February 25, 45 vaccine-related deaths have been reported since the drive began on January 16, says central government data. Health ministry officials pointed out deaths account for 0.0004% of the vaccinations. Sukhdev, who got his first shot on January 28, took the second dose at 11am. “He was kept in an observation room, where he fell unconscious after 15 minutes,” said a health official of the civic body. He was rushed to hospital and declared dead on arrival. Sukhdev was under hypertension treatment for three years. “Our doctor checked his blood pressure, which was normal,” said Dr K R Kharat, health officer. Sukhdev, who has two children, was the only breadwinner in his family. Sonali told reporters her husband was fit before going for the vaccination. State public health officials didn’t comment on the death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doc-driver-dies-mins-after-2nd-vaccine-dose/articleshow/81299927.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 3, 2021||Bhopal||26 IAS on poll duty to 5 states as observers||Bhopal: About 26 IAS officers from Madhya Pradesh cadre would be deputed as central observers for the assembly polls in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Puducherry. The Election Commission of India has fixed a virtual meeting of these central observers on Wednesday. The officers of MP to go as observers would attend the virtual meeting in the state secretariat. General administration department has issued orders in this regard. Names of the officers selected for poll duty are Nikunj Shrivastava, Ajit Kumar, Rajeev Sharma, Alka Shrivastava, Sanjeev Singh, Jitendra Singh Raje, Shashank Mishra, Bharat Yadav, Umesh Kumar, Dhanraju S, Abhishek Singh, Ashish Kumar, Shashibhushan Singh, Jagdish Chandra Jatia, Ram Pratap Singh Jadon, Ashok Kumar Chouhan, Sapna Nigam, Chandrashekhar Walimbe, Dinesh Shrivastava, Chote Singh, Sarita Bala Om Prajapati, Gautam Singh, Hari Singh Meena, Girish Sharma, Krishnadev Tripathi and Anurag Verma. Officials said the commission would brief on the roles and responsibilities in the meeting. The officers may also be told the state they are being sent as central observers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/26-ias-on-poll-duty-to-5-states-as-observers/articleshow/81297588.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||74 BEST drivers caught speeding||BEST has issued a diktat to over 10,000 bus drivers that they will be caught real-time if they try to speed on the highways and roads. As many as 74 drivers have been summoned to the BEST headquarters and issued warnings for speeding. BEST has set up a command and control centre at Wadala . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/74-best-drivers-caught-speeding/articleshow/81300000.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Jugiyana village murder solved with arrest of two||Ludhiana: Two days after a man was found murdered at a vacant plot in Jugiyana village, Sahnewal, the police on Tuesday claimed to have solved the case with the arrest of two.On February 28 afternoon, children playing in the area had raised the alarm on noticing the body, which had a piece of cloth tied around its neck and a disfigured face.After identifying the body as that of Shanti Pandey, 27, a resident of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Shimlapuri, the police zeroed in on his two friends —Pawan Thakur, of the same locality, and Roshan Kumar of Daba. They were arrested after they spilled the beans during interrogation. Joint commissioner of police (rural) Sachin Gupta said, “Shanti, Pawan and Roshan would meet once a week for drinks and at times did drugs. On the night of February 26, the trio got together at a vacant plot in Jugiyana and consumed liquor. Later, Shanti took out an intoxicating powder from his pocket and invited his friends to consume it. Pawan stopped him as Shanti was already drunk. When Pawan was trying to take the powder from Shanti, it fell down.” This infuriated Shanti. “A drunk Shanti slapped Pawan. He took out a knife and was about to stab Pawan when Roshan snatched the weapon and attacked Shanti on face. When Shanti lost consciousness, the duo got scared. They picked up a piece of cloth from the plot and strangled him,” the JCP added. The duo kept the body under debris at the plot to hide it. “As it was dark, they did not realise that one arm of Shanti had come out of the debris. Two days later, children of the area were playing cricket near the spot when their ball fell inside the plot. When they went there to get it, they saw an arm of the body and raised the alarm,” he said.ADCP-II Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the accused were arrested from near a filling station close to Jugiyana village. “They were trying to flee. We have also recovered the murder weapon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jugiyana-village-murder-solved-with-arrest-of-two/articleshow/81297576.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Screening restarts at Dharavi as cases multiply to 64||MUMBAI: Considering that active Covid-19 cases have more than doubled in Dharavi in just seven days, BMC has once again begun screening the entire population of Asia’s largest slum cluster. While officially Dharavi’s population is around seven lakh, it is estimated to be around 8.5 lakh with unaccounted-for migrants. The number of active Covid cases in Dharavi as on February 22 totalled 28 and by March 1 had increased to 64. On February 26, the area saw cases spurt to 16 from the single digits being recorded daily in the past few months. Civic officials said they will repeat the drill they followed last year after the first Covid-positive patient from the area was traced on April 1. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G-North Ward, said, “Since the past two days, our teams have started visiting homes of locals and checking their oxygen levels and body temperature. Those found with any symptoms are being tested immediately.” Civic officials said their nine civic health posts have now been turned into testing centres to bolster the drive. Therefore, unlike earlier when they would have to keep the suspected cases isolated and quarantined, now they can immediately get them tested to know if they are infected. Civic officials added their teams of health workers have informed them that locals are afraid of being quarantined in case they are found with any symptoms, for fear of losing their jobs. “With everything almost open now, many of Dharavi’s residents too are expected to report to their workplaces. They are therefore afraid of being quarantined as they fear a pay cut or even a job loss,” said a civic official. Apart from testing at civic health posts, mobile vans are also being stationed at various localities in the area where locals can get themselves tested. Covid-19 had entered Dharavi on April 1 last year and there were days when close to a 100 cases were reported. For instance, May 3, 2020, witnessed 95 positive cases while on May 15 there were 84. December 25, though, saw the area report zero cases for the first time since the pandemic. Dharavi, spread over 2.5 square kilometres, is also home to various small-scale enterprises involved in leather, pottery and textile businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/screening-restarts-at-dharavi-as-cases-multiply-to-64/articleshow/81298484.cms||Richa Pinto
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Tour packages for Dudhwa park in pipeline||Lucknow: The tourism department along with the UP Forest Corporation will operate tour packages for eco-tourists from Lucknow to Dudhwa, Lakhimpur Kheri soon. The move would benefit those who want to go for tiger and wildlife sightings to Dudhwa National Park but have no clue which route to take, how long will the journey be or will it be safe to hire a taxi. Though the launch date is yet to be finalised it is almost certain that the first tourist group would be flagged off by forest minister Dara Singh Chauhan. Giving this information to TOI, Ajay Kumar, MD, UPFC, said, "It's a compact tour which has everything. Four packages would be available at varying prices for tourists.” Tour operators empanelled with the tourism department will offer the taxi services. People will log in on the ecotourism website, book the tour and make the payment. They will not have to pay anything during the entire tour after this. The confirmation message will be delivered to their mobile number. General manager, UPFC, Eva Sharma, said, "There will also be an emergency contact number in case the need be." Taxis will pick up tourists from his doorstep. In case the tourist lives outside the municipal limits of the city, he might be charged extra for extra kilometres. People can either hire Innova or Swift DZire, the two models of vehicles which will be operating under the package. The one-night-two-day package along with taxi service will also include room rent, lunch, dinner, jungle safari (next morning), tea or coffee, fruit and sanitiser. Similarly, two-night-three-day package will include an extra jungle safari in the evening along with other facilities. The tour will begin between 8am and 9am in the morning. The return tour will start at 11am. Packed lunch and mineral water bottles will be given to tourists while on the way from both the sides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tour-packages-for-dudhwa-park-in-pipeline/articleshow/81301504.cms||Neha Shukla
March 3, 2021||Bareilly||Three minor girls go missing in Shahjahanpur found holidaying in Rishikesh||Bareilly: Three minor schoolgirls — close friends and students of the same school — had gone missing after they left their homes for the school in Shahjahanpur city on Monday. The girls were, however, found holidaying in Uttarakhand's Rishikesh on Tuesday.the incident took place a week after four schoolgirls had gone missing in Lakhimpur Kheri district and later they were found holidaying at a resort in Uttarakhand. The parents of the girls — one of them is of 10 years and others 15 — approached Sadar Bazar police station on Monday night after the girls didn’t return home. Taking serious cognisance of the matter, Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand deployed multiple teams to trace the missing girls and nearly all CCTV cameras were scanned for a clue about them. None of the girls, who had left with some money and clothes, were carrying a mobile phone with them, said police. According to police, the principal said the girls — who live in the same locality — did not come to school as it was closed on Monday. Police said the girls had planned to go for a holiday together as their parents had never allowed them to go on a picnic or a holiday. The SSP told TOI, “It was a blind case as the girls were not even carrying a mobile phone. We had only one clue and that was a chat on February 20 where they had decided to go for a holiday in Rishikesh. We sent a team to Rishikesh and they searched every hotel and found the girls. The girls said that they were unhappy with the restrictions imposed on them by their parents and that was the reason why they took the step. We are bringing them back home now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-minor-girls-go-missing-in-shahjahanpur-found-holidaying-in-rishikesh/articleshow/81297618.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Part of road caves in near Kasturchand Park||Nagpur: A portion of a busy road in front of military canteen near Kasturchand Park, which connects west Nagpur with east, caved in, creating a hole that can swallow a car. The site, which houses military canteen, offices of the forest department and BSNL, is just a few metres away from the construction site of the Y-shaped flyover being constructed by MahaMetro. As the road is alongside the Kasturchand Park, the hole is not only putting thousands of vehicles plying on it in danger but also posing threat to hundreds of children coming here to play. TOI brought this to the notice of municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and NMC’s superintending engineer (SE) Manoj Talewar. Talewar said a thorough investigation will be conducted. “First we need to find out the reason for the road caving-in by broadening its mouth,” he said and added that engineers from Mangalwari zone have been given the task to inquire into the issue. On Tuesday even, the Mangalwari team informed the Talewar that they could not carry out inspection of the site as a car was found parked over the hole. The SE said barricades will be placed around the pit and the site will be dug out on Wednesday to ascertain the exact cause of the cave-in. “If the NMC did not act swiftly, a major accident is certain,” said Ritesh Taksande, who was the first person to spot the hole. He said the city is witnessing rapid infrastructure development with flyovers and metro train. This questions the quality of works being executed in the city, he said and urged the need to ensure quality works for the safety of citizens and commuters. Sources said a sewerage pipeline has been overflowing for the last many years near the spot. This might have resulted in the layer of soil below the road become soft, causing the cave-in.  This is not the first such case in the city. In the past too, many roads, including the busy Alankar Square too had caved-in. Similarly, the damage to the British-era trunk line of sewerage line between Maskasath Chowk to Raut Chowk. In 2020, TOI had reported that this busy road had started to cave in at four places, making it a potential death trap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/part-of-road-caves-in-near-kasturchand-park/articleshow/81299959.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Taxpayers to pay Rs3.50cr to hire taxis for netas, NMC babus||Nagpur: At a time Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is facing severe financial crisis, the civic administration is set to spend Rs3.50 crore to hire 89 private taxis for elected representatives and officials. The standing committee approved NMC general administration department’s proposal to this effect on Tuesday. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke told TOI the work tenure of private taxis being provided by existing operator will expire this month. “But due to Covid-19 the GAD could not initiate a fresh tender process, so it submitted a proposal for extension of one year,” he explained. Zalke said the extension has been given on the condition of not revising the charges. “The firm will have to provide taxis at old rates approved by the committee,” he said. Among those who will get the four-wheelers include zonal chairpersons, assistant municipal commissioners and heads of various departments. Sources, however, pointed out that the GAD has allotted private taxis to various department heads and offices, which actually do not require four-wheelers. Citing examples, sources said NMC is providing private taxis to assistant commissioners of all zones, executive engineers of 10 zones, estate officers and also to water works delegates. Senior corporator Abha Pande recently objected to this wastage of taxpayers’ money. “Citing crisis of funds, on one hand the BJP-ruled NMC could not carry out development works and on the other there is no check on wasteful expenditure,” she said. The standing committee also approved a proposal of public health engineering department for beautification work of Sonegaon lake. The previous state government led by Devendra Fadnavis had sanctioned funds for the project. NMC had received Rs3 crore, which it used to desilt the lake. Now, it has received second instalment of Rs17.32 crore. The public health engineering department has invited bids for the beautification work and submitted a proposal to the standing committee to finalize the work order to M/s SS Patil and Company, which has bid for the work at 16.30% below the tender amount. The panel gave its nod, said Zalke, adding this fund will be utilized for beautification of the lake and its surrounding area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/taxpayers-to-pay-rs3-50cr-to-hire-taxis-for-netas-nmc-babus/articleshow/81299964.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 3, 2021||Patna||Rs 5.85 lakh looted from Begusarai UCO Bank||PATNA: At least half a dozen heavily armed unidentified criminals looted Rs 5.85 lakh from the UCO Bank branch at Akopur village under Cheria Bariyarpur police station area in Begusarai on Tuesday. "Cashier Nishant Kumar received severe head injuries as he was thrashed by robbers during the loot," police said. The loot amount could have been much more as Rs 1 crore was scheduled to be brought at the branch from the bank’s main branch in Begusarai. The incident took place between 12noon to 12.15 pm when there were at least 25 customers inside the branch. Branch manager Mohammad Parvez told TOI over the phone that the team bringing Rs 1 crore to the bank was stopped midway soon after the looters fled. He said altogether Rs 5,85,125 was looted. “There is no dedicated security guard for the branch. It is the patrolling team of the nearest police station which visits the branch each day around 1 pm,” he said. Parvez said there were three officers, one sub-staff and at least 25 to 30 customers inside the branch when four criminals had barged inside the bank premises. “They hit Nishant hard on the head with a pistol butt which resulted in severe bleeding. They had asked him to give up all cash but in nervousness, he was unable to follow instructions which annoyed the criminals further,” he said. The manager said everyone inside the premises was taken hostage at gunpoint and the criminals forced the bank employees to open the iron vault. “They collected all the money from the vault as well as from the cash counter and fled,” Parvez said. Cheria Bariyarpur police station SHO Ravishankar Prasad said police were going through the CCTV footage of the branch to identify the criminals. “Raids are on to nab them,” he added. A villager, Lalit Bharti, told this newspaper that six criminals on three bikes were spotted reaching the spot. “They knew the branch’s layout. They went directly towards the cashier,” he said. Bharti said the criminals were inside the branch for more than 10 minutes and fled easily without any resistance. “They didn’t even care to lock anyone inside or take away cellphones,” he added. Bharti said the criminals, after leaving the branch turned towards a village road leading to Rampur Ghat bridge over Burhi Gandak. “That road leads to different areas including towards Samastipur. The criminals might have escaped out of the district,” he said. Cellphone showroom staff shot at, Rs 7 lakh looted Two armed bikers shot at a cellphone showroom staff Sunil Kumar Thakur (28) and looted around Rs 7 lakh from him near the busy Meera Talkies Road under Sadar police station area of Saharsa on Tuesday. Sadar SDPO Santosh Kumar said Thakur was going on his bike to deposit the money in a bank when he was waylaid around 1 pm. “Two bike-borne criminals intercepted him and tried to loot the bag containing money. After he resisted, one of the criminals pulled out a pistol fired,” Kumar said, adding, Thakur received a bullet injury in one of his legs after which the criminals snatched the bag with money and fled. SDPO said the injured person was taken to a hospital where his condition is said to be stable. He said police are scanning the CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs5-85l-looted-from-begusarai-uco-bank/articleshow/81299962.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||UP reaping benefits of Blue Revolution||Lucknow: In 2019-20, UP saw fish production touch 6.9 lakh tonnes, a record claimed by the state government. Calling it a result of the ‘Blue Revolution’ initiated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, a government spokesperson said that this year, a provision of Rs 300 crore has been made in the state budget for fish seed production and distribution. To promote in land fisheries, the government will also be leasing the ponds with an area of around 3,000 hectare, owned by the gram panchayats, for 10 years. “Youth have shown keen interest in this scheme and have registered to be part of the‘Blue Revolution’. This is creating employment opportunities and will also result in better resource management as young people are more inclined to adopt new technologies and techniques,” the spokesperson said. He added that most of the fish consumed in UP comes from Andhra Pradesh and therefore, there was immense scope of local production in this sector. He said that last year, UP was selected as the best state of north India for successful operation of fish farming schemes and production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-reaping-benefits-of-blue-revolution/articleshow/81301520.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||---||TMC hits back, points to Hathras||KOLKATA: Yogi Adityanath’s campaign in Bengal — on a day news reports of a sexual assault survivor’s father being gunned down in Hathras surfaced — came in for sharp criticism from TMC, which “advised” him to ensure law and order in his state before schooling Bengal. Celebrities too spoke out against what they said was a bid to “communalise” the discourse. State women, child development and social welfare minister Sashi Panja said, “The UP CM is campaigning in Bengal while the safety of women is severely compromised in his own state. BJP has time and again failed the women of India and this Hathras incident is yet another example.” Lok Sabha MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and Mahua Moitra were equally critical. “The people of UP are suffering as law and order is in shackles, yet Yogi Adityanath is in Bengal?” Ghosh Dastidar said. Moitra dubbed UP the “rape capital of India”. Celebrities too spoke out against the rising communal narrative. Actor-director Kaushik Sen said, “The rise of the likes of Abbas Siddiqui and Adityanath in the electoral narrative is alarming. I don’t know this Bengal.” Music composer Debojyoti Mishra said, “Adityanath’s narrative is dangerous for the whole of India. He is playing with fire. His current target is Bengal. Irrespective of caste, religion, creed, we must unanimously protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/tmc-hits-back-points-to-hathras/articleshow/81302600.cms||---
March 3, 2021||India||TMC hits back, points to Hathras||KOLKATA: Yogi Adityanath’s campaign in Bengal — on a day news reports of a sexual assault survivor’s father being gunned down in Hathras surfaced — came in for sharp criticism from TMC, which “advised” him to ensure law and order in his state before schooling Bengal. Celebrities too spoke out against what they said was a bid to “communalise” the discourse. State women, child development and social welfare minister Sashi Panja said, “The UP CM is campaigning in Bengal while the safety of women is severely compromised in his own state. BJP has time and again failed the women of India and this Hathras incident is yet another example.” Lok Sabha MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and Mahua Moitra were equally critical. “The people of UP are suffering as law and order is in shackles, yet Yogi Adityanath is in Bengal?” Ghosh Dastidar said. Moitra dubbed UP the “rape capital of India”. Celebrities too spoke out against the rising communal narrative. Actor-director Kaushik Sen said, “The rise of the likes of Abbas Siddiqui and Adityanath in the electoral narrative is alarming. I don’t know this Bengal.” Music composer Debojyoti Mishra said, “Adityanath’s narrative is dangerous for the whole of India. He is playing with fire. His current target is Bengal. Irrespective of caste, religion, creed, we must unanimously protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-hits-back-points-to-hathras/articleshow/81302602.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Thane||Covid-19: Maharashtra cases, fatalities rise; 2 deaths in Mumbai, a 10-month low||MUMBAI: Both Covid-19 cases and deaths rose in the state on Tuesday but the city reported a dip in both figures. In fact, Mumbai recorded only two deaths, its lowest in a 24-hour period since April 2020. The city’s daily caseload fell to 849, sliding over the last few days from the high of almost 1,200 cases on a couple of days last week, said the BMC update. The death toll in the city is now 11,481 and the caseload 3,27,621. Maharashtra reported 7,863 cases and 54 fatalities, taking the total cases in the state to 21,69,330 and the toll to 52,238. The BMC will keep a close watch on cases in the city for another fortnight, said additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. “We cannot lower our guard at the moment,” he said. Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri, which has emerged as the Covid hub in the city, has over 1,000 admitted patients now. About a month back, inpatients had dropped to around 500, he warned. In KEM Hospital in Parel, where only critically-ill patients are admitted, there are 22 patients. “We saw a slight increase in critical patients last week,” said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. On Monday, KEM tested 332 samples using RT-PCR test and another 72 using the rapid antigen test. “We got only nine positive in the RT-PCR tests and two in the antigen category,” he added. At the state level, Akola circle, which consists of districts like Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal, reported the highest cases (1,746) and deaths (11) on Tuesday. Mumbai circle added 1,649 cases and eight deaths. The Panvel civic body in Navi Mumbai has decided to restart a Covid Care Centre (CCC) at IndiaBulls, located on the outskirts of Panvel, after a steady spike in cases. There are 550 active cases presently, of which over 400 are home-quarantined. “We have started preparations to set up the required medical facilities at IndiaBulls for institutional quarantine. We can accommodate over 1,200 people there and we can resume operation at any given time, if needed. The situation is under control in the city,” said PCMC deputy commissioner Sanjay Shinde. In Thane, 178 fresh patients were registered even as two deaths were added to the toll, which rose to 1,333.The Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 158 new patients and one death on Tuesday, taking the tally to 63,480 and toll to 1,204.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/state-cases-fatalities-rise-2-deaths-in-city-a-10-mth-low/articleshow/81303199.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||No power connection to be cut until House discusses it: Maharashtra deputy CM||MUMBAI: Facing protests from the Opposition BJP over high power bills and the state’s drive to recover electricity dues, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar assured the state legislative assembly on Tuesday that there would be no disconnection of power for both domestic and agricultural consumers until the state assembly held a discussion on the issue. Earlier, the BJP held demonstrations outside the state assembly against the drive and high power bills. Speaking in the assembly, leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, “There is a lot of anger against the huge power bills. Some have received bills of Rs 80 crore. The disconnection drive is on even though people have suffered because of the lockdown and floods in the state. Small shopkeepers have not been able to reopen due to massive dues.” He added, “The energy minister says there will be reductions but, instead, the power rates have gone up.” After Pawar’s announcement, he demanded that the government restore connections of those whose power had been cut off. Across Maharashtra, the electricity bill arrears had mounted to Rs 48,500 crore of which Rs 242 crore was pending in Mumbai metropolitan region, sources said. Nearly 2 lakh consumers in the metro region had not paid monthly bills of Rs 242 crore in the past ten months, they added. According to state energy minister Nitin Raut, 3.42 lakh farmers in Maharashtra have paid pending electricity bill arrears to the tune of Rs 312 crore in the past four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-power-connection-to-be-cut-until-house-discusses-it-dy-cm/articleshow/81301545.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Arrested Rohingya brothers got funds from Pak, Bangladesh and Myanmar||Lucknow: Scanning the bank details of the arrested Rohingyas, investigators have found the duo got funds transferred to their accounts from neighbouring countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar. During initial questioning, Farrukh alias Hasan Ahmad and Sahil failed to provide any convincing evidence behind transfer of such big amount into their bank accounts. “We will be able to give more information after we take them in remand. We also have an evidence of them taking a hefty amount from people they brought from Myanmar and got them jobs in meat shops,” said IG, ATS, GK Goswami. Goswami said, an ATS team also raided the meat shop where Sahil used to work to get details of some other Rohingyas residing on illegal documents and are involved in human trafficking. He clarified that UPATS has no vendetta against Rohingyas, rather the agency is against those who dupe and illegally bring innocent Rohingyas from Myanmar to India and engage them in labour to make money. “We are against contractors and people like Farrukh and Sahil who are involved in human trafficking,” added the ATS chief. On Monday, Farrukh and Sahil were arrested with forged documents like Indian passport, Aadhaar card and PAN card. During questioning by officials of Uttar Pradesh anti-terrorist squad (UPATS), the two confessed to having invited fellow Rohingyas from Myanmar on the pretext of getting them jobs in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/arrested-rohingya-brothers-got-funds-from-pak-bangladesh-and-myanmar/articleshow/81301542.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 3, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra cases, fatalities rise; 2 deaths in Mumbai, a 10-month low||MUMBAI: Both Covid-19 cases and deaths rose in the state on Tuesday but the city reported a dip in both figures. In fact, Mumbai recorded only two deaths, its lowest in a 24-hour period since April 2020. The city’s daily caseload fell to 849, sliding over the last few days from the high of almost 1,200 cases on a couple of days last week, said the BMC update. The death toll in the city is now 11,481 and the caseload 3,27,621. Maharashtra reported 7,863 cases and 54 fatalities, taking the total cases in the state to 21,69,330 and the toll to 52,238. The BMC will keep a close watch on cases in the city for another fortnight, said additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. “We cannot lower our guard at the moment,” he said. Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri, which has emerged as the Covid hub in the city, has over 1,000 admitted patients now. About a month back, inpatients had dropped to around 500, he warned. In KEM Hospital in Parel, where only critically-ill patients are admitted, there are 22 patients. “We saw a slight increase in critical patients last week,” said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. On Monday, KEM tested 332 samples using RT-PCR test and another 72 using the rapid antigen test. “We got only nine positive in the RT-PCR tests and two in the antigen category,” he added. At the state level, Akola circle, which consists of districts like Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal, reported the highest cases (1,746) and deaths (11) on Tuesday. Mumbai circle added 1,649 cases and eight deaths. The Panvel civic body in Navi Mumbai has decided to restart a Covid Care Centre (CCC) at IndiaBulls, located on the outskirts of Panvel, after a steady spike in cases. There are 550 active cases presently, of which over 400 are home-quarantined. “We have started preparations to set up the required medical facilities at IndiaBulls for institutional quarantine. We can accommodate over 1,200 people there and we can resume operation at any given time, if needed. The situation is under control in the city,” said PCMC deputy commissioner Sanjay Shinde. In Thane, 178 fresh patients were registered even as two deaths were added to the toll, which rose to 1,333.The Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 158 new patients and one death on Tuesday, taking the tally to 63,480 and toll to 1,204.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/state-cases-fatalities-rise-2-deaths-in-city-a-10-mth-low/articleshow/81303200.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra cases, fatalities rise; 2 deaths in Mumbai, a 10-month low||MUMBAI: Both Covid-19 cases and deaths rose in the state on Tuesday but the city reported a dip in both figures. In fact, Mumbai recorded only two deaths, its lowest in a 24-hour period since April 2020. The city’s daily caseload fell to 849, sliding over the last few days from the high of almost 1,200 cases on a couple of days last week, said the BMC update. The death toll in the city is now 11,481 and the caseload 3,27,621. Maharashtra reported 7,863 cases and 54 fatalities, taking the total cases in the state to 21,69,330 and the toll to 52,238. The BMC will keep a close watch on cases in the city for another fortnight, said additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. “We cannot lower our guard at the moment,” he said. Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri, which has emerged as the Covid hub in the city, has over 1,000 admitted patients now. About a month back, inpatients had dropped to around 500, he warned. In KEM Hospital in Parel, where only critically-ill patients are admitted, there are 22 patients. “We saw a slight increase in critical patients last week,” said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. On Monday, KEM tested 332 samples using RT-PCR test and another 72 using the rapid antigen test. “We got only nine positive in the RT-PCR tests and two in the antigen category,” he added. At the state level, Akola circle, which consists of districts like Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal, reported the highest cases (1,746) and deaths (11) on Tuesday. Mumbai circle added 1,649 cases and eight deaths. The Panvel civic body in Navi Mumbai has decided to restart a Covid Care Centre (CCC) at IndiaBulls, located on the outskirts of Panvel, after a steady spike in cases. There are 550 active cases presently, of which over 400 are home-quarantined. “We have started preparations to set up the required medical facilities at IndiaBulls for institutional quarantine. We can accommodate over 1,200 people there and we can resume operation at any given time, if needed. The situation is under control in the city,” said PCMC deputy commissioner Sanjay Shinde. In Thane, 178 fresh patients were registered even as two deaths were added to the toll, which rose to 1,333.The Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 158 new patients and one death on Tuesday, taking the tally to 63,480 and toll to 1,204.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-cases-fatalities-rise-2-deaths-in-city-a-10-mth-low/articleshow/81299993.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur Municipal Corporation to build double-decker elevated storage reservoirs||NAGPUR: To overcome opposition from citizens to construction of overhead water tanks in their areas, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will be constructing double-decker elevated storage reservoirs (ESRs). The idea is to take up less space as compared to that required for constructing two ESRs in the same area. The first such ESR, a brainchild of water works committee chairman Vijay Zalke, will come up in Chakrapani Nagar in east Nagpur. In this project, an ESR will be constructed atop another. Addressing media on Thursday, Zalke said citizens want water but they are opposed to construction of ESRs in their localities. “As a result, the civic body has come up with first-of-its-kind proposal of constructing a double-decker ESRs having 2.2 MLD capacity each,” he said. Through the Amrut scheme, the NMC will spend around Rs10 crore to construct the double-decker ESRs within one and a half year. “The overhead tank will help in strengthening water supply to Prabhag number 34 of east Nagpur covering almost 3km radius,” he said. After serving as water works committee chairman for three years, Zalke will hand over the charge to BJP corporator Sandip Gavai early next month. Zalke said during his tenure he emphasized on increasing the number of ESRs. Three new ESRs — Chandrabhaga Nagar, Bharatmata Nagar and Sambhaji Nagar — having capacity of 2.27 MLD were charged and construction of another two — Gorewada ground storage reservoir (3 MLD) for Mangalwari zone and Babulban ESR (2.27 MLD) for Lakadganj zone — has been completed. These two will be charged in March, he said. “In 2018, the city had 10 command areas, which today have increased to 23,” he said. According to him, the NMC has also reduced non-revenue water by almost 8 MLD per day. He added that volume of water supplied in 2018 was 665 MLD and now in 2021 it is 657 MLD. Zalke said his decisions helped NMC plug age-old leakages in Navegaon-Khairi raw water pipeline and plug wastage of 7 MLD water every day. He was also instrumental in installing seven big flow meters and 54 small flow meters to monitor the quantum of water supply to the city. According to Zalke, his work included no water to water conversion in 270 areas, alternate day water supply to regular water to 132 areas, 24X7 water supply in 25 command areas and resolving problem of contaminated water supply of 128 areas. “I also accelerated the work of laying pipelines and increasing household connections. In three years, around 90.24km of new pipelines were laid and 78,113 household connections were given,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-build-double-decker-esr-in-east-nagpur/articleshow/81299972.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 3, 2021||Chandigarh||HC rejects MBA degree holder’s plea against Rs 10k monthly maintenance to estranged wife||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has turned down the plea of a person possessing MBA degree that he is unable to give Rs 10,000 monthly maintenance to his estranged wife. The husband’s main plea was that he had lost his job due to Covid-19 and was not in a position to maintain his wife at present. “The respondent (wife) is stated to have qualified 10+2. There is no material which would indicate that she is employed. The petitioner is an MBA and, therefore, the maintenance of Rs 10,000 per month for the respondent-wife cannot be held to be excessive,” Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal observed while dismissing an appeal filed by a Gurgaon resident against the lower court’s orders. The petitioner had challenged the order dated December 18, 2019, passed by the family court, whereby he was directed to pay a sum of Rs 10, 000 per month as maintenance to the respondent-wife. His counsel contended that the petitioner has lost his job during the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic and is now doing labour work. At present, his income is Rs 9,500 per month. He had further submitted that his client’s wife is working in a beauty parlour and earning Rs 15,000 per month. After examining the record of the case, the HC observed that the petitioner, in his petition filed under Section 12 of the Hindu Marriage Act, has stated that he has an MBA degree and is pursuing course of chartered accountant. “The other details as mentioned in the affidavit appear to be dubious as he has disclosed his income as Rs 9,500 and the rent he is paying is Rs 4,000 per month. He has not disclosed whether he owns any vehicle. In the column against the household expenditure including expenses on food, grocery and various other items he has written ‘No’ meaning thereby, he is not incurring any expenses on his food and daily items,” observed the HC while dismissing his plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-rejects-mba-degree-holders-plea-against-rs-10k-monthly-maintenance-to-estranged-wife/articleshow/81299978.cms||Ajay Sura
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Residents of Yapral colony still bear brunt of Oct deluge||Secunderabad: The condition of the people living in Prakruthik Vihar, Yapral has gone from bad to worse, as the colony is yet to recover from the heavy rains that lashed the city last year. Since the October floods, pumping out drain water has become a daily activity here. With the water entering into the septic tank, the situation has turned pathetic. Locals said that more than 40 families were adversely affected due to the rain fury last October. “Valuables including furniture and electronics are frequently damaged as water gushes into our homes during a downpour. If we don’t pump out water everyday, our homes will be inundated,” said P Radhika, a resident of Prakruthik Vihar. Another resident said that due to water-logged streets, the bylanes have become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. “We fear vector-borne diseases due to stagnant water. We are forced to keep our windows closed. I request the authorities to fix these issues before the monsoon,” said Monica Gossain. As the outlet of the Yapral lake was closed, water is overflowing through the storm water drains and gushing into bylanes before entering the houses. The lake outlet which was running through a private property has been closed by the owner after officials did not lay additional drains to provide relief. According to officials, the issue will be fixed under strategic nala development programme (SNDP). “As part of SNDP, we have already identified critical points and some repair works were also taken up in parts of Secunderabad zone. The issue will be fixed under SNDP,” said Srinivas Reddy, GHMC zonal commissioner, Secunderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-of-yapral-colony-still-bear-brunt-of-oct-deluge/articleshow/81299985.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Danapur Express bogies separated from engine||Station Ghanpur: Passengers of the Secunderabad-bound Danapur Express on Tuesday narrowly escaped a major accident after the bogies of the train got separated from the engine. The incident took place near the railway gate of Station Ghanpur railway station. Noticing that the bogies were detached from the engine, the gatemen alerted the driver in the engine cabin. Speaking to TOI, senior railway officer Venkateshwarlu said that if there is a problem between the bogies and engine the guard and driver reach the destination and fix it immediately. “In this case, the gatemen noticed the problem and informed the driver after the train had moved a few metres, following which the driver immediately stopped the train. The train departed from the station 30 minutes later, after the repair work,” he said.  The engine-less bogies travelled about 500m from the platform to the railway gate. There was some panic among passengers once they came to know of the incident, but they had a narrow escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/danapur-express-bogies-separated-from-engine/articleshow/81299976.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana worker’s body arrives after 4 months from Saudi||HYDERABAD: It took four months for the body of a Nizamabad worker, who died in Saudi Arabia, to be sent back home. The body of Vontari Narsa Reddy, which arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, was taken to his native Sirnapally village in Indalwai mandal where the last rites were performed on Sunday. Telangana Jagruthi Saudi Arabia president Moazzam Ali Iftekar said the matter was pursued with the Indian embassy in Saudi Arabia after a report was published in TOI on February 9 about the agony of the family which had been waiting for the body to be sent back. “We have completed the formalities that were required from our side for repatriation of the body,” the employers told Ifetkar in a phone conversation a few days ago. The Indian embassy in Saudi Arabia made arrangements to send the body to Hyderabad. Narsa Reddy was working in Saudi Arabia for the last seven years. From the information that was made available to him, Iftekar said Narsa Reddy died in a mishap. A municipal vehicle which was being driven by a Pakistani national working for the municipality accidentally ran over Narsa Reddy. Vontaru Laxmi, wife of Narsa Reddy, had approached the high court with the assistance of Pravasi Mithra Labour Union (PMLU) urging that the court intervene and help bring her husband’s body home. A writ was filed on her behalf by human rights activist P Shashi Kiran on February 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-workers-body-arrives-after-4-months-from-saudi/articleshow/81300013.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Chamkaur Sahib villagers oppose sale of panchayati land to private industry||Patiala: Some residents of Dhaulran village of Chamkaur Sahib in Ropar district have been opposing the sale of panchayati land for setting up a private industry. They have been protesting under banner of ‘Stop giving land to corporate houses’ and held a meeting of villagers on Tuesday to oppose the setting up of a paper mill in the village. Over 23 acres of panchayati land has been sold by the village panchayat under alleged political pressure of a minister. The villagers claimed that auction of land was done on February 26 but they have not been able to gather any confirmed any information about it. They said the land was sold to a private industrialist for setting up of a paper mill despite it being extremely fertile. They claimed that 50% of the population in the village is of the Dalit community, which tills around one-third of the village panchayati land. Sukhwinder Singh Sukha, a Dhaulran resident, said, “The village has above 100 acres of panchayati land, of which 23.5 acres has now been sold by the panchayat for Rs 6.18 crores. Besides, the villagers have sold 117 acres of land to a private industrialist in the past over one year. The entire village is opposing the move after it came to know that a paper mill will be set up here. The Sirhind canal crosses from the edge of our village where the paper mill is coming up. The water body will be polluted and it (industry pollution) will have an adverse health affect on all of us. That is why thus we are opposing it” Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said, “The panchayati land was auctioned and purchased in legal process. An advertisement for the auction of land was issued in three different language newspapers and the entire panchayat present during the auction process. No objections were raised then, but now some villagers are opposing and citing fear of pollution as reason for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chamkaur-sahib-villagers-oppose-sale-of-panchayati-land-to-private-industry/articleshow/81300009.cms||Bharat Khanna
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Farmer killed by relatives in Telangana's Vikarabad||HYDERABAD: A 48-year-old farmer was murdered allegedly by his relatives due to personal grudge at Metlakunta village in Vikarabad district. The victim, K Chandraiah, went missing after leaving home on Sunday night to irrigate his agricultural fields. “Chandraiah went to the fields and did not return home. After failing to locate him, the family lodged a complaint with us,” Kodangal Inspector Appaiah said. On Monday evening, villagers found the head of Chandraiah in an agricultural well at Mentlakunta and his torso in the bushes near the village lake. Based on the complaint lodged by the family members of Chandraiah, police picked up his relative, Mallaiah. “Chandraiah and Mallaiah are relatives. Recently, Mallaiah’s daughter fell in love with a man whom her family did not approve of. She married the man against her family’s will and Mallaiah suspected that Chandraiah supported her,” police said. Police suspect Mallaiah along with his associates migh have killed Chandraiah in the early hours of Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-killed-by-relatives-in-vikarabad/articleshow/81299990.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur District Consumer Forum slaps Rs12.30 Lakh fine on nursing home for not diagnosing abnormal foetus||NAGPUR: The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission slapped Rs12.30 lakh cost on a nursing home in a complaint filed by a couple, alleging wrong diagnosis of foetus while performing sonography, which led to delivery of abnormal child having short stature and weak immunity. The forum led by president Sanjay Patil, and members Chandrika Bais and Subhash Ajane agreed with the couple’s contentions that there was deficiency of services and neglect by the doctor couple running Suyash Nursing Home, near Abhyankar Nagar petrol pump. While partly allowing the complaint filed by Umesh and Shital Panbude, residents of Swawalambi Nagar, the judges directed the doctor couple to pay Rs12 lakh towards mental and physical harassment and Rs30,000 for the litigation cost. They were warned that if they failed to handover the amount within a month, they would have to pay a penalty of Rs300 per day. The Panbude couple said they had regularly conducted sonography and other tests during pregnancy as suggested by Suyash Nursing Home doctors from July 2010 to January 2011. They were assured that all tests and reports were normal and there was nothing to worry. The wife delivered a baby on January 14, 2011, after a caesarean surgery and was discharged four days later. She was again told that the baby was normal and there wasn’t any deformity in his body structure. Although she noticed that the boy's head was bigger than his body, the hospital staff failed to report it on the discharge card. On November 12, 2011, the kid was admitted to another hospital after his condition deteriorated, where it came to fore that he suffers from a host of problems like skeletal dysplasia, short stature, hypotonic/delayed motor development, acute respiratory distress and congenital dislocation of hip. The complainants even took the baby to Mumbai for a hip joint surgery that will cost Rs4 lakh. According to the couple, if the doctor couple had pointed out congenital abnormalities in their baby after sonography and other tests, they would have taken a call at that time to abort it. Now, they need to carry his burden throughout their life. After they moved the consumer court seeking Rs19 lakh compensation against nursing home doctors, the latter defended their treatment and rejected all allegations. They contended that such deformities in the foetus can’t be detected from the sonography reports. They pointed out that there was no history of any congenital deformity or chromosomal history in Panbude family’s history. The judges observed that the complainant woman had detected anomalies in the foetus when she was pregnant earlier and had aborted it. “Therefore, the doctors failed to take reasonable and sufficient care of her. Instead, they offered lame excuses for their failures. The woman was having a high risk pregnancy and doctors failed to provide proper guidance to her and didn’t properly read sonography reports,” the judges held. WHAT FORUM SAID * Deficiency in services & neglect by doctor couple * Told to pay Rs12 lakh harassment & Rs30,000 for litigation cost * Doctors failed to take reasonable & sufficient care of pregnant woman * Doctors didn’t provide proper guidance to her & offered lame excuses * Lady had high risk pregnancy, but was neglected||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/consumer-forum-slaps-rs12-30-l-fine-on-nursing-home-for-not-diagnosing-abnormal-foetus/articleshow/81299986.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Charity wrapped in secrecy keeps Rajnath ‘content’||Lucknow: It was not until defence minister Rajnath Singh arrived in Ghazipur to attend the wedding of Dr Brijendra Singh that people came to know he had adopted him around 20 years ago, and had borne all expenses on his education, revealing a new facet of his life. On probing, Rajnath disclosed he had adopted Brijendra, a bright Dalit boy who had lost his father, and one more child from an extremely poor family, when he was chief minister and has been supporting them financially all through these years. Rajnath kept his benevolence a secret for over two decades and said it was for his own satisfaction as he believes in ‘swaantah sukhaye’. Brijendra, who hailed from a very poor family, went on to study medicine and is now posted as a medical officer in a government hospital. Very few people know Rajnath sends his workers, sometimes even his wife Savitri Singh, sons Pankaj and Neeraj to AIIMS to know about the well-being of patients from Uttar Pradesh, especially from Lucknow and Chandauli, his native place. He facilitates their admission, treatment and helps them financially if required. Only his close team knows about the help he extends to people. A first-time MLC, who has come from Delhi, told ToI that while serving in the PMO, he once visited AIIMS to meet a patient when the director told him that Rajnath takes care of all patients from UP. “If Rajnath’s team comes to know that a patient does not have sufficient funds, the minister extends financial help too,” he said. The defence minister is known to assist even political rivals. Recently, when there were some protocol issues during Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s visit to Prayagraj for meeting Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopananand at Mankameshwar mandir in Cantonment, Congress MP Pramod Tewari called up Rajnath for passage of her cavalcade. “Rajnath ji intervened and allowed Priyanka’s cavalcade through the Cantonment area,” Tewari told TOI. Rajnath also played an anchor role in initiating a direct flight from Lucknow to Najaf, a holy city for Shias and shared good relations with Muslim scholar Maulana Kalbe Sadiq who was posthumously conferred the Padma Bhushan this year. Most recently, Rajnath has taken up the matter Scooters India Limited after newspaper reports of its employees seeking permission for euthanasia. He is holding talks to open a production unit and adjusting the employees in it. “The Scooters India Limited closure issue is in his knowledge. He will do something for the staff,” said Diwakar Tripathi, Rajnath’s representative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/charity-wrapped-in-secrecy-keeps-rajnath-content/articleshow/81301549.cms||Subhash Mishra
March 3, 2021||Pune||IMA: Issue certificates to comorbids for the jab||Pune: Office-bearers of national and state units of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have told their members to help citizens in the 45-plus age group with comorbidities and issue them certificates for uploading on the vaccination site at the earliest. “Those with comorbidities can reach out to any IMA member, who will keep forms ready so that they can certify them at the earliest,” said national IMA general secretary Dr Jayesh Lele. With the vaccination process on, citizens will be reaching out to doctors for the certificates. “On our end, we can facilitate by helping for quicker certification so that citizens can upload the forms and go in for vaccination,” added Lele People, aged above 45 years with comorbidities, will need to upload a medical certificate and give details of their condition. A citizen said that he had registered but was yet to upload the comorbidity certificate. “I know unless I upload the certificate, the appointment won’t be given. I will be approaching a doctor with my reports soon for the same,” he stated. A health official said that since it is a standard format, medical practitioners have been made aware about the form and citizens will have to upload the form certified by the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-issue-certificates-to-comorbids-for-the-jab/articleshow/81299989.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Lack of revenue takes a toll, south corporation may make entry points free||NEW DELHI: Unable to earn the expected revenue from tax collected from commercial vehicles entering the city from the 124 toll plazas in the city, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is exploring the option of making entry free. The issue was discussed in the standing committee meeting on Monday wherein the deliberative wing expressed unhappiness over the losses. “Toll tax is a major source of revenue for the three municipalities. If we are not getting anything, then what is the point of taking toll tax from the general public? Better we will make it free,” said SDMC leader of House Narendra Chawla. “Since the matter of revenue collection is in court, we have directed officials to submit our point of view in the next hearing,” said Chawla. In 2017, SDMC had signed an MoU for five years with the concessionaire for collecting toll tax and environmental compensation cess (ECC) for Rs 1,206 crore annually. However, the company started defaulting on payments in 2019. “The concessionaire argued that the opening of the eastern and western peripheral expressways had led to a decline in toll collection. It took the matter to Delhi High Court where it got relief. It was told to submit Rs 20 crore every week with the corporation. But even that amount was not paid, especially during the pandemic,” the proposal mentioned. A senior SDMC official said the company was currently paying Rs 1 crore per day. “To implement the standing committee’s proposal, we need the nod of the House. The other two corporations also have to pass the proposal. Then we will need to submit the argument in court. Moreover, since the company is collecting ECC too, we will need the Supreme Court’s approval,” he added. During the lockdown, there was a major drop in the number of vehicles entering Delhi. “The toll collection came down to Rs 2.5-3 lakh per day because entry was restricted, except for vehicles carrying essential goods, a majority of whom had toll-free entry,” said the SDMC official. Depending on the size and category, commercial vehicles have to pay ECC between Rs 700 and Rs 1,400 and toll between Rs 100 and Rs 2,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lack-of-revenue-takes-a-toll-south-corpn-may-make-entry-points-free/articleshow/81300077.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Mamata government failed to curb love jihad, cow slaughter in West Bengal: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday hit out at the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal for fueling anarchy, economic distress and unemployment in the state which once happened to be the centre of India’s freedom struggle and cultural ‘rashtravad’ (nationalism). Addressing ‘Parivartan Yatra’ rally in Malda district of poll-bound West Bengal, Yogi said lawlessness in the state was hurting the entire country which forced the BJP to reach the state and help the affected brethren to re-establish the identity of Bengal. Yogi said the TMC government under Mamata Banerjee did not implement Centre’s schemes due to its politics of appeasement. The chief minister also alleged that the TMC government was orchestrating cases of ‘love jihad’ in West Bengal through deception. Yogi alleged that TMC men were attacking people who chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’. He also claimed that the West Bengal government was giving silent nod to cow slaughter in the state. On depriving farmers of the benefit of schemes launched by the central government for their welfare, Yogi said the party which could not work for the well-being and safety of the poor, farmers and women, had no right to be in power even for a moment. Invoking stalwarts like Ramakrishna Paramhans, Rabindranath Tagore, Swami Vivekanand, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Subhas Chandra Bose and Jan Sangh founding member Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, Yogi said West Bengal was craving for change. Yogi said Bankim Chandra Chatterjee’s ‘Vande Matram’ aroused the national conscience during freedom struggle and added that Malda signified the ‘Sanatan’ culture and ‘Vaishnav’ tradition of India. “But look where Bengal is heading today…the state is infested with poverty, anarchy and state-sponsored terrorism,” Yogi said, stressing that the state was challenging the country’s security. He said TMC was hurting the sentiments of people by stopping them from performing Durga puja and giving its silent nod to cow slaughter during Eid. “Vote for BJP government in Bengal and incidents of cow slaughter will come to an end within 24 hours…the goondas of TMC will plead for their lives,” he said. “TMC men are attacking people who chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’. Mamata Didi should see what has been the fate of the political party which fired bullets at ‘Ram Bhakts’ (devotees of Lord Ram),” he said, adding that it was the turn of TMC government to meet the same fate. He also invoked Kothari brothers – Ram and Sharad –who were reportedly shot by the police in 1990 when they climbed atop the disputed structure in Ayodhya and unfurled a saffron flag. “Hundreds of such people from Bengal performed kar sewa…and their dream is being realised with the construction of Ram temple,” he said. Referring to the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), Yogi questioned as to why the state plunged into violence when the Centre framed a law to give shelter to minorities from Pakistan and Bangladesh. “The West Bengal government also got disturbed when the Centre took steps against intruders,” he said. “Thousands of people die in West Bengal due to Japanese Encephalitis but the TMC government is hiding it claiming the reason to be unknown. This was also done by previous governments in the state,” he alleged. Yogi maintained that his government in Uttar Pradesh was following the directions of the Centre for the implementation of Swachh Bharat Mission to eradicate JE. “In UP, 40 lakh people got houses under PM Awas Yojana, 6 crore people were covered under Ayushman scheme and 2.4 crore farmers got the benefit of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi,” he said. Describing the incident of that video in which the 85-year-old mother was allegedly beaten by miscreants, Yogi said her video and her situation brought tears into his eyes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mamata-govt-failed-to-curb-lovejihad-cow-slaughter-in-wb-yogi/articleshow/81301555.cms||Pankaj Shah
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||15-km road in Mussoorie would require felling of 800 trees, 400 of them Oaks||Dehradun: The government’s decision last week to approve the 15km Barlowgunj-Chamasari road through a forested area in Mussoorie has triggered protests among both residents and environmentalists, who believe building the road is not only unnecessary but will cause irreparable damage to the environment, including hindering water supply to Dehradun. The road had been proposed back in 2013 but was put on hold due to concerns raised by villagers and forest officials. According to sources in the forest department, the road will require felling of 800 full grown trees. Among these are 400 oak trees, considered to be next to glaciers for their water-retaining capacity. “The area where construction is proposed is the ‘catchment’ area of the Ganga river. The Virgin Oak forest here retains water and helps prevent drought conditions. If the trees here are felled, tributaries and fine capillaries that feed Ganga will be blocked, affecting water supply in the entire country,” said Himanshu Arora, secretary, Citizens for Green Doon, the NGO which took up the issue of deforestation for the Char Dham road and approached the SC with it. Notably, Chipko activists like Sunderlal Bahuguna and Chandi Prasad Bhatt have repeatedly pressed upon the significance of Oak trees in preventing water crisis. “Dehradun has lost 21,303 hectares of forest cover in just two decades, the highest among all districts of the state. If we keep going at this pace, what will we pass on to our next generation? They will be left without water or Oxygen,” Arora added. Uttarakhand has already lost around 50,000 hectares of forest land in the last 20 years. Even as authorities insisted the proposed road will be beneficial for residents of Chamasari, residents of Dehradun who visited the site said there is simply no need for it. “Chamasari is already connected to Doon’s Sahastradhara,” said Dr Reenu Paul, who had filed a petition in the HC against expansion of Doon airport at the cost of Thano forest, part of Shivalik Elephant Reserve. “Forest authorities claim the roads are being built to connect Khetwala and Semwala villages by road but when I went to the spot, there was already a road there. Considering the population of the area and scanty vehicle movement there, there seems to be no need to chop down Oak trees of a reserved forest area. Moreover, the road, if constructed, would badly disturb the Rispana river above Moosi Falls,” Paul said. “According to the book ‘Memoir of Dehradun’ by historian GRC Williams, Fateh Shah, the king of Garhwal from 1684 to 1716, had given three villages to Guru Ram Rai Darbar gurudwara. These were Khurbura, Rajpur and Chamasari and such villages, the revenue from which are used for upkeep of a shrine, are known as ‘maafi’ villages and are exempt from the Zamindari Abolition Act. Thus, ownership of these lands is a contested issue and often slips into hands of land mafia,” Paul said. Speaking to TOI, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Mussoorie Kahkashan Naseem said, “We have done a count and there are 800 trees, including oaks (that would need to be felled). However, stage one clearance is pending. The next step can be taken only after that,” said Kahkashan Naseem, DFO, Mussoorie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/15-km-road-in-mussoorie-would-require-felling-of-800-trees-400-of-them-oaks/articleshow/81298616.cms||Shivani Azad
March 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Kishor’s appointment next step of Capt’s assertion for 2022 assembly polls||Jalandhar: Poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s sudden appointment as principal adviser to the Punjab chief minister is being seen more as the next step of assertion by Capt Captain Amarinder Singh for next assembly elections in 2022 in the party circles. This comes after Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar launched the ‘Captain for 2022’ campaign. Kishor’s appointment at a token salary of Re 1 but with all the facilities associated with a cabinet rank minister has come at a time when he is still busy with West Bengal and Tamil Nadu elections, working for Trinamool Congress and DMK, respectively. As BJP has upped its game in West Bengal, the electoral battle there is being considered more crucial for BJP than in any other state. “It is anybody’s guess how he will be advising the Punjab CM till elections are over in Bengal and Tamil Nadu. A message has been conveyed that CM is the boss and will be the boss,” said a senior Congress leader. In Tamil Nadu, polling would be held on April 6 and in Bengal the last phase of polling is on April 29. In Punjab, on the other hand, there is talk of rehabilitation of Navjot Singh Sidhu who would be seen more as Rahul Gandhi and Priayanka Gandhi Vadra’s man. “Though his (Sidhu) going would not be easy even after rehabilitation, given Amarinder’s control on the government and the party in the state, Kishor’s presence would also act as a major balancer as his appointment is happening according to the CM’s wishes,” said another senior Congress leader. After Jakhar announced the ‘Captain for 2022’ campaign, Congress MLA Pargat Singh had said that it was the prerogative of party high command not only to announce a CM candidate but also the timing for such an announcement. No Congress minister or MLA had come out to defend the announcement of the campaign aimed at projecting Capt as the next CM face. Box ‘God save those who draw Re 1 salary’ Kishor’s appointment, though, has received more scorn than praise in the Punjabi netizen space as people took dig both at him and the CM. A common refrain among netizens is that in the 2017 elections Capt Amarinder had made several promises which remained unfulfilled. RTI and social activist Parvinder Singh Kitna took a dig at the Re 1 salary while posting on FB “God save from those who draw Rs one salary…Parkash Singh Badal and his ministers also drew Rs one salary during one tenure and (after that) Punjab has not been able to stand on its legs. We don’t know how much Prashant Kishor’s Rs one would cost to Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kishors-appointment-next-step-of-capts-assertion-for-2022-assembly-polls/articleshow/81300016.cms||IP Singh
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||New land Act: HC asks govt to follow judicial procedure||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Tuesday directed the state government and its revenue authorities acting as revenue tribunals under the new land Act to follow a judicial procedure of notifying the land owners and relevant parties and hear them before passing any orders in respect of their properties. The bench of Chief Justice Hima Koli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by N Srinivasa Rao from Bhadradri Kothagudem district who challenged the quick 30-day disposal of all pending litigations over land lying with revenue courts without notifying or hearing the parties. Kowturu Pavan Kumar, the counsel for the petitioner said that the tribunals should follow a judicious process. The Bar Council too expressed concern in the past over the decision of the state in not allowing advocates to represent the case of the property owners. Advocate General BS Prasad defended the new system and claimed that thousands of age-old litigations were meaningfully resolved and people are also happy about the development. “All objections of the people are also being taken care of,” he said. The bench in its Tuesday order directed the revenue authorities to notify and hear the parties till the next date of hearing. The bench however refused to stay the orders already passed by the tribunals. The bench also directed the state to furnish the details of cases its tribunals resolved in the last few months district-wise. The case was adjourned to March 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-land-act-hc-asks-govt-to-follow-judicial-procedure/articleshow/81300022.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman held for killing husband||HYDERABAD: Unable to put up with daily harassment, a pavement dweller allegedly strangled her husband to death at Chandrayangutta on Monday night. The accused was identified as Reshma, 25, and the victim, Mohammed Sohail, 30. According to Chandrayangutta inspector K N Prasad Varma, Sohail and his wife Reshma were seeking alms at different places in Chandrayangutta for the past several months. “They used to beg on the streets and sleep in front of road-side shops,” the inspector said. On Tuesday morning, locals saw the body of Sohail lying in front of a shop near a primary health centre in Chandrayangutta and alerted police. Police took Reshma into custody and shifted the body to Osmania General Hospital for a post-mortem examination. On interrogation, Reshma confessed to have killed Sohail by strangling him with her stole when he was asleep under the influence of toddy and whitener.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-held-for-killing-husband/articleshow/81300051.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||After Centre’s nod, 29 private hospitals to be added to city list||MUMBAI: The Centre on Tuesday allowed private hospitals not empanelled for any government health scheme to join the Covid-19 vaccination drive, paving the way for 29 major private hospitals in Mumbai (see list alongside) to pitch in and accelerate coverage. These hospitals will start giving the shots in a day or two, allowing for the state to issue an order and mobilising of vaccine stocks and manpower, said civic officials. Vaccination at these centres is likely to cost Rs 250 per dose. The move buoyed the BMC that faced heat on Monday for overcrowding at centres. The enthusiastic response from the elderly saw Mumbai’s turnout jump by over 240%— from 1,982 on Monday to 6,853 on Tuesday. Across the state, senior citizens led the charge, accounting for 12,300 of the 16,111 vaccinated—a 130% rise over the previous day. ‘Most pvt hosps can start on Thurs, boost vax coverage’Private hospitals will take a day or two to get vaccine stocks, transfer vaccine cost (Rs 150/per dose) to the Centre and organise manpower. “Most of us were already vaccinating our health staffers, so some centres will be ready before the rest. However, we may not be able to take walk-in registrations immediately,” said Gautam Khanna, president, Association of Hospitals (AOH). Some of Mumbai’s big trust-run hospitals, such as Balabhai Nanavati in Vile Parle, Wockhardt in Mumbai Central, Saifee, P D Hinduja in Mahim, Powai’s LH Hiranandani, Holy Family in Bandra, Lilavati in Bandra, Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines, Breach Candy, Karuna in Borivli, Kokilaben in Andheri, Holy Spirt in Andheri (East) and Parel’s Tata Memorial, among others, can now run vaccination centres. Civic officials said Wockhardt can start vaccinating from Wednesday. Twenty-two civic vaccination centres are already active. “It will accelerate vaccination as citizens can access nearby centres,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. Dr Gautam Bhansali, who coordinates between public and private hospitals, said most private hospitals should be able to start by Thursday. “Some hospitals are yet to be inspected by BMC. All these should happen in the next few days,” he said. The hospitals were not able to vaccinate even their own staffers since Saturday since Co-WIN was updated. The Centre’s decision to allow private hospitals came late on Tuesday following an online meeting with the BMC. The Centre had directed that besides government and civic hospitals, only those empanelled under the CGHS, Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana and Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana would be allowed to vaccinate senior citizens and people above 45 years with comorbidities. Since none of the Mumbai’s trust-run hospitals are empanelled, they had been left out. The civic authorities batted for the major hospitals as the empanelled hospitals were less than 55 and most didn’t have the infrastructure or manpower. Dr Santosh Shetty, CEO of Kokilaben Ambani Hospital in Andheri, which is among the 29 private hospitals that have got permission to vaccinate senior citizens, said: “More the number of hospitals, more people can get vaccinated. People want to get the vaccine at a hospital they are comfortable with and closer to their home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/most-pvt-hosps-can-start-on-thurs-boost-vax-coverage/articleshow/81300083.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Work starts for last leg of airport Metro||KOLKATA: Ground work for construction for the last stretch of New Garia-Airport Metro — from City Centre-II to Airport — has finally started. The stretch along with two Metro stations will be completed by January 2024. In December last year, Afcons Infrastructure emerged as the lowest bidder among four for the Rs 533crore package to build the final stretch of Line 6 or the Airport-New Garia Metro corridor. This stretch — from the end of New Town to the terminal Airport, has been one of the most problematic sections for the city’s longest Metro corridor project (even as Line 1 or the north-south line now covers the same length, after the recent 4km Dakshineswar extension). The entire New Garia-Airport stretches 32km. But land logjams have delayed the project by several years. The 3.5km from City Centre II station to Biman Bandar (Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport), where the Noapara-Airport Metro would also merge, was originally planned as underground. But as land acquisition issues cropped up for the ramp and the Metro station near Haldiram’s outlet at Teghoria, implementing agency, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) had to amend most of the section into an elevated viaduct, save the 950m stretch leading to the Airport. “We have started with the geotechnical survey or soil investigation. We are also doing utility identification. For this, we have barricaded a part of the arterial road from City Centre II towards Haldiram,” an engineer of Afcons said. Afcons, a wing of the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, has been the major civil contractor for Line 2 or the East-West Metro corridor, having constructed the 520m underwater river tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/work-starts-for-last-leg-of-airport-metro/articleshow/81298667.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur city to get 4 more air quality monitoring stations||NAGPUR: After a long await, the city is finally getting four new air quality monitoring stations. The locations, as finalized by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), are Town Hall in Mahal, Medical Square, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) and Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT). The development was announced by VM Motghare, joint director (air quality) in MPCB during an online discussion ‘Town Hall’ which was organized by Climate Voices which is a collective of three organizations — Purpose, Asar and Climate Trends. It, along with the state’s environment and climate change department’s Majhi Vasundhara (My Earth Campaign) initiative, aims to engage citizens to have a conversation about air quality and amplify solutions. As reported by TOI many times, it has been a long-time demand of environment activists to increase the number of air quality monitoring stations in the city. However, they fell not all the selected locations are appropriate. “Most of the existing monitoring stations including the ones at MPCB office, GPO, divisional commissioner office and Shankar Nagar square are in a radius of two kilometers. Bringing two more – LIT and VNIT—in the same radius will do no good,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil Foundation. Chatterjee further suggested that stations should be installed near coal-fired power plants and solid waste dumping site at Bhandewadi where the air is most toxic. “At present, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) calculates the city’s air quality index based on the data of only one station at Civil Lines, which is one of the least polluted areas. To get the real picture, data of multiple stations spread out in different directions should be analyzed,” he added. Motghare further announced that Rs 33 crore has been sanctioned for the city by the Union finance ministry to improve the air quality. Earlier, the city had also received Rs 10 crore for it under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). Experts maintained that there is zero accountability of where such hefty amount is going. “This is public money but still there is no transparency on its utilization. Rs 50 lakh are allocated for creating public awareness, which is not happening at all,” said Leena Buddhe, director of Nagpur’s Centre for Sustainable Development. Buddhe added that strong baseline data is needed to establish improvement in air quality. “Considering the city’s population and geographical area, at least 33 monitoring stations are needed,” she added. During the Town Hall discussion, Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary of state’s environment and climate change department, said, “This decade is possibly the last one for positive climate action, which can help slow down the impacts of climate change. This is why the government launched a 360 degree campaign on Majhi Vasundhara, engaging 700 cities across the state, from metropolises like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, to villages from Vidarbha. These recommendations will be submitted before the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on June 5 (World Environment Day).” MONITORING STATIONS New | Town Hall in Mahal, Medical Square, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology and Laxminarayan Institute of Technology Old | MPCB office, GPO, divisional commissioner office and Shankar Nagar square Green Demand | Install them at Bhandewadi and power stations Proximity | Old and new are too close to each other||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-to-get-4-more-air-quality-monitoring-stns/articleshow/81300049.cms||Manka Behl
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||63 drunk drivers sent to jail||Hyderabad: A total of 63 persons caught by the Cyberabad Traffic Police for drunk driving were sentenced to imprisonment by a local court on Tuesday. They were imprisoned for a duration ranging from one day to one week. The traffic police had caught 166 persons for drunk driving during regular vehicle checking on Monday night at various places across the jurisdiction. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/63-drunk-drivers-sent-to-jail/articleshow/81300045.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Labourer kills 1, injures another||A labourer killed one of his colleagues and critically injured another for criticising his cooking. He attacked the duo at a construction site in Dahisar East on Monday. Vinod Nayak (30), used a spade to hit them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/labourer-kills-1-injures-another/articleshow/81300124.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Ghaziabad||Phase 3 vax score so far: Delhi 36,700, Noida 319, Ghaziabad 288||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The perplexingly delayed full rollout of the third phase of Covid-19 vaccinations in UP’s NCR cities and across the rest of the state will begin on Thursday, by which time neighbouring Delhi would have completed three full days of inoculations with a daily target of 30,000 shots. As of Tuesday night, Delhi had vaccinated 36,748 people in the third phase, Noida 319 and Ghaziabad 288. No explanations have been offered why. Senior health officials TOI spoke to said UP is a large state and needs more time to make arrangements for a large exercise. Medical experts, however, wondered why that would be a factor since preparations have been on for a while. The national rollout of Covid vaccinations for people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities started on March 1. It was only on Tuesday (March 2) that additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad held a meeting with officials of all districts of the state via video-conferencing and informed them about the plan for the third phase of the drive. While Ghaziabad has been given a target to inoculate 93,480 people of the total 3.73 lakh ‘target population’ this month, the figure is 65,048 for Gautam Budh Nagar, where the ‘target population’ is 2.6 lakh. At this pace, it will take about three months to complete the third phase of vaccinations in either city. Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad) president Dr Ashish Agarwal said, “It does not seem like we are dealing with a pandemic. The vaccination drive cannot be stretched over such a long period of time. It should have been completed on a war footing on all days of the week. It took more than two months to vaccinate health workers and frontline workers, which is just a small fraction of the total population targeted for the third phase. This phase should have been completed in one month flat, as the infrastructure is already in place.” Dr Ajit Kumar of Sharda Hospital added, “The central government had announced the third phase a long time back and the process is already under way in Delhi. But Noida and Ghaziabad are lagging behind. We are unable to provide an answer to people as to when they can get vaccinated as there is no clarity from the district administration.” Noida and Ghaziabad have only administered vaccines on March 1. The next sessions are scheduled for March 4. During the meeting on Tuesday, private hospitals were given the flexibility to conduct vaccinations between four and seven days in a week. Government centres will administer Covid-19 vaccines thrice a week. At the two district hospitals in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, vaccinations will take place on all days, except Sundays. At each booth, a maximum 120 people can be vaccinated per day. Officials said two hours (9am to 11am) would be set aside for those who pre-register themselves. Walk-ins will be allowed after that. “The ratio of pre-registered people to walk-ins at vaccination centres will be 60:40 in urban areas and 50:50 in rural areas,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer in-charge of Covid vaccination, Gautam Budh Nagar. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, said: “Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays have been allocated for government hospitals like GIMS, Child PGI, District Hospital, Sector 30, Noida and ESIC Hospital, Sector 24.” He added that 35 private hospitals and 15 government hospitals have been selected as Covid vaccination centres in the district. In Ghaziabad, 33 private hospitals and 50 government medical facilities will serve as vaccination centres. In government facilities, the vaccination drive will be conducted on Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays. However, at two government hospitals — District Women’s Hospital and District Combined Hospital — the drive will be conducted on all days, except Sundays. Private hospitals will charge Rs 250 per shot. Ghaziabad CMO Dr NK Gupta said currently, only five hospitals have paid for the vaccines and 15 more are likely to pay up by Wednesday. “Those who have not registered themselves on the portal yet can complete the process after reaching a vaccine centre. A person will need his/her Aadhaar card. Comorbid people who are 45 years of age or older must have a certificate (mentioning their illness and medication) with them. This certificate should be issued by the doctor treating them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/phase-3-vax-score-so-far-delhi-36700-noida-319-gzb-288/articleshow/81302710.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Worker dies after fall from first floor||Hyderabad: A 23-year-old centring worker, R Shamsunder, had a fatal fall from the first floor of an under-construction building at Turkapalli on Tuesday. While working on the first floor, the victim accidentally fell on the ground and suffered a severe head injury. While undergoing treatment, Shamsunder succumbed to the injury. Alwal police registered a case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worker-dies-after-fall-from-first-floor/articleshow/81300084.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Noida||Phase 3 vax score so far: Delhi 36,700, Noida 319, Ghaziabad 288||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The perplexingly delayed full rollout of the third phase of Covid-19 vaccinations in UP’s NCR cities and across the rest of the state will begin on Thursday, by which time neighbouring Delhi would have completed three full days of inoculations with a daily target of 30,000 shots. As of Tuesday night, Delhi had vaccinated 36,748 people in the third phase, Noida 319 and Ghaziabad 288. No explanations have been offered why. Senior health officials TOI spoke to said UP is a large state and needs more time to make arrangements for a large exercise. Medical experts, however, wondered why that would be a factor since preparations have been on for a while. The national rollout of Covid vaccinations for people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities started on March 1. It was only on Tuesday (March 2) that additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad held a meeting with officials of all districts of the state via video-conferencing and informed them about the plan for the third phase of the drive. While Ghaziabad has been given a target to inoculate 93,480 people of the total 3.73 lakh ‘target population’ this month, the figure is 65,048 for Gautam Budh Nagar, where the ‘target population’ is 2.6 lakh. At this pace, it will take about three months to complete the third phase of vaccinations in either city. Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad) president Dr Ashish Agarwal said, “It does not seem like we are dealing with a pandemic. The vaccination drive cannot be stretched over such a long period of time. It should have been completed on a war footing on all days of the week. It took more than two months to vaccinate health workers and frontline workers, which is just a small fraction of the total population targeted for the third phase. This phase should have been completed in one month flat, as the infrastructure is already in place.” Dr Ajit Kumar of Sharda Hospital added, “The central government had announced the third phase a long time back and the process is already under way in Delhi. But Noida and Ghaziabad are lagging behind. We are unable to provide an answer to people as to when they can get vaccinated as there is no clarity from the district administration.” Noida and Ghaziabad have only administered vaccines on March 1. The next sessions are scheduled for March 4. During the meeting on Tuesday, private hospitals were given the flexibility to conduct vaccinations between four and seven days in a week. Government centres will administer Covid-19 vaccines thrice a week. At the two district hospitals in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, vaccinations will take place on all days, except Sundays. At each booth, a maximum 120 people can be vaccinated per day. Officials said two hours (9am to 11am) would be set aside for those who pre-register themselves. Walk-ins will be allowed after that. “The ratio of pre-registered people to walk-ins at vaccination centres will be 60:40 in urban areas and 50:50 in rural areas,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer in-charge of Covid vaccination, Gautam Budh Nagar. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, said: “Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays have been allocated for government hospitals like GIMS, Child PGI, District Hospital, Sector 30, Noida and ESIC Hospital, Sector 24.” He added that 35 private hospitals and 15 government hospitals have been selected as Covid vaccination centres in the district. In Ghaziabad, 33 private hospitals and 50 government medical facilities will serve as vaccination centres. In government facilities, the vaccination drive will be conducted on Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays. However, at two government hospitals — District Women’s Hospital and District Combined Hospital — the drive will be conducted on all days, except Sundays. Private hospitals will charge Rs 250 per shot. Ghaziabad CMO Dr NK Gupta said currently, only five hospitals have paid for the vaccines and 15 more are likely to pay up by Wednesday. “Those who have not registered themselves on the portal yet can complete the process after reaching a vaccine centre. A person will need his/her Aadhaar card. Comorbid people who are 45 years of age or older must have a certificate (mentioning their illness and medication) with them. This certificate should be issued by the doctor treating them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/phase-3-vax-score-so-far-delhi-36700-noida-319-gzb-288/articleshow/81302142.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Goon, 22, with 20 heinous cases caught with pistol at Boriyapura||NAGPUR: Ibrahim Khan alias Chhota, aged 22, has around 20 offences of serious types against him including murder. Khan was arrested by Tehsil police on Monday for being in possession of a pistol and a live cartridge, at Boriyapura. In the last two months, Khan has been arrested thrice but was still planning to murder a rival when he was intercepted. Khan’s arrest brought much relief among Boriyapura residents, who were reeling under his threats. Addicted to liquor, Khan used to target residents of Boriyapura and adjoining localities with sharp weapons, robbing and extorting money from them, said police. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station, whose team comprising head constables Laxman Shende, Sameer Shaikh, Shailesh Dobole and others under sub-inspector Swapnil Wagh caught Khan, said he was planning yet another heinous crime when they managed to trap him. In yet another action, Tehsil police team arrested Suraj Kawre and Deval Shende for their alleged role in taking away a cellphone from 28-year-old Nikhil Masram on February 23at Sonar Oli. “The two are ‘chance criminals’ who do not have past records but had snatched the mobile phone for fast money,” he said. “Kawre and Shende were nabbed after they sold the cellphone for Rs3,000 to a pan kiosk owner, which was noticed by a cop who alerted his counterparts at Tehsil police station,” said Bhandarkar adding that further investigation is underway under supervision of Zonal DCP Lohit Matani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goon-22-with-20-heinous-cases-caught-with-pistol/articleshow/81300081.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Thief snatches gold chain, held||Hyderabad: A thief snatched away the gold chain of a housewife at Saidabad on Tuesday. The accused parked his scooter near the victim, Malathi, 48, a housewife from Bhanu Nagar, while she was walking in the lane near her house. The offender snatched her three tola gold chain and sped away on the scooter. By analysing the CCTV footage, police managed to nab the offender within three hours. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thief-snatches-gold-chain-held/articleshow/81300069.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Lucknow||Govt changes 4 commissioners, DMs of 6 dists||Lucknow: In late night transfers on Tuesday, the government changed the commissioners of four districts and magistrates of six districts. The list included Surendra Singh, special secretary to the chief minister and civil aviation, who has been posted as commissioner of Meerut. Relief commissioner Sanjay Goyal has been posted as commissioner, Prayagraj division, while Aunjaneya Kumar Singh, who was DM Rampur, is the new commissioner of Moradabad division and R Ramesh, who was DC Prayagraj has been transferred as Bareilly commissioner. Deepa Ranjan, additional housing commissioner, is the new DM of Badaun while Ravindra Mandar, municipal commissioner Vrindavan-Mathura, has been posted as DM Rampur. Saumya Agarwal, MD of Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd, is the new DM of Basti, Ashutosh Niranjan, formerly DM Basti, is now DM Deoria, Jitendra Kumar Singh, principal secretary National Integration is DM Kanpur Dehat while Shubhrant Shukla, special secretary at CM Secretariat, is new DM Chitrakoot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-changes-4-commissioners-dms-of-6-dists/articleshow/81301592.cms||---
March 3, 2021||India||No headway in Cong-Left-ISF seat talks||KOLKATA: Congress, Left Front and Indian Secular Front (ISF) on Tuesday met at the CPM state headquarters in Kolkata to break the seat-sharing logjam in north Bengal and accommodate Abbas Siddiqui’s party, but failed to arrive at a consensus. Party members are waiting for “last-minute changes” before announcing the newly-formed alliance’s candidate list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-headway-in-cong-left-isf-seat-talks/articleshow/81302608.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Mercury may start rising again, nights to be warmer in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Mercury is set to rise again after falling below 30 degrees Celsius. Delhi’s maximum temperature was recorded at 28.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday—two degrees above normal. India Meteorological Department says it may touch 33 degrees by March 7, while nighttime temperature is likely to cross 17 degrees Celsius by March 8. Delhi’s minimum temperature on Tuesday was 15.3 degrees Celsius. In comparison, it was 11.8 degrees on Monday. “After an increase in wind speed on Monday and Tuesday, temperatures are once again set to rise. The minimum, which fell below normal on Monday, is once again above normal and will gradually rise to around 17 degrees Celsius by the end of the week. Similarly, the maximum will rise once again as wind speeds drop and the wind direction changes,” said a Met official. On Tuesday, the sports complex weather station in East Delhi was the warmest location in the city with a high of 30.4 degrees Celsius. Pusa recorded the highest minimum at 18.5 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity oscillated between 44 and 88%. Forecast for Wednesday shows the maximum is likely to rise to 30 degrees Celsius, while the minimum will hover around 14 degrees Celsius. “The maximum should be around 30 degrees on Wednesday and 32 degrees by Thursday as wind speeds once again drop. Calm conditions and clear skies will lead to high maximum,” said the official. Delhi’s air quality has, meanwhile, improved to the ‘moderate’ category with an overall air quality index (AQI) of 175 on Tuesday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research says improved ventilation is impacting Delhi’s AQI positively, however, the impact of dust may be seen soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-may-start-rising-again-nights-to-be-warmer/articleshow/81300144.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Co-WIN app glitch results in chaos at BKC jumbo facility||A video of a massive crowd jostling to enter the vaccination centre at BKC jumbo facility went viral on Tuesday. Authorities said a breakdown of the Co-WIN app for 1.5 hours ensued the chaotic scene outside the centre, where a record number of over 2,700 people showed up to register and get vaccinated. The video showed people pushing each other to enter the facility. A senior doctor, present at the time, said people continued to turn up even as the app stopped working around 10am. “In no time, hundreds were waiting. It was hot outside as the verification counters are in the open, but thankfully people were served water,” he said. The doctor said he left after waiting for two hours. In the video, it was visible that social distancing norms were ignored. Dean Dr Rajesh Dere said the Co-WIN app started working again around 11.20am, after nearly an hour and a half. “When the vaccination resumed after the glitch was resolved, people tried to enter the facility at the same time, leading to the chaos,” he said. He added that things were streamlined soon after. A video shared later showed people sitting on chairs and waiting for their turn. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said BKC was a popular centre. “At least 80% of people are coming without registrations. We would urge people to schedule appointments and come accordingly.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/co-win-app-glitch-results-in-chaos-at-bkc-jumbo-facility/articleshow/81300114.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||Turnout for vax up 74% in state, 46% in city||Mumbai: In three days, Maharashtra has vaccinated 58,131 senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities, accounting for almost 17% of the 3.5 lakh recipients in this group across India. With recipients and hospitals confirming that the process seemed smoother on Wednesday, numbers expectedly rose— by 74% in the state to 27,842 compared to 16,011 on Tuesday, and by 46% in Mumbai to 10,019 from 6,853 on Tuesday. The graph could keep rising in the city with 13 private hospitals set to start vaccination centres from Thursday, but most plan to take only registered patients and not allow walk-in recipients for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/turnout-for-vax-up-74-in-state-46-in-city/articleshow/81320177.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Mating pair of Indian rock pythons killed in Amravati||NAGPUR: In an unusual incident of crime against wildlife, a mating pair of Indian rock pythons was killed by unidentified persons at Rahatgaon under Wadali range near Amravati. The bodies of the two eight-feet-long reptiles, intertwined as in mating position, were later dumped in a drain. Indian rock python is listed in Schedule-I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and has similar protection like tigers. “The spot, where the pythons were found dead, doesn’t seem to be an ideal habitat. The reptiles were smashed with sticks and must have been killed in nearby farms and dumped in the drain where thickets have come up,” said sarpamitra Mukesh Waghmare. Waghmare spotted the dead pythons on Monday evening when he had gone there to release a rat snake rescued from a house. He first called forest helpline 1926, but as there was no response, foresters were informed. “It is really unfortunate that the reptiles were killed. Had we been informed earlier, we could have easily rescued the reptiles and released in a safe habitat. Forest department needs to spread awareness on the importance of snakes,” said Waghmare. State wildlife board member Yadav Tarte demanded action against the culprits. Forest department has secret fund for gathering intelligence related to poaching cases in the wildlife habitats, which should be used to trace and punish those responsible for killing the pythons. Forester Shyam Deshmukh, who did a spot panchnama, said, “As of now, no offence has been registered. It is difficult to nail anyone without substantial evidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mating-pair-of-indian-rock-pythons-killed/articleshow/81300108.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||Seer on fast to save Ganga to stop drinking water too||Dehradun: Haridwar-based Matri Sadan seer Aatmabodhanand, who has been on a hunger strike since February 23 against mining activities on the ganga basin, announced on Tuesday that he would quit water intake as well from March 8. He said, "Despite a ban on mining activities by the National Mission For Clean Ganga (NMCG), Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and reports of various prestigious institutions saying mining should not be permitted here, such activities are rampant along the Ganga.” He alleged that everything related to mining is being ignored by the state government. “If they have fallen down to ‘mafia-giri’ then we will stick to our ‘sadhu-giri’ by continuing ‘tapasaya’ (meditation) to save the Ganga," said Aatmabodhanand. In pursuant with the demands of late professor GD Agrawal (Swami Sanand), Aatmabodhanand is fasting for saving the holy Ganges from being exploited for material gains. “If the government fails to take any action to stop mining activities on the Ganga basin, I will sacrifice my life during the upcoming Kumbh. But before I sacrifice my life, I will note down each and every illegal activities and corruption happening here,” said Shivanand Saraswati, founder of Matri Sadan today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seer-on-fast-to-save-ganga-to-stop-drinking-water-too/articleshow/81298697.cms||Shivani Azad
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||China behind Oct outage? Centre probe on: State min||Mumbai: A day after the state home minister said that the preliminary report on the Mumbai power failure incident hints at “cyber sabotage”, Union power minister RK Singh got in touch with him. Deshmukh said he had spoken about the possibility of a cyber attack in the Mumbai incident, but the US-based company, Recorded Future, has referred to Chinese entities mounting a strike through the net on Indian electricity infrastructure. The report by Recorded Future, a firm studying internet usage by state agencies, named a Chinese state-sponsored group called Red Echo. “I had a discussion with Singh and the Centre is also inquiring into it. However, we all have to be alert and our system has to be strengthened against any such attacks,” said Deshmukh. The Mumbai Cyber Cell, in its report submitted by home minister Anil Deshmukh to power minster Nitin Raut, has said there could have been an attempt to hack into MSEB’s servers. However, former state energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, who is from the BJP, said that Maha Vikas Aghadi government is spreading rumours about Chinese hackers. This is to cover up the power department’s negligence, Bawankule said. “To divert attention from their failure, the home minister and energy minister have concocted this Chinese cyber attack theory...”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/china-behind-oct-outage-centre-probe-on-state-min/articleshow/81301611.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand cabinet endorses SOP issued by Centre for Kumbh||Gairsain: The Uttarakhand Cabinet, which met at Gairsain on Tuesday, has endorsed the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union government in January for the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. The cabinet also approved 11 temporary posts in the Kedarnath Utthan Charitable Trust. In addition to administrative posts, approval has been given for technical expert and data entry operator posts. In the next two years, development works worth over Rs 300 crore are to be carried out at Kedarnath.The cabinet approved two new universities – Devbhoomi University, Dehradun, and Surajmal University at Udham Singh Nagar. It also approved the tabling of the bill in this regard in the state Assembly. At present, there are 12 universities in the state, out of which six are under the higher education department. The cabinet also gave nod to a proposal for nomination of members for Char Dham Devasthanam Board. Priests and people associated with Snatan Dharm, donors have been included in the list of people eligible for nomination as members.Approval to upgrade three gram panchayats -- Thalisand, Lalpur and Shirauli Kala -- to nagar panchayats have also been given. The cabinet has approved the change in the name of Swami Ram Himalayan University. It has also been decided that a language institute would be established in Garisain. Initially, it was approved for Dehradun but now the institute would come up at Gairsain. The cabinet gave nod to a proposal to table two Bills in the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cabinet-endorses-sop-issued-by-centre-for-kumbh/articleshow/81297732.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Power workersstage dharna||Hyderabad: Telangana State Electricity Employees Union-327 and Telangana Vidyut Contract Workers’ Union 2871 organised a dharna at TSSPDCL office on Tuesday with 3,000 artisans and employees working with various power utilities. The workers demanded that rules of APSEB should also be implemented to artisans, incorporating personal pay in basic pay. They sought transfers and filling up of vacancies in sub-stations. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-workersstage-dharna/articleshow/81300098.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Mumbai||In a first, only desi firms in fray to supply Monorail rakes||Mumbai: Three Indian firms are in the fray to supply 10 rakes of four cars each for the 20-km Monorail corridor between Chembur and Jacob circle. This is the first time all the bidders are desi firms.  Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) had floated the bids for the contract worth Rs550 crore on June 16, 2020. However, MMRDA scrapped the bidding process involving two Chinese firms after they “sought changes in tender conditions”. It was then decided to re-float tenders under the ‘Make in India’ initiative and Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan policy. “The bidders, shortlisted today, are BHEL, Titagarh Wagons Ltd, Medha Servo Drives Pvt Ltd & SMH, Malaysia. In a first, the rake will be manufactured completely in India,” a senior MMRDA official said. He further said the final bidder will be finalised within a month after which the first rakes will be supplied in 18 months. All the rakes will be provided within 24 months from the date of issue of work orders. The cost of each rake is estimated to be Rs 55 crore. MMRDA had appointed Larsen & Tourbo and Scomi Engineering (LTSE) consortium as contractors for the Monorail project in 2008. On December 14, 2018, it terminated LTSE’s contract. In March 2019, MMRDA took over operations of the entire corridor. Monorail currently operates with seven rakes, of which two are kept on stand-by. Services are at a frequency of 20 minutes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-a-first-only-desi-firms-in-fray-to-supply-monorail-rakes/articleshow/81300230.cms||Manthank Mehta
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Grid not advanced enough to be hacked, says ex-energy minister Bawankule||NAGPUR: Former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule slammed reports that a Chinese cyber attack led to October’s grid failure in Mumbai saying the state’s power grid was not ‘advanced enough’ to be hacked. Bawankule, who held the energy portfolio under Fadnavis government, told reporters here on Tuesday, “I know the power sector inside out. Believe me when I say there is absolutely no chance of the system getting hacked. It was a manual error and the officials failed to handle the crisis.” He criticized energy minister Nitin Raut and home minister Anil Deshmukh saying they ‘were spinning tales’. “We have two senior cabinet ministers now putting the government machinery behind this imaginary tale. It all started with a report in an US-based newspaper. Then some eager police official seems to have played it up more than needed and our ministers took the story forward,” said Bawankule. He added that by trying to blame Chinese cyber attack, the government is trying to deflect attention. “Government is trying to fool people and hide its failure. It was their inability to handle the issue that led to such a massive power failure. Grid load management should have been done, but it’s clear authorities failed to do so,” said Bawankule. On Monday, Deshmukh had said preliminary investigation showed that last year’s power failure was an attempt at cyber-sabotage. TOI reported energy minister Raut was likely to present a report on Wednesday during the ongoing budget session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/grid-not-advanced-enough-to-be-hacked-says-ex-energy-min-bawankule/articleshow/81300139.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: BJP corporators urge Fadnavis to allay citizens’ concerns on civic issues||NAGPUR: Ruling party leader Avinash Thakre on Tuesday informed leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis that there is resentment among citizens against ruling party corporators due to lack of development works in the city. Citing fund crisis, the civic administration has stopped all development works, as a result of which corporators were facing public wrath. There is huge dissatisfaction among citizens and corporators are being held responsible for this, Thakre said in a letter to Fadnavis. In addition, as NMC general body meeting has been taking place online, corporators were facing many difficulties in presenting people-centric issues. Therefore, there is no platform available for the administration to respond and make its views known. Against this backdrop, Thakre urged Fadnavis to get funds from Maharashtra government and also to get its permission to hold in person meetings of the general body. In his letter, Thakre said corporators were facing many difficulties due to the intransigence of the administration. In addition, many development work proposals are being stopped by the administration due to lack of funds. In 2018-19, NMC budget was presented by former standing committee chairman Pradip Pohane. However, due to the implementation of code of conduct for the Lok Sabha elections then and immediately afterwards the Assembly elections, the files regarding development works could not be prepared. Development works were started from November 2019. However, the then IAS Tukaram Mundhe, who was transferred to NMC as municipal commissioner after the change in power at the state, directed a stoppage of development works citing insufficient funds. After that, due to the outbreak of coronavirus, the city underwent lockdown and all development works came to a standstill. Even the works proposed by outgoing standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke for the year 2020-21 too were stopped by the civic chief. Thakre pointed out that there was a lot of dissatisfaction among citizens regarding ruling party corporators as the work related to even repairing of damaged sewerage chambers was not being done by civic body for the last two consecutive years. Thakre also accused the administration of not heeding the demands of corporators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-corporators-urge-fadnavis-to-allay-citizens-concerns-on-civic-issues/articleshow/81300147.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 3, 2021||Dehradun||STF seizes six leopard skins, books 2 in Pithoragarh||Pithoragarh: The Uttarakhand Special Task Force (STF) recovered six leopard skins, 43 nails and 24 teeth and arrested one smuggler from Seraghat area of Berinag police station on Monday night. A second smuggler managed to escape. STF had received a tip-off about some smugglers of animal parts being active in the Seraghat area. When they stopped and searched a car in the area, six leopard skins were found. Rahul Singh Dasila (20), a resident of Badoli village, Berinag, was arrested, while Sonu Dobhal (25), a resident of Badoli, escaped. During interrogation, Dasila revealed they electrocuted the big cats and sold the parts to smugglers in Nepal. “The hides, all of then two years old, are together worth Rs 5 lakh in the international market. A case has been registered against these two smugglers against the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” said Rakesh Rai, SHO Berinag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stf-seizes-six-leopard-skins-books-2-in-pithoragarh/articleshow/81297740.cms||Prem Punetha
March 3, 2021||Ranchi||‘Budget must focus on agri, irrigation & creation of rural jobs’||A day before chief minister Hemant Soren government's second Budget, BJP's legislative party leader Babulal Marandi speaks to TOI’s Dhritiman Ray on what he feels should be the focus areas, last year’s promises and claims of empty treasuries. What do you think the state government must focus on this year's budget? The government should focus on generating employment in the state. It must also focus on creating skilled labour capable of working across diverse sectors. Those in the government machinery should understand that maximum employment can be generated in agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries sectors. Hence, emphasis must be on on improving the state's irrigation infrastructure so that farmers can grow multiple crops, which is a challenge due to inadequate rain and the soil quality here. There is also a need to strengthen the state's health infrastructure and increase the number of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff in government hospitals. The Covid-19 pandemic has exposed Jharkhand's frail health infrastructure and this should be strengthened at once. How do you and your party assess the government's delivery of last year's budgetary provisions? The government has done nothing in the past year. It has not spent the money it had allocated to various social welfare schemes and development projects. The revenue collection has been poor as well. In reality, there was no improvement across any sector in the state. But the state government claims that it faced a shortage of funds in the treasuries when it took over in December 2019. How do you look at it? The government has lied about it. I had, in the months after the government came to power last year, gathered information about the status of district mineral fund trusts (DMFT) across the six mineral-rich districts. Contrary to the government's claims, the DMFT funds in the six districts had Rs 5,000 crore in cumulative. Had the government wanted, the government could have pulled out these funds and used them for development during the lockdown. However, orders were issued to all deputy commissioners, asking them to not spend a single paisa from the DMFT funds. The government has not been able to bring investments into the state as well. Forget about the investments, this government has not been able to provide an atmosphere of security to the entrepreneurs who pledged investments during the tenure of the previous BJP government led by Raghubar Das. For instance, the Art of Living Foundation was given five-acre land in Ranchi to set up a skilling centre for the tribal youth. But the incumbent government has not given the necessary clearances yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/budget-must-focus-on-agri-irrigation-creation-of-rural-jobs/articleshow/81298802.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 3, 2021||Ranchi||H’bag kerosene blasts: Licences of 38 PDS dealers suspended, FIR against supply firm||Hazaribag: As many as 38 dealers of public distribution shop (PDS) have been found guilty in connection with the supply of adulterated kerosene to beneficiaries causing several instances of blasts in the recent weeks and killing at least four people and injuring over a dozen. In another incident on Monday night, a woman from Sakhiya village under Amnari Panchayat of sadar block sustained grievous injuries in a similar blast. She is currently undergoing treatment at Rims in Ranchi. Deputy commissioner Aditya Ranjan on Tuesday said their ongoing probe into the blasts is almost over and action will be initiated soon. He said, “We have found 38 PDS dealers in addition to a wholesaler company — Army Trading Company — guilty in the whole episode. We have kept the licenses of the 38 dealers on hold till the entire investigation is over.” Ranjan further said the district disaster management department has paid compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the next kin of the deceased on February 27. On compensation to the injured, the DC said it is being assessed at the moment. Notably, the district administration had ordered the seizure of the entire consignment of kerosene oil that was distributed to people following the first blast about two weeks back. Asked how more blasts occurred when the stocks were seized, the DC said the family members of the injured may not have handed over the oil to the district team. He said, “We are probing into the details. So far, we have collected 645 litres of kerosene from the consumers and sent it to the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, Ranchi, for testing. The report is still awaited. Earlier, we had sent 32 samples of which we received results of 12. They were declared unfit for use.” Ranjan added that an FIR had already been lodged at the Hazaribag muffasil police station against the Army Trading Company owner which supplied the adulterated kerosene oil to the shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hbag-kerosene-blasts-licences-of-38-pds-dealers-suspended-fir-against-supply-firm/articleshow/81298608.cms||Abhijit Sen
March 3, 2021||Ranchi||BJP has no valid issues, disrupting House deliberately, says CM||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday accused BJP of trying to stall the daily proceedings of Jharkhand assembly’s ongoing Budget session deliberately and added the saffron party has no real issues to talk about. “The people of the state are watching what BJP legislators are doing. Their conduct is shameful, as they represent a party which claims to be disciplined and ideology-driven,” Hemant told journalists. The saffron party’s legislators on Tuesday created a ruckus on the floor of the House over the state government’s decision to scrap the recruitment policy of 2016 following a Jharkhand high court order in September 2020. The order had nullified the recruitment of nearly 17,000 teachers across government schools. BJP legislators descended to the well, took to sloganeering, sat on a dharna, raised Jai Shri Ram slogans, banged the official bench and went around it in circles after forming a human ring for nearly 30 minutes, forcing Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto to cut short the question hour and adjourn the proceedings till 12 noon. When the proceedings resumed, the lawmakers kept pressing for their demand of the re-introduction of the recruitment policy even as Mahto tried to conduct business by allowing the zero hour to continue amid chaos. As per convention, business cannot get under way unless the House is in order. BJP’s Hazaribag MLA Manish Jaiswal brought to the notice of the House the deaths in Hazaribag’s Sadar block last month caused by explosions of adulterated kerosene and demanded to know what the government was doing about it. Responding to the notice, Hemant said the families of the deceased were being compensated Rs 4 lakh for every casualty. “I assure the House that the guilty will be punished,” he said. Unhappy, Jaiswal demanded financial compensation for those who were injured and a FIR against kerosene suppliers. Hemant ducked the demands, which led to another round of pandemonium. Soon after the House resumed business post lunch, BJP’s lawmaker from Ranchi C P Singh tore a copy of the government order which appointed him as a member of the senate of Ranchi’s Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University. Singh was miffed at the DSPMU management, which removed him from the senate days after his appointment. Soon after, led by its legislative party leader Babulal Marandi and whips Biranchi Narayan and Anant Ojha, BJP MLAs walked out. Singh’s gesture drew sharp criticism from Poreiyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav and Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari from the treasury benches. Yadav demanded Singh’s expulsion for the rest of the session. Thereafter, a debate was initiated by a cut motion introduced by Ojha on the second supplementary budget of Rs 7,323 crore. Supporting the need to get the budget passed, Oraon said Rs 3,845 provisioned in it is for clearing government’s dues to power providers. The Budget was passed through voice vote. When prodded about the Budget, Hemant said, “A lot of planning has gone into it. The rest will be unveiled by the finance minister tomorrow (Wednesday).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-has-no-valid-issues-disrupting-house-deliberately-says-cm/articleshow/81298679.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 3, 2021||India||BJP questions Cong alliances with ISF, AIUDF, Welfare Party||NEW DELHI: BJP on Tuesday questioned Congress over its alliance with ISF in Bengal and AIUDF in Assam while also taking swipe at the party for the growing voices of dissidence within, with members like Anand Sharma and Ghulam Nabi Azad confronting the Congress brass by raising eyebrows over its alliances. At a presser, BJP’s Sambit Patra said Congress stands for the Gandhi- Nehru family and it belongs to just four persons of the family, referring to its president Sonia Gandhi, her son Rahul, daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Priyanka’s husband Robert Vadra. Patra said Congress, which claims to be secular, has a tie-up with Abdul Siddiqui’s ISF in Bengal, which has led to internal strife in their own party. “Similarly, it has alliances with communal forces like Welfare Party of India, a front of Jamiat-e-Islami, in Kerala,” Patra said, adding, “NIA is probing reports of terror funding to AIUDF but Congress is desperate to join hands with the party for its political relevance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-questions-cong-alliances-with-isf-aiudf-welfare-party/articleshow/81302615.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Noida||Noida: Myanmar link? Two held for ‘trafficking’ to undergo DNA test||NOIDA: Uttar Pradesh Police is set to conduct DNA test on two youths who were arrested by the ATS recently for allegedly helping people from Myanmar sneak into India through the Bangladesh border. Police said the accused have claimed that they are brothers and were involved in helping residents of Myanmar settle in India, including in several districts of UP. The accused have told them that their mother and a relative stay in UP’s Aligarh and that they themselves have no Myanmar connection. Now, the police have decided to verify their claims and conduct a DNA test. ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar said that Farrukh alias Hasan Ahmad and Sahil were arrested from Greater Noida and Unnao, respectively. “Farrukh had been staying with his mother and a relative in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. The DNA test will be conducted to establish their identity and confirm their antecedents,” an ATS source said.Kumar said the accused have allegedly helped several people from Myanmar enter India and get registration from the United Nations High Commission for Refugees in India. Police said the accused had forged documents, like Indian passports and PAN and Aadhaar cards. “Forging Indian documents and giving logistical support to others to help enter the country without documents is illegal,” said a source.They had been providing support to a larger network of people from Myanmar by helping them forge documents and get jobs in Mathura, Aligarh, Kanpur, Unnao and Gautam Budh Nagar, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/myanmar-link-two-held-for-trafficking-to-undergo-dna-test/articleshow/81301769.cms||Shikha Salaria
March 3, 2021||India||Gujarat local body election results: BJP landslide win rural polls buries Congress||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat’s countryside was painted saffron on Tuesday as BJP captured all 31 district panchayats, the majority of the 81 municipalities and over 200 of the 231 taluka (block) panchayats that had gone to polls on February 28. With the resounding victory, which came a week after the party had swept all six municipal corporations, BJP turned the tables on Congress, which had made massive electoral gains in 2015 on the back of a violent Patidar reservation stir led by Hardik Patel and the Dalit stir championed by Jignesh Mevani. In 2015, BJP had been decimated in 24 out of the 31 district panchayats, besides losing in 138 out of the 228 taluka panchayats. The party had, however, kept its semi-urban base intact by winning 45 out of 57 municipalities. Congress was pushed further towards oblivion in Gujarat after failing to win a single district panchayat and taking a battering in the municipalities. In effect, the grand old party’s grassroot ssupport was significantly uprooted in the saffron storm. AAP, which had stunned all in the municipality polls by winning 27 seats in the Patidar strongholds of Surat, made a modest entry into the rural bodies by winning 42 out of the 2,097 seats it contested. AAP’s Surat show had set off chatter that it would also make inroads into the Patel-dominated districts like Amreli and Morbi, where BJP had lost badly in the 2017 state polls. Read AlsoGujarat firmly with development agenda: PMNEW DELHI: Reacting to BJP’s emphatic win, PM Modi on Tuesday said the results show the state is firmly backing BJP’s agenda of development. “I bow to the people of Gujarat for the unwavering faith and affection towards BJP,” he said. Home minister Amit Shah said the people and farmers of ruralAll such speculation got a quiet burial after the Patidars strongly rooted for BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-landslide-in-gujarat-rural-polls-buries-congress/articleshow/81302621.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||Unused for 10 years, Kavlem tourism complex falls to bits||Ponda: Built in 1997 and used for just a decade, the tourism complex at Kavlem in Ponda taluka now lies in a sorry state. The ambitious project, which was aimed at providing shelter to those visiting the well-known temples in Ponda taluka, has been lying unused for over 10 years, ever since operations ceased in 2010-11. Now, feeling the need to attract more tourists to the village, Kavlem sarpanch Rajesh Kawlekar has requested chief minister Pramod Sawant to hand over the complex to the panchayat for reconstruction and maintenance, if the tourism department cannot do the needful. According to Kawlekar, tourists coming from far always check for lodging facility in the vicinity and in absence of it, they change their programme and visit some other places. One taxi driver said that tourists ask to be taken to temples where proper accommodation is available so they could participate in the morning ‘aartis’ (prayers). As a result, most prefer visiting the temples at Mardol or Mangueshi, he said. “Proper infrastructure with modern amenities is inevitable to attract tourists. We have requested the chief minister to hand the project over to us and we will do the needful,” Kawlekar told TOI. The Kavlem sarpanch added that Sawant has assured him that his proposal would be considered. Kawlekar suggested that the project could be renovated or reconstructed under the grants allowed under ‘Swayampurna Goem’ (self-sufficient Goa). Locals, too, have demanded that the complex should be reconstructed as it could result in jobs for local youth including those providing services such as taxis and sightseeing tours. The complex was inaugurated in 1997 at the hands of then chief minister Wilfred D’Souza in the presence of then Marcaim MLA and current Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unused-for-10-years-kavlem-tourism-complex-falls-to-bits/articleshow/81300642.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||1,021 get jab as NMC starts offline regn, vaccination||Nagpur: Covid-19 vaccination of 60+ and 45+ with comorbidities increased to 1,021 on Tuesday as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) started offline registration and inoculation at 11 centres after glitches continued in Co-Win application on second day too. Of the 1,021 beneficiaries, 957 were from 60+ age group and 64 were 45+ with comorbidities. On Monday, 607 (575 senior citizens and 32 comorbid) took the jab and many had to return without vaccination due to glitches in Co-Win. On Tuesday, a large number of senior citizens thronged all 11 centres from 8am onwards. Over 100 senior citizens were in line by 10am at NMC’s Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR). NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi rushed to IGR. “Co-Win was very slow so staffers were facing difficulties in registration at all centres. We requested senior citizens to take hourly-based token and come again. But those in line refused to go back. We then asked centres to take copies of Aadhaar, all details of senior citizens, verify and administer vaccine. Registration process was done later. Speed in Co-Win improved after 3pm so some centres switched back to online,” he said. Joshi said, “Tokens for next day will be given in case over 100 people come to any centre.” On Tuesday too, social distancing went for a toss at almost all centres. There were no waiting rooms, so senior citizens had to stand in queue for hours. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B in a press release appealed to senior citizens to avoid crowding at the centres. “Vaccination will continue so there is nothing to worry. All need is to take the jab without crowding,” they said. Also, the number of first doses and second doses for healthcare workers (HCWs) declined to 303 and 182 respectively in the city on Tuesday, as NMC did not facilitate separate centres for them. Due to rush and problems in registration of age-appropriate people, many centres did not entertain HCWs. Also, some HCWs are reportedly avoiding to go to the centres in view of the crowds. At all 11 centres, free vaccination of HCWs, frontline workers (FLWs) and age-appropriate group is being facilitated at the same time. Following directives of the government, NMC has stopped vaccination of HCWs and FLWs at 10 private hospitals from Monday. Only Police Hospital is still running vaccination centres for FLWs, and administered vaccine to 209 of total 269 on Tuesday. Remaining 60 took the jab at other 11 centres. Joshi said there are plans to increase vaccination centres. In rural areas, 512 from age-appropriate group got the jab at 12 centres. On the lines of city, crowding was also seen in rural centres. Sureshchandra Vashishtha (77), a resident of Wadi, said, “I got registered and selected Hingna Rural Hospital on Monday. I travelled from Wadi to Hingna but the staffer at the centre was unable to complete process citing glitches in Co-Win. I had to return without vaccination on Monday. I contacted the centre, and staffers requested me to come after two days citing huge rush.” Teething Problems * Many from 45+ with comorbidities category returned as they had normal medical certificates, which were not in format required by the government * OTP problem continued as some people did not carry phone registered with Aadhaar * Centres did not issue printed certificates of partial vaccination to beneficiaries citing rush and problems in Co-Win * Many were able to complete registration on selfregistration.cowin.gov.in but some continued to face problems * NMC yet to start pickup and drop facility for vaccination from areas or societies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1021-get-jab-as-nmc-starts-offline-regn-vaccination/articleshow/81298976.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||MBBS final year students don’t want offline exams||Nagpur: MBBS final year students from medical colleges badly hit by Covid-19 have written to Maharashtra University of Health Science (MUHS) and medical education minister Amit Deshmukh requesting to hold their upcoming exams in online mode. The exams are scheduled to start from March 8 and go on till March 20. MUHS controller of examinations Dr Ajit Pathak ruled out online examinations. “Offline exams are being conducted as per directions of the high court,” he told TOI. Students complained that many of them have been under treatment while more are in quarantine for over two weeks since their classmates tested positive. At Nagpur, 42 final year students and 89 from GMC Akola have tested positive. Many have also tested positive from IGGMCH, Nagpur. The students have also initiated online campaign to press for their demand. Students’ representatives of final year MBBS students and general secretaries of GMCs at Nagpur, Akola, Yavatmal, Gondia, Chandrapur and NKP Salve Medical College have written to the minister on March 1. “In 2020-21, MUHS completed medical academic curriculum online and also took internal exams online for the sole purpose of avoiding the risk of Covid and preserving the health of their medical students. Now, MUHS is taking offline theory exams from March 8 to 20 at examination centres amid surge in cases all over Maharashtra,” the letter reads. The MBBS students said minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant has declared that all university exams shall be held online for students’s convenience. “There is high risk of transmission during exams to those who are still not infected. Nobody at MUHS has so far responded to thousands of mails. We have even mailed and tagged the Twitter handle of the minister and authorities concerned. Unfortunately, there is no response,” said a GMCH Nagpur student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mbbs-final-year-students-dont-want-offline-exams/articleshow/81298985.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Internal exams can also be held online: District edu officer||Nagpur: Putting to rest all speculations over schools mandating students to appear for offline exams, district education officer Chintaman Vanjari has clarified that it can be held online also. Vanjari said as per the existing rule, students cannot be forced to attend physical classes.Before local authorities ordered all schools and colleges to be shut till March 7, many schools had mandated students to appear for their Std IX-XII internal/prelims exams in offline mode only. Parents fear that once authorities permit reopening, schools will again start pressurizing them.The entire issue erupted due to some schools forcing Std IX-XII students to appear for internally conducted final exams in offline mode. Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) wrote to CBSE saying students must be given an option for online exam.While CBSE may take time to respond, the solution to the problem was found closer to home. Vanjari said “Every school in Maharashtra has to follow protocols put in place by the education department. Considering the Covid-19 situation, school reopening was done based on certain conditions. The most important one was that students cannot be forced to attend physical classes and will have the option to complete academic session through online mode.”He added that exams which are conducted and assessed internally by schools and junior colleges fall in that category. “If a student cannot be forced to attend school during the current situation, there is no question of a mandatory offline exam. Such internal exams can be held online as well,” said Vanjari.If schools imply that student will be failed if s/he does not appear for a physical exam, parents can register complaint with the education department.Vanjari clarified that these rules do not apply to board exams. “Board exams will be held in offline mode only, so there’s no confusion regarding that,” he added.Practical exams for Std X and XII will also be conducted in physical mode only. CBSE schools are awaiting a final list of approved external examiners, following which they will start fixing up dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/internal-exams-can-also-be-held-online-district-edu-officer/articleshow/81299017.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court says 100 suspicions don’t make a proof||NEW DELHI: "From a hundred rabbits you can't make a horse, a hundred suspicions don't make a proof." Quoting these lines from Russian author Fyodor Dostoevsky's novel, 'Crime and Punishment', additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat discharged two men from the charge of attempt to murder in a north-east Delhi violence case on Monday. "Both the accused persons are discharged of the offences under Section 307 (attempt to murder) IPC and Arms Act," said the order. The court had earlier observed according to criminal jurisprudence, there must be some material against the accused persons to frame a charge. "Presumption can't be stretched to take the shape of proof/evidence," it remarked. When cops pulled out a rabbit, but court saw throughThe prosecution wanted framing of charges against the two men – Babu and Imran – for being members of an unlawful assembly which was armed with weapons and participated in the rioting on February 25, 2020, near Maujpur. Despite the police’s warning, they refused to leave the area, flouting the prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC, it was argued. The accused said the charges were false. The court, however, found a prima facie case and sufficient grounds for presuming that both accused men had committed rioting and other offences under sections 143, 144, 147 and 148 IPC being part of an unlawful assembly, armed with weapons and committing rioting. When the court enquired if these offences were the reason why the accused were before it, the state denied it, adding that they had committed their act with the intention or knowledge to cause the death of a gunshot victim. “The gunshot injury is stated to be caused to Rahul but where is he. His statement is not on record,” judge Rawat noted. His order also highlighted that the police had, after carrying out a long investigation, concluded that the Rahul, alleged to have been shot at by a mob, including the two men , had given a wrong address and a wrong mobile phone number in his medico-legal case . “So, by the time, the police arrived at the hospital, the alleged victim, Rahul, had vanished. It is not as if Rahul gave any initial statement and then vanished. The state is categorical in saying that the police never saw Rahul. That being the case, who is going to say who shot whom and by whom and where? The alleged victim has never been seen by the police,” the court observed. The question how Section 307 was made out in the case against the two men got raised after it was observed that the victim never gave any statement about the gunshot injury. “How is the gunshot injury established? There is no murmur of that,” the court said. As the two men were charged under other offences triable by a magistrate court, the court transferred the case back to the magisterial court concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/100-suspicions-dont-make-a-proof-judge-acquits-two/articleshow/81302631.cms||Aamir Khan
March 3, 2021||India||Gujarat firmly with development agenda: PM||NEW DELHI: Reacting to BJP’s emphatic win, PM Modi on Tuesday said the results show the state is firmly backing BJP’s agenda of development. “I bow to the people of Gujarat for the unwavering faith and affection towards BJP,” he said. Home minister Amit Shah said the people and farmers of rural Gujarat had put a seal of trust on the government’s welfare policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gujarat-firmly-with-development-agenda-pm/articleshow/81302632.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||83-yr-old’s perseverance pays, others too toil for taking shot||Nagpur: Though his hands trembled and a persistent shiver was visible on his face as he spoke, 83-year-old Vishnu Bhaisare sat calmly on the bed in the observation hall after getting vaccinated at NMC’s Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital on Tuesday. Bhaisare, who retired as assistant police inspector over two decades ago, doesn’t remember when was the last time he ventured out of home for consecutive days. “On Monday, I reached Police Line Takli polyclinic. They told us that it was only for in-service personnel and that we should find out elsewhere,” said the octogenarian, who was accompanied by his teenager grandson. The first failed attempt didn’t have any impact on the Gaddigodam resident, who reached Pachpaoli centre around 10am the next day. Appearing to be the oldest and most frail among those present, Bhaisare was in for more hurdles before he could be inoculated. “There was a huge rush. I sat on the chair in the waiting area till my turn came at 4pm,” said the 83-year-old. Bhaisare apprehended that he may miss out again if he left the centre and decided to skip lunch. “I had eaten nicely in the morning only,” he smiled. Asked about his eagerness to get vaccinated immediately, he said, “A lot of uncomfortable thoughts come to my mind. I am not fearful of Covid, but it is better to be protected by a vaccine.” While Bhaisare had the company of his grandson, elderly couple Jageshwar (71) and Parvati Barapatre (68) from Naik-Talao Bangladesh came on their own. “Nowadays, whose children support their ageing parents?” he asked. The Barapatres too had walked in at 10.15am and went without food till their turn came at 4.30pm. “I had come on Monday too but there was rush. Today morning too people had already reserved spots and token was issued. Mine was 86th,” said Jageshwar, a retired weaver at Sutgirni. All India Bank Retirees Federation (Nagpur forum) president Shyamsundar Butolia (80), a resident of Surendra Nagar, was sent back by Police Line Takli centre. “As per my appointment in Co-Win app, I was allotted Police Line centre but they refused to take us in,” he said. Butolia and his wife Daya had left home at 10am. They too didn’t have anyone else accompanying them. “We approached Pachpaoli police quarters but they said it was a Covid care centre and asked us to enquire here. A fresh registration was done and our turn came in evening,” said Shyamsundar. Some like Ganapati Patrabe (78) and his wife Laxmi (69), residents of Jagnath Budhwari, didn’t face any problems. “We took token, went home, had lunch and came back when our turn came,’ they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/83-yr-olds-perseverance-pays-others-too-toil-for-taking-shot/articleshow/81299037.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 3, 2021||Goa||Police trace missing Cotigao forest guard to Maharashtra||Poinguinim: Forest guard Yogesh Velip, a resident of Ponsulemol in Cotigao, Canacona, who went missing from his workplace at Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary on Saturday, has been traced at Pandharpur, Maharashtra Monday night, said Canacona police inspector Tulshidas Naik. As Velip, who was manning the forest gate at Yedumol, Bela-Cotigao, didn’t return from his duties on Saturday, his family members alerted some neighbours, villagers and friends and began a search operation, combing the area around the forest where he was last spotted. After the search party was unable to locate him, Velip’s brother filed a complaint at the Canacona police station. A police official said that it was puzzling why Velip’s motorcycle with its keys to the ignition, an empty bag, and a wallet with an ATM card were found in front of the gate where he was on duty that day. After the search operation was unsuccessful, some agitated locals marched to the Hati-Pawl forest office to demand action. Unsatisfied with the answers given by the forest officials, the crowd went berserk and pelted stones at the forest office. On Monday, even local MLA Isidore Fernandes and former legislator Ramesh Tawadkar met the forest officer and local police authorities who promised to send a search team on Monday to conduct a joint combing operation in the forest area where he was working. Inspector Naik said that after his location was traced Monday night, a police team was dispatched to get the forest guard back to Goa. Velip has been working at Hati-Pawl for the last eight years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-trace-missing-cotigao-forest-guard-to-maharashtra/articleshow/81300694.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Once bitten, twice shy: Covid scare makes Kamptee go into ‘lockdown’||Nagpur: There is no lockdown, but on Tuesday narrow streets of Kamptee were empty. The crowded municipal town, over 15km from the city, was among the Covid hotspots of the district last year. As Covid is raising its head again in Kamptee after a lull, the people — once bitten, twice shy — are not taking chances, though there were some exceptions too. Following order by district administration effective till March 7, there will be no weekly bazaars, with markets to be closed on weekends, except shops selling essentials. It was only the second day of the week and it appeared like a voluntary extension of the curbs by people themselves. “There has been a sudden spurt in infections since February 10. Before that, the number of active cases was negligible, at around 17 or so. In over a week, 154 cases were reported in entire Kamptee taluka. Out of this, 29 are from the town,” said Sunil Tarodkar, an officer of naib tehsildar’s rank and in-charge of Covid control room. In 2020, the cases had touched a peak of 1,036, with 27 deaths. Thereafter, there was gradual decline. Covid was as good as over till February 10 this year, said the officer. Now if a person is found positive, his contacts are asked to stay indoors till tested, said Tarodkar. Till Tuesday evening, 1,538 persons have got vaccinated, including senior citizens, he said. “The number of people turning up for tests has gone up again. This time, many are coming even if they don’t have any symptoms. They just want to clear their doubts,” said a staffer at urban primary health centre here. “It’s afternoon and I haven’t got a passenger,” said Vinod Rangari, an auto driver standing opposite the municipal council office. “Till a week ago, things were like normal. The streets are deserted now. People are scared of getting infected and many are under the impression that there is a lockdown,” he said. Rangari took TOI around the town in his vehicle showing each of the once-crowed lanes empty. “Eager to earn money, earlier shopkeepers used to start early and shut down late in the evening. Now, scared of Covid, the same people have fallen in line. Some have voluntarily kept their shops closed. Even customers are conspicuous by their absence,” said Ankit Jaiswal, who runs a garment store. A little ahead, a group of elderly persons was seen sitting close to each other without masks. “Don’t worry, they will disperse soon,” said a shopkeeper close by. “We are not scared of Covid. It’s only because of the heat. Will wait till the evening,” said a 70-year-old fruit vendor. The Kamptee Cantonment was turned into a fortress last year. The movement is much easier this time, said civilian residents living inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/once-bitten-twice-shy-covid-scare-makes-kamptee-go-into-lockdown/articleshow/81299058.cms||Shishir Arya
March 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Can ‘neutral’ voters sway tide in Visakhapatnam civic polls?||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ahead of the Vizag civic polls, political parties are wondering about the voting behaviour of people on the higher end of the socioeconomic ladder. Estimated to be around 20–30% of the city’s electorate, these well-informed voters are expected to make sophisticated choices while exercising their franchise. Analysts believe that the concerns of the people from this socioeconomic milieu are different from those of their other urban counterparts. Voters from this section consider the bigger picture such as overall development and policy, analysts say. The ruling YSRC is going into the polls with the belief that welfare schemes and development measures will carry them through these civic polls. Meanwhile, TDP is hopeful that the urban voter would rally behind it. The BJP-Jana Sena alliance is also testing its strength among city voters. Speaking to TOI, Prof V Haribabu, faculty at the political sciences department of Andhra University said that ward-based local issues and other factors such as caste and religion generally forms the basis of voting behaviour for nearly half of the electorate. "The welfare schemes may have their impact on the lower strata of society. But when it comes to neutral voters, particularly the highly-educated and affluent sections, although their presence in electioneering is not always visible, their impact is far-reaching," the professor said while adding that these votes are often decisive in a tight contest and it’s very difficult to predict who they will vote for. J Srinivas Patnaik, a chemistry teacher, said that neutral voters will judge political parties on their long-term vision for the city’s development and growth. "Issues like increasing prices of essential commodities, unemployment, infrastructure, taxes and policies may play a role in the overall outcome of the elections," Patnaik said. Meanwhile, it is important to note that while the recently-concluded panchayat elections saw over 80 per cent voter turnout, elections in urban areas typically report significantly low levels of voter turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/can-neutral-voters-sway-tide-in-vizag-civic-polls/articleshow/81297958.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||SCoR zone project granted Rs 43 lakh for the new fiscal||Visakhapatnam: The much-awaited South Coast Railway (SCoR) project headquartered in Visakhapatnam has been granted a paltry Rs 43 lakh in the ‘pink book’ for the new fiscal. According to railway sources, the amount will only be enough for minor works, camps, file moments and to pay salaries of lower grade staff. “This is an indication that there will be no major progress for the railway zone this year. Last year, the railway announced Rs 3 crore for creation of Rayaghada division. This year, the railways did not mention any allocation for the railway zone in the budget,” a senior railway official told TOI. However, a senior railway official at Waltair divisional office said that there is no link between budget allocation and railway projects. “The railway zone was also not announced in the budget, it was announced generally in 2019. In the railways, the government sanctions funds on the basis of progress of work, not on budget allocation,” added the official. Railway sources informed that while the zone’s progress appeared to be slow in Visakhapatnam, works have picked up momentum at Rayaghada railway station. Two more platforms are coming up at the station along with foot-over-bridges connecting the platforms. Meanwhile, BJP Rajya Sabha MP GVL Narasimha Rao touring Visakhapatnam on Monday said that the BJP government created SCoR though the demand was raised before the party came into power in 2014. “Our government officially announced the zone in February 2019. We are now in the process of officially operating the zone shortly after completion of all formalities,” the MP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/scor-zone-project-granted-rs-43-lakh-for-the-new-fiscal/articleshow/81297966.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Man slits throat of 2-year-old daughter||Nagpur: A 26-year-old man, identified as Kishor Soyyam, allegedly murdered his daughter Radhika, aged two-and-half years old, by slitting her throat with a blade at their rented room at Ganesh Nagar within the limits of MIDC Bori police station of Nagpur rural on Monday. Kishor also attempted to end his life too. It’s learnt Kishor and his wife Puja had a love marriage around four years ago and shifted to MIDC Bori from Chandrapur to stay and work here. Kishor and Puja had regular fights as he doubted her character. On the day of the incident, Puja wanted to approach police to lodge a complaint against Kishor, who had turned aggressive after returning home under the influence of alcohol. As she had gone to alert police, Kishor murdered their daughter and also tried to end his life. She was stunned to see her daughter lying in a pool of blood and Kishor also struggling for life when she returned. Kishor was rushed to Nagpur for treatment. MIDC Bori police have registered an offence of murder against Kishor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-slits-throat-of-2-year-old-daughter/articleshow/81299073.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Political parties hold last-minute talks with rebels||Vijayawada: With the nomination withdrawal process ending on Wednesday, political parties spent the last few hours convincing rebel candidates. YSRC and TDP gave B-forms to candidates and held discussions with rebels. Altogether, 83 rebel candidates from different political parties withdrew their nominations on Tuesday. The ruling YSRC, which declared its candidates early, changed a few candidates at the last minute in consideration of political equations. After giving B-forms to candidates, minister Vellampalli Srinivas and Vijayawada west constituency-in-charge Devineni Avinash started consultations with candidates. The YSRC seems very particular about winning majority seats in Vijayawada. Therefore, the party spent its energies on minimising the number of rebel candidates. Altogether 26 YSRC candidates withdrew their nominations on Tuesday. TDP’s Vijayawada parliamentary in-charge N Raghuram and MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani) continued deliberations with rebel candidates. Speaking on Tuesday, Kesineni Srinivas said that TDP is a very disciplined party and everyone should obey directions. The TDP high command is reportedly worried about the incident where a few aspirants staged a protest outside MP Kesineni Srinivas’s office. 17 candidates from TDP withdrew their nominations on Tuesday and another 12 candidates are looking to contest as rebel candidates. Jana Sena announced that it has grounded 38 candidates out of the total 64 wards in the city. Its alliance partner BJP will be contesting the rest of the wards. Jana Sena refused to give B-forms to candidates who filed nominations earlier and later switched to YSRC. Nine Jana Sena candidates who filed nominations in seats allocated to BJP withdrew their nominations on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/political-parties-hold-last-minute-talks-with-rebels/articleshow/81297990.cms||Venu Lanka
March 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two held with illegal firearms||Ahmedabad: Crime branch sleuths, acting on specific intelligence, nabbed a 23-year-old man, Jayesh Gohil, in possession of an illegal country-made pistol, in the Ranip-Ballolnagar area of the city at 12.30pm on Monday. The FIR filed with Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) police station by assistant head constable Rajendrasinh Fatehsinh states that they had received a tip-off stating that a man with an illegal firearm, wearing a blue-checked shirt and blue jeans would be walking towards Vyaswadi from GST bridge. The cops kept vigil and stopped and searched the suspect when he arrived. A country-made pistol, with a magazine and plastic grips fastened to the butt with screws, was found on his person. He identified himself as Jayesh Gohil, a resident of Memon Navapura village in Bagodara. He could not produce a permit for the weapon and was thus detained. The weapon's value was estimated to be Rs 24,000, according to the FIR. In a separate incident, PSI P R Banga of the special operations group, Ahmedabad crime branch, filed an FIR stating that he and a police team were on patrol in the Karanj-Pankornaka area when they received a tip that one Nasirkhan Pathan alias Khanna Pathan, wearing a yellow T-shirt and blue jeans, was standing in the Pankornaka-Biscuit Gully area with an illegal weapon. The team kept vigil around the spot, and stopped a person meeting the description. A country-made pistol with a 13.5cm barrel and wooden grips was recovered from him. He identified himself as Nasirkhan Pathan, 43, a resident of Biscuit Gully. Police estimated the value of the firearm to be Rs 8,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-with-illegal-firearms/articleshow/81299346.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||‘200 non-resident Telugus received Rs 1 cr as ex-gratia’||Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh Non-Resident Society (APNRTS) provided ex-gratia worth Rs 1 crore to 200 Non-Resident Telugus since June 2019 till date. Out of these 200 deceased NRTs, 36 of them were migrant workers. APNRTS officials said they distributed Rs 50,000 each to immediate beneficiaries of 36 deceased migrants on February 25. “This amount is to support the families who lose their sole breadwinner who goes abroad with a dream of earning a little extra to make his/her family economically stable,” an APNRTS official said. Officials also pointed out that they have designed a comprehensive migrant welfare policy which is approved by the government and various welfare measures for destitute migrants are implemented based on this policy. Documents like ex-gratia application form, family ration card, Aadhaar card and cancelled passport of the deceased, embassy letters, death certificate (certified by Indian Embassy), notary duly attested by MRO/Tahsildar, family member certificate, request letter from the nominee, nominee Aadhaar card, nominee bank passbook are collected for claiming ex-gratia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/200-non-resident-telugus-received-rs-1-cr-as-ex-gratia/articleshow/81298016.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||Govt joins hands with IBM to train youth||Panaji: The state government has collaborated with IBM to provide free skills training to the youth. The collaboration aims to upskill 10,000 learners across 10 institutions over one year in the state. “The collaboration with IBM will provide a much desirable platform for accessing and availing digital content, personalised coaching and experiential learning,” said chief minister Pramod Sawant said. IBM will work with the director of technical education, Goa. “With IBM’s skills programmes, any learner can access content that is specifically designed to develop new-collar job skillsets,” Sandip Patel, managing director, IBM India/South Asia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-joins-hands-with-ibm-to-train-youth/articleshow/81300742.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: No Covid deaths for fourth straight day||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 106 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,90,080. For the fourth consecutive day, no deaths were reported, while 57 patients were declared cured. There are currently 774 active cases in the state with 8,82,137 cumulative recoveries and 7,169 fatalities. Chittoor, which shares its border with Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, continued to report a rise in case numbers with 33 new infections, followed by East Godavari (11) and Anantapur (10). Vizianagaram and Prakasam districts did not report any new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-covid-deaths-for-fourth-straight-day/articleshow/81298028.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||4 killed as car rams into truck||Tirupati: Four persons, including two women, were killed after the car they were travelling in rammed into a truck from behind at high speed on NH-44. The accident happened near Yerramanchi village in Penukonda mandal of Anantapur district in the early hours of Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Manoj Mittal (38), Mahbub Alam (31), Anchal Singh (21) and Rekha Singh (21), all hailing from Delhi but working in Bangalore. Penukonda circle inspector Sree Hari said they were going to Hyderabad and had started from Bangalore on Sunday night. The bodies have been shifted to Penukonda government hospital for post-mortem. Police, who found a few liquor bottles from the mangled car, suspect that the inmates were drinking when the accident happened. The one driving the car had a liquor bottle in his hand. “We suspect it to be a case of drunk driving. We will be able to come to a final conclusion only after we get the postmortem reports,” Sree Hari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/4-killed-as-car-rams-into-truck/articleshow/81298045.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Goa||45 bags of waste cleared at Agonda||Poinguinim: Garbage dumped in nooks and corners of Agonda’s famed Butterfly beach was cleared by villagers on Sunday. The clean-up drive was led by the elected representatives of the Agonda village panchayat. A few tourists too were seen joining the group. Nearly 45 bags full of waste were collected. This was later segregated and plastic waste transferred to enclosures maintained by the panchayat. Surrounded by hillocks, Butterfly beach is quite a popular vacation spot, particularly on weekends. While there is a small pathway leading down to the beach, most visitors prefer getting there via boats. Many hire boats from Palolem and Agonda for a day-long trip to the secluded beach. Barsat Naik Goankar, a pancha, said that it is sad that people visit this exotic and secluded beach, but go away leaving behind wet garbage and other trash. “This garbage attracts stray animals and birds, thus causing ecological and environmental problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/45-bags-of-waste-cleared-at-agonda/articleshow/81300755.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Nagpur||Chanda GMCH contract workers lodge complaint with human rights commission||Chandrapur: Over 500 contract workers of Chandrapur GMCH camping before the district collectorate under ‘Dera Aigation’ since last 22 days to seek their pending salaries of seven months and implementation of minimum wages filed a complaint with the human rights commission on Tuesday.The labour union Jan Vikas Kamgar Sangh has decided to further file a complaint with the state women’s commission and SC-ST commission regarding the plight of the over the inhuman subjugation of over 500 contract workers, who are mostly women and majority of them belong to scheduled caste and schedule tribe. President of union, Pappu alias Pradeep Deshmukh, claimed that Adv Deepak Chatap along with Adv Nandkishor Naukarkar and Adv Rushiraj Somani have stepped up in their support and would fight legal battle for them under next phase of their agitation titled – Halla Bol Andolan. Lawyers supporting the agitator claimed that the labour related laws like Minimum Wages Act-1948, Salary Act-1936, Contract Workers Act-1970, Provident Fund Act, Housing Allowance Act etc being violated in case of GMCH contract worker. Deshmukh informed that the organization is soon going to unite all the contract workers working with different departments under their banner and launch a struggle to gain minimum wages for all of them is their agitation proceeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-gmch-contract-workers-lodge-complaint-with-human-rights-commission/articleshow/81299106.cms||Mazhar Ali
March 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Women voters key to Vizianagaram civic body||VISAKHAPATNAM: With slightly over 50 per cent of the vote, women voters are likely to decide who runs the Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation and other urban local bodies in the district. Women voters outnumber men in almost every single local body in Vizianagaram district. In Vizianagaram city, which will host polls for the Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation for the first time, 1,03,216 of the total 2,02,214 constituents are women. Similarly, in Bobbili municipality which has 45,967 voters, women outnumber men by nearly a thousand votes. The same trend can be seen in Parvathipuram municipality limits and Nellimarla nagar panchayat. The state government has reserved the Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation mayor post for a woman from the BC category. 25 out of the 50 wards are reserved for women. Further, the chairperson post for Parvathipuram municipality has also been reserved for women BC candidates and the chairperson post for Salur municipality is reserved for women (general). Considering the women votes to be decisive in the civic polls, political parties are campaigning directly to women. While YSRC is banking on welfare schemes such as Amma Vodi, TDP leaders are promising to address women’s issues if they win. K Samantakamani, wife of senior TDP leader Kandi Murali Naidu, has been named the part’s mayoral candidate for the Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/women-voters-key-to-vzm-civic-body/articleshow/81298060.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 3, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: N Chandrababu Naidu to join TDP’s poll campaign from today||AMARAVATI: TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu will join his party’s municipal election campaign from Wednesday. The former chief minister is scheduled to address public meetings in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Guntur, Kurnool and Chittoor districts over the next five-six days. As municipal elections would be fought on party symbols, the TDP is keen to revive its fortunes in the state after facing defeat in the 2019 assembly elections when it won just 23 seats in the 175-seat assembly. In the just-concluded panchayat elections, YSRC-backed candidates wrested over 80 per cent seats. The TDP has a strong support base in the urban areas in the state and is hoping to do well in some segments where it finalised its candidates even before the announcement of election dates. Interestingly, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has decided to stay away from campaigning for the municipal elections and has deployed several ministers and senior leaders to manage the campaign and other needs of party candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/naidu-to-join-tdps-poll-campaign-from-today/articleshow/81298073.cms||Samdani MN
March 3, 2021||India||Centre clarifies as Manipur moves on new media rules||NEW DELHI: An order by the Manipur government to an Imphal-based news website “The Frontier Manipur”, asking the portal to furnish relevant documents showing compliance to digital media regulations introduced by the Union government last week, led the information and broadcasting ministry on Tuesday to clarify that state governments, district magistrates or police commissioners are not empowered to administer the Information Technology (intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. On Monday, Naorem Praveen, deputy commissioner of Imphal West, had served a notice on the publisher/intermediary of “Khanasi Neinasi”, a weekly online discussion, of The Frontier Manipur (TFM), in which he directed the website to furnish “all relevant documents for ensuring compliance”, failing which “steps as deemed fit would be initiated without further notice”. In a letter to the Manipur chief secretary on Tuesday, Union I&B secretary Amit Khare said the rules relating to news publishers and publishers of OTT platforms, including code of ethics and the three-tier redressal mechanism and requirement to furnish information can only be administered by the I&B ministry. He also said these powers have not been delegated to state governments. Following Khare’s intervention, the notice issued by the Imphal West DC was retracted. The fresh notice, that said “It is to inform you that this office notice even dated March 1, 2021 served to you stands withdrawn with immediate effect”, was pasted outside the journalist’s residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-clarifies-as-manipur-moves-on-new-media-rules/articleshow/81302658.cms||Swati Mathur
March 3, 2021||Goa||‘Farm bills to benefit crony capitalists’||Poinguinim: The newly enacted law on agriculture will only help crony capitalists, South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha said. He has demanded that the central government withdraw it. “The farmers are protesting because it is evident that these bills will not bring them prosperity. Instead they will make progress for crony capitalist friends of Modi and Shah.” Sardinha said speaking at the Kissan Sammelan held in Sanguem organised by the Goa Pradesh Congress to show solidarity with the protesting farmers in North India. Citing the example of mining closure in Goa by then chief minister Manohar Parrikar, the president of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee Girish Chodankar said that the main agenda of RSS is to use the poor, including farmers, for vote bank politics in the name of Hindu unity and ultimately to have their hegemony over them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farm-bills-to-benefit-crony-capitalists/articleshow/81300824.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||High court reserves order in petitions challenging SEC’s nominations decision||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday turned down appeals challenging the single judge order on the issue of re-notification for municipal elections. Justice DVSS Somayajulu had earlier dismissed a batch of petitions stating that any orders at this stage would be interfering with the election process which cannot be done once it is set in motion. On the other hand, Justice Somayajulu reserved orders in a batch of petitions challenging the state election commission’s order allowing 14 persons to file nominations. Arguing on behalf of the petitioners, who challenged the single judge order with an appeal petition, senior counsel P Veera Reddy said the rule position categorically stated that elections must be re-notified but should not be resumed if they are stopped midway. The SEC cannot resume the process from where it was stopped after 11 months, he argued, adding that as the petitioners are losing their legitimate right to contest the elections because of the time lapsed from the stoppage of election process to its resumption, the process should start afresh to give equal opportunity to everyone. The SEC reiterated its stand that the election process has been resumed as per the Supreme Court’s directions. The standing counsel for SEC, N Ashwani Kumar, said the earlier notification is still alive as it was only suspended due to the pandemic situation. The division bench of the high court, headed by Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and C Praveen Kumar, considered the SEC’s arguments and turned down the appeal petitions. Meanwhile, lunch motion petitions were moved challenging the orders of the SEC allowing 14 aspirants to file their nominations. Given the urgency of the petitions, the court heard the petitions at length and reserved its orders. Justice Somayajulu said the judgment will be pronounced on Wednesday given the urgency of the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-reserves-order-in-petitions-challenging-secs-nominations-decision/articleshow/81298093.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 3, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram couple feeding a stray in condo mobbed by residents||GURUGRAM: A couple and their three-year-old daughter were confined to their car for over four hours on Monday evening on the compound of their housing society in the Vatika Next township as a large crowd — not a random mob but all fellow residents — allegedly heckled and booed them, shouted slogans, deflated the car’s tyres, and wouldn’t let them out till a large police contingent arrived and threatened criminal charges. The family became the target of this unprecedented hostility because of animosity against them for feeding stray dogs, a touchy subject that divides opinion not just in this condominium — Gurugram 21 in Sector 83 —but in neighourhoods, townships and gated societies across the country. The RWA alleged there was 22 cases of dog bite at the condominium in the last 12 months and four in two days before the family was gheraoed. Sumit Singla, Kirti and the toddler could only step out of their car around midnight after police formed a cordon to give them safe passage to their flat at Gurugram 21 in Sector 83. “They kept shouting slogans like,’Sumit Singla hai hai. Kutte to bahar nikalo’,” a shaken Kirti told TOI on Tuesday, adding she also received rape and death threats from the crowd. Kirti said they were returning home had begun feeding a dog when their car was intercepted by another resident, who called others. “Around 6.30pm, while we were feeding the dog at the assigned feeding spot for community dogs in our society, our vehicle was intercepted to prevent us from getting to our residence. The man was subsequently joined by his wife and a group of violent and abusive men and women, all residents of the society. They attacked us and one of the women even tried to force my daughter from my arms. They tried to break into our car by banging on the window and doors. When we tried to escape, they made their children deflate our car tyres,” said Kirti. As the crowd became bigger and more restive, two policemen from the Sector 84 police chowki reached the condominium around 7pm. “But instead of helping us, the cops took the side of the perpetrators and asked me and my husband to seek their forgiveness by touching their feet if we want to save ourselves,” Kirti alleged. The child was traumatised and wailed. But with the crowd refusing to relent, more policemen arrived. A little after 9pm, a woman constable fetched a bottle of water for the kid. “All this while, I was accused of performing black magic and threatened with rape and death if I didn’t stop feeding the stray dogs,” Kirti said. After multiple calls to senior police officials, the ACP, SHO and a big police contingent reached the spot and rescued the family around 11pm. Ram Mehar, the RWA president of Gurugram 21, said the “facts” were different from what was being presented. “In the last one year, 22 dog bite issues have been reported, and in the last two days, four people have been bitten. On Monday, the same dog bit a child. The child’s mother objected when the Singla family was feeding the dog. This led to an argument and Singla’s wife pushed the lady and she fell to the ground. Soon, other women in the society came down and surrounded the Singla family, demanding an apology,” said Mehar, adding the Singla family went back into their car and began recording a video “to present a picture that they had been held hostage”. Pradeep Rahi, a resident of the society, said there was a designated area for feeding dogs but the Singla family fed dogs wherever they wanted. “Children have stopped going to parks, fearing dogs. The family was requested multiple times to not feed dogs inside the society or near the kids’ play area, but they threaten people with cases of animal cruelty,” said Rahi. People for Animals trustee Gauri Maulekhi said of late, similar incidents of intolerance from upscale societies were being frequently reported. “There is a law laid down for sterilisation of dogs, and there is no law to stop people from looking after street dogs. Street dogs are symptoms. The problem is the dog population — killing is not a solution, they need to be sterilised. The MCG has no proper animal birth-control centre. There is also a need to designate feeding areas and give cards to people who are feeding street animals,” said Maulekhi. DCP (Manesar) Varun Singla said the family was rescued and there was no violence and no one had any injury. “The residents had become aggressive and they did allow the family to go to their house,” said the DCP, adding police will take appropriate action after registering an FIR. Animal Welfare Board of India secretary Sujit Dutta said stray dogs are protected under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and can’t be removed from a housing society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/couple-toddler-feeding-dogs-in-condo-mobbed-by-fellow-residents-confined-to-car-for-4-hours/articleshow/81301831.cms||Bagish Jha
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Tonsure victim moves HC||Vijayawada: East Godavari tonsure victim I Vara Prasad has moved the high court seeking directions to transfer his case to the CBI or any other independent investigation agency. Arguing on behalf of Prasad, advocate Jada Sravan Kumar argued that there has been no progress in police investigation even though incriminating evidence suggests the role of the accused persons, including some police officials. He also alleged that police are intentionally watering down the case. Despite the President responding to the tonsuring issue and seeking justice for the victim, there has been no progress in the case, Sravan Kumar said, while adding that instead of providing justice to the victim who was harassed and subjected to cruelty, attempts are being made to implicate him in false cases. After hearing the arguments, Justice Ch Manavendra Roy directed the state government and the CBI to file counter affidavits in the matter and posted further hearing of the case after two weeks. In July 2020, Vara Prasad was summoned to the police station and charged of obstructing sand trucks and threatening drivers. His head was tonsured in the police station itself. The case has been in pending since then though departmental action was initiated against the cops responsible. Recently, Prasad was booked for intentionally causing trouble after his wife lodged a missing complaint. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tonsure-victim-moves-hc/articleshow/81298126.cms||---
March 3, 2021||Vijayawada||SC hears govt’s petition on ABV suspension||Vijayawada: The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the state government to explain the rule position under which former intelligence chief A B Venkateswara Rao was placed under suspension. Hearing a petition moved by the government challenging the high court’s order revoking suspension of Rao, the SC bench comprising Justice A M Khanwilkar and Justice Dinesh Maheswari asked the government as to why Rao was placed under suspension for more than a year. The state government’s counsel told the bench that the decision was taken based on the recommendations of a review committee under 3-1(c) of All India Service rules. Arguing on behalf of Rao, senior counsel B Adinarayana Rao told the court that under rule 3-1(c), an officer cannot be placed under suspension for more than a year, especially in the absence of charges of corruption. The bench asked Adinarayana Rao if the extension of suspension is against the rule position, why was it not challenged in the first place, to which he sought three days time to challenge the review committee’s decision. The bench allowed his request and posted the matter for further hearing to March 9. The bench also asked the state government to file its counter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sc-hears-govts-petition-on-abv-suspension/articleshow/81298129.cms||Srikanth Aluri
