March 4, 2021||Chennai||#200YearsOfTheKirk: Tracing Chennai’s history through St Andrew’s Church||Painted in off-white, with tall columns of its high-roofed portico, the circular body and steeple soaring above the green canopy within its campus and other buildings in the vicinity, this imposing architectural marvel is hard to miss when you come along the Poonamallee High Road towards the north of the city, or walk on the foot overbridge of the Egmore railway station, or even drive down the Gandhi-Irwin Bridge. The St Andrew’s Church, popularly known as The Kirk (Scottish word for church), recently celebrated 200 years since its consecration. “When The Kirk was built, there was no Egmore Station, no Central Station, no College of Arts and no eye hospital. So, you can imagine the topography of Madras back then. And what an awesome landmark it is even today,” begins historian V Sriram, as he unfolds the saga about how the British slowly expanded their power outside Fort St George... The history of churches and expansion of British in Madras are intertwinedSriram says that the growing number of churches across the city and the history of how the British came to encompass the entire city that we call Chennai today are related. “The first church that the English built was inside Fort St George — St Mary’s Church. But actually, they built a Capuchin church before they built the St Mary’s Church.” “The church was later demolished. It was located where the Namakkal Kavignar Maligai stands today. They started building St Mary’s Church in the 1670s and completed it in 1680,” he informs, “It took them 120 years before they started looking outside Fort St George. They started building houses along what is today known as Mount Road. And they built two churches on Broadway. Then came St George’s Cathedral. And then, St Andrew’s Kirk in 1821. So, you can see how they gradually expanded their footprint across the city.” Chennai’s Scottish connectionThe church was built for the Scotsmen who were part of the British administration and the Kirk followed the Presbyterian tradition. “They were the ones who flooded the British Empire as administrators, doctors, soldiers, engineers, businessmen et al. The Scottish were actually paying the bulk of taxes that were going to fund the British establishments. So, they needed to be placated. When they demanded that there should be a church of their own, the government had no option but to oblige. Munro (Sir Thomas Munro), who would later become the governor, was already a powerful man,” shares Sriram. How the kirk’s building style inspired other landmarks in the cityThis was probably the first British-built building in the whole of India, where the foundations rest on terracotta wells, says Sriram and adds, “The region around that area is a river bed. The Cooum is flowing very close by and it’s a marshy land. So, the foundation would have kept sinking; there weren’t any concrete foundations back then. So, they learnt the technique from Indian well-diggers to push terracotta rings into the ground till it reaches hard rock and fill the insides with broken terracotta pieces, shards and gravel. It formed a firm, rocky bed and then, on top of that, the columns were erected. Recently, I learnt that there’s a raft foundation on top of the terracotta foundation and above them stand the columns that hold up the dome. Central station, the Ripon building, the Victoria public hall — they were all built after this, using similar foundations.” Pipe organ, a treasured piece at The KirkThe pipe organ next to the choir pews is as much a sight to behold as the Kirk itself. “It became part of the worship in 1883. Prior to that, the hymns were not played and were mostly chanted,” says Gabriel Sathianathan, chairman of the core committee of its bicentenary celebrations. Installing the pipe organ in the Kirk way back in 1883 was a costly affair. The secretary of the Kirk session (committee), Dulip Thangasamy, adds, “In today’s value, that would be around Rs 80,00. For the first time, they had a sale that December to make enough money to buy the pipe organ. Once in every few years, a pipe organ restorer from the UK — Christopher Gray — comes to help keep the instrument in good condition.” The Presbyterian tradition of The KirkThe kirk is rooted in Scottish Presbyterian traditions. “The word presbyter itself means a teaching elder. The church would choose an elder to lead them. That’s how I, as the presbyter of the church, teach them the Word of God. The session (committee) formed by the elders of the congregation takes on responsibilities of the church,” elaborates Rev Isaac Johnson, presbyter of St Andrew’s Church. Architectural highlightsIts architecture is Neo-Classical with a blend of Ionic and Corinthian style n It was designed by Major Thomas de Havilland, with Colonel James Caldwell as the chief engineer It is said to be largely modelled on the original plan of London’s Anglican church, St Martin-in-the-Fields Its steeple, with three sections beside a spire and ball, measures 111.9 feet and is said to be the tallest in Chennai The total height of the church is 166.6ft The dome within the church, painted in blue, depicts the sky of Scotland Sixteen fluted Corinthian columns hold up the dome The 27-ft stained glass window, believed to have been installed in 1884, was brought from Scotland||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/200yearsofthekirk-tracing-chennais-history-through-st-andrews-church/articleshow/81315599.cms||Ashish Joseph
March 4, 2021||Mangaluru||Bengalureans to get a taste of kambala||MANGALURU: In its efforts to popularise kambala or buffalo race— the traditional sport of Tulunadu— a Bengaluru-based travel agency is offering an exclusive ‘Kambala Holiday Package’ to Bengalureans. A group of 10 persons will be part of the two-day package. They will attend Rama-Lakshmana Jodukere Kambala held at Goldfinch City, on March 6. Ravi M, managing director Arjun Tours and Travels Private Limited, who was fascinated by the traditional sport of coastal Karnataka is offering the Kambala package. “The idea struck me when a friend who recently attended a kambala posted a few mesmerizing pictures of the traditional sport. I wondered why can’t we promote this to those outside coastal Karnataka as well foreigners. I spoke to kambala organiser Captain Brijesh Chowta and came with a two-day kambala package targeting Bengalureans,” he told TOI. Ravi said that a good many registered initially but cancelled following the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Mangaluru. “Currently 10 persons, including five travel writers, will be part of the package. I haveasked tourism minister CP Yogeeshwara to promote kambala and he was positive, said ” Ravi said, who is also the vice-president of Karnataka Tourism Forum. The two-day package will also introduce Bengalureans to coastal cuisines and sight-seeing. “The guests will leave to Mangaluru from Bengaluru on March 6 early morning. Later, they will go to watch kambala till evening. The next day, there will be sight-seeing to various tourist places of Dakshina and then the return trip to Bengaluru,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/blureans-to-get-a-taste-of-kambala/articleshow/81318047.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Passenger tries to smuggle golden screws, rods worth Rs 17L; held at KIA||BENGALURU: A passenger, who arrived at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) from Dubai on Tuesday with a trolley bag on which 42 gold screws and four rods were fitted, has been arrested. The screws and rods were coated with chemical rhodium to make it look like they were made of steel to evade detection by the customs sleuths. He came in the Emirates flight EK 564 from Dubai that landed at KIA at 8.50am. When passengers disembarked for immigration procedures, the customs team spotted a man moving in a suspicious manner and intercepted him. The 42-year-old from Manki in Karwar, Uttara Kannada, had left for Dubai on February 18 from Mumbai. He couldn’t give a convincing reply on his purpose of visiting the UAE and landing in Bengaluru. Officials noticed the strange fittings on his bag and dismantled it to find steel screws and a few rods in it. Thorough examination revealed they were made of solid gold and coated with rhodium. The melted gold weighed 360 grams and is estimated to be worth over Rs 17 lakh. The passenger has been booked for smuggling gold and evasion of duty, sources said. With the international flight operations gradually increasing and operations to the Gulf picking up, KIA is witnessing more cases of smuggling of gold, cellphones, cigarettes and other valuables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/passenger-tries-to-smuggle-golden-screws-rods-worth-17l-held-at-kia/articleshow/81318050.cms||Petlee Peter
March 4, 2021||India||Mirwaiz Umar Farooq released from house arrest after 19 months||SRINAGAR: Ahead of the auspicious Islamic occasion of Mehraj-e-Alam, which falls on March 11, moderate All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq was released from house detention on Wednesday after 19 months. He had been under house arrest since August 2019 when the Centre scrapped the special status of J&K and split the erstwhile state into two Union territories of J&K and Ladakh. According to officials, Mirwaiz was allowed to move out of his house at Nigeen in Srinagar’s Hazratbal area from Tuesday. “I am happy to learn that I am a free man now,” Mirwaiz told TOI on Wednesday. A Hurriyat spokesman, however, said the decision of the release has not been officially conveyed to Mirwaiz so far. Mirwaiz said: “I will now undertake a campaign against drug addiction, which has started eating up our society, particularly our youths.” He said he will ensure that there is no law and order problem in the locality around Jamia Masjid in Nowhatta area of the city. Meanwhile, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti welcomed the release of Mirwaiz from “arbitrary detention”. She termed it a good news for political, social and religious wellbeing of the people of J&K. Mehbooba tweeted, “Good to hear about Mirwaiz’s release from arbitrary detention. I hope that hundreds of Kashmiri men languishing in jails in & outside J&K will also be released soon. It’s time they returned home to their families.” Several mainstream politicians, including former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba herself, who were also arrested following the August 2019 move of the Centre and against whom the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA) was slapped, were released in a staggered manner earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mirwaiz-umar-farooq-released-from-house-arrest-after-19-months/articleshow/81318028.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 4, 2021||Pune||Pune’s STES racing team of Sinhgad Institutes ranks amongst the top 10 in Formula Bharat 2021||Whether it is representing India on an international forum like Robo Wars held in China, International Rocketry Competitions held in the USA, Formula Student Racing competitions in Germany, Japan, Italy, USA or entry into Under 19 Cricket Team India, World Chess Championships, Hackathons and so on, students of Sinhgad Institutes have always brought home laurels. Formula Bharat 2021 is an engineering design competition where students design, manufacture, test and validate a single-seater open-wheel formula-style racecar. Competing in the combustion category in Formula Bharat 2021, which is Indian Formula student racing competitions, with over 70 other teams from across the country, STES Racing team comprising of 15 students from mechanical, electronics and computer science departments, spent several months on research, development, designing manufacturing, testing and validation of the vehicle. Each team member was assigned a particular task like designing, analysing, simulating, management, animation and much more This year due to the pandemic situation, Formula Bharat decided to switch over to an online platform for the competition. Therefore, a virtual event consisting of engineering design and business logic case were the only events conducted in this season. Facing stiff competitions from some of the brightest engineering talents in the country Team STES acronym for Sinhgad Technical Education Society performed remarkably well achieving Overall All India Ranking of 9th position in addition to Business Logic Case 10th rank and Engineering Design 11th rank. Another remarkable achievement is the Notable Mention for Novelty of Business Idea on the Edtech platform. The judges for the design event were; Michael Bakaic - Co-Founder – FIBOS, Palani Samy P. - PD- Chassis, Brakes & Pedals – Ford, Mukesh Krishna B. - Design & Validation Engineer -Powertrain Division - Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., Anvesh Anumula - Masters, Specialization in Hybrid and EV powertrain - Michigan Technological University, Atharva Anil Kulkarni - Purchase Engineer - Emerson Process Management India Pvt. Ltd, Pune, Jayesh Shamkant Mahamuni - Composites Consultant and Freelancer and Karan Bandwar - Director/ Product Development Manager - DesDynamics Pvt. Ltd. The judges for BLC – Business Logic Case, were; Avinash R - Business Presentation Specialist - McKinsey and Company, Chibi Raagul Venkataraman - Analyst – IQVIA, Sumit Modi - Analyst - The Boston Consulting Group and Pratik Singh - Vendor Manager - Cloudtail India Private Limited. No actual racing was carried out due to strict government regulations due to the lockdown. Says, Shaonak Khatavkar Captain of STES Racing Team, “The major difference was that what we create could not be practically tested on track which was a bit of disappointment because that's what the competition aims for, to experience the real form of engineering aspects as well as project management which is best seen during the competition at that particular site. But the enthusiasm to compete and win was very high in the entire team. A passion for engineering, learning and innovation was and will always remain our biggest motivation. It was a wonderful opportunity to learn beyond the confines of the classroom and compete against some good universities across the country and we were determined to give our best.” “In the previous season, we participated in Formula SAE Lincoln which was held in Nebraska USA in June 2019 and the Formula Bharat 2020 in the month of January which consisted of Static as well as Dynamic events where the actual racing took place. This was the first season in Formula Student history where the competition was conducted on the virtual basis” reminisced Amit Hulsure, the Team Manager and Vehicle Dynamics Lead, to which Captain Shaonak added, “Our Future plans are to move ahead from Combustion category to the Electric Category, to making a globally competitive electric vehicle as we know the world is moving towards the sustainable energy options in every aspect. We also aim to participate in Formula Student International events such as Formula Student Germany, Austria, Hungary, Netherlands, and the Czech Republic.” The winning team attributed their achievements to their Principal besides valuable guidance from Faculty Advisors, Dr Amar Pandhare and Prof. Dhananjay Khankal who motivated and helped them improve at every step during the competition. Congratulating the team, Prof. M. N. Navale Founder President of STES said, “Project-based learning encourages students to learn beyond the classroom, developing their competencies in multiple areas. Students learn to design, build and compete on national and international platforms giving them valuable hands-on experience. I congratulate the team and all faculty advisors for their remarkable achievements notwithstanding the adverse pandemic situations. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-stes-racing-team-of-sinhgad-institutes-ranks-amongst-the-top-10-in-formula-bharat-2021/articleshow/81318171.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Several cab services in Bengaluru switch to e-mode to cut operational costs||BENGALURU: With fuel prices soaring, an increasing number of cab operators in the city are shifting to electric vehicles to cushion operational costs. With the setting up of charging stations and entry of EV models, more operators are expected to shift to battery-run vehicles in the coming days. The benefits include less operational costs, cleaner mode of transport and reduced carbon footprint. “In alignment with our global vision of becoming a zero emission platform by 2040, we’ve partnered with industry pioneers who use a mix of captive and public e-charging infrastructure. At present, we have over 150 e-vehicles in Bengaluru alone. We expect two and three-wheeled EVs to become accessible and affordable to drivers, given their comparatively lower maintenance costs. We plan to have 3,000 e-vehicles on our platform in India by the end of 2021,” a Uber spokesperson said. Sources in Ola cabs said they don’t have any immediate plans to launch e-cabs though they piloted electric mobility in Nagpur in 2017. “Now, our focus is to sell e-scooters which will be launched soon,” said a source. MotherPod Innovations Private Limited, a shared mobility solutions provider managed by ex-servicemen, recently launched ‘SainikPod Sit &Go’ mobility service in Bengaluru. “SainikPod is a unique ex-servicemen (ESM) driven initiative that provides end-to-end zero carbon footprint mobility solution,” said Rama Subramaniam, promoter of MotherPod. The company plans to build a network of charging stations for its fleet. Another e-cab service named Envi by Malbork Technologies Pvt Ltd was launched last year. Sanjeev Kumar, founder of Malbork Technologies Pvt Ltd, which operates Envi cabs, said: “We’ve more than 100 e-cabs, but due to Covid, users are much lesser than anticipated. We’re running only 25 cabs. But, we’re ramping up to 300 cabs in the next three-four months. We have plans to expand further within and outside the city this year. We’re also building our own charging infrastructure which will be powered by solar power.” Another e-cab service, ‘eee-Taxi’ is also available for the public in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/several-cab-services-switch-to-e-mode-to-cut-operational-costs/articleshow/81318187.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
March 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt to soon raze lake encroachments||BENGALURU: The state government has promised the high court that 23 encroachments by private individuals in Bengaluru’s Kaggadasapura Lake will be expeditiously removed. In an affidavit filed in a PIL concerning lakes, Mahendra Jain, additional chief secretary, revenue department, has stated that the deputy commissioner has sought some time for the purpose. Kaggadasapura Lake is spread over 47 acres, with 32 acres 16 guntas falling in Kaggadasapura village and 14 acres 24 guntas in Byrasandra village. An extent of one acre 29 guntas each is under encroachment in both villages, with 18 encroachers in Kaggadasapura. Sixteen guntas of land were utilised by BBMP for forming the road, the statement added. Begur LakeThe affidavit stated that out of 137 acres, 6 acres 30 guntas of Begur Lake were encroached upon by a person and another 3 acres 26 guntas used for road construction, leaving out vacant land of 127 acres and guntas. Some excavated soil has been deposited in the buffer zone and no soil has been deposited inside the lake, which is in the custody of BBMP. Subramanyapura LakeThe tahsildar and survey officials have sought four more weeks to conduct a fresh survey of Subramanyapura Lake in Uttarahalli village. Though BBMP claimed the lake has an area of 25 acres and 6 guntas, revenue records indicated it to be 18 acres 6 guntas only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-to-soon-raze-lake-encroachments/articleshow/81318196.cms||---
March 4, 2021||India||Lt Col shoots himself dead in Jammu and Kashmir camp||SRINAGAR: An Army officer of the rank of lieutenant colonel shot himself dead with his service weapon at the Khonmoh depot on the outskirts of Srinagar on Wednesday. Sources said a group of soldiers heard gunshots and ran inside to find Lt Col Sudeep Bhagat lying in a pool of blood. He was declared dead on arrival at a nearby hospital. It wasn't immediately known why the officer took his own life. Lt Col Bhagat's death coincided with an SSB jawan attempting suicide by shooting himself with a rifle in Srinagar's Bemina locality. He escaped with a minor injury as the bullet grazed the left side of his neck. In Jammu's Rajouri district, a sepoy was found dead with multiple bullet injuries in a camp of the Army's Ace of Spades division. The deceased is suspected to have shot himself. "The body has been sent for post-mortem and other medico-legal formalities," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lt-col-shoots-himself-dead-in-jammu-and-kashmir-camp/articleshow/81318205.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 4, 2021||World||UK House to debate ‘farmer safety’ and ‘press freedom’ in India||LONDON: British MPs will debate "press freedom and the safety of farmer protesters in India" in the House of Commons on March 8. The debate is in response to a petition initiated by Maidenhead Liberal Democrats councillor Gurch Singh, whose roots are in Ludhiana. The campaign has already garnered more than a lakh signatures on the UK Parliament’s petitions website. Scottish National Party MP Martyn Day will open the debate, which is scheduled to last 90 minutes. Westminster Hall debates had been suspended on January 14 because of the Covid-19 resurgence, but are set to resume on March 8. "The debate will add pressure on the UK government to take this issue up with the Indian authorities, either directly or at an international level," Singh said. "This is a matter of human rights, the right for farmers to peacefully protest against laws that would otherwise exploit them. It’s also about allowing journalists to freely report on what's happening. This is no different from the UK government taking a stance on protesters in Hong Kong." He said the petitions committee, which schedules debates for petitions with over 100,000 signatures, "realised that this is very much a live issue and it’s not something that can be delayed any further. Many farmers have lost their lives, some are still missing, others are locked away in prison and journalists are being silenced." The petition calls on the UK government to make a public statement on the farmers’ protests and press freedom in India. Westminster Hall debates do not automatically change government policy or the law. No votes take place. But petition debates give MPs an opportunity to raise local or national issues and receive a response from the minister concerned. The petitions system can put issues on the parliamentary agenda that may not otherwise have been discussed in the House of Commons. The petitions committee will only accept petitions on issues that "are the responsibility of the UK government or House of Commons". Jasvir Singh, chair of City Sikhs, has written a letter to UK PM Boris Johnson asking him to take note of the alleged violations of human rights in India in relation to the farmers’ protests". The letter asks why the UK did not "remind India of its legal responsibilities towards own citizens" when it held the chair of the UN Security Council last month. "The UK's diplomatic role cannot be underestimated, and we urge the government to ensure that such important scrutiny is not cast aside for the purposes of any forthcoming trade discussions," it says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-house-to-debate-farmer-safety-and-press-freedom-in-india/articleshow/81318219.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 4, 2021||World||In blow to Imran, his finance minister loses senate seat to former PM Gilani||ISLAMABAD: In a hotly-contested Senate polls in Pakistan on Wednesday, former prime minister and joint candidate of opposition parties Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani defeated the current finance minister Hafeez Shaikh, a development that seriously dented Prime Minister Imran Khan and his government’s credibility in the National Assembly. Gilani contested the  for the Islamabad seat from the Pakistan Democratic Alliance (PDM) platform, an anti-government alliance of 11 opposition parties. Shaikh was a candidate of ruling Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI). The former PM bagged 169 votes, while Shaikh got 164 votes. Seven votes, however, were rejected. Pakistan’s four provinces have equal representation in the Senate but for the Islamabad seats, the 342-member National Assembly is the electoral college. Gilani’s victory was indirectly a vote of no-confidence against the sitting PM. The government vowed to challenge the election result. Reacting to news of Gilani’s victory, his party’s stalwart, Pakistan Peoples’ Party (PPP) chairperson Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari tweeted “Democracy is the best revenge”. While no surprise was expected regarding the provinces, the entire focus was on the contest for the Islamabad seat. It was the most critical test for a fledgling ruling coalition. Shaikh’s defeat has exposed the resentment in government’s ranks. The Senate contest became controversial a day earlier with the emergence of a video of Gilani’s son, Ali Haider Gilani, explaining to lawmakers how to cancel their votes. The government immediately reacted, crying foul and demanding from the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) to declare Gilani ineligible after the emergence of the video. The PTI also filed a reference with the ECP seeking Gilani’s disqualification for being involved in “corrupt practices”. Speaking to media, Gilani’s son accepted that he was in the leaked video, but denied that he was engaged in a deal to buy votes for his father. He claimed that the MNAs (members of National Assembly) in the video belonged to the PTI and were his “friends”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/in-a-blow-to-imran-his-def-min-loses-to-oppn-alliance-in-pak/articleshow/81318263.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Industry in Karnataka wants property tax frozen, power tariff slashed||BENGALURU: Industries in Karnataka, among other things, are expecting the government not to raise property tax for at least two more years and introduce a special slab and are demanding that power tariff be slashed by Rs 2 per unit, in the upcoming state budget. In a memorandum to chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) noted that the power tariff in Karnataka is among the highest in India at more than Rs 8 per unit. “What is surprising is that rates are increased by 40 to 50 paise per unit for industries every year. At present, power is purchased at less than Rs 3 per unit and even from thermal power, the cost is less than Rs 3. Hence, selling power at Rs 8 per unit is unfair and the government should direct Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission to review the power rate. It should be brought down to at least Rs 6 per unit,” it stated. GThe Bangalore Chamber of Industries and Commerce (BCIC), which is in the process of preparing its memorandum, also agrees with FKCCI. TR Parasuraman, president, Toyota Industries Engines Pvt Ltd and the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce, said: “Power is a key factor that decides the competitiveness of industries, especially in manufacturing. In Karnataka, power procurement has been a challenge compared to other states, and industries want the government to reduce tariff.” Pointing out that uninterrupted power supply is key to running machines, he said small-scale industries are struggling to cope with the problem. “To install a 1-Mw UPS system costs anywhere between Rs 80 lakh and Rs 1 crore, how can small industries afford this? The government should improve efficiency by addressing transmission and distribution losses and ensure power is affordable,” he said. According to FKCCI, the present rate of property tax for industries is high and it has requested the government to not raise it for at least two more years. “At present, gram panchayats are charging tax between 0.40% and 1% of the value of land and building which is exorbitant. GPs consider the value as per their whims and fancies as there are no proper guidelines. The property tax may be fixed based on per acre of land owned by industries instead of value of the land and building,” it added. Echoing these views, Parasuraman said many industries have raised the issue and said BCIC would request the government to even reduce property tax until the economic situation improves.  “There are two categories of property tax — commercial and residential. We request the state add an industrial category with nominal tax which is less than the residential category,” the FKCCI memorandum said. As reported by TOI earlier, the government is considering introducing a separate category for industries, but there are no immediate details on whether the rates would be cheaper than the residential category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/industry-wants-property-tax-frozen-power-tariff-slashed/articleshow/81318636.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Bus forum urges free BMTC rides for women||BENGALURU: Ahead of the state budget, Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike (BBPV) has demanded that the Karnataka government introduce free bus service for women on the lines of Delhi. In a letter to chief minister BS Yedyiyurappa, the vedike has said that the initiative was highly successful and was a major relief for urban poor and made buses a more economical and competitive mode compared to other modes. The vedike, citing BMTC sources, said that the cost of allowing free travel for women would be about Rs 800 crore. To encourage public transport and hassle-free movement, the vedike has sought quick implementation of city-wide bus priority lanes. The members said this would help reduce travel time and drive more commuters to opt for buses. Besides demanding augmenting of bus fleet without adopting Public Private Partnership (PPP) model, the vedike has sought for improvement of non-motorised infrastructure. Installation of bike racks on all buses will allow greater integration with workers who rely on bicycles, a representation made to the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bus-forum-urges-free-bmtc-rides-for-women/articleshow/81318637.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Bengaluru||KMF chairman Balachandra could replace brother Ramesh Jarkiholi||BENGALURU: After water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi resigned from BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet, speculations are rife in BJP circles that his younger brother and Arabhavi MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi will replace him. Balachandra, who is currently chairman of Karnataka Milk Federation, will be inducted into Yediyurappa’s cabinet, provided the party high command gives consent. Else, Yediyurappa may be forced to keep the vacancy open to give Ramesh time to prove his innocence and return to the cabinet. According to a minister in the BJP government, Ramesh agreed to resign only after chief minister BS Yediyurappa assured him he would accommodate Balachandra. The CM had to agree keeping in view the upcoming bypolls to Belagavi LS segment, where the Jarkiholis have significant influence. Balachandra Jarkiholi was a minister in the first BJP government in Karnataka between 2008 and 2013 and worked under three different chief ministers. When Yediyurappa became CM for the fourth time in 2019, Balachandra was the obvious choice for a ministry but he was convinced to make way for his brother for his role in bringing the BJP to power. Balachandra was asked to head KMF. It may be recalled that during the 2013-2018 Congress government, then CM Siddaramaiah had to face a similar situation after Satish Jarkiholi, who was a minister in his cabinet, resigned as he was not happy with the portfolio. Later, Siddaramaiah accommodated Ramesh in his cabinet to keep the Jarkiholis happy. Ramesh later continued to be a minister in the HD Kumaraswamy led JD(S)-Congress coalition before he quit and joined BJP. In the 2018 assembly polls, while Ramesh and Satish fought on a Congress ticket, Balachandra was fielded by BJP. The clout of the five Jarkiholi brothers — Ramesh, Satish, Balachandra, Bimashi and Lakhan — in Belagavi is hard to ignore. Hailing from an influential family with varied business interests over the past two decades, three of them — Ramesh, Satish and Balachandra — were elected to the legislative assembly in 2018. But the scandal has come as a huge setback since it’s for the first time the five siblings will be out of power in one-and-a-half decades. Any one of thebrothers had been a minister since 2004. “We are yet to see whether the central leadership will entertain Jarkiholis like the previous governments or consider it an opportunity to end their reign,” said a BJP leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kmf-chairman-balachandra-couldreplace-brother-ramesh-jarkiholi/articleshow/81318643.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
March 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Can BS Yediyurappa put brakes on committed expenditure?||BENGALURU: Unbridled committed expenditure is said to be the main worry for chief minister BS Yediyurappa who is set to present his eighth budget on Monday. Revenue expenditure that was estimated for 2020-21 at 76% of the total expenditure (around Rs 2.4 lakh crore) is feared to have crossed 82%, leaving very little room for productive spending in the new budget. Yediyurappa had proposed the revenue expenditure to be Rs 1.8 lakh crore in the budget with an outlay of around Rs 2.4 lakh crore as he presented it last year with no inkling of the impending pandemic crisis. The estimation has gone awry with unexpected spending on Covid and flood relief clubbed with other expenses taking revenue expenditure close to Rs 2 lakh crore, said government officials.  “The situation is quite alarming as even a good chunk of borrowing is expected to be unproductive revenue expenditure this time. It is a big challenge and we’re trying to tide over by cutting unproductive spending as much as possible,” said an official. Revenue expenditure comprises operational costs, subsidies and exigencies that do not lead to asset creation or returns in the form of income. Committed expenditure that goes to payments of salaries, pension and interest on loans forms the main chunk of revenue expenditure and it has gone up from Rs 59,499 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 81,718 crore in 2020-21.  “A positive aspect of the rising committed expenditure is that it ensures money in the pockets of people in the form of income. But, it should not be allowed to grow beyond a certain point as it causes dearth of funds for development and job creation. We expect Yediyurappa to strike a fine balance,” said Jyotsna Jha, director of Centre for Budget and Policy Studies. The government said it has spent around Rs 5,500 crore on Covid management and Rs 2,500 crore on flood-relief operations. These came as additional spending at a time when the Centre reduced Karnataka’s share of tax devolution drastically. The state took a cut of Rs 5,941 crore in its share for 2020-21 as the Centre rejected the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendation to pay a special grant to Karnataka. “Given the situation, the state government has got more responsibility this time. The budget should focus on increasing the capital expenditure (spending on development and asset creation) ensuring adequate investment on priority sectors such as agriculture and health. Efforts should be made to curb revenue expenditure through fiscal prudence,” said BDA Satya Babu Bose, director at Centre for Rural Studies and Development. The government has embarked on pruning the salary bill through steps like merging departments and cutting extra flab in terms of committed expenditure. The CM has appointed an administrative reforms committee headed by ex-chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, a few recommendations of which are expected in the budget. Budget session from today The budget session of legislature beginning Thursday is likely to be stormy with issues, including demands for reservation by various communities and allegations against former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, set to dominate the proceedings. It will see the first two days reserved for a discussion on One Nation, One Election, which is being held following advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Meanwhile, a workshop on budget and state finances was held for legislators on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/can-bsy-put-brakes-oncommitted-expenditure/articleshow/81318648.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
March 4, 2021||Goa||Without regulars, Redeem, Ishan ready to step up for FC Goa||Panaji: FC Goa facing Mumbai City FC in the semi-finals of Indian Super League (ISL) will be quite a match. The fixture has been a treat for everyone ever since former Goa coach Sergio Lobera moved to Mumbai at the start of the season. Since then they played twice – Mumbai first won 1-0 and then an entertaining 3-3 draw – but the semifinal will be a different challenge. Goa will miss the services of midfielder Alberto Noguera and centre-back Ivan Gonzalez due to suspensions. With the regulars missing, Goa’s bench will be eager to step in, particularly Redeem Tlang. The midfielder started the first game against Mumbai before receiving a red card in the 40th minute for a reckless challenge. Goa put up a brave fight, only to concede in added time through Adam Le Fondre’s penalty. Redeem, though, has learnt the hard way and has now made a comeback, including a goal in Goa’s 2-1 win over Bengaluru FC. “It’s hard because after the match everything went down for me,” Redeem told TOI in an online interaction on Wednesday. “It was hard for me to get back up, but now, finally, I am back up in the field playing and I’m happy about that. I hope I can continue playing for the team, the club and I wish we can win this match.” Goa and Mumbai’s second clash was the most entertaining. The scores were tied 3-3 in the end, and Mumbai playmaker Hugo Boumous was sent off for abusing the referee. Hugo has missed four games since that game and will make his return against his former side. Mumbai have done well without him and the league winners are now high on confidence. “First of all, it is a semifinal. As you have seen in the league, any team can beat any team. So, it's a semifinal, an important match for both the teams and both the teams want to win. We are ready for it and look forward to the challenges that’s ahead of us,” said Redeem. There will be no margin for error and the teams will be cautious, given their attacking style of play. Goa have fought back 11 times from losing positions in 20 games. Juan Ferrando has used super sub Ishan Pandita effectively and the forward has exceeded expectations by scoring crucial goals. Ishan’s four goals in 56 minutes across nine games was good enough for national coach Igor Stimac to summon him for the two friendlies in Dubai against Oman and United Arab Emirates. “I did say I returned to India to get the national call up and that was the intention. In Spain, I was playing but not enough people knew about me. So, I knew if I came back home and if I performed, I would definitely catch the attention of the national team coach and luckily that’s what happened,” said Pandita. Goa are now on a 13-match unbeaten streak, a league record. Brandon Fernandes has been training again after a minor surgery and could play a part. “We have a few injuries and Noguera can’t play but will put in our best to beat Mumbai,” said Ishan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/without-regulars-redeem-ishan-ready-to-step-up-for-fc-goa/articleshow/81318596.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
March 4, 2021||Goa||ISL: Apuia, Akash lead race for Emerging Player award||Panaji: The emergence of several youngsters this season has been encouraging for Indian football. Coach Igor Stimac named 10 new faces among the probables for the two friendlies against Oman and United Arab Emirates, and among them were a clutch of youngsters. The likes of Lalengmawia (NorthEast United) and Akash Mishra were the most notable names and the two are now understood to be jostling for the Emerging Player award in the Indian Super League (ISL). Joining the race is Bengaluru FC midfielder Suresh Singh. Interestingly, the three players have won the Emerging player of the month award for the last three months. From among the three, only Lalengmawia, popularly known as Apuia, has made it to the playoffs and that could be decisive as the panel of 12 experts from the broadcast team vote for the award. At 20, Apuia became the youngest ever captain in the league and scored a stunner in their crucial concluding league game against Kerala Blasters FC, helping his team seal the playoff spot. He has featured in all 20 games. “Apuia, I don’t have to say anything. One of the best players in India we have. I feel happy to see his goal. He scored a wonderful goal and he is a talented player, no doubt,” NorthEast United coach Khalid Jamil said after the game. The midfielder has stood out with his performances this season, winning four Man-ofthe-Match awards. Till the concluding league clash, he had the most interceptions for a NorthEast player and fifth among all in ISL. He also has the most successful tackles among Indian midfielders with only two others attempting more. If Apuia has made heads turn with NorthEast, Akash has grabbed enough attention with Hyderabad FC, even on debut. The left-back who won the Emerging Player of the Month award for January, has shown maturity beyond his 19 years. “He (Akash) is very quiet, has a very good mentality. For me he will be one of the leftback in India soon, of course he has to improve,” said Hyderabad coach Manuel Marquez. Bengaluru’s Suresh Wangjam is also in the mix, and having won the award in December, cannot be counted out. Ashish Rai, Liston Colaco (both Hyderabad), Rahul KP (Kerala Blasters) and Ishan Pandita (FC Goa) are some other names doing the rounds. The award is generally given to players below 24 years. In previous seasons, Sandesh Jhingan, Jeje Lalpekhlua, Jerry Lalrinzuala, Lalruatthara, Sahal Abdul Samad and Sumit Rathi have won the awards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-apuia-akash-lead-race-for-emerging-player-award/articleshow/81318557.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
March 4, 2021||Raipur||Heirloom Kitchen: A personal look at late Shanta Bai Pilliwar’s quaint kitchen||There can never be an alternative to the achars and chutneys that our dadis and nanis have prepared with love and fed to all of us. In an attempt to evoke the nostalgia of her great grandmother’s phenomenal cooking, Soumya Bhave organised a multi-dimensional, almost museum-like experience exhibition in Raipur with the help of her mother Vanaja Bhave. The ensemble, Straight from the Heirloom Kitchen consists of artefacts and personal belongings of Late Shanta Bai Pilliwar who was revered as the headstrong matriarch of the Pilliwar family and was also considered the most incredible cook of all times. This exhibition was part of a larger project which was mentored by an online archive-building incubation programme called ‘Constructing Personal Archives 2020’ under the aegis of Curating for Culture. Watch this: A visit to the quaint kitchen of late Shanta Bai PilliwarA visit to the quaint kitchen of late Shanta Bai PilliwarThe two-day exhibition held in Raipur, Chhattisgarh provided a peek into Shanta Bai Pilliwar’s life as the head chef of her family’s household. One can experience Shanta Bai’s persona through her personal belongings such as her saree, vanity box or Shringhar Peti, a pair of spectacles and other objects of the everyday mundane. In another corner of the room, one can see and touch Shanta Bai’s wooden cabinet which was used by her to store pickles, special savoury snacks such as Chakkali and Gathia and occasionally to hide sour tamarind candies and caramel toffees from her grandchildren and later, her great-grandchildren. A sense of longing to return to one’s childhood is triggered by Vanaja Bhave’s flawless audio narration in which she shares her memories of her grandmother and her cooking. She also shares some of her grandmother’s most crowd-pleasing food recipes with the visitor in the audio tour. One can also notice that some of the objects on display are more than 50 years old; some coins, photographs and utensils dating back to the pre-independence India. For lovers of history and antiquities, the exhibition provides an interesting engagement with some obsolete kitchen appliances that belonged in every Indian kitchen four decades ago. For those looking to relive their childhood, the exhibition becomes a time portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/heirloom-kitchen-a-personal-look-at-late-shanta-bai-pilliwars-quaint-kitchen/articleshow/81319645.cms||Rishabh Deb
March 4, 2021||India||Dissent not sedition, can’t try citizens for anti-government views: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: Emphasising that citizens cannot be prosecuted just for expressing their opinion against the government and its policies, the Supreme Court on Wednesday said expressing views which are not in conformity with a government policy is not sedition. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta dismissed a PIL seeking prosecution of former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah for the offence of sedition for expressing views against the decision of the Centre to scrap special status given to the erstwhile state under Article 370. “Dissent cannot be termed sedition,” held the bench. “The expression of a view which is a dissent from a decision taken by the central government itself cannot be said to be seditious.” As the petitioner pleaded the court to pass an order disqualifying Abdullah from Parliament for making “anti-national and seditious” statements against the country by opposing scrapping of Article 370, the bench got enraged and said penal action should be taken against the petitioner for filing a frivolous petition. Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Shiv Sagar Tiwari contended that Abdullah made grave errors in making statements against the country by saying that he will get restored Article 370 which was passed by Parliament and he must be punished for sedition. He also alleged that the politician also made a statement in which he had said that help from China should be taken to restore Article 370. “The statement of Farooq Abdullah is anti-national and seditious. If such acts are not controlled by the government, then other people like the ‘tukde tukde’ gang having anti-national thoughts will provoke anti-national activities, destroying the peace of the country," the petition said. The bench asked the petitioner to produce the alleged statement of Abdullah but the petitioner failed to do so and instead pointed out a BJP spokesperson's statement quoting Abdullah. "Where is that statement? You have even mentioned in your petition the clarification given on his statement that he was misrepresented. Are you aware that the issue (on scrapping of Article 370) is pending in this court? We must penalise people for filing such petitions for publicity,” the bench said. The court thereafter imposed a fine of Rs fifty thousand and asked the petitioner to deposit the amount in advocates’ welfare fund. "There is nothing in the statement which we find so offensive as to give a cause of action for a court to initiate proceedings. Not only that, the petitioners have nothing to do with the subject matter and this is clearly a case of publicity interest litigation for the petitioners only to get their names in press. We must discourage such endeavours," the court said. The court's order on dissent not amounting to sedition assumes significance in view of the allegations of misuse of the stringent provision. Section 124A of IPC, which talks about sedition, has been invoked frequently in recent times by police against people and activists, including Disha Ravi and actress Kangana Ranaut, for expressing their opinion or making statements on social networking sites against government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dissent-not-sedition-cant-try-citizens-for-anti-government-views-supreme-court/articleshow/81319577.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
March 4, 2021||Pune||City runners complete 80 km night ultramarathon from Pune to Lonavala in 12 hours||Four marathoners from Pune ran a distance of 80 km from Pune to Lonavala. Satnam Singh, Sushil Sharma, Harshvardhan Kheny and Murlikrishnan Pillai covered a distance of 80 km in a single stage. L to R- Rohit Shetty, Satnam Singh, Sushil Sharma, Harshvardhan Kheny, Murlikrishnan PillaiThe night run was flagged off from NIBM Road at 11:30 pm and concluded at Zero Milestone at Lonavala the next morning at 11:30 am. 2 member crew comprising Rohit Shetty and Kanu Dhakhada supported the runners with hydration along the route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-runners-complete-80-km-night-ultramarathon-from-pune-to-lonavala-in-12-hours/articleshow/81319994.cms||---
March 4, 2021||India||Covaxin shows 81% efficacy, say ICMR and Bharat Biotech||HYDERABAD: Covaxin, India’s first indigenous novel coronavirus vaccine, has demonstrated nearly 81% efficacy in preventing Covid-19 after the second dose in those without prior infection, according to its interim Phase 3 trials results made public on Wednesday. This interim efficacy trend puts Covaxin at par with other global front-runner vaccines, the desi vaccine’s co-developer, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), said in a statement. The results, evaluated by an independent data safety and monitoring board, show that the vaccine is well-tolerated and efficacious against SARS-CoV-2 across a wide range of age groups and variants, the ICMR added. Covaxin also demonstrates significant immunogenicity against the rapidly emerging variants, said Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella. According to the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker, the inclusion of the Algel-IMDG adjuvant in the vaccine enhances T-cell immune responses to Covid-19, leading to long-term protection. The 80.6% efficacy figure was arrived at after 43 cases of Covid-19 were reported among the 25,800 Phase 3 trial participants. While 36 volunteers who received the placebo shot got infected with Covid-19, only seven volunteers that received the two Covaxin shots got infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covaxin-shows-81-efficacy-say-icmr-and-bharat-biotech/articleshow/81319964.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 4, 2021||India||Tunnels to link PM, VP homes to new Parliament building||NEW DELHI: Security protocols for VVIPs like the PM and Vice-President entering and leaving Parliament will be less disruptive than at present with three underground tunnels linking the new PM residence, Vice-President’s house and chambers of MPs to the new Parliament building that is coming up fast. The concept behind the tunnels is simple enough: If VIP movement could be insulated from the buzz and bustle of Parliament, there would be fewer interruptions as when carcades move in and out of the complex. If the VIP passages were underground, they would be, quite simply, out of the way. According to the Central Vista redevelopment plan, a new PM House and PMO will come up on the South Block side and the new VP's residence would be on the North Block side. The MPs’ chambers will come up where the Transport and Shram Shakti Bhawans are currently located, just across Parliament. Read AlsoCentral Vista: DDA will change land use of three plotsDelhi Development Authority (DDA), which has approved the change in land use of plots spread over nearly 100 acres in Lutyens’ Delhi for the implementation of the Central Vista redevelopment project, is now proposing to change land use of three plots spread over total 31.5 acres.TOI learnt that the proposed tunnels are likely to be single lane since these would be used exclusively by designated persons. Sources said since these are small stretches, golf carts can be used to reach Parliament. They added the need for such a link from Rashtrapati Bhawan was not needed, as it was a distance away and the President's visits to Parliament are few and pre-scheduled. Sources said the provision of subterranean routes have been made as the primary objective of the redevelopment of the Central Vista is to improve and ease public access to the area above and around the Parliament complex. Read AlsoHeritage buildings, precincts in the Central Vista region will be protected, Centre tells ParliamentNEW DELHI: Heritage buildings, precincts in the Central Vista region will be protected, while the redevelopment of the area along with the new Parliament building is constructed, Centre told Lok Sabha on Thursday. “All listed Heritage buildings, precincts in the Central Vista region shall beCurrently, several stretches within the Central Vista and Lutyens Bungalow Zone are often barricaded for security reasons and VIP movements. These also inconvenience citizens on their daily commute. The public routes may only be used by the VIPs for ceremonial events, such as the Republic Day Parade. Read AlsoSupreme Court clears Central Vista project, new Parliament building, but with ridersSupreme Court on Tuesday allowed the government to go ahead with the 'central vista project', which aims to redevelop the Parliament area and government offices around it. The permission, however, comes with several riders. The SC upheld the exercise of power under the Delhi Development Authority"In the proposed development at the Central Vista, as a strategy to improve public access in the area for visitors and tourists, the routes of VIPs that need high security are segregated from regular public movement routes. The residences of the Vice President and the Prime Minister, and the chambers for the MPs are proposed in close proximity to the Parliament building,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tunnels-to-link-pm-vp-homes-to-new-parliament-building/articleshow/81321112.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 4, 2021||Business||Services sector posts fastest rise in a year in February||NEW DELHI: Activity in the country’s key services sector rose at its fastest in a year in February on the back of new orders while the Covid-19 vaccine rollout triggered optimum for faster expansion, a survey showed on Wednesday. Rising from 52.8 in January to 55.3 in February, the India Services Business Activity Index pointed to the sharpest rate of expansion in output in one year. Hard-hit services sector recovering gradually This was the fifth consecutive month when the index has remained above the 50-point mark which separates expansion from contraction. Survey participants attributed the upturn to improved demand and more favourable market conditions. The IHS Markit India Services PMI is compiled from responses to questionnaires sent to a panel of around 400 service sector companies. The sectors covered include consumer (excluding retail), transport, information, communication, finance, insurance, real estate and business services. The numbers will provide cheer to businesses as well as the government since services was seen to be slow in recovering from the impact of Covid as people were avoiding venturing out. The services sector which includes hotels, restaurants, hospitality and tourism had been hit hard by the Covid-19 induced lockdown. As the economy opened up, the sector has started scripting a slow recovery. The overall economy which plugged to a record low of 24.4% in the June quarter of the current fiscal year has also recovered sharply and posted a 0.4% increase in the December quarter. While the economy is expected to contract by 8% in 2020-21, several estimates show that it will stage a sharp rebound in 2021-22. The International Monetary Fund forecasts the economy to grow by 11.5% in 2021-22 to emerge as the fastest growing major economy in the world. “The February PMI data showed a solid growth performance for the Indian service sector which, alongside a robust upturn in manufacturing production, pushed up the Composite Output PMI to a four-month high,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics associate director at IHS Markit. “Economic activity is generally expected to recover in the final quarter of fiscal year 2020-21 after coming out of technical recession in Q3, and the latest improvement in the PMI indicators points to a strong expansion in the fourth quarter should growth momentum be sustained in March,” said De Lima. The survey showed that employment declined for the third month in a row and companies noted the sharpest rise in overall expenses for eight years. New work intakes expanded for the fifth straight month, and at the fastest pace over this sequence. According to companies, marketing efforts and increases in new clients led to sales growth. Panellists continued to indicate that the Covid-19 pandemic and travel restrictions curbed international demand for their services. New export orders declined for the twelfth month but at the weakest rate since last March, the survey showed. “Hopes that the Covid-19 vaccine programme will be successful in reducing case numbers across the country underpinned positive expectations towards growth prospects. The overall degree of optimism regarding the 12-month outlook for business activity strengthened to a one-year high,” according to the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/services-sector-posts-fastest-rise-in-a-year-in-february/articleshow/81321130.cms||---
March 4, 2021||India||Hathras killing: Cops announce Rs 1 lakh for information on prime accused||AGRA: A 29-year-old man, who allegedly shot dead the father of a woman he had been accused of molesting three years ago, remained missing on Wednesday as Hathras police announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh on any information leading to his arrest. Several police teams have been formed to nab Gaurav Sharma. Gaurav’s profile on social media platforms shed some light on his interests. A BTech from SRM Institute, Ghaziabad, he has posted many photographs brandishing guns, some of them were shared widely on Facebook. He is also seen posing with local party members from almost all parties — SP, BJP and BSP. He can also be seen standing with BJP MP from Aligarh Satish Gautam and ex- BSP minister Ramveer Upadhyaya. Some tied him to SP but the party rebutted it. An SP delegation led by former cabinet minister Ramji Lal Suman met the woman’s family members on Wednesday. Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has already distanced himself from Gaurav. Police have arrested two more co-accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hathras-killing-cops-announce-rs-1-lakh-for-information-on-prime-accused/articleshow/81321329.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 4, 2021||---||26 Assam Muslim women on ‘D-voter’ list move SC||NEW DELHI: Ahead of Assam assembly polls, the Supreme Court on Wednesday sought responses from the Centre, the Election Commission and the Assam government on a petition filed by 26 Muslim women from Muslim-majority Barpeta district alleging that their names have been arbitrarily placed in the ‘doubtful voter’ list for the last 23 years. "The main point requires consideration," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices L N Rao and S R Bhat said after hearing counsel Jayshree Satpute and Tripti Poddar, who appeared for Tahmina Khatun and 25 other Muslim women. The bench asked the respondents to file their replies to the petition within four weeks. The petitioners, 24 of whom are from Bheragaon in Barpeta district which has a Muslim population of over 70%, alleged that Tahmina, followed by 25 other women petitioners, had filed an application in 2019 under the Right to Information Act seeking a copy of the report on the basis of which they were marked as D-voters after failing to elicit any information from other authorities for years. The electoral registration officer (ERO) responded on September 7, 2019, and told Tahmina and later the other 25 women, "As per records, the D-mark is seen to have been put in the year 1997, but no such records of putting the D-mark is available in the office. No records of putting the D-mark are available." The petitioners sought removal of D-voter status, arguing that by implication, it doubted their Indian citizenship. The petitioners said there was no procedure or norm provided under the Constitution or any law to mark a voter as doubtful. "The implication of 'D' mark against an individual's name in the voter list is far-reaching and includes the denial of basic human rights, constitutional rights, and other statutory rights, like denial of ration and the right to vote among others," they said. They said the electoral officers acted contrary to law by not affording any opportunity to them before marking D against their names. "In fact, the respondents have neither furnished any information about the procedure adopted to mark nor any reasons for such actions, despite multiple efforts and several visits to the offices of the respondents in this regard," they said. Though coming from an overwhelmingly Muslim majority district, the 26 women petitioners said they and their families faced social stigma of being declared doubtful voters. However, they did not mention whether their husbands and other family members too have been placed in the D-voter list. They said that placing them in the D-voter list had led to loss of livelihood and hindered access to government entitlements like right to food, education and healthcare apart from staring at the consequences of incarceration and being rendered stateless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/assam/26-assam-muslim-women-on-d-voter-list-move-sc/articleshow/81321377.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 4, 2021||India||26 Assam Muslim women on ‘D-voter’ list move SC||NEW DELHI: Ahead of Assam assembly polls, the Supreme Court on Wednesday sought responses from the Centre, the Election Commission and the Assam government on a petition filed by 26 Muslim women from Muslim-majority Barpeta district alleging that their names have been arbitrarily placed in the ‘doubtful voter’ list for the last 23 years. "The main point requires consideration," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices L N Rao and S R Bhat said after hearing counsel Jayshree Satpute and Tripti Poddar, who appeared for Tahmina Khatun and 25 other Muslim women. The bench asked the respondents to file their replies to the petition within four weeks. The petitioners, 24 of whom are from Bheragaon in Barpeta district which has a Muslim population of over 70%, alleged that Tahmina, followed by 25 other women petitioners, had filed an application in 2019 under the Right to Information Act seeking a copy of the report on the basis of which they were marked as D-voters after failing to elicit any information from other authorities for years. The electoral registration officer (ERO) responded on September 7, 2019, and told Tahmina and later the other 25 women, "As per records, the D-mark is seen to have been put in the year 1997, but no such records of putting the D-mark is available in the office. No records of putting the D-mark are available." The petitioners sought removal of D-voter status, arguing that by implication, it doubted their Indian citizenship. The petitioners said there was no procedure or norm provided under the Constitution or any law to mark a voter as doubtful. "The implication of 'D' mark against an individual's name in the voter list is far-reaching and includes the denial of basic human rights, constitutional rights, and other statutory rights, like denial of ration and the right to vote among others," they said. They said the electoral officers acted contrary to law by not affording any opportunity to them before marking D against their names. "In fact, the respondents have neither furnished any information about the procedure adopted to mark nor any reasons for such actions, despite multiple efforts and several visits to the offices of the respondents in this regard," they said. Though coming from an overwhelmingly Muslim majority district, the 26 women petitioners said they and their families faced social stigma of being declared doubtful voters. However, they did not mention whether their husbands and other family members too have been placed in the D-voter list. They said that placing them in the D-voter list had led to loss of livelihood and hindered access to government entitlements like right to food, education and healthcare apart from staring at the consequences of incarceration and being rendered stateless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/26-assam-muslim-women-on-d-voter-list-move-sc/articleshow/81321379.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram: Student stages kidnapping to mislead family||VISAKHAPATNAM: The 20-year-old student of a degree college who was found unconscious with her hands and legs tied at Gurla in Vizianagaram district on Monday enacted the incident to mislead her family, police said on Wednesday. The student is a resident of a village under Terlam mandal and is enrolled in a BCom course in Vizianagaram city where she stays at a college hostel. Two days into the investigation, Vizianagaram police came to the conclusion that the kidnap was staged. It was also revealed that this is not the first time the woman has tried to stage a kidnap and had enacted a similar incident a year ago. Police said there were no signs on injury on her body, nor was she sexually assaulted. Vizianagaram police chief B Raja Kumari said they had deployed two teams headed by DSP (Vizianagaram) P Anil and DSP (Disha Mahila Police Station) T Trinath to investigate the incident. The investigation revealed the woman left the hostel on February 27, informing the warden she would be visiting her uncle and return after two days. Instead, she took a train to Narsapur in West Godavari to meet her boyfriend. When her brother found out she was not in the hostel or at their uncle’s house, the woman panicked and boarded a private bus and arrived in Gurla in the wee hours of March 1. There, the woman tied her hands and legs using her dupatta and lay in wait near some bushes to be rescued. Police said the woman has confessed that she enacted the incident to cover up her absence from the hostel and to mislead her family members. She has been counseled by the police and is undergoing treatment at a hospital for dehydration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/student-stages-kidnap-to-mislead-family/articleshow/81317145.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 4, 2021||Business||HDFC cuts PLR by 5bps, home loans now at 6.75%||MUMBAI: The country’s largest housing finance company HDFC has cut interest rate on its home loans to 6.75% from 6.8%. HDFC has cut its retail prime lending rate (PLR) by 5 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point), which will bring down interest rates for existing borrowers too. While State Bank of India’s (SBI’s) best rate is 5bps lower than HDFC, there are some categories where the latter matches SBI, as the private lender’s new rates are applicable for loans irrespective of the amount. Speaking to TOI, HDFC MD Renu Sud Karnad said this was the best time for homebuyers as besides rates being at an all-time low, many state authorities have reduced stamp duties and reduced circle rates, which have an impact on stamp duty calculations. “Builders are willing to negotiate prices when they are approached by buyers. With demand picking up, my call to builders is that confidence is still to come in and they should refrain from trying to increase rates,” she said. According to Karnad, HDFC has the best turnaround time in the industry and it is getting better due to use of technology. “We are able to process applications of even self-employed applicants within a couple of days.” She said the corporation was an early adopter of video KYC and straight-through processing of applications. “While companies may give some employees, like new mothers, the option of working from home, sitting together in office is essential for developing a corporate culture, ideating and meeting people,” said Karnad. She said that while the pandemic has resulted in many homebuyers looking for an additional room, the demand for office space would not go away. According to a survey conducted by Anarock Property Consultants, women are turning out to be key homebuyers with 62% of them seeing it as a preferred investment asset class as against 54% men. The security of physical assets influences 31% of women homebuyers, while 28% are attracted by cheaper home loans and 22% by offers and discounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-cuts-plr-by-5bps-home-loans-now-at-6-75/articleshow/81319364.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Vijayawada||Gang held in Chittoor for duping youths on fake govt job promise||TIRUPATI: Chittoor police on Wednesday arrested a group of fraudsters for duping several unemployed youngsters of Rs Rs 1.5 crore by promising them posts in the Indian Railways, Food Corporation of India and other government agencies. Chittoor DSP N Sudhakar Reddy told reporters that A Deva Priyan (27), an engineering graduate from Pattanur village in Villupuram district, Tamil Nadu, developed contacts with government officials in Kolkata. Later, he connived with some accomplices identified as Harihara Kumar, Sudarshan and other persons in Chennai, and planned to trap unemployed youngsters by promising them government jobs and decamping with their money. By appointing agents and developing a network, the group spread across Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. “The gang used to collect anywhere between Rs Rs 15-20 lakh from each job aspirant. They duped at least 50-odd unemployed youth in Tamil Nadu. When the police intensified their watch, the gang shifted base to AP and continued to trap unemployed youngsters in Nellore, Kadapa and Chittoor districts. They managed to dupe several youngsters in Chittoor district and made Rs Rs 1.5 crore in no time,” added Sudhakar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gang-held-for-duping-youths-on-fake-govt-job-promise/articleshow/81317280.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 4, 2021||Business||Adani Group to buy stake in Gangavaram Port in AP||MUMBAI: Adani Group is planning to take control of Gangavaram Port in Andhra Pradesh as it looks to strengthen its position as the country’s largest port operator. Adani Ports has inked an agreement to acquire a 31.5% stake in Gangavaram from private equity firm Warburg Pincus and is in discussions with its promoter to purchase their 58.1% interest. Adani will buy Warburg’s stake for Rs 1,954 crore. Based on this valuation, Gangavaram promoter D V S Raju’s stake will be worth Rs 3,662 crore. The Andhra Pradesh government owns the balance 10.4% stake in Gangavaram, which is the second-largest non-major port in the state with a 64-million-MT capacity. The acquisition expands Adani’s market share to 30% across 12 locations in India, it said in a statement. Owned by business tycoon Gautam Adani, the $13-billion enterprise controls Mundra Port, the country’s largest, in its home state of Gujarat. The Gangavaram deal follows Adani’s purchase of Dighi Port in Maharashtra last month. Gangavaram, which handles both dry and bulk commodities including coal, iron ore, sugar, steel, generated a profit of Rs 516 crore on a revenue of Rs 1,082 crore in FY20. The port’s operating profit margin was 59% in the same period. Gangavaram, according to Adani, is debt-free with cash balance of over Rs 500 crore. “This acquisition is a part of our continued strategy to build out a port and logistics network,” said Adani Ports and Special Economic Zones CEO and Gautam Adani’s older son Karan Adani. Last year, the enterprise bought a controlling stake in Krishnapatnam Port, also located in Andhra Pradesh (AP), for Rs 12,000 crore. It is also developing a transshipment port at Vizhinjam, Kerala. “The location of Gangavaram in the north of AP is a strategic complement to our recent acquisition of Port of Krishnapatnam that serves the south of AP,” the younger Adani said. From one port, with a capacity of 10 million-metric-tonne (MMT) in fiscal 2006, Adani has evolved into an operator of 12 ports, with a capacity of 498 MMT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/adani-co-to-buy-stake-in-gangavaram-port-in-ap/articleshow/81319691.cms||Reeba Zachariah
March 4, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Hariharpur villagers torch police vehicles after recovery of ward member’s body||PATNA: Angry locals torched a police SUV and damaged two other vehicles after a ward member’s bullet-ridden body was recovered from a field on the outskirts of Hariharpur village under the Baniyapur police station area in Saran on Wednesday morning. Sources claimed that the murder was a fallout of political rivalry ahead of the upcoming panchayat polls in the state. SP Santosh Kumar told TOI over the phone that the slain man, identified as Mohammad Saddam (30), was a member of Chhapra ward number 12. He hailed from Hariharpur village. “When Saddam did not return home on Tuesday night, his family informed police that he was missing. A search operation was conducted to trace him after which his bike and cellphone were recovered from a secluded place in the village around midnight,” the SP said, adding that his family had not yet disclosed why the 30-year-old was murdered or who his rivals were. The SP claimed that police were trying to trace the killers of Saddam who might have been shot in the head from behind. He added, “His body has been handed over to his family after conducting a postmortem. The last rites are yet to be performed because his family members are waiting for some relatives to reach the village.” Meanwhile, two DSP-rank officers and additional forces have been deployed at the village to maintain law and order and keep an eye on miscreants. “The SUV, in which a police team had reached the crime spot, was torched. The windscreens and windows of two more vehicles were damaged by the miscreants,” the SP said. (With inputs from H K Verma in Chhapra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/villagers-torch-police-vehicles-after-recovery-of-ward-members-body/articleshow/81318216.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Overcrowding in Mumbai continues, wary private hospitals say no to walk-ins||MUMBAI: On the third day of the expanded vaccination drive including senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities, crowd management remained an issue in some of the public centres. Gates of the Nesco jumbo hospital in Goregaon had to be closed before 4pm as hundreds were still waiting. “On-spot registration is leading to overcrowding and a solution is urgently needed,” said a doctor, adding that people have started queuing from 7am. “The software must be tweaked to provide specific time slots,” he said. At the Mulund jumbo centre, there were over 100 senior citizens still waiting to be vaccinated at 4.50pm. One said he had been waiting since 12 noon and got vaccinated around 4.45pm. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said walk-in registrations have to run as not everyone has access to mobile phone or internet. A day after all private hospitals were allowed to join the drive, only one, Wockhardt Hospital, could run a centre on Wednesday. Dr Parag Rindani said they immunised 210 people because all had registrations. Fearing crowding, most private hospital managements have decided not to allow walk-in patients. Dr Gautam Bhansali of Bombay Hospital said hospitals will need a day or two to get a grip on the software and crowds. “If it works fine, we may start walk-ins later,” he said. Overall, compared to the first two days, the vaccination process was smoother on Wednesday. Only in a few centres, Co-WIN functioned erratically, leading to delays. Garodia Nagar resident Sudhir Vora made two trips in less than two hours to Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar. Senior citizens made up more than 50% of the turnout in the state and city on Thursday. In Maharashtra, the elderly and those over 45 years with co-morbidities made up for 27,842 (54%) of the day’s turnout of 51,240. In Mumbai, which recorded 135% turnout as against the targeted 13,800 recipients, 10,019 from the vulnerable group turned up, accounting for 53% of the day’s total of 18,566. The issue of hospitalisation post-vaccination if someone suffers from a side-effect was discussed widely. Gautam Khanna, president, Association of Hospital, said there were no guidelines. “We are assuming patients will have to pay, but we don’t have clarity yet,” he said. The Thane municipal corporation has started nine new centres, including at Hazuri isolation cell, CR Wadia municipal clinic, TMC school at Balkum pada 1, among others. The situation remained chaotic at the existing centres due to lack of facilities like waiting rooms, chairs and washrooms. “The waiting time was longer as the registrations happened slowly,” complained an elderly resident. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/overcrowding-in-mumbai-continues-wary-pvt-hosps-say-no-to-walk-ins/articleshow/81319072.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP eyes bumper mango yield, boost in export||Visakhapatnam: Mango farmers, exporters and mango lovers in the state now have cause for celebration as the state is expected to get a bumper yield of the fruit this year. The horticulture department with the support of the Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) is chalking out plans to export more quantity of quality mangoes from the state to make Andhra Pradesh the leader of mango exports. As per estimates, close to 3.8 lakh hectares are under mango cultivation in the state with Chittoor having the most area under mango cultivation with 1.12 lakh hectares. Majority of mango growers in the state cultivate Banganapalli, China Rasalu, Pedda Rasalu, Totapuri, Neelam and Suvarnarekha varieties of mangoes. Speaking to TOI, horticulture department joint director M Venkateswarulu said mango orchards in the state were in full bloom and the yield is set to be above normal this summer. In 2020, mango yields were around to two to three tonnes per acre but this year the number may go up to five tonnes per acre. “We are expecting an estimated yield of over 46 lakh tonnes of mangoes this year,” he said. “We have decided to organise a buyer-seller meeting on March 16 in Vijayawada and March 26 in Tirupati by roping in top exporters in the country with special focus on exports of quality mangoes from AP to other countries, particularly the Gulf and Middle-East,” Venkateswarulu added. Horticulture commissioner Chiranjiv Choudhary said that Andhra Pradesh had exported over 1,500 metric tonnes of mangoes to various countries in 2019 and added that the pandemic took a significant hit on mango exports in 2020. “This year, we have taken steps to control fruit flies. With robust flowering and favourable climatic conditions, we are expecting a good yield this year and also chalking out plans to export more quantity of mangoes to other countries,” Choudhary said. The horticulture department has planned to directly export over 3,000 tonnes of mangoes and over 15,000 metric tonnes of mangoes through exporters in 2021 from AP. Mango growers and traders will get at least 30 to 40% more revenue if their produce was exported to foreign countries compared to the domestic market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-eyes-bumper-mango-yield-boost-in-export/articleshow/81317265.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 4, 2021||Nashik||Nashik gets care centre for newborns||Nashik: In a bid to provide emergency services to critical newborn babies, the civic administration has decided to set up a special newborn care centre at the Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital in the city. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has already identified the space at the hospital. The total cost of the project is estimated at around Rs 66 lakh. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintending officer of NMC, said currently, the hospital was functioning as a Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-gets-care-centre-for-newborns/articleshow/81315812.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||20,000 properties missing||Lucknow: More than 20,000 properties in the city are missing from the civic body’s records, a Geographic Information System (GIS) survey commissioned by Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has found. “These properties are located in Vikasnagar, Indiranagar, Gomtinagar and Kursi Road, among other locations. As these properties were not in our records, we are now conducting an assessment of pending tax on these houses. Notices are being issued to the owners to submit details of properties,” said LMC chief tax collection officer Ashok Singh. According to data provided by the civic body, LMC has collected Rs 174 crore as property tax from April to December this financial year. More than 50,000 property owners have paid their pending dues altogether amounting to Rs 67 crore through one-time settlement scheme. The property tax collection target for 2020-21 is Rs 300 crore. The survey was done by a private agency hired by LMC. The exercise had started in August and has so far covered six of eight zones of the city. On why these properties are not in LMC records, officials said that most of the them have been constructed in the past two years and their owners have not registered themselves with the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/20000-properties-missing/articleshow/81320190.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Patna||Gaya airport to operate flights to Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai from March 28||GAYA: Flights to Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai are set to operate from the Gaya International Airport from March 28. While Air India will resume its Delhi-Gaya-Varanasi-Delhi flight, IndiGo will launch a flight to Kolkata which will fly up to Mumbai. Bookings for the new flight have already begun. The Delhi-Gaya-Varanasi-Delhi flight, which has remained suspended since March 24 last year due to the Covid-induced lockdown, will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays every week from March 28. According to airport director Dilip Kumar, the authorities have cleared the slot of the Air India flight. It will take off from Delhi at 12pm and arrive at Gaya at 1.40pm. It will again leave for Varanasi at 2.15pm and land there at 2.50pm. The flight will once more take off for Delhi at 3.30pm and land at 5.10pm. Earlier, IndiGo had started a flight on the Mumbai-Gaya route that operated four days a week. However, it has remained suspended since February 8 because of poor passenger footfalls. Besides, IndiGo will start a flight between Gaya and Bengaluru from April 26, the slot for which has been okayed. Since international flights are not being operated, the domestic ones are likely to boost tourism in Bodh Gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-airport-to-operate-flights-to-delhi-kolkata-mumbai-from-march-28/articleshow/81316943.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Patna||Bihar: East Central Railway to run 11 pairs of special trains from March 5||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) will run 11 pairs of diesel electric multiple unit (DEMU) trains on different routes in Bihar from March 5 to cope with the huge rush of passengers ahead of Holi. Several pairs of mainline electric multiple units (MEMUs) are already running in different sections of the ECR. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Darbhanga-Raxaul special (05207/05208) will leave Darbhanga at 10.45am and reach Raxaul the same day at 3pm. On its return journey, it will leave Raxaul at 4.40am and reach Darbhanga the same day at 9am. “The Raxaul-Narkatiaganj special (05209/05210) will run daily from Raxaul at 4.40pm and reach Narkatiaganj at 7.10pm. On its return journey, it will leave Narkatiaganj at 7.25am and reach Raxaul at 9.55am,” the CPRO said, adding that the Raxaul-Sitamarhi special (05213/05214) will leave Raxaul at 11.40am and reach Sitamarhi at 1.50pm. On its return journey, it will leave Sitamarhi at 3.15pm and reach Raxaul at 5.45pm. Similarly, the Darbhanga-Harnagar special (05219/05220) will leave Darbhanga at 4.10pm and reach Harnagar the same day at 6.25pm. On its return journey, it is scheduled to leave Harnagar at 5.15am and reach Darbhanga the same day at 7.35am. “The Samastipur-Saharsa special (05221/05222) will leave Samastipur at 6.10pm and reach Saharsa at 10.55pm the same day. On its return journey, it is scheduled to leave Saharsa at 10am and reach Samastipur the same day at 2.35pm,” Kumar said. Besides, the Saharsa-Purnea special (05223/05224) is scheduled to leave Saharsa at 6.20am and reach Purnea at 10am. On its return journey, it will leave Purnea at 11am and reach Saharsa at 1.40pm. “The Barhara Kothi-Banmankhi special (05237/05238) will leave Barhara Kothi at 1pm and reach Banmankhi at 1.30pm the same day. On its return journey, it will leave Banmankhi at 2.30pm and reach Barhara Kothi at 5pm the same day,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-run-11-pairs-of-special-trains-from-march-5/articleshow/81316913.cms||Kumod Verma
March 4, 2021||Patna||Patna's salons & beauty parlours yet to get back on track||PATNA: Salons, spas and beauty parlours in the city are yet to recover from the financial losses owing to Covid-19 pandemic. After being closed for four months due to the Covid-induced lockdown, beauty salons opened their doors in August last, but most of them are still ruing poor footfall. Maya, the owner of a beauty parlour at Gardanibagh, said: “People have a negative response. We are still suffering losses owing to poor footfall. I hope things will get back on the track.” Himanshu, hairstylist at a spa/salon centre at Raja Bazar, echoed similar views. “Footfall improved in the wedding season in November-December last, but it again plunged from January. Though we follow safety protocols, people are not convinced enough to visit spas or salons. No substantial recovery of losses has been witnessed till date,” he said. A few salons are witnessing gradually improvement in their financial condition. Rekha Sinha, the owner of a unisex salon at Kurji, told this newspaper: “As Covid vaccines are being administered now, people are feeling safe to visit parlours and salons. We are witnessing gradual improvement in footfall.” Residents, however, have mixed opinion on visiting the beauty salons. Homemaker Ritu Prasad (35) said visiting a salon or spa centre is not a necessity. “It can be avoided for a few more months. I’m not visiting any salon or spa as the Covid cases increased in February and I would suggest everyone to stay safe,” Ritu said. Software engineer Neha Sinha, 26, claimed that salons can be visited in adherence to Covid prevention norms. “Salons or spas are important for personal hygiene. Since Covid hasn’t gone yet, I prefer following safety protocols while visiting the beauty salons,” she said. Student Harsh Shekhar, 38, said: “It makes me feel confident when I come back home after a haircut. Proper sanitisation and compulsion of face masks make it safe to visit the salons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/salons-beauty-parlours-yet-to-get-back-on-track/articleshow/81316897.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Patna||Nalanda Medical College and Hospital in Patna suspends classes as student dies||PATNA: The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna suspended MBBS, MS and MD classes on Wednesday after one of its final year MBBS students, Shubhendu, died due to Covid-19 on Monday night and eight other students tested positive for the virus. All of them had already been administered the first dose of the anti-corona vaccines. Principal secretary of the health department, Pratyaya Amrit, visited the NMCH and directed hospital superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh to ensure that all the students and hostellers underwent RT-PCR test. He also asked the officials concerned to conduct rapid antigen test at Aryabhatta Knowledge University where several students will write the first professional MBBS exam from Thursday. Dr Binod told this newspaper that the samples of the students, who had tested Covid positive, were being sent to the Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar for confirmation of the virus strain. Shubhendu, who had left for Begusarai on February 24 and was admitted to a local hospital with corona symptoms, died on March 1. The principal secretary has directed the civil surgeon of Begusarai to get all his family members tested for Covid. Pratyaya said the Begusarai administration was directed to declare the locality of Shubhendu as micro-containment zone and carry out test of all in the neighborhood. He said the vehicle in which the victim travelled from Patna, its driver and other accomplishes were being traced. The government is quite serious and in case of confirmation of any new mutant strain, further plan of action would be announced, he added. NMCH deputy superintendent, Dr Satish Kumar, said classes would resume after all the students underwent RT-PCR test. “There are nearly 500 students, including girls, in our hostels,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nmch-suspends-classes-as-student-dies/articleshow/81316714.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Patna||Demolish chain of liquor smugglers: Bihar CM||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Wednesday directed police and excise officials to continue the drive against the traders and suppliers of illegal liquor in a dedicated manner so that they did not escape the clutches of law. While reviewing the functioning of the prohibition, excise and registration department at his official residence, the CM said, “Review the enforcement of prohibition on a regular basis from the state headquarters and give tough punishment to the violators through speedy trial in courts.” The manufacture, trade and sale of liquor have been banned in Bihar since April 5, 2016. The CM further asked the officials to demolish the chain of people involved in the illegal trade of liquor outside and inside the state and create fear in their minds. He said, “Prohibition has brought a positive change in the society.” At the beginning of the review meeting, prohibition-cum-excise commissioner B Kartikey Dhanji made a presentation before the CM about the recovery of illegal liquor in the last two months, status of confiscation cases, seizure of vehicles and disciplinary action taken against government officials and employees. The CM said, “Majority of the people understand that drinking liquor is a very bad thing.” State’s prohibition, excise and registration minister Sunil Kumar, chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, DGP S K Singhal and development commissioner Amir Subhani, among others, were present in the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-demolish-chain-of-liquor-smugglers/articleshow/81316932.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Vijayawada||CM bats for digitisation of cooperative banks||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked officials to digitalise cooperative banks and societies in the state. The CM also directed officials to implement the recommendations of NABCONS (Nabard Consultancy Services-Nabcon) on management methods to strengthen cooperative services and run them efficiently. Speaking at a review meeting on the cooperative sector at his Tadepalli camp office on Wednesday, Jagan Mohan Reddy told the officials to digitalise APCOB, DCCBs and Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) across the state on par with nationalised banks. He also wanted the officials to ensure that the PACS should offer non-credit services along with credit services. The chief minister wanted the officials to connect the PACS with the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) and have one PACS for every three RBKs. He also directed them to amend the AP Cooperative Societies Act to allow half of the board to retire every two-and-a-half years. He told the officials to bring in professionals in a one-third ratio in PACS, including agriculture assistants working in village secretariats. The chief minister has agreed to the recommendations and to amend the act. It was decided to audit PACS regularly and the chief minister directed that an action plan be prepared on irregularities and suggested that the investigation should be done through third party agencies. The chief minister favoured increasing the market share of cooperative banks up to 20 per cent and the planning of disbursement of loans should support the programmes of RBKs and food processing MSME units. He said the cooperative services should be transparent and there should be no scope for corruption in the sector and directed ensuring the efficiency of district central cooperative (DCC) banks is increased and good management practices are followed. The officials informed the chief minister that DCCBs of Kadapa, Kurnool, Anantapur and Eluru are running in losses and their licences may be cancelled soon. They further said 45 per cent of Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) are running in losses and 49 per cent of mandals are not linked to the DCC bank network, adding that DCC banks are plagued by issues such as lending only for crop loans, not disbursing an adequate number of loans, corruption and no use of technology. Agriculture and cooperatives special chief secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, cooperative services special secretary Y Madhusudan Reddy, commissioner and registrar of cooperative services Ahmed Babu and other officials were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-bats-for-digitisation-of-cooperative-banks/articleshow/81317113.cms||Gopi Dara
March 4, 2021||Surat||Buoyant BJP now trains guns at Chhotu||Surat: A day after BJP swept panchayat polls across the tribal-dominated South Gujarat, including tribal strongman Chhotu Vasava's bastion in Bharuch and Narmada district, the saffron party has now trained its gun towards Chhotu Vasava. “Chhotu Vasava’s son got defeated and now Chhotubhai will lose. It's the beginning of an end for the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP),” said state BJP chief, C R Paatil, at a brief stopover at Bharuch railway station on Wednesday. Sources say that this was for the first time, when BJP leaders have started attacking Chhotu Vasava directly. Earlier on Wednesday morning, while responding to Jaghadia MLA Chhotu Vasava's allegations that there were problems in EVM, BJP MP from Bharuch, Mansukh Vasava, refuted those allegations. “Chhotu Vasava has misguided the tribal populations for the past many years. His accusations are baseless. EVMs are being used across the country. Why Chhotu Vasava is not speaking when his wife Sarlaben won on Bharuch district panchayat's Dharoli seat? Tribals of Bharuch and Narmada district have lost faith in Chhotu Vasava's BTP. We have put a development agenda before the tribals and they accepted it,” said Mansukh Vasava . On Tuesday’s panchayat results, out of the 34 seats in Bharuch district panchayat the BJP won 27 seats , while BTP won 3 and Congress won four seats. Bharuch and Narmada districts are considered as bastions of Chhotu Vasava and his son Mahesh Vasava, who is also an MLA from Dediyapada. Vasava’s BTP joined hands with Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) ahead of panchayat polls to garner minority votes, but suffered defeats at the hand of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/buoyant-bjp-now-trains-guns-at-chhotu/articleshow/81317070.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Vijayawada||Alipiri police put out picture of suspect in kidnap case||Tirupati: Speeding up the investigation into the kidnapping case of a six-year-old boy in Tirupati on February 27, Alipiri police released the picture of the suspect on Wednesday. Alipiri CI Devendra Kumar told reporters that six-year-old Sivam Kumar Sahoo who came to Tirupati on a pilgrimage with his parents from Chhattisgarh was lured and abducted at the Alipiri link bus stand in the city on February 27. Following the instructions of Tirupati SP CH Venkata Appala Naidu, Alipiri police formed special teams and sped up the investigation. On analysing CCTV footage at the link bus station, police saw that the kidnapper had sat close by the family and was keenly watching their movements before luring the boy and walking away with him when the family took their eyes off the child for a moment. After releasing pictures of the boy and his kidnapper, Devendra Kumar appealed to the public to inform the police by dialling 9440796752, WhatsApp number 8099999977 or the police control room 6309913960 if they spot the boy or the kidnapper in their surroundings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/alipiri-police-put-out-picture-of-suspect-in-kidnap-case/articleshow/81317241.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||‘Protecting Mansas trust lands is crucial’||Visakhapatnam: Chairperson of the Mansas trust and Simhachalam trust board Sanchaita Gajapati Raju said she has brought transparency and accountability in the affairs of Mansas trust in the last year by digitising land records and computerising accounts, besides focussing on legal affairs. Sanchaita will complete one year as chairperson of the two trusts on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, she said, “We need to protect the trust lands, optimise them and generate revenue to invest into education. My grandfather set up the educational institutions first.” For this purpose, 14,000 acres of land were given to the trust. The land is worth an estimated Rs 55,000 crore at present. However, around 5,000 out of 14,000 acres have been encroached upon and more than 300 cases are pending in the courts, the chairperson said, adding that 5.55 lakh papers related to land records were digitised within a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/protecting-mansas-trust-lands-is-crucial/articleshow/81317191.cms||Siva G
March 4, 2021||Vadodara||Family of six attempt suicide over ‘financial’ crisis; three die||Vadodara: Shockwaves spread through Sama area on Wednesday evening as six members of a a plasticware shop owner's family attempted suicide, reportedly due to severe financial crisis.While three persons survived, three including the oldest and two youngest members of the family died.  The members consumed pesticide by mixing it in an orange-based and cola drink sometime before 5 pm. The three deceased were identified as 58-year-old Narendra Soni and his daughter Riya (19) and grandson, Parth (3). Narendra’s wife Deepti, son Bhavin and his wife Urvashi were declared stable by Wednesday night and are undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Narendra had a plasticware shop in Mangal Bazaar while Bhavin worked as a computer repairer. However, over a year-and-half back, Narendra had to shut his shop as it was not doing well and the family also sold their own house, which they had been living in for 15-odd years, and shifted to a rented accommodation six months ago. Over the past few months, they also sold off their vehicles including a car and two two-wheelers besides a television to make ends meet.The family was also planning to vacate the rented house on March 18 and had asked owner R P Gadhvi to come over on Wednesday evening and collect the outstanding rent. The poison-laced drink was first fed to Parth followed by Narendra and other family members. After consuming the drink, Bhavin locked the iron grill and threw the key outside. He later called the police control room at 5 pm to inform that a family has consumed poison in Swati society in Sama and the house is locked but the key has been thrown outside.When police reached, Bhavin, Urvashi, Deepti and Riya were lying on the floor in their living room, while Narendra and Parth were on the bed. As Bhavin, Deepti and Urvashi were still breathing, they were taken to the private hospital. “As of now, we believe that financial crisis is the reason behind the suicide attempt,” said assistant commissioner of police Bharat Rathod. Did failed house deal add to pressure? Soni had earlier finalized a deal for his house with one Bharat Vaghela for Rs 27 lakh and had taken Rs 1 lakh as token. But the deal was later called off and Vaghela was given a cheque last week which he deposited on February 26. On Tuesday, the cheque bounced and Soni assured Vaghela that he would repay the entire amount along with penalty on Wednesday evening. Neighbour’s claim that they struck another deal, but the sale deed could not be done as there was a bank loan to repay. Social worker’s move helped save three lives Sama police station opened the house and found three members — Bhavin, his mother Deepti and Urvashi — breathing. They immediately called an ambulance, but as it was taking time, Congress worker Jitendra Solanki, a resident of the same area, took them in his pick-up van to the hospital. “A few minutes more would have cost their lives and so I took the risk of transporting them in my vehicle. They are stable now,” said Solanki. Droppers used to mix pesticides Cops found two two-litre bottles of soft drinks, a pesticide bottle and a couple of glasses that had soft drinks. Some coloured substance was strewn around the floor. Cops also found a few droppers which were used for mixing the pesticide in the soft-drinks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/family-of-six-attempt-suicide-over-financial-crisis-three-die/articleshow/81316597.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Now, +ve flyers from UK, Middle East, Brazil can isolate in pvt Mumbai hospitals||Mumbai: BMC on Wednesday updated its quarantine guidelines for international passengers arriving from the UK, Europe, the Middle East, South Africa and Brazil. One of important additions was if travellers are found to be Covid positive or asymptomatic on arrival or on day seven of their arrival, they can be shifted to private hospitals as well, unlike earlier when they had to be isolated at Seven Hills Hospital if from the UK, and GT Hospital if from the Middle East, South Africa, Europe or Brazil. The designated private hospitals are Bombay, Raheja, Hinduja and Reliance. If travellers are found negative on day seven, then they are to be discharged from institutional quarantine and sent to mandatory home quarantine for another seven days. All contacts of those travellers who turn positive during home quarantine are to be isolated too. These guidelines follow increasing evidence of mutant variants of SARS CoV2 in circulation in the UK, Brazil and South Africa. Until now, passengers from the UK, Europe, South Africa and Middle East were admitted only at GT and Seven Hills. With the addition of Brazil to the list, BMC has also given the option of private hospitals. The Central government had made it mandatory for incoming passengers from Brazil to be sent to institutional quarantine for seven days from February 17, 2021. “Passengers arriving/transiting through flights originating from Brazil require compulsory seven days of institutional quarantine, irrespective of negative report on pre boarding,” states the updated guidelines circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-ve-flyers-from-uk-middle-east-brazil-can-isolate-in-pvt-mumbai-hospitals/articleshow/81317862.cms||Richa Pinto
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||No new taxes in state budget, health outlay up marginally||Gandhinagar: Taking a cue from the Union budget, the Gujarat government on Wednesday refrained from announcing any new taxes or revising existing levies in the state budget for 2021-22. This due to a large number of people benefiting from the Aatmanirbhar schemes and small businesses becoming self-reliant again. Despite the unprecedented focus on the health and healthcare infrastructure following the Covid-19 pandemic, the budget marginally increased the outlay for health and family welfare. “The budget plan size of Rs 2,27,029 crore for 2021-22 is higher than that of 2020-21,” said deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who presented the Rs 587.8 crore surplus in the state assembly. The budget size, however, shows a rise of just 4.48% over the Rs 2,17,287 crore size of the previous budget. “The budget endeavours to ensure that the state’s development is not hampered by the pandemic,” he said. No new major project or noteworthy scheme was announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-new-taxes-in-state-budget-health-outlay-up-marginally/articleshow/81317933.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||State sets ball rolling for computer classes in schools, lessons to start from Class V||Kolkata: The Bengal government has taken a step towards introducing integrated computerized education using information and communication technology in 1,719 secondary and higher secondary schools across the state with the aim to provide computer literacy and computer-aided education. Computer laboratories will now be set up in government and government-aided schools for students of classes V to XII in accordance with the curriculum prescribed by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education. A committee of independent educationists, principals, teachers and administrators has finalized the syllabus. In early 2019, the state had said computer education would be introduced as a compulsory subject from Class V. The introduction was deferred to 2020 because the syllabus was not finalized and computers, internet connection and teachers were not available in most government schools. But the pandemic and the lockdown forced the government to defer the plan again. “The process of setting up the laboratories and installing computers and other hardware will start soon. The plan is to introduce computer education as a compulsory subject in Class V from the next academic year and gradually take it to the higher classes,” said an official. At present, computer education is available as an optional subject for classes IX and X, but hardly any school has the infrastructure to support it. In ICSE and CBSE schools, computers are taught from the middle school, creating an uneven field for students passing out of government schools. “The ICT Policy in school education aims at preparing our students for creative participation in establishment, sustenance and growth of a knowledge society leading to all-round socio-economic development of the nation and global competitiveness. The main objective of ICT is to provide computer literacy and computer-aided education in secondary and higher secondary schools,” the official said. Principals of government schools have welcomed the decision. “Computer education is the need of the hour, but lack of proper infrastructure doesn’t allow many students to opt for it,” said Bivash Saniel, headmaster of Scottish Church Collegiate School. However, some principals have questioned the feasibility of the project in the interiors. “We neither have good teachers nor the internet connection. Even the power supply is infrequent here. It is going to be difficult to set up infrastructure in schools in far-flung areas,” said the principal of a school in a south Bengal district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-sets-ball-rolling-for-computer-classes-in-schools-lessons-to-start-from-class-v/articleshow/81318566.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Forgery charge added in Mira Road club case in mumbai||Mumbai: The economic offences wing (EOW) probing a case of alleged illegal construction of a club on wetlands in Mira Road by former BJP MLA and former mayor of Mira-Bhayander Narendra Mehta has now added sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, and forgery and cheating. Mehta has been summoned to appear before an EOW officer on March 4. On Bombay high court’s orders, the police had in 2019 registered an offence against Mehta and the management of Seven Eleven Club under. “Lapses of government officials and allegations are being probed. Scientific evidence is also being gathered,” said a senior EOW officer. Activist Dheeraj Parab had filed a criminal writ petition in high court in 2019, alleging that Mehta, the management of Seven Eleven Club and officials of Mira-Bhayander civic body had destroyed mangroves on 3.5 acres of land and built a luxurious clubhouse in violation of environmental norms.  “We’ve summoned Mehta on March 4,” said the officer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/forgery-charge-added-in-mira-road-club-case-in-mumbai/articleshow/81321123.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Business||NTT Netmagic plans captive power plant in Tamil Nadu||Chennai: NTT India, through its data centre services arm NTT Netmagic, is in the process of setting up a captive renewable energy power plant in Tamil Nadu. “Currently, we are buying renewable energy in Chennai through open access. We are working to set up a hybrid wind-solar power plant in the state to meet the data centre park's energy needs,” NTT India managing director Sharad Sanghi said in an interaction with TOI. The company did not specify the amount of investment in the power plant and the number of jobs this will create for the state. NTT said it has a goal to ensure that almost 100% of the power needs of its data centres are met through renewable energy, and is hence either setting up their own captive power plants or buying third-party power. NTT has already set up a 62.5 MW plant in Maharashtra, and a 24/27 MW hybrid wind solar plant in Karnataka.The move is part of NTT’s plans to invest around $2 billion in the expansion of data centers, networks, and solar power projects in India. It signed an MoU with the TN government last month to set up its second data centre park in Ambattur, Chennai with an initial investment of around Rs 1,300 crore. NTT is also constructing a 8100 km-long MIST undersea cable with landing stations at Chennai and Mumbai in India to improve communication infrastructure between countries across the Indian oceans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ntt-netmagic-plans-captive-power-plant-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/81318240.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
March 4, 2021||Vijayawada||Fog at Vijayawada airport hits flight services for third time in 10 days||Vijayawada: Fog interrupted the movement of aircrafts at Vijayawada International Airport on Wednesday. This is the third time that aircrafts have faced difficulty in landing within a span of ten days. An Air India New Delhi-Vijayawada flight got diverted to Hyderabad on Wednesday due to poor visibility. Another Spicejet Bengaluru-Vijayawada flight faced difficulty in landing and was delayed for almost 40 minutes. Passengers complained of problems with the delay in flight services. Airport authorities suspect the burning of crop residue in nearby fields as one of the factors for poor visibility. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fog-at-vijayawada-airport-hits-flight-services-for-third-time-in-10-days/articleshow/81317301.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Business||Sebi says MIIs to formulate code to prevent fraud, mkt abuse||Mumbai: Markets regulator Sebi on Wednesday has asked stock exchanges, clearing corporations and depositories to adopt a code of conduct and an institutional mechanism to prevent fraud or market abuse by these market infrastructure institutions (MIIs) and top officials of these bodies. The regulator said that the managing director (MD) or the chief executive officer (CEO) of MIIs will have to frame the code of conduct, while the board of directors will have to ensure compliance of the code by the MD and CEO. The new code will be on the lines of its insider trading rules, it said in a circular. All MIIs should put in place the code “to regulate, monitor and report trading by their designated persons and immediate relative of designated persons towards achieving compliance with the PIT (prohibition of insider trading) regulations”, Sebi said. Every MII should have to identify and designate a compliance officer to administer this code of conduct by its MD/CEO. Sebi said the circular would become effective immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-says-miis-to-formulate-code-to-prevent-fraud-mkt-abuse/articleshow/81319974.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Over 100 gravel bits pierce Gujarat boy’s eyes||AHMEDABAD: His eyes resembled grapes crushed in a hand. Nearly 100 minute pieces of stones and gravel along with some chemical had pierced through the eyes of Mahendra Chaudhary, a class VII student, in an accidental equipment blast on November 23. His parents were heartbroken when local doctors told them removing the eyes was the only option as they were badly mashed. But three months after the accident that nearly left him blind, Mahendra has regained vision like any other normal person. A four-hour 3D surgery performed by Ahmedabad-based retina and ocular trauma surgeon Dr Parth Rana has ensured that Mahendra can attend school, read and write like any other child; his father Bhurabhai never went to school, so he wanted him to achieve academic excellence. “I own just about two bigha land. I wanted my son to study and do something big. But we were heartbroken when doctors initially told us that both his eyes would have to be removed,” Bhurabhai, a marginal farmer in Vachdal village in Banaskantha, told TOI. On November 23, Mahendra and his friends were playing outside their house when a digging equipment accidentally went off and resulted in a blast. “We had to take 20 stitches in both eyes together with utmost care as a large number of solid particles had got lodged. We removed over 100 microscopic particles of stone and gravel from the conjunctiva (white exposed portion of the eye) and some gravel pieces from other parts of the eye,” Dr Rana told TOI. Moreover, doctors had to simultaneously operate both his eyes, something that’s not done in case of eyes. “Normally, only one eye is operated at a time. But considering the severity of injuries and his tender age, we decided to perform the surgery on both eyes. Using 3D technology, we were successful in saving his vision,” he said. Doctors also found a haemorrhage in one eye, forcing them to remove the natural gel that fills the eye cavity using vitrectomy. “We prepared a specialized paediatric anesthesia workstation which automatically controls the amount of anaesthesia as it is risky to keep the patient sedated in such surgeries for long hours due to risks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-100-gravel-bits-pierce-boys-eyes/articleshow/81317889.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 10 booked for killing dalit RTI activist in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: The murder of Dalit RTI activist in Sanodar village of Bhavnagar on Tuesday night was a bitter fallout out of a seven-year-old dispute over settling a complaint of atrocity registered by him against some persons of the upper caste. On Wednesday, police arrested 10 persons who had allegedly assaulted the victim Amra Boricha and with sharp weapons and sticks inside his house. In the FIR lodged with Ghogha police station, Borcha’s daughter Nirmala alleged that they were being pressurized to settle the case registered against some of the accused in 2013. Meanwhile, P R Solanki, sub-inspector of Ghogha police station, was also suspended after being named in the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10-booked-for-killing-dalit-rti-activist/articleshow/81317960.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chennai||TN’s Coalition govts a forgotten reality||By R Rangaraj The DMK and the AIADMK would have us believe that the idea of a coalition government is new to Tamil Nadu and that people of the state were against it. However, history shows otherwise. The first government formed in Tamil Nadu after the first general elections in free India in 1952 was a coalition government. The coalition arrangement was initiated by C Rajagopalachari for the Congress, with the 1951-52 elections throwing up a mixed result. No party secured a simple majority. The composite Madras State then included parts of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka with a total of 375 assembly members. The Indian National Congress was reduced to a minority with 152 members. Read the entire story on TOI+What if 2021 throws up a 1952 verdict||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tns-coalition-govts-a-forgotten-reality/articleshow/81319035.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Varanasi||Ganga View Gallery to add sparkle to Kashi Vishwanath Dham project||Varanasi: The Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) will now also have a giant platform that will enable a panoramic view of the beauty of the holy Ganga in flow and ghats on one side and the entire corridor area as well. Since the platform will provide a clear, unobstructed view of the holy river, it is being referred to as ‘Ganga View Gallery’ in the project. The addition of the new feature has been possible after the dilapidated buildings purchased late were razed. The huge space created by the demolition has provided the leeway to make some changes in the approved design of the corridor project even after completion of over 30% construction. It has enabled the alignment of approach road from access points near Manikarnika, Jalasen and Lalita Ghats to KV Dham, making it more convenient for visitors. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI, “The razing of an old building created a huge space near the ghats, bringing relief to us, as initial alignment of approach road from ghats to KVT was in zigzag shape. Now, the alignment has been changed and the approach road and ramp for physically challenged and elderly pilgrims have become straight from entry point at ghat to highest flood point where escalator facility will be available.” “We will now construct ‘Ganga View Gallery’ — an 80m long and 11m wide platform — in the additional space for the pilgrims and visitors providing them a view of the Ganga and the corridor area. Proposals for a cafeteria and seating arrangements on it are being finalized,” he added. Another platform will also be constructed near ghats and steps in pyramid shape will be constructed, between both platforms, he said, adding, “The lower platform will be used for Ganga Aarti and cultural events and will make landing of visitors coming via jetty also convenient.” On possibility of escalation in project cost due to the late changes in design, the commissioner said, “The projected cost for construction works of the project is Rs 339 crore. The changes in design are not major and will not push it above the permissible limit of increase in project cost.” Earlier, the unearthing of several temples on razing the buildings bought for the project had led to change of design of the corridor. The size of multipurpose hall had to be curtailed while Vedic Centre’s building was divided into two parts, he said. The KV Dham project had come in pipeline immediately after Yogi Adityanath became chief minister and sanctioned budget for it in December 2017. As many as 296 buildings were purchased and razed for the Rs 700 crore project being developed in five lakh sqmt to link KVT with Ganga through 75 mt wide corridor. PM Narendra Modi had laid foundation of this project on March 8, 2019. The project will complete by August-end this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ganga-view-gallery-to-add-sparkle-to-kashi-vishwanath-dham-project/articleshow/81315824.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Snarl fear in poll time defers bridge load test||Kolkata: Load-testing of the western flank of Ambedkar bridge seems to have been deferred till after the polls. Cops are wary since the three-day partial closure from February 19 had led to prolonged traffic snarls and they are not taking any chance now, especially when several VVIP movements are lined up in the election season. But KMDA, keepers of EM Bypass and the agency that looks after several city flyovers and bridges, has been urgently seeking a health check-up for the 30-year-old Ambedkar bridge — a crucial link for vehicular traffic on Bypass. Sources in the bridge monitoring committee, set up by the state after the Majerhat ROB collapsed, said they were hoping Kolkata Police would have a change of heart and allow at least a day’s traffic block for load-testing to be completed. Officials at Tiljala Traffic Guard, however, said that was unlikely. “When we allowed closure of the bridge’s eastern flank, there was prolonged congestion. We have filed a report on the snarls and the problems we faced before the higher authorities. I don’t suppose KMDA will be given the permission to conduct load-testing of the western flank right now, especially because of the upcoming VVIP movements ahead of the elections,” said a traffic official. KMDA has hired a private consultant to conduct the load-testing of the bridge. For the eastern flank, three trucks carrying 80 tonnes of static load were mounted on the structure near PC Chandra Gardens. In 2016, engineering consultancy firm RITES had listed it among the five bridges and flyovers in need of immediate repairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/snarl-fear-in-poll-time-defers-bridge-load-test/articleshow/81318580.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 4, 2021||Varanasi||Cop dismissed on corruption, misconduct charges||Varanasi: Police constable Anil Kumar Singh posted in Chandauli and facing corruption charges besides being involved in the circulation of an alleged ‘vasooli list’ of Mughalsarai police station, has been dismissed from service after investigations. SP Chandauli Amit Kumar said, “Investigation against constable Anil Kumar Singh had been in progress since February 2020 for misbehaviour with public, misconduct and distorting image of police department. All factual evidence was collected and his clarifications were sought after which the constable was dismissed from service on February 28.” The investigation against the constable had been started by ASP (operations) VK Yadav in February 2020. After Yadav’s transfer, ASP Anil Kumar continued the probe against him. During investigation, it came to light that action had been taken against the constable earlier also on the charges of corrupt practices. Videos of extorting money from truck drivers by him had also gone viral on social media. Later, he posted a video of a sub-inspector, while a ‘vasooli’ list of Mughalsarai police station was circulated on social media in September in which his hand was suspected and after which action was taken against inspector Shivanand Mishra. SP Chandauli said the constable’s dismissal has no connection with Mughalsarai police station episode as investigation against him was already in progress. The SP refused to comment on ‘vasooli’ list episode saying he had not gone through it in detail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cop-dismissed-on-corruption-misconduct-charges/articleshow/81315832.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Vijayawada||TTD files affidavit on details of its properties||Vijayawada: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has filed an affidavit before the AP high court with details of properties belonging to the temple trust board. TTD executive officer K Jawahar Reddy filed the affidavit after the court, in an earlier order, directed the temple body to submit details of properties published on its official website. Challenging the decision of the TTD to auction 23 of its immovable properties, a BJP functionary had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions from the high court to prevent the auction and to protect the properties of Lord Venkateswara. During the hearing, the temple body informed the court that it has withdrawn its decision to auction its properties. It also told the court that a white paper with all details of TTD’s properties was published on its official website. Jawahar Reddy, in his affidavit, stated the TTD passed a resolution in May 2020 not to sell or auction any of its properties. It has also constituted a committee with two retired high court judges to suggest necessary measures to protect its properties. He further stated that the TTD is following all guidelines, as suggested by the committee headed by former judges of the Supreme Court, in protecting its jewellery and other valuables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-files-affidavit-on-details-of-its-properties/articleshow/81317141.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Business||Sensex nears life high after a 1,148-point rally||Mumbai: Strong buying in RIL and financials added 1,148 points to the sensex on Wednesday as the index, over three consecutive sessions, recovered more than the 1,939-point crash it suffered on Friday. In three sessions, the sensex has gained 2,345 points and closed the day’s session at 51,445 points. Wednesday’s gains, that built on Tuesday’s 445-point rise, came on the back of reports that India’s services sector in February expanded at its strong pace in a year. The day’s gains also came on the back of a Rs 2,089-crore net buying by foreign funds, BSE data showed. Domestic funds too were on the buying side with a Rs 393-crore net inflow. The Nifty closed 327 points higher at 15,246 points. Of the 30 sensex stocks, only three closed in the red while RIL, HDFC and ICICI Bank together contributed nearly half of the index’s rise on Wednesday. The day’s gains on Dalal Street, however, came despite a sharp selloff in the government bond market with the yield on the 10-year benchmark papers closing at 6.24%, the highest in nearly 11 months. On Wednesday evening, too, the yields on the US treasury bonds rose sharply to about 1.47%, which again unnerved investors globally since a rising yield could mean inflation would also rise, hampering the process of economic recovery. Globally crude prices also rose about 2.5% with Brent rallying above the $61-per-barrel level. Combined with rising yield, higher crude prices pose a strong challenge to the Covid-battered economy, market players said. Despite the emerging fundamental weaknesses, technical analysts are looking at benchmark indices to rally to new life high levels. According to Shrikant Chouhan, EVP — equity technical research, Kotak Securities, the broad support of all sectors in the market clearly shows that it will not be difficult for the Nifty/sensex to cross the previous high of 15,432 points/52,517 points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-nears-life-high-after-a-1148-point-rally/articleshow/81319512.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Work starts on 10-storey IIEST hostel for 1,000 boys||Howrah: A hostel to accommodate 1,000 boys is set to come up on the IIEST campus in Shibpur. All rooms in the hostel will be single occupancy, a decision prompted by Covid-19 norms. An MoU for the hostel was signed at the Howrah campus on Wednesday between the institute authorities and CPWD, which has already conducted soil testing and workers have started clearing the area earmarked for the structure. There are 2,500 undergraduate students at IIEST. The hostel, a 10-storey building, is coming up at a cost of Rs 130 crore on the eastern-most part of the campus behind the central library. This will help accommodate those 30% UG students who couldn’t be accommodated on campus because of space crunch. “Single accommodation to our students is a priority now. The hostel will be ready in 30 months. Numbers on campus have increased, but not accommodation. We are addressing this first among many other plans,” said IIEST director Partha Sarathi Chakrabarti. Some buildings that had been taken over by the institute for other purposes are now under renovation to create more accommodation for UG students. “We are looking at a system where the programmes will be totally residential. Today we are unable to provide accommodation to about 30% boys and about 20% go home because they stay nearby. This is not an ideal situation,” said Tapas Roy, superintending engineer and a faculty member of the civil engineering department. A girls’ hostel for 600 students is also among the plans. “We have converted some boys’ hostels for girls and hence the problem of accommodating them is not that pressing. But we have already floated our plan,” the director said. The ministry of education has sanctioned grants for the hostel to accommodate 1,000 students and the first phase of the grants is slated to reach the institute at the beginning of the coming financial year. “Space is not a constraint on our campus. So we have asked the ministry to sanction another project for an academic complex in the coming financial year,” the director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/work-starts-on-10-storey-iiest-hostel-for-1000-boys/articleshow/81318588.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Dakshineswar extension faces teething trouble||Kolkata: A snag that threw services out of gear along the new Dakshineswar stretch is causing a headache for Metro authorities. Around 7.40pm on Tuesday, barely a week into operations, trains couldn’t go up Dakshineswar station due to a signal malfunction or “point failure”. Staff from Metro’s signalling and traffic department managed to partially rectify the issue at 9.15pm and the last train could roll out of Dakshineswar station, albeit at a much slower speed. Engineers had to wait for operations to end at 10.30pm before holistically addressing the glitch because the third rail, which supplies electricity, couldn’t be disconnected till then. Officials said there was problem at “Point 0781A” of Daksineswar station. Points or crossovers are movable sections of track, allowing trains to move from one line to another. Like signals, points can fail, especially in the initial stages of operations. “It is difficult to predict such software-related glitches,which occur when a new system has started. If there is a recurrence, we won’t be able to manage immediately because the third rail power can’t be switched off while services are on,” said an engineer of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), that implements the Metro corridor projects. Metro Railway is in charge of operations. Third rails are split into jurisdictions and switching off the third rail would affect a stretch connecting a few stations. “To address a teething problem affecting a new stretch, we can’t possibly inconvenience commuters of the pre-existing section of the corridor. So we did the next best thing — stalling services at one station. Ironically, it has become a very important terminal station, unlike the Noapara station, since it caters to a huge section of people from across districts,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dakshineswar-extension-faces-teething-trouble/articleshow/81318592.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Will Delhi finally get a snatching law?||NEW DELHI: Delhi may soon have a law to deal with the crime of snatchings, or so it seems. The murder of 25-year-old Simran Kaur in Adarsh Nagar has been yet another reminder to the cops and the government to ensure snatchings are not treated casually and to have a legal provision to book those involved. After TOI highlighted the lack of specific provisions in the Indian Penal Code to deal with snatchings, the Delhi Police brass is learnt to have taken up the issue. While details haven’t been shared, sources have confirmed that things have been put in motion for the creation of laws providing harsher punishments and non-bailable provisions. “It will likely be on the lines of what was done in Haryana, where IPC Section 379 (punishment for theft) was bifurcated into A and B sections through an amendment. A discussion on this has been initiated,” disclosed an officer. Earlier too, Delhi Police had initiated the proposal after TOI raised the issue in 2017-18, but the necessary approvals could not be obtained. This time, the cops are more serious and police commissioner S N Shrivastava seems keen on deterring snatchers through harsher punishments. Shrivastava is learnt to have discussed the issue with police officers on Monday. “We are following it up with the lieutenant governor’s office and Delhi government’s home department,” claimed an officer in the legal cell. The proposal for the amendment of IPC Section 379, the officer said, will be routed through the state home department to the LG. Once it is approved by the LG, it will go to Union home ministry. After TOI broached the issue in 2017, Delhi Police had suggested in November that year that the existing law was “not acting as a deterrent” and that Section 379 would be more effective if separate sections were created to deal with snatchings. However, the proposal was turned down. A senior officer said, “This needs to be reconsidered and a separate section for snatching with enhanced punishment needs to be brought in to deter criminals indulging in snatching.” In the capital, snatchers are currently booked under Sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 356 (assault or criminal force during theft). The maximum punishment under the first is three years, and under the second, two years. Chain snatchings are provisionally registered under Section 392 (robbery), which provides for 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine. But police concede that most cases registered under this section have fallen flat in the courts on legal technicalities. In Haryana, Section 379A makes snatching punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a period not less than five years, extending to 10 years and a fine of Rs 25,000. Section 379B provides for rigorous imprisonment of not less than 10 years extendable to 14 years and a Rs 25,000 fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-delhi-finally-get-a-snatching-law/articleshow/81319045.cms||Raj Shekhar
March 4, 2021||Patna||Rs 122 crore allocated to purchase EVMs for Bihar panchayat election||PATNA: The state government has allocated Rs.122 crore to purchase Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) to conduct the panchayat elections scheduled to be held in April-May. The proposal for allocation of fund to purchase the EVMs was approved by the cabinet at its meeting held on Tuesday. Authoritative sources said that 90,000 ballot units and 15,000 control units would be purchased for the purpose. EVMs would be used for the first time to elect around 2.58 lakh representatives. The panchayat elections were earlier held using ballot papers only. Complaints of poll rigging with forcible stamping of ballot papers were common earlier. Officials of the state election commission said that the use of EVMs would make the entire election process more transparent. Sources said that elections are likely to be held in 10 phases. The state government has recently upgraded 300 gram panchayats into Nagar Panchayats. The rural development department is now busy in reorganising 200 village panchayats. Altogether there are 2.58 lakh posts in panchayati raj institutions with 1,14,667 ward members and panchs in gram panchayats. There are 8,387 posts of mukhiyas and 8,387 sarpanchs, 11,491 panchayat samitis and 1,161 posts of district board members. Meanwhile, the state government also made it clear that there would be no changes in the reservation of seats even after restructuring of around 200 gram panchayats across the state. “The reservation norms for the three-tier panchayati raj institutions would remain unchanged,” chief minister Nitish Kumar said. Last Saturday, the state election department issued a detailed guidelines to all DMs for the panchayat polls. As per the guidelines, they have to ensure that voters won't have to cover a distance of more than 2km to cast their votes.Each polling booth will have to accommodate 800-850 voters. Arrangements have to be made in such as a manner that all members of a particular family can exercise their franchise at one polling booth. Moreover, people getting salary from the government have been debarred from being proposer to any candidate contesting the election. “Preparations for the election are already underway. The dates will be announced soon,” Yogendra Ram, secretary, state election department, said.Reliable sources said that the dates may be announced by the end of this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-122cr-allocated-to-purchase-evms-for-panchayat-election/articleshow/81318242.cms||Ramashankar
March 4, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Katihar administration plans steps to check accidents||KATIHAR: Patrolling has been intensified on NH-31 under Kursela, Pothia and Korha police stations in the district after the two major accidents last month. A proposal to set up speed-detecting devices and dedicated rescue teams to deal with accidents on the highways will also be put up at the district road safety committee meeting to be held under the chairmanship of district magistrate later this month. “Speed-detecting devices will be installed at vantage points to catch the erring drivers unawares,” district transport officer (DTO) Md Athar said on Wednesday. “Two light vehicles (autorickshaw and SUV) and two trucks were involved in the last two accidents, one near Sameli community health centre under Pothia police station and the other on Kosi-Kataria bridge under Kursela police station area,” he said. The DTO said recommendation has been made to suspend the licence of erring truck drivers involved in both the accidents. “After the receipt of proposal from different thanas of the district, we have suspended licences of 36 erring drivers so far while five policemen were suspended till the first week of March, 2021. In all the 36 accidents, trucks and buses were involved," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katihar-admn-plans-steps-to-check-accidents/articleshow/81318223.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||More flights from Rajahmundry soon||RAJAHMUNDRY: Airport development advisory committee chairman and Rajahmundry MP Margani Bharat Ram said proposals have been sent for the construction of a new terminal building in Rajahmundry airport. The MP was chairing the committee’s first meeting at the airport. The authorities explained proposals related to cargo building extension, new terminal building construction and facility to land wide-bodied aircrafts. The committee has resolved on proposals related to various development works in the airport. Increasing flight services from the airport was also discussed. Speaking on the occasion, Bharat Ram called for steps for environmental conservation to transform the airport as a pollution-free zone. He suggested authorities explain to visitors the importance of the tourist spots in the two Godavari districts and added the airport should act as a bridge. Stressing the need for more flights from Rajahmundry, he said the number of flight services will be increased to 12 from eight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/more-flights-from-rmundry-soon/articleshow/81317291.cms||Samson Raj
March 4, 2021||Business||Paytm Money sees Rs 1,500 crore mutual fund inflows amid Covid||MUMBAI: Mutual fund investments through Paytm’s investment arm, which was launched in September 2018, have crossed the Rs 5,000-crore mark with over Rs 1,500 crore coming in during the pandemic. Online wealth management platforms like Zerodha, Kuvera, Groww and ETMoney, which is part of the group that publishes TOI, are seeing increased traction amid the pandemic. Kuvera, which was launched in October 2017, has seen its assets under management surge from Rs 6,500 crore at the start of 2020 to Rs 19,000 crore. Paytm Money currently manages assets worth Rs 4,000 crore. Paytm Money CEO Varun Sridhar told TOI, “Technology is our main competitive advantage. Our systems are already capacitated and capable to manage 10x of our current volumes. About 30% of the Rs 5,000-crore mutual fund inflows have come after March 2020. Post-Covid (performance) is actually stronger and investor behaviour is regular. They are committed to making monthly investments and are also putting more into stock markets.” Sridhar added that about 10% of Paytm Money’s mutual fund customers have also opened demat accounts on its platform. Over half of Paytm Money’s 7 million customers are first-time investors and over 80% are aged below 35. Paytm Money is also looking to offer same-day credit of mutual fund units. Investors are not being able to get units based on the net asset value (NAV) on the day of placing the order since Sebi’s new rules came into effect on February 1. Currently, units are being allotted only after asset management companies receive funds, which can take up to 3 days. “We are working with NPCI, payment gateways and AMCs to see how we can offer same-day credit,” Sridhar said. On being asked about the non-availability of features such as systematic withdrawal plan (SWP) and systematic transfer plan (STP), Sridhar said, “Our product development cycle will churn out many innovations and new features in 12-18 months. We believe that until a product feature is useful for 1 lakh users and can be offered with great stability, we should not introduce it as it causes complications for simple investors.” About 35% of Paytm Money’s users are below the age of 25 and the average portfolio of retail investors on the platform is Rs 40,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-money-sees-rs-1500cr-mf-inflows-amid-covid/articleshow/81319375.cms||Aseem Gujar
March 4, 2021||Patna||Bihar government to develop Simariya ghat||PATNA: Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad on Wednesday said he will hold a meeting with the departments concerned for the development of Simariya Dham and ensure facilities to pilgrims who come at Kalpvas Mela organized there. Prasad also said he will personally look into the allegations of corruption in the tender process of integrated control command centre project under Patna Smart City. MLC Sanjeev Shyam Singh raised the issue of poor ranking of Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Biharsharif and pointed out lack of staff as one of the reasons. He also said while maximum tenders have not been completed and those floated were done in wrong ways. He cited the example of Integrated Command Control Centre project under Patna Smart City. He said this tender had to be cancelled after corruption charges of Rs350 crore were made. Prasad said Patna divisional commissioner had been directed to take action against the people concerned. Legislator Sarvesh Kumar through a call attention raised the problems faced by pilgrims at Simariya ghat in Begusarai, which lacks a proper crematorium, changing rooms for women, drinking water facility and toilets. BJP MLC Rajneesh Kumar further said over two dozen people drown every year in the river. Replying to them, Prasad said he will hold a joint meeting with the urban development, tourism and disaster management departments after the budget session to chalk out strategy to give national level recognition to the fair. He said BUIDCo had, in 2017-18, given administrative approval of Rs1.94 crore for renovation of old crematorium and Rs97 lakh grant-in-aid was given to Bihat Nagar Parishad for renovation work. However, the project could not be executed as the land came under national highway. However, Prasad said as a part of good governance programme 2020-25 under seven resolve party-2, crematorium has to be made in all the cities and at important ghats. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra raised the issue of giving compulsory retirement to government officials above 50 years after evaluating their work twice a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-develop-simariya-ghat/articleshow/81318208.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 4, 2021||Business||39% Indian companies have women CXOs||MUMBAI: India ranks third globally in terms of the proportion of women in leadership positions, after the Philippines and South Africa, according to a report by accounting firm Grant Thornton. The percentage of women in senior management for India stood at 39%, as against the global average of 31%, which signals the changing outlook of Indian businesses towards working women, the Women in Business 2021 report said. The percentage of women leaders across key positions in C-suite in the country also emerged higher than the global average in the report. While globally, businesses with at least one woman in the senior management role increased to 90%, the same stands at 98% in India. In fact, 47% of mid-market businesses in India now have women CEOs compared with 26% globally. Pallavi Bakhru, partner, Grant Thornton Bharat, said: “Under the challenging circumstances of 2020, the boundaries between work and home have blurred. In this scenario, it is good to see action being taken by businesses to ensure employee engagement and inclusion. 59% businesses in India are promoting work-life balance and flexibility as well as creating an environment where all colleagues can speak up with ideas, issues and questions compared with global average of 45% and 43%, respectively. The businesses are also actively working on their gender balance. 55% of Indian firms are creating equal opportunities at workplace, while 49% are building an inclusive culture, providing mentoring and coaching.” Data was collated from Grant Thornton’s International Business Report (IBR) — a survey of both listed and privately-held businesses, with 251 companies interviewed in India. The report also covers the impact of Covid-19 at the workplace, especially on women. In India, 88% respondents believe new working practices will benefit women’s career trajectories in the long term, compared with 69% globally. ‘Innovative’, ‘adaptive to change’ and ‘courageous to take risks’ will emerge as top leadership traits in 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/39-indian-cos-have-women-cxos/articleshow/81319402.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Chilkur head priest meets MP over Veda Patashala||Hyderabad: As rumours spread regarding closure of SV Veda Patashala, Chilkur Balaji temple’s head priest C S Rangarajan, met Chevella MP, Dr Ranjith Reddy, and urged to help in speedy transfer of the allotted eight-acre land for the same purpose. Dr Reddy responded positively to the plea and assured to take up the matter with CM K Chandrasekhar Rao. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chilkur-head-priest-meets-mp-over-veda-patashala/articleshow/81319073.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||On the offensive: Delhi cops nab 22 snatchers in 24 hours||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has launched a crackdown on snatchers and robbers and arrested 22 from different districts in the capital in 24 hours. The arrests were made between March 2 and 3 after police commissioner S N Shrivastava cracked the whip and directed the district deputy commissioners of police to take strong action against snatchers. In two operations, Rajouri Garden police arrested eight people involved in snatching items. In the first case, five members of a gang calling itself NS Paharganj were arrested. They are involved in over 50 criminal acts, 11 mobile phones, two Pulsar motorcycles, two scooters and a pistol have been recovered from them. According to DCP Urvija Goel, the accused are Avinash, Karan, Juman, Pradeep and Puneet. “They were arrested by SHO Anil Sharma’s team,” Goel said. “The men are in their mid-20s and are residents of Paharganj and nearby areas.” The gang had committed seven back-to-back snatchings in Rajouri Garden recently, including one at Tagore Garden metro station where they were caught on CCTV cameras. In the second case, a woman and two snatchers were been arrested by the same team. Police started tracking them after they snatched the handbag and phone of a 58-year-old woman who lived in Ashok Vihar. The bike the suspects were seen on in CCTV footage was traced to a woman named Poonam, who it turned out was the mastermind. The snatchers were her son, Deepak, and another youth identified as Vishal. In east Delhi’s Mandawali, a man was talking on the phone when a bike approached and a man snatched his device. “When the victim raised an alarm, a constable gave chase. The cop rammed into the snatcher's bike when it refused to stop,” said Deepak Yadav, DCP (East). “The rider was overpowered after being chased for about a kilometre.” The snatcher was identified as Ashok Garg, a man wanted in eight cases of theft. In Kalyanpuri, Riyasat was arrested after a tip-off and is involved in six cases of snatchings. Similarly, in Prem Nagar Sahabuddin and Irfan were arrested, according to Pranab Tayal, DCP (Rohini). The duo had snatched a mobile phone and are both drug addicts, according to the cops. Waris Ali was also taken in for another case. DCP Tayal also revealed that two members of a snatching gang, Shahdab and Ravil, have been nabbed as well. “Four recent cases were solved with their arrest and eight snatched phones have been recovered,” said Tayal. The two are involved in around nine previous incidents. In Maurya Enclave, a snatcher named Rajesh was apprehended and a pistol and live cartridge retrieved from him. Two others were arrested in Kashmere Gate, three in Amar Colony and one in Patel Nagar, cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-the-offensive-cops-nab-22-snatchers-in-24-hours/articleshow/81319107.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Mercury levels in Hyderabad set to hit 40 degree Celsius mark||HYDERABAD: Mercury levels in the city are set to rise by one to two degree Celsius by March 9, inching closer to the 40 degree Celsius mark. On Wednesday, the city recorded maximum temperature of 36 degree Celsius and minimum temperature of 20 degree Celsius. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad forecast, easterly and southeasterly winds are prevailing over the city which are only set to make the weather hotter. The IMD forecast indicates that the maximum temperature is set to increase up to 38 degree Celsius by March 9 and thereby further increase in the third week of March. Districts in Telangana are already recording maximum temperature of 38 degree Celsius. Highest maximum temperature of 38.6 degree Celsius was recorded at Nizamabad and lowest minimum temperature of 14.7 degree Celsius was recorded at Adilabad. Bhadrachalam has recorded maximum temperature of 38.3 degree Celsius, second highest in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mercury-levels-in-city-set-to-hit-40-degree-celsius-mark/articleshow/81319100.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||85-yr-old granny takes vaccine to be able to ‘meet friends, hear religious sermons’||Nagpur: Bhawaribai Singi, 85, defied her hypertension to take the jab at a private hospital on Wednesday, her motivation being able to freely meet her friend circle and also participate in the ‘pravachan’ or sermons by a Jain saint. Her doctor son had stopped both of these activities for her over the last one year due to Covid fears. The strong-willed Bhawaribai stunned everyone by walking in with high spirits and leaving the hospital with equal tenacity.The occasion also became a unique ‘gurudakshina’. Bhawaribai’s son Dr Gautam Singi is a well-known microbiologist and general physician. The Singi family took the vaccine jab at the Mogre Children Hospital, Sakkardara. The hospital is run by Dr Singi’s former student at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) Dr Sandeep Mogre, co-director of the hospital, who supervised the vaccination drive.Among the 215 beneficiaries at Mogre Hospital over the first two days of the vaccination drive, Bhawaribai was the eldest. Family sources said Bhawaribai would read the newspaper daily to keep abreast of developments on the Covid front, especially the vaccines, in the last one year. She would repeatedly request her son Dr Singi to take her to the vaccination centre at the earliest once it is available.During vaccination, Bhawaribai was accompanied by Dr Singi, his wife Dr Aruna, who is an ayurvedic practitioner, and a relative Rajmalji Jhamber. “Her (Bhawaribai) health was monitored before and after the vaccine. She was fine while leaving the hospital after the vaccine (Covishield),” said Dr Sandeep Mogre, who runs the hospital along with his wife Dr Sharmista. He lauded the senior citizen’s determination to fight the pandemic.“There was a rush and it was challenging for us to manage the swelling crowd as the Co-Win app slowed down. Despite the hurdles, we managed to ensure elderly beneficiaries, like Bhawaribai, were attended as soon as possible,” said Dr Mogre, stressing that use of masks, social distancing and sanitization were maintained all the time at his hospital premises. Dr Singi, who said his mother was fine after returning home too, said she had been feeling restless to meet her friend circle and also visit the prayer venue where regular sermons are held. “Our family is a spiritual one. Mother’s visits to the community hall to hear the sermons had been discontinued by us for the last one year, to protect her from the virus. She is now feeling relieved as there is lesser risk for her, and we can again allow her to participate in religious functions,” said Dr Singi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/85-yr-old-granny-takes-vaccine-to-be-able-to-meet-friends-hear-religious-sermons/articleshow/81317875.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC attaches Thackers property over Rs 7cr dues||Mumbai: BMC on Wednesday attached the property of Thackers Caterers for failing to pay property tax of Rs 7.3 crore. Officials pasted notices on Thackers Caterers at Girgaon Chowpatty. The attachment is part of a drive to recover property tax from violators. BMC has an outstanding of close to Rs20,000 crore. BMC is facing a severe cash crunch this year, due to Covid-19, and a slew of discounts to builders and contractors, it will then auction the properties. “We had issued notices but the tax was not paid, so we will attach the property till the tax is paid. If it is not paid, we will auction the property,” said Dr Sangeeta Hasnale, assistant municipal commissioner, assessment and collection. Established in 1960, Thackers is known for authentic Gujarati food and is on Birla Krida Kendra’s premises. BMC missed its property tax collection target of Rs 5,200 crore this year, and so far only collected Rs 950 crore. It has only three weeks to recover the remaining Rs 4,300 crore. Officials said the property tax target was revised to Rs 4,800 crore due to Covid-19. “We will try and achieve the target. For commercial properties, we have time until March 8, but for residential properties the deadline is March-end,” Hasnale said. Officials said Thackers Caterers sought a hearing with the additional municipal commissioner on Thursday. Thackers could not be reached despite repeated attempts. A senior civic official said most tax dues are from bulk generators like builders, hoteliers and commercial complex owners, who have not paid in some cases since 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-attaches-thackers-property-over-rs-7cr-dues/articleshow/81317878.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 4, 2021||Goa||Positivity rate up to 4% with 70 fresh cases in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active cases of Covid-19 rose to 609, with 70 fresh cases reported on Wednesday. The case positivity rate, which was three per cent over the past two days, also increased to four per cent. The day reported 42 recoveries and no casualties. The overall mortality count stands at 797. Thirteen Covid-19 patients were hospitalised and 28 isolated at home. In North Goa, the Panaji urban health centre continued to report a rise in cases, though marginal, with a caseload of 57. Chimbel primary health centre also reported a marginal growth in cases, with its tally increasing to 50. The other centres that have relatively high numbers of cases are Mapusa, Candolim and Porvorim. The case count of centres at Colvale, Valpoi and Cansarvarnem reduced to single digits while Mayem had no cases on Wednesday. In South Goa, the Margao urban health centre continues to have a high caseload with 85 cases. The case count at Vasco, Ponda, Cansaulim and Cortalim was between 20 and 35.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/positivity-rate-up-to-4-with-70-fresh-cases/articleshow/81320235.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow’s biggest Covid vaccine drive today; over 13,000 to get shots||LUCKNOW: People above 60 years and those with comorbidities in the 45-59 age group will also be inoculated along with healthcare and frontline workers in the two rounds of mass vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Thursday and Friday. While the healthcare and frontline workers will get the second jabs of the two-dose vaccination course given four weeks apart, elderly and those with comorbidities will get their first doses. Thursday’s drive will be held at 64 centres. Inoculation will be free at government centres, while private centres will charge Rs 250 for a single shot. It is the highest number of centres to be used by the health department since the start of the vaccination drive on January 16. On February 26, jabs were given at 44 centres. The target for Thursday is to give second (booster) doses to about 7,578 healthcare and frontline workers. All the beneficiaries have been informed about their schedules and have been asked to come to the government centres for free service, said officers. “Elderly and comorbid people are free to come for vaccination in these rounds. As per our estimates, around 6,000 people in the two categories can avail the facility. Hence, we have made arrangements to inoculate over 13,500 people on Thursday,” said district immunisation officer Dr MK Singh. “We have changed our strategy this time. Arrangements have been made to make as many booths as possible at a centre for inoculation depending on the turnout,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citys-biggest-vaccine-drive-today-over-13k-to-get-shots/articleshow/81320225.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||JICA fund boost for Delhi Metro to bring Phase-IV on track||NEW DELHI: The Phase-IV project of the cash-strapped Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has received a major boost with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which has funded its earlier projects through soft loans, agreeing to fund the expansion in principle, sources said. “JICA has agreed for Phase-IV funding in principle but formalities are still in process at the government level to freeze it. As soon as the funding is finalised, a large number of tenders will be floated, which will bring a lot of pace to the ongoing construction work for the three corridors as it will be possible to work on different sections simultaneously,” a source said. Sources said DMRC was relieved at the development as JICA’s funding was essential for Delhi Metro’s expansion plans. JICA had funded 60% of Phase-I, 54% of metro’s Phase-II and 51% of Phase-III projects. In Phase-IV, its share will be less than 50% and the amount will be around Rs 13,000 crore, they said. DMRC is not in the pink of health financially due to the shutdown of services for 169 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the safety protocols after reopening having reduced its carrying capacity. As metro construction is highly capital intensive, the funding from JICA was crucial, but the pandemic put a spanner in the work. The three approved corridors of Phase-IV, which will have 45 stations, are Aerocity-Tughlaqabad (20.2km), Maujpur-Majlis Park (12.5km) and Janakpuri West-RK Ashram corridor (28.9km) where construction for the much-delayed project started first in December 2019. Even as the construction gathered pace, the national lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 was announced last March. “As the work had just started, the process of applying for a soft loan from JICA was not fully completed. The funding agencies have this condition that you can’t start the bidding process unless the loan is signed, which meant too many tenders couldn’t be floated,” the source said. That is why while work started on one section of the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor by December, DMRC couldn’t float tenders for all the corridors immediately as many of these had to wait for the loan to be “tied” and for the agreement with JICA. “While construction work is on at all three corridors and we plan to open the smaller Maujpur-Majlis Park corridor by next year, now we can start the bidding process for many contracts for systems and major work like tunnelling,” the source said. Although the total Phase-IV project comprises six corridors spanning around 104km that have been approved by Delhi government, only three priority corridors have been approved by the Centre till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jica-fund-boost-for-metro-to-bring-phase-iv-on-track/articleshow/81319085.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Letter of agreement signed to establish ‘Himalayan Knowledge Network’ for Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: A letter of agreement (LoA) was signed between Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC) and GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment (GBPNIHE), Almora, to establish a Himalayan Knowledge Network (HKN) for the state to facilitate sharing of data/ information relating to the science-policy-practice interface for the Himalayan Environmental & Development, In this initiative, Niti Aayog has identified the GBPNIHE as a centralised data management agency for the Himalayan region and the USAC as the nodal agency for Uttarakhand. While singing the LoA, GBPNIHE director Dr RS Rawal said, “The state chapter is meant for establishing a knowledge network among knowledge partners in the state. All HKN activities will be facilitated by the state chapter at USAC, Dehradun, which will identify the priority areas for the sustainable development of the state with various stakeholders of Uttarakhand. The USAC will also develop a state-specific strategy for utilisation of data/ information/ data sharing mechanism among the network/user agencies, stakeholders and local people.” Speaking on the occasion, USAC director MPS Bisht said, “Through this programme, the GBPNIHE and the USAC will jointly reach to the experts who address issues related to the mountains. Both organisations will conduct experts’ talks and work for the awakening youths on climate change adaptations, natural resource management, etc. The orientation of youths on data/information collection suitable for utilisation by planners and policymakers and the preparation of a directory of climate change leaders will be another key initiative of the LoA.” “HKN has been conceptualised to enhance collaboration and networking among all relevant institutions engaged with Himalaya specific Research & Development leading to environmental conservation and sustainable development practices to cater to the need of planners and policymakers. This will facilitate the documentation, integration and collation of knowledge,” added Bisht.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/letter-of-agreement-signed-to-establish-himalayan-knowledge-network-for-ukhand/articleshow/81317882.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Two arrested at RGIA for smuggling gold, cigarettes||Hyderabad: Customs sleuths apprehended a passenger who arrived at Rajiv Gandhi International (RGI) Airport from Dubai for trying to smuggle in 1.6kg gold on Tuesday. Customs officials also apprehended a passenger for trying to smuggle in foreign cigarettes. The passenger, Amtul H Mohammed, of Hakimpet, concealed pouches containing gold paste weighing about 1.6 kilos inside her clothes. The accused arrived from Dubai at 2.50pm on Tuesday. Amtul opted for a green channel at customs check area, indicating that she was not carrying any dutiable items. Customs sleuths intercepted her and recovered the gold worth Rs 74 lakh. They booked a case against her under the Customs Act and seized the gold. In another incident, customs officials apprehended a 41-year-old man for trying to smuggle in 40,000 cigarette sticks. During the early hours of Wednesday, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel intercepted a passenger, Abdul Azeez K of Kerala who arrived from Abu Dhabi.  As Abdul was behaving in a suspicious manner, CISF staff approached him inside the airport and found 200 cigarette packets worth Rs 4 lakh in his possession. Abdul Azeez was handed over to customs sleuths for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-at-rgia-for-smuggling-gold-cigarettes/articleshow/81319148.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Vax woes: Elderly citizens lose cool, irate man writes to PM||Nagpur: As tempers rose over mismanagement during the vaccination drive, there were brief moments of ruckus at different inoculation centres across the city on Wednesday.While senior citizens were at the receiving end of lack of facilities, centre officials and staff faced the ire of the elderly and their relatives. Upset over the lapses, an elderly man from Vivekananda Nagar wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighting his grievances at AIIMS, Nagpur.Rupali Thakur, a South Nagpur corporator, too wrote to Hanuman Nagar zone slamming the arrangement on 3rd floor of ESIS Hospital for senior citizens despite its lift not working. “Lack of facilities led to commotion,” she said.When TOI visited some centres, absence of drinking water near the waiting area and proper seating arrangements, immunization on upper floors, difficulty in access to the vaccination rooms and long waiting hours were the common complaints.AIIMS Nagpur spokesperson said, “Due to the unprecedented number of beneficiaries on the first day of the drive, we faced certain difficulties. We reviewed the situation and made necessary arrangements accordingly. The vaccination drive was conducted smoothly today (Wednesday). A dedicated team was present at all times at the centre to assist beneficiaries.”NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said following orders from the municipal commissioner, the ESIS Hospital’s vaccination centre has been moved to first floor.NMC’s Women Hospital at Pachpaoli and IGGMCH have centres on first floor. “The Pachpaoli centre has a ramp and lift too. One of the two centres at IGGMCH is on the ground floor,” Chilkar said.TOI found centre officials and security guards were hassled at IGGMCH, Daga Hospital and Indira Gandhi Rughnalya at Shankar Nagar. Some beneficiaries mistook top officials at these centres for those who came to get the jab.The mixup of healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLW) and common people made matters worse.At Daga and IGGMCH, some senior citizens reached around 1.30pm and demanded that they be inoculated when over 100 were already waiting since morning. However, doctors assured to accommodate them and asked them to wait.Yet, the elderly people alleged rude treatment by officials and guards.A security guard at IGGMCH told TOI that he was fatigued from asking people to keep waiting but they would try to gatecrash.“AIIMS is a premier institute but it doesn’t have a contact number on its website. It is 17km away from my place. I realized all the issues my 90-year-old father would face only after I reached there. I had mailed all problems to the director but got no response,” said the complainant, who wrote to PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vax-woes-elderly-citizens-lose-cool-irate-man-writes-to-pm/articleshow/81317894.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Poor not among vaccine-seekers, awareness need of hour||Mumbai: With the vaccination drive widening, a class divide seems to be opening up --- almost every centre is reporting more recipients from wealthier neighbourhoods than lower middle-class pockets. Heads of several vaccination centres said recipients from slum pockets have been conspicuous by their absence. “We are only seeing elite people coming to our centres,’’ said another administrator. Consider senior citizens Anjana Virani (62) and husband Harshad (69), who visited BMC-run Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar for the first time on Wednesday though they literally live next door. “We never needed to visit Rajawadi until now and I must say it has been a very pleasant experience,” said businessman Harshad Virani. Clearly, the discussion about unequal distribution of the vaccine cannot be restricted only to economic superpowers and under-developed nations. The reasons for the divide in Mumbai could range from poor access to smartphones to transportation issues, said a doctor, who has been assisting at a public vaccination centre. “There could also be the larger problem of vaccine scepticism,” he said. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the Nesco jumbo hospital in Goregaon, concurred that a cursory look is enough to confirm that the recipients belong to upper middle and middle classes. “A survey among the working classes, say vegetable vendors or taxi drivers, could tell us why their numbers are low,” she said. Education and awareness about the importance of vaccination is perhaps playing a role here, said Dr Lalit Sankhe, head of JJ hospital’s vaccination centre. “In our experience, we have vaccinated doctors and health workers. And now, most of their parents and elderly relatives are coming. We are yet to see a lot of local people walking in demanding to be vaccinated,” he said. In his opinion, the numbers would rise soon. “We recently had NCP chief Sharad Pawar taking the vaccine. Common people usually follow them and take a decision,” he said. Head of community medicine from one of the civic medical colleges said an awareness drive could change things. “Coronavirus affected the slums first and moved to the highrises. It didn’t return to the slums in a big way later, so the fear of the infection has possibly eroded,” he said. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital, said people in slums and slum-like areas follow their corporators. “Once the corporators start taking interest, the number of poor people taking the vaccine will certainly increase,” she added. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the class divide has come to the BMC’s attention, but an awareness campaign is not on the cards immediately. “We are waiting for the centres manage the drive better. A campaign may be designed if their (slum dwellers’) participation doesn’t increase in the next few weeks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-poor-not-among-vaccine-seekers-awareness-need-of-hour/articleshow/81319222.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 4, 2021||Allahabad||Restored Vizianagram hall of AU to be inaugurated today||With Pics Prayagraj: As the Vizianagram hall of the science faculty of Allahabad University is inaugurated on Thursday after restoration, few would be knowing that the magnificent blue dome of the building has been resurrected after an invaluable piece of the original tile was provided by TOI to Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES), the agency which handled the restoration work. TOI had in its possession a three-fourth piece of the original tile of the dome found in the lawn of Prof Manas Mukul Das, a former faculty member of AU department English. “The tiles on the dome of the Vizianagram Hall were glazed by craftsmen belonging to Rajasthan guilds which for several generations had preserved the secrets of the art of making glazed tiles for architectural decoration,” he said. It was after the request of RITES, the company entrusted with the task of restoration, the tile was provided to it to finalise the exact colour of the tile placed at the dome. The officials had inspected several specimens, prepared by the experts from Mumbai, but none matches the piece of original tile which was with TOI. “The main problem confronting us was the colour of the original tile, but the problem was solved by the only piece given to us by the TOI for which we consulted the world famous RAL Deutsches Institut für Gütesicherung und Kennzeichnung, Germany which defined the colour of the tile as turquoise blue,” said project manager RITES, Rajeev Ranjan. Thereafter, a Delhi-based company was given the order for making the handmade tiles which were fixed on the curved dome. “The old surface over the dome was completely removed after which double layered waterproofing was done. Experts then applied a special adhesive over which the tiles were carefully placed and 3mm interspace left for probable expansion of tiles by heat is filled by grouting,” said the official. “The specimen of the original tile was of immense help for the restoration work as after trial and error methodology, the experts made an exact replica of the tile. Moreover, as the specimen was also along the plaster, we easily identified the material used to plaster the dome which held the tiles for many decades,” said director of Savani Constructions private limited, the firm which was involved in restoration work supervised by RITES. Earlier, Ajoy Chakravarti, the great-grandson of Rai Bahadur Bipin Bihari Chakravarti, government executive engineer who was in charge of the construction work had told TOI, “My great-grandfather had told us that the theme used in the dome was bringing heaven to earth’ and that’s why the blue turquoise was used. It took around a month and half for the 85 craftsmen of Jaipur to polish those tiles which were processed four times, i.e., glazed and put in fire and the process was done four times for each tile.” White portion of egg was used to polish the tiles for which 30, 000 eggs were used, and the craftsmen used to eat the rest of York, he added. The restoration work included making the entire building ‘all weather proof’ after which restoring the paintings, wood work, walls, glass pan, etc., was taken up, all resembling the original work. The agency has also restored the famous fresco painting on the ceiling of the hall, informed Ranjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/restored-vizianagram-hall-of-au-to-be-inaugurated-today/articleshow/81315904.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chennai||Caste gambit: Masterstroke or misstep?||Coimbatore: By announcing a 10.5% quota within a quota for vanniyars, and getting the Centre to club together seven scheduled castes into one and calling them devendrakula vellalar, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami did what his predecessors didn’t. Though the two demands were decades old, they were never considered by J Jayalalithaa or by M Karunanidhi because they would unsettle the caste dynamics electorally. EPS has now changed the caste dynamics and could reap the benefits in the poll. Some in the AIADMK term it a masterstroke by EPS to consolidate certain caste groups. But giving in to the demands of devendrakula vellalars and vanniyars comes with the risk of antagonizing the AIADMK’s traditional vote banks. Kongu vellalars, the community to which EPS belongs to and which is considered to solidly back the AIADMK, are upset since the title ‘vellalar’ was given to a scheduled caste. If kongu vellalars are upset in west Tamil Nadu, the saiva vellalars in south TN are also upset for the same reason. “The Centre and the state government have to reconsider the decision to grant the title of vellalar used by muthaliyar, pillamar, chettiar communities for ages to other communities. We support the demand of a few communities to be clubbed together under a common title. But the historic vellalar title should not be given to anyone else,” said film producer Ishari K Ganesh, who presided over a protest against the Centre’s move. The carving out of a quota exclusively for vanniyars, meanwhile, has sparked outrage among other most backward classes who were demanding similar reservation. EPS has not only failed to fulfil their demands but has given a sizable chunk of existing quota to vanniyars, leaving the other MBCs to make do with whatever is left. The outrage has started spilling over to the streets. Students of a college in Kamuthi boycotted classes on Wednesday demanding a separate quota for about 60 denotified communities (DNC). Mukkulathor Pulipadai founder Karunas has demanded a similar quota within a quota for thevars. Mutharayars, who form a sizable vote bank in central Tamil Nadu, have demanded denotified tribe staus. “Because of the quota for vanniyars, the AIADMK has helped PMK to increase its vote bank at the cost of its own. Other castes who are offended by a separate quota for vanniyars might take a stand against the AIADMK,” former party MP K C Palaniswamy said. Similarly, in the devendrakula vellalar issue, the AIADMK has helped the BJP since it was Modi who made the announcement, he felt. Political commentator Tharasu Shyam said the AIADMK’s calculation was that the announcements would help the party offset the loss of thevar votes. “But that is a miscalculation. To accede to the demand of only two castes during an election year is a misstep,” he said. Sources in the AIADMK, however, maintain that the decisions would certainly help them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/caste-gambit-masterstroke-or-misstep/articleshow/81319183.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kanpur||Constable to be feted for saving girl’s life||(With constable Pic) Kanpur: Bilhaur police constable Kamal Kant, who had on Tuesday saved a nine-year-old girl’s life, will be given an appreciation letter following instructions by DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthi and ADG (zone) Bhanu Bhaskar. Kamal Kant had saved the life of a gir,l who was pushed into a deep dry well by one Satyam in Baidi Alipur village in district’s Bilhaur area on Sunday. The girl was stranded at about 10m (30ft). Senior officials asked their subordinates to pull out the girl from the well. Without giving a second thought, constable Kamal Kant, who was a part of the search team, gathered all his might to pull the minor out from the well. Talking to TOI, Kamal Kant, said, “Though it was a little scary, as there was a complete absence of light in the well that was covered with thick shrubs, but then there was only one thing coming to my mind. That I couldn’t bear to see the little girl die. At that point of time, I don’t know from where I gained so much strength. My colleagues with the help of a thick rope, lowered me inside the well. Without wasting any time, I just picked up the girl from the base and later asked my colleagues to pull us out from the well.” Kamal Kant will be conferred with an appreciation letter soon, said police officials. “As his senior, I am extremely proud of Kamal Kant and what he did will surely inspire other cops in the force,” said SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/constable-to-be-feted-for-saving-girls-life/articleshow/81317579.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 4, 2021||Allahabad||HCBA to continue stir today||Prayagraj: Working in the Allahabad high court remained disrupted as the boycott of work initiated by the lawyers in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill continued for the ninth consecutive day on Wednesday. The Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) had been protesting against the Bill, which provides for setting up of the principal bench of the Education Service Tribunal at Lucknow, instead at Prayagraj. In a resolution passed on Wednesday, HCBA again resolved to continue boycott of judicial work on Thursday on the same issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hcba-to-continue-stir-today/articleshow/81315950.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||Mistaken for thief, mentally challenged man beaten to death||Kanpur:A 43-year-old mentally challenged man was mistaken for a buffalo thief and allegedly beaten to death by a mob in Sirsa village of Basrehar police area of Etawah on Tuesday night. The police identified the deceased as Netrapal, son of Nathuram, a resident of Nagla Bagh village in Bharthana area of the district. The incident came to light on Wednesday morning after few among the villagers called the police control room. The victim was sent to a nearby community health centre where he died during treatment at 7 a.m. Netrapal, the only son of his parents, was reeling under some kind of mental illness, and lived with them in Nagla Bagh village. He went missing from his house at around 6 pm on Tuesday. On late Tuesday night, he was found wandering in the neighbouring Sirsa village. Some locals noticed him standing near the cattle shed of one Brijesh and tried to question him. His behaviour was abnormal and could not answer their queries. They suspected that he was a buffalo thief and raised an alarm. Later, they caught hold and pinned him on the ground and thrashed him severely. Police have arrested three persons including one Brijesh, Ashok and Shyam Lal, all natives of Sirsa village and are trying to ascertain the exact sequence of events that led to his death. “Following a complaint, three locals of Sirsa including Brijesh, Ashok and Shyam Lal have been arrested in connection with the murder and further investigations are underway in this regard,” said ASP Omvir Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mistaken-for-thief-mentally-challenged-man-beaten-to-death/articleshow/81317512.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kanpur||Ex-cop shoots self over attack on sons, police indifference||Kanpur: Perturbed over brutal attack on his two sons by a group of locals and alleged indifference of police in the matter, a retired police head constable committed suicide by shooting himself from his licenced firearm in Orai’s Patel Nagar locality under the limits of Kotwali police station in Jalaun district on Tuesday night. He sustained serious bullet wounds and succumbed later. Shyam Charan Dwivedi, who served as a head constable in state police, had retired in December 2020. The sequence of events date back to March 1, when Shyam Charan’s two sons Ajay and Vijay were allegedly thrashed by locals Jeetu Pandit, Ratnesh, Tiger Pandit, Ujjwal Pal and Nikhil Patel and their associates over some issue. On Tuesday, when Shyam Charan went to lodge an FIR in this regard with the local Kotwali police, he was allegedly shooed out of the Kotwali police station premises. A dejected Shyam Charan returned home and later went inside his room and allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself from his licenced rifle and died on the spot. In the complaint, Dwivedi’s two sons had named eight persons including Jeetu Pandit, Ratnesh, Tiger Pandit, Ujjwal Pal and Nikhil Patel for provoking their father to commit suicide. “We have booked the eight accused under relevant IPC sections, including 306 (abetment of suicide). Raids are underway to make arrest of the accused possible. A further probe has also been ordered to investigate the Kotwali police’s role into the matter,” said SP Yesh Veer Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ex-cop-shoots-self-over-attack-on-sons-police-indifference/articleshow/81317532.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Seniors brave queues for fear of more rush later||Nagpur: Long waiting hours and queue spilling on to pavements outside the Covid vaccination centres were no deterrent for senior citizens, some of them as old as 90, to get inoculated on Wednesday.After pictures and videos of senior citizens facing problems at vaccination centres went viral, TOI visited a couple of them in different parts of the city to understand what drove the age-appropriate group to brave hunger, technical glitches, refusal at some centres, and multiple rounds to eventually get the jab.The elderly vaccine beneficiaries said the rush is going to get bigger considering our population size. “Right now, there is a mixed feeling about the vaccination. Once everyone knows it is safe, the rush will increase. It is better to get vaccinated now. This rush is less as compared to what it may be after some days,” said Akshay Agrawal, who accompanied his parents to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH) centre.Ashok Trivedi, 64, too believed the rush is going to get bigger. “People are here since 8am. But as Covid cases are rising again, can’t say if we will get it easily later,” he said.Doctors at one centre said elderly citizens being in the vulnerable group, they are anxious to get the jab.Some said the early they take the vaccine, the better it would be. Others said there is no point in delaying as they will have to wait in future too, if they come after some days.Shobha Sharma brought her parents to IGGMCH centre. “They are natives of Andhra Pradesh. Senior citizens are anxious because of lack of communication at the centres. We are waiting since morning, but don’t know exactly when our turn will come. They just want it (the vaccine) early, for fear of missing out later,” she said.Asked why he didn’t plan some other day, Gajanan Dolas, 70, waiting at the same centre, said, “In future too, we will have to wait and maybe even longer.”Rahul Trivedi, who accompanied his parents, felt that they ought to take the jab as they got registered. “We returned on Tuesday because of the rush, but got a token for today. Had we not turned up, we would have wasted the government resources,” he said.At Daga Hospital, some citizens felt they are now duty-bound to take the jab since the prime minister has taken it. “(PM Narendra) Modi has taken it, so no one should be in doubt anymore,” said Vilas Joharpurkar, 66.VA Patel, 80, too agreed that PM taking the jab has inspired many like him.At Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya, Suresh Agrawal, 70, said citizens need to make some adjustments and safety must be priority. “I was disheartened seeing the rush, but thought any day will have to come again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/seniors-brave-queues-for-fear-of-more-rush-later/articleshow/81317936.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||ACP to probe vehicle near Ambani house in Mumbai||Mumbai: ACP (crime) Nitin Alaknure will head a probe into the case of a vehicle laden with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house last Thursday. The case was being probed by assistant inspector Sachin Vaze. A day later, Hasmukh Hiren, a Thane resident, told police the SUV in which 20 gelatin sticks were found was his, and it was stolen from Mulund-Airoli on February 17. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/acp-to-probe-vehicle-near-ambani-house-in-mumbai/articleshow/81321134.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: This park will be your gateway to India||NEW DELHI: A selfie against the backdrop of India Gate, followed by the Char Minar, Howrah Bridge or Gateway of India — this will be possible soon when Delhi Development Authority unveils its Bharat Vandana Park, where the ‘Mini India’ zone will have miniature replicas of famous monuments from Indian states. Located near the Dwarka Sector-9 Delhi metro station, the park is spread across 200 acre in Sector 20 of the sub-city. A DDA official said that the project’s Mini India zone will showcase the rich and diverse art forms, culture, heritage and ethnic values of the country. “National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) is the project management consultant and has already initiated the work,” he said. DDA recently uploaded a copy of the environmental clearance to the project accorded by the Union ministry of environment, forest & climate change on its website. According to the minutes of the 55th meeting of the Expert Appraisal Committee, the salient features of the project presented before it mentioned that the ‘design of the park is a derivative form of the lotus flower, with the outline footprint of lotus. Each petal of the flower will be a zone for a specific activity’. The primary attraction of the sprawling park will be Mini India, which will outline the heritage of India through replicas of famous monuments of different Indian states. These will be built at a miniature scale of 1:25. There will also be landscape parks of some states, crafts bazaar, a boating canal etc. Apart from the Mini India zone, the other petal-shaped zones are congregational zone, cultural zone, Pushpa Kriti Sarovar zone, eco-sensitive zone, meditation garden zone, fun park zone, adventure park zone, lake-view restaurant zone and the Vandana Sarovar zone, which will be the central water body that will act as the focal point of the park and will have a viewing deck around it. There are also plans to provide boating facilities there. According to the presentation given to the Expert Appraisal Committee, of the total 200 acres, the proposed built-up area will be of around 3.3 acres and a recreational park is proposed to be constructed in line with green building principles and LEED-IGBC (Indian Green Building Council) platinum rating standards. The area for the amusement park is of almost 25 acres and is permitted as a district park in Master Plan Delhi 2021. The landscaped green area will sprawl across 98 acres, which is 54% area of the total park, apart from nearly 26 acres being covered by the waterbodies. DDA wants the park to serve as a Delhi landmark and a one of its kind facility in NCR. The park envisions integrating various experiences and activities that would engage people of all ages and cultures. Unlike conventional parks, DDA has envisaged the Bharat Vandana Park to be on the lines of a destination park that will offer multiple activities in order to make it a vibrant and dynamic park which would also be self-contained and self-sustaining. The Expert Appraisal Committee has granted approval to the project subject to conditions like in-house treatment of wastewater for use in flushing toilets, presence of landscaping and waterbodies and charging points at the parking lots for electric vehicles, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-park-will-be-your-gateway-to-india/articleshow/81319236.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 4, 2021||Chennai||Politics not business for me, says Kamal at city campaign||Chennai: Seeking to claim the legacy of M G Ramachandran, actor Kamal Haasan on Wednesday began his campaign trail from Alandur, earlier Parangimalai constituency which sent MGR to the assembly first in 1967.  “It was from here that part of MGR’s political journey began. I am happy that my journey also starts from here,” Kamal told amid a sea of supporters at Madanandhapuram near Porur. Earlier in the day, the MNM chief released the party’s agenda for women and youth welfare and sports development at his party office in Alwarpet, after which he took the metro to reach Alandur. Outside the Alandur metro station, cadres gathered in numbers to mark the beginning of the campaign trail. Along the trail along the suburbs, the matinee idol-turned-politician kept those gathered engaged with promises of a honest government. Apart from the cadres, several turned up to catch a glimpse of Kamal Haasan, whom they were used to witnessing in the silver screen. “I came to see Kamal in person. Though I couldn’t get close to him, I am happy that I was part of a historic event,” said G Pavithra, 46, of Thiruvottiyur, who accompanied an MNM cadre. Kamal, while addressing the public at several locations, stated that he was delighted to see MNM’s support growing exponentially and wooed women and youth with promises of monetary compensation for household work and employment for youth. “Time for change has come. However dark it gets, torchlight will show the way,” Kamal said. The campaign trail concluded at Mangollai in Mylapore where Kamal, in a short speech, took a dig at the ruling AIADMK government and the BJP stressing to the audience that neither he nor the future of Tamil Nadu was for sale. “Some are trying to buy votes. I am not a trader, nor is politics a business for me,” Kamal said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/politics-not-business-for-me-says-kamal-at-city-campaign/articleshow/81319232.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||LUTA polls head for a keen contest||Lucknow: There will be a direct face-off between two science teachers for the post of president in the Lucknow University Teachers Association (LUTA) elections scheduled on March 9, while four professors will be battling it out for the general secretary post. As many as 22 candidates were left in the fray for 18 posts after the last date of withdrawal of nominations on Tuesday evening. Barring president and general secretary posts, the 16 other posts have received one nomination each which means nominees can be elected unopposed. Number of teachers eligible for votes will be six, two for president and four for general secretary. Assistant professor in the physics department, RB Singh, and Vineet Kumar Vema, a professor of mathematics, are competing for the president post. For the post of general secretary, Rajendra Kumar Verma (philosophy), Arshad Jafri (Oriental studies in Arabic and Persian), Ajay Kumar Arya (geology) and NVC Shukla (mathematics) are in the fray. The other posts include three posts each of vice-president and joint secretary and a treasurer. Also, three representatives each will be elected from science and arts faculties, while a representative each from fine arts, commerce and law faculties. “Voting will be held from 10am to 3pm followed by counting. The results will be declared by late evening,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/luta-polls-head-for-a-keen-contest/articleshow/81320236.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Two sloth bears run over by train, mother jumps to safety||Nagpur: Two sub-adult male sloth bears were run over by Mumbai-bound Gitanjali Express near Gangajhari railway station, 20km from Gondia, while the mother ran towards safety on Wednesday morning on the occasion of World Wildlife Day. The train, which was coming from Howrah, was heading towards Nagpur when the incident took place. Both sloth bears said to be around 2.5 years were thrown apart due to the speeding train. Gondia forest officials told TOI, “The spot where the bears were knocked dead is an identified corridor between Navegaon-Nagzira-Kanha-Pench tiger reserves. Earlier, within 2km radius deaths of leopards were also reported due to train hit.” “The South East Central Railway (SECR) is laying the third line, and this expansion plan may cause more animals deaths as it will be tough for them cross three railway tracks simultaneously. The SECR should impose speed restrictions in and around the railway tracks,” the officials said. On one side of the track is a forest with hillocks and on the other, there are agriculture fields along forest areas connecting Pench and Balaghat towards Kanha. Similar deaths including tigers have also been reported under the jurisdiction of the SECR section between Gondia-Chanda Fort but no steps have been taken by the railways for the safety of animals. The issue has also been raised in the state wildlife board meetings and a sub-committee under PCCF (wildlife) has already been set up to do the needful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-sloth-bears-run-over-by-train-mother-jumps-to-safety/articleshow/81319228.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||1st dose in 6 mins, 2nd in 6 hrs; docs feel diff between pvt and NMC vax centre||Nagpur: A doctor happened to get first dose of Covid-19 vaccine within six minutes at vaccination centre at a private hospital facilitated by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). When she went for the second dose at NMC’s Pachpaoli Centre on Monday, the staffers there refused to inoculate her. On Tuesday, it took another six hours for her to get the second dose at NMC centre.The doctor, a gynaecologist, told TOI her second dose was overdue and she had no option other than to go to NMC’s centre for second day. NMC stopped inoculation at Orange City Hospital and Research Centre (OCHRI) where she had taken the first dose. “Six of us, all doctors, were forced to stand in queue from 11am to 5pm as a large number of senior citizens were there for walk in registration and vaccination. There are two centres at NMC’ Pachpaoli hospital where one could have been reserved for healthcare and frontline workers (HCWs and FLWs). It would take only a few minutes for our inoculation as we are already registered in Co-Win app. Also, we cannot afford spending hours as we have to take care of patients in our hospitals,” she said.Another set of six HCWs took second doses at two private hospitals after paying Rs 250 for each dose, according to NMC data.NMC had stopped vaccination at 10 private hospitals on Monday. The same scenario is being repeated at all 11 vaccination centres of the city for last three days. Except Police hospital, no other centre in NMC and government-run hospitals are reserved for HCW and FLW.Director of Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI) Dr Anup Marar said, “NMC had reposed confidence on a few private hospitals including OCHRI for vaccinating HCWs and FLWs. our centres operated under NMC. We provided requisite infrastructure, manpower and logistics free of cost. It is painful that our centres were abruptly shut by the NMC citing government directives despite us ensuring smooth execution, maximum satisfaction index and minimal wastage. This has created lot of problems for HCWs and FLWs.”Dr Marar is also convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association. “We have the infrastructure ready and can render service free of cost for senior citizens, HCWs and FLWs free of cost like before. We have conveyed our consent to NMC for running either free or paid centre for Covid vaccination,” he said.Secretary of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Alok Umre said, “Government clarified to Association of Mumbai Hospitals that all interested private hospitals, even if they are not under CGHS/PMJAY/state’s health schemes, can join hands for Covid vaccination if they have the logistics ready. Likewise, NMC can add all NABH accreditated hospitals of the city subject to their consent. Spreading the high risk senior citizens over large number of centres is essential for their safety. They are suddenly being exposed in crowded centres which is risky.”Following approval for vaccination in 29 private hospitals in Mumbai, NMC on Wednesday consulted government which reportedly advised it to wait. "Government said vaccination will begin in hospitals registered under government schemes and then in other private hospitals. We will seek approval whenever government asks us to submit the list," an NMC official said.TOI on March 2 had reported some HCWs returned from centres after staffers there asked them to come next day. Seeing the crowd and queue, some are reportedly not going for second dose. The number of vaccination of HCWs and FLWs has declined in the city since Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-dose-in-6-mins-2nd-in-6-hrs-docs-feel-diff-between-pvt-and-nmc-vax-centre/articleshow/81317957.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||Unhygienic, unusable: Public toilets for women raise a stink||Lucknow: Dotted with high-end stores and shopping malls, the road from Gomtinagar to Hazaratganj is a picturesque stretch for many. However, for Sushma Singh, a bank employee from Krishnagar, the ride on the stretch proved to be an unpleasant one. She had a tough time finding a decent public toilet, especially in posh Hazratganj. “It was a bad situation. I thought there would be proper public washrooms at least in Hazratganj since it is one of the most prominent areas of Lucknow. However, most of the washrooms I found were shut or locked from inside. I managed to find one on MG Marg, but the sight was unbearable. I had to bear the stench and use it,” she said. And she is not alone facing the predicament. At a time when the city is trying to secure the first rank in the Swachh Bharat Survey 2021, the progress in terms of sanitisation of public toilets for women is not even halfway through in that direction. In a reality check, TOI found that several public toilets for women managed by LMC in busy market areas like Hazratganj, Aminabad and Gomtinagar in dilapidated or unhygienic condition. “Many women fear contracting urinary tract infections and even Covid-19 for that matter. There has been no major change even after the pandemic since the toilets in many areas are in a pathetic condition,” said Neena Gupta, a shopowner in Janpath market. Sumra Alam, who was reluctant to use a toilet in Patrakarpuram (Gomtinagar), said: “I have had an unpleasant experience here in the past. The stench was so nauseating that I had to throw up. Moreover, the door knobs were defunct. There are seven washrooms for men and only two for women. I don’t understand the reason behind this. All washrooms lack cleanliness,” she adds. Piyusha Agarwal (45), another resident, said her daughter got urinary tract infection after using unhygienic public washrooms. The situation in Aminabad is even worse. Women shopkeepers and residents complain of choked seats, broken flush systems, algae on floor and stink around the cubicle. In Gadbad Jhala, one of the main shopping markets in Aminabad, there are only two women washrooms, and three for men. “The situation is scary here. The washrooms are located in narrow lanes and have no cleanliness. There is no proper place to even wash hands,” said Shanu Rajput, a shopowner in Gadbad Jhala. “Facilities at crowded markets like Aminabad are so bad that one cannot bear the foul smell for even a second. I don’t prefer public washrooms. I would rather walk down to my home,” said another local Yamini Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unhygienic-unusable-public-toilets-for-women-raise-a-stink/articleshow/81320276.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Autopsy can’t give reason of death after vaccination||Bhiwandi: The post-mortem report of the 40 year old who died within 15 minutes of receiving the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday is “inconclusive”, said local health officials.Sukhdev Kirdat, who was the driver of a Bhiwandi-based doctor, was taking medicine for high blood pressure for three years. On Wednesday, Bhiwandi municipal officials said the post-mortem conducted in JJ Hospital has mentioned the cause of death as inconclusive and referred the case to forensic experts.In a meeting of local doctors, it was felt that Kirdat could have died due to “congestive heart failure and not due to vaccine reaction”. A doctor who attended the meeting told TOI: “Senior doctors, including physicians, anaesthetists and others from private as well as civic- and state-run hospitals are of the opinion that man died due to congestive heart failure as he was a blood pressure patient.”On Wednesday, his body was handed to his family who conducted his last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-autopsy-cant-give-reason-of-death-after-vaccination/articleshow/81319272.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Road transporters loss to Chhindwara is rlys gain||Nagpur: Even as Madhya Pradesh government has ordered scanning of passengers from Maharashtra travelling to the neighbouring state, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has cried foul over the move by Chhindwara officials.“As travellers have been demanded a Covid-19 test report, MSRTC passengers are not allowed beyond Satnoor border but local private buses from Chhindwara are operating on Chhindwara-Nagpur route without any hindrance,” said MSRTC officials.A section of private bus operators said, “Due to Covid-19 restrictions, we are operating fewer trips to Chhindwara but through a different route.”Chhindwara additional collector Rani Batad denied any such operations. “Neither MSRTC nor private bus passengers are being allowed into Chhindwara without a Covid report. If this is true we will cross-check.”MSRTC officials said, “Passengers travelling in the state buses operating to Chhindwara from Badnera, Amravati and Akola through Warud, Pattan, Pandhurna, Multai and Betul are not being subjected to Covid report but are simply being thermal scanned. Maybe the district collector orders are different.”The MSRTC’s Nagpur division daily operates at least 12 trips to Chhindwara, Pachmarhi, Ramakona, Saunsar, Mohgaon, Lodhikheda etc. These buses are operating till Satnoor border from where travellers take to private vehicles to reach their respective destinations.“If the ST passengers are being allowed to travel further in private vehicles, then what purpose it solves,” asked MSRTC officials.Road transport loss seems to be railways gain. There is an increase in the number of passengers in the Itwari-Chhindwara passenger MEMU train. Since February 25, when the restrictions were imposed on travellers from Maharashtra, the occupancy in the train has increased to 50%.“On Day One on February 22, SECR recorded 115 passengers but after February 25, when the MP government introduced restrictions, at least 300 passengers are travelling to Chhindwara by train,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/road-transporters-loss-to-chhindwara-is-rlys-gain/articleshow/81317948.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||‘Sainik School anniv to be a grand event’||Lucknow: The closing ceremony of the 60th anniversary of the Captain Manoj Kumar Pandey UP Sainik School will see a grand celebration. On Wednesday, during a meeting with the school’s Board of Governors to finalise plans for the event, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that a foundation stone laying ceremony for new projects and an inauguration ceremony for those which have been completed should be organized. He also said that ongoing works like construction of auditorium, boundary wall, girls’ hostel and expansion of capacity should be completed in a time bound manner. A statue of school’s founder, Dr Sampoornanad, is also being set up. The CM said that Dr Sampoornand had a huge contribution to sainik schools as he gave the model of the first such school which is now followed across the country. He added that the closing ceremony should have programmes which can inspire the students and make them aware of the rich heritage of the country’s valour and bravery. Other than former students who have brought pride to the school, other invitees will consist of well known personalities. These guests will help to inspire the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sainik-school-anniv-to-be-a-grand-event/articleshow/81320316.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Beneficiaries begin to get certificates||After not getting certificates for two days, people in 60+ and 45+ with comorbidity categories started getting it on Wednesday. Though messages post-vaccination provided a link to download it, there was none. On Wednesday, the downloaded certificates displayed name of beneficiary, gender, birth year, photo ID, ID number and status as vaccinated. NMC officials said beneficiaries who did not get should call the government helpline no. 1075. HCW and FLW are now able to download certificate from link, website and Arogya Setu app.Good response to paid vax in pvt hospitals633 were vaccinated at 5 trust-run and private hospitals on Wednesday — 190 at Mogre Children Hospital, 164 at Sengupta Hospital, 116 at Lata Mangeshkar, 83 at RST Cancer and 80 at Medicare Hospital. Dr Shantanu Sengupta told TOI that only those who registered online were allowed in his hospital. “No walk-ins. People paid Rs250 in cash, card and other modes of payments,” he said. Private hospitals are paying an advance of Rs150 per dose to the government following which the NMC issues vials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/beneficiaries-begin-to-get-certificates/articleshow/81317970.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Need white paper on all realty deals: BEST panel||Mumbai: A BEST committee member, Prakash Gangadhare, raised a point of order at the panel meeting on Wednesday, demanding a ‘white paper’ on all transactions between builders/developers and the transport body. Panel member Sunil Ganacharya alleged that the management showed pending bills of Rs 160 crore, though it was “much more”. “The builders/developers must pay dues to the cash- strapped undertaking... In the legislative assembly, the government stated that Rs 160 crore was pending and this figure was given by BEST management. But the panel is unaware of transactions. So we have asked the management to give us [panel] detailed reports,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-need-white-paper-on-all-realty-deals-best-panel/articleshow/81320435.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||‘Water, power link to be cut if quake norms are not met’||NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party government has informed Delhi High Court that civic bodies had asked all high-risk building owners to submit structural audit reports and on non-compliance of the same, notices have been issued for disconnection of electricity and water connections. In a report filed in the high court, the government said letters have been sent to sub-registrars for not registering such buildings. The government also said that an action plan has been prepared to ensure seismic stability of buildings in the national capital in which structural safety audit of government and private buildings will be conducted in a phased manner. It added that top priority will be given to buildings, including hospitals, institutional buildings, schools and colleges, which have been found unsafe for habitation during the annual pre-monsoon survey and action will be taken on it. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh granted time to petitioner lawyer Arpit Bhargava to respond to the government’s affidavit and listed the matter for further hearing on April 13. The government’s affidavit was filed in a pending PIL by Bhargava claiming that the seismic stability of buildings in Delhi was poor and in case of a major earthquake there could be a large number of casualties. “Being private buildings, the owners should be asked to get the structural safety audit done themselves and submit the report to the concerned local body,” the affidavit further informed the court and said in case a building is found deficient in the structural evaluation report, the owner will be bound to carry out the upgrading of the seismic resistance of the buildings as per applicable standard guidelines and submit to local bodies the time frame within which they propose to carry out the requisite strengthening/ retrofitting. In the second phase, the buildings coming under the lower risk matrix and those falling the jurisdiction of unauthorized/ unauthorized-regularised/ village abadis/ re-settlement colonies should be taken up and the methodology would be the same, the affidavit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-power-link-to-be-cut-if-quake-norms-are-not-met/articleshow/81319254.cms||Abhinav Garg
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||KCR should bewary about hisfate: Bandi||Hyderabad: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao should be wary about the fate of former CMs like Lalu Prasad in Bihar and M Karunanidhi in Tamil Nadu. Campaigning for party candidates for the graduates MLC elections, Sanjay lambasted the government for arresting BJP workers who were protesting against the government’s failure to provide jobs to unemployed. He demanded that BJYM activist Bhanu Prakash be released by police immediately. Prakash along with BJYM activists was protesting in front of the Telangana State Public Service Commission office when cops resorted to a lathicharge. Prakash suffered injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-should-bewary-about-hisfate-bandi/articleshow/81313578.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Most fined for not wearing masks in Mumbai wards with large floating population||MUMBAI: In April last year, a month into the Covid-19 outbreak in the city, BMC made wearing of face masks compulsory in public places. It was decided that clean-up marshals would impose a Rs 200 fine for violation of the rule. Now, even city police have joined the marshals in penalising those found without masks. Cumulative data on the number of people penalised so far shows wards which attract tourists and those with a larger floating population have witnessed more people being penalised in comparison to largely residential areas. TimesViewHealth experts have time and again warned that wearing facial masks during the pandemic is a necessity and that it reduces the spread of coronavirus. And yet, many people casually move around in public places without them despite a surge in cases. The clean-up marshals who are empowered to penalise them have a daunting task on their hands. But these powers should not be arbitrarily used to harass people with the aim to collect fines.For instance, the maximum number of people so far, at 1.3 lakh, have been penalised in K-West Ward, which covers parts of Juhu, Lokandwala and Oshiwara, followed by K-East (Vile Parle East to Jogeshwari East) at 1 lakh. In K-West Ward, the penalty totalled Rs 2.6 crore and in K-East Rs 2.1 crore. Also, in F-South Ward (Parel), which has several public hospitals and thus a large floating population, 82,237 persons have been penalised. AGNI coordinator Zahida Banatwala of Juhu Citizens’ Welfare Group said in areas such as Juhu beach, marshals are being too stern. “Even single persons in a car are being made to pay a penalty for not putting on their masks, which is wrong as the BMC directive says in a private vehicle there is no need for it. While people also tend to get very lax, it is essential that a balance is maintained and action is taken fairly.” Advocate and activist Godfrey Pimenta said K-East Ward where he lives comprises several private offices and also small-scale industries in MIDC and the Andheri-Kurla Road belt. “As the floating population is high, it is not surprising that a large number of people has been penalised in the ward.” In largely residential wards such as T (Mulund), comparatively fewer persons at 47,992 have been penalised and D, which comprises areas such as Malabar Hill, Tardeo and Grant Road, 49,023. A civic official said the total number of people penalised also depends on how large the ward is. “K-East, for instance, is the largest civic ward while those such as B (Dongri) and C (Bhuleshwar) where only 34,336 and 45,235 persons have been penalised, respectively, are comparatively smaller. L Ward is large and covers parts of Powai, Kurla and Saki Naka to an extent. Another aspect is how efficient and vigilant are the marshals deployed,” said the official. Colaba corporator Makrand Narwekar from A Ward where 76,833 persons have been penalised said the marshals are not acting against offenders in the areas they should. “For instance, A Ward is much beyond high footfall areas such as CSMT and no action is taken against those living in slums in the ward.” BMC corporator Sheetal Gambhir from Mahim area said, “With the economy now opening up, people are moving around without realizing the importance of masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/most-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-in-mumbai-wards-with-large-floating-popn/articleshow/81317985.cms||Richa Pinto
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Crowding rises: NMC ropes in 10 more pvt hosps, 28 UPHCs||Nagpur: Crowding of senior citizens and comorbid increased on Wednesday at Covid-19 vaccination centres at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and government hospitals, with the civic body failing to implement an effective token system. Now, NMC has started inoculations at its KT Nagar Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) and plans to rope in remaining 27 UPHCs too. Also, the civic body increased number of trust-run and private hospitals from five to 15.On Wednesday, 2,157 citizens, including 1,833 from 60+ group and 45+ with comorbidities, took the jab on Wednesday at 13 NMC, government centres and five trust-run and private hospitals. The number is double the count on Tuesday (1,021) and much higher than Monday (607).Senior citizens had started to form queues at NMC and government centres from 8am onwards. NMC started distribution of tokens with hourly slots after a few hours. Senior citizens and comorbid were seen standing or sitting outside centres and along roads in queues for hours, due to lack of waiting rooms, which are mandatory as per government guidelines at all centres. A pandal was erected at GMCH centre.After giving out some 200 tokens, the centres asked remaining people to go back and return the next day, without giving tokens.Activist Narayan Ahuja visited a couple of centres and said, “It is good that people have no apprehensions and are turning up in large numbers to take the jab. NMC’s failure to handle the situation is causing threat to elderly people of getting infected at the centres due to lack of social distancing.”Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar directed NMC and Zilla Parishad (ZP) to arrange for vaccination of up to 15,000 people per day in district. “There are around 6 lakh people in age-appropriate group in the district and all should be covered without any inconvenience,” he said.NMC sources said municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi are planning to start vaccination at NMC’s remaining 27 UPHCs too.Radhakrishnan said, “From Thursday, 15 private hospitals will vaccinate people. Main problem is delay in registration. I will talk to government and request two-three registration tables at each centre with one username and password to solve all issues. Then, we can expedite registration of walk-ins, give priority to pre-registered citizens and also healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs).”He said NMC will also run 24X7 vaccination at GMCH and IGGMCH as per directives of the government in next few days. “It will take a couple of more weeks to begin pickup and drop facilities.”Radhakrishnan added, “People should not get anxious. All will get vaccine as we streamline the system. Don’t risk getting infected in bid to get vaccine.”Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari directed NMC officials to start counters in all ten zones to help in registration. “Only 25 walk-ins should be allowed at each centre in a day, and rest should be given token for next days. Vaccination of those registered online should be done on scheduled day,” he said.General surgeon Dr Dhananjay Kane said, “System is not yet geared for the massive vaccination drive. Only preregistered persons should have been vaccinated for a month before allowing walk-in registration. Due to crowding, there is no physical distancing.”President of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Ashok Arbat said, “Private hospitals should be asked to start vaccination to avoid crowding. No CGHS, PMJAY, state health scheme empanelled private hospitals refusing to start inoculation. There is no written communication from any authority. Before naming hospitals, authorities should have first sought consent from them. Many hospitals cannot invest further on deep freezers, computers, arrange waiting area/ infrastructure, manpower as per desired protocol.”Due to crowding and glitches in Co-Win, NMC had conducted vaccination offline on Tuesday which resolved all issues. But the same was not done on Wednesday citing lack of orders from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crowding-rises-nmc-ropes-in-10-more-pvt-hosps-28-uphcs/articleshow/81317963.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 4, 2021||Chennai||No pressure from BJP for ties with AMMK, says min||Chennai: State fisheries minister D Jayakumar on Wednesday denied any interference from the BJP in party affairs of the AIADMK. Responding to queries from reporters on whether there was pressure from the BJP for the AIADMK to align with the AMMK led by T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of V K Sasikala, the minister said, “The BJP never interfered in our inner-party affairs. A section is spreading canards.” Jayakumar said the BJP was a constituent of the AIADMK-led alliance and knew it would be inappropriate for it to interfere in another party’s affairs. “The AIADMK has a set of principles and ideologies. The party has taken a clear decision against having any truck with Sasikala and Dhinakaran,” the minister said. “As chief minister (Edappadi K Palaniswami) said in Delhi, there is 100% no chance of any association (with the AMMK). It is our firm stand not to align with them. Dhinakaran’s statement that he will lead an alliance is nothing but a joke,” the minister said. “The AMMK is a pack of foxes whereas the AIADMK constitutes the mighty lions,” he added, reacting to Dhinakaran’s statement on Tuesday that he was open to an alliance with the BJP and the AIADMK, only if they accepted his leadership. The AMMK general council recently resolved to project Dhinakaran as the CM candidate. For her part, Sasikala had appealed for unity among Jayalalithaa’s “true followers”. BJP sources recalled that Union home minister Amit Shah, during a recent meeting in Villupuram, had informed the party’s core committee members that the alliance was only with the AIADMK. “He made it clear that any alliance to align with the AMMK was an internal matter of the AIADMK. Why would the BJP be interested?” said a senior BJP leader privy to the core committee meeting. Meanwhile, the AIADMK received 8,200 applications seeking poll tickets and is scheduled to hold interviews with poll aspirants from all districts on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-pressure-from-bjp-for-ties-with-ammk-says-min/articleshow/81319261.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Nabard sanctions Rs 9cr for agri varsity’s hub||Hyderabad: Telangana’s first of its kind incubator, in a hub and spoke format, at Professor Jayashankar Telangana Agriculture University (PJTSAU) has received sanction letter from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) on Wednesday. The hub, Rural Business Incubation Centre (RBIC), received initial sanction of Rs 9 crore and a letter to this effect was handed over to the university in the presence of municipal administration and urban development minister KT Rama Rao. The hub would work with spokes at Vikarabad and Jagtial. The RBIC would provide common infrastructure and services such as technology development assistance, networking and mentoring, funding access, training and development, business support services (entrepreneurship development, marketing, finance and accounting, research, legal, regulatory, e pre-incubation services, hand-holding, amongst others to startups, businesses etc. PJTSAU vice-chancellor (VC) Praveen Kumar said the hub was in tune with various initiatives of the state to promote innovation and entrepreneurship across all sectors, including agriculture. In line with this, the PJTSAU has formed special purpose vehicle AgHub, a Section-8 company under the Companies Act, in October, 2020. Promotion of rural entrepreneurship would happen among youth, women and grassroot innovators in tier-II and tier-III towns of the state. The uniqueness of the hub is pilot research projects will be conducted with farmers and food processing organizations at grass root level to present the proof of concept to funders. Currently, 11 startups working with robotic management, drones and others have already been registered and are engaged with field activities, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nabard-sanctions-rs-9cr-for-agri-varsitys-hub/articleshow/81319281.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||Hosts Lucknow start off on a winning note||Lucknow: The All-India SBI Inter-Circle Hockey Tournament got off to a flying start at Mohammed Shahid International Hockey Stadium in Gomtinagar on Wednesday. Four matches were played on the inaugural day of the tournament in which Lucknow and Delhi registered big wins against their respective rivals while Bhopal defeated Hyderabad in a close contest. The match between Chennai and Bengaluru ended as a 2-2 draw. Hosts Lucknow began their campaign on a winning note by defeating Kolkata 4-1. The lone goal for Kolkata was scored by Sanjay Das in the 10th minute (penalty corner). International player Shailendra Singh scored twice for Lucknow in 45th and 54th minute. Anil Sharma hit the post in 26th minute while Sunil Mehra scored for Lucknow in 59th minute. In another match, Delhi registered a resounding 6-0 victory over Ahmedabad. Arjun Singh scored two goals (12th and 17th minutes) while RRS Shahi (19th minute), Naveen Malik (21st minute), Manoj Arya (25th minute) and K Dhurandhar Prannoy Kumar (41st minute) scored one goal each for Delhi. Bhopal defeated Hyderabad 3-2. Bhopal’s Mohammed Naim scored three consecutive field goals (28, 32 and 38 minutes). CR Bheem Singh of Hyderadad hit two goals (42 and 46 minutes). Another encounter between Chennai and Bengaluru ended in a 2-2 draw. KK Santosh and TN Nanda scored for Bengaluru in 26th and 55th minute, respectively, while Pir Ali (43rd minute) and Faustus Leo (51st minute) hit one goal each for Chennai. Earlier, director, sports, RP Singh said the SBI had given many international level hockey players to the country and hoped that the tradition would continue in future as well. CGM, SBI, Ajay Kumar Khanna said, “Our players have always brought laurels at national and international level. We hope that all players will display sporting spirit during the event.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hosts-lucknow-start-off-on-a-winning-note/articleshow/81320377.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||Margao: Victor Hospital to give free treatment to DDSSY beneficiaries||PANAJI: The management of Victor Hospital, Margao, on Wednesday declared that it would honour its agreement with the state government of providing free treatment to people holding Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY) cards as it announced its plan to expand its cardiology-related services. Chairman and MD of the Alcon Victor Group, Victor Albuquerque, told reporters that the hospital has consultants available 24x7 and that theirs was the leading centre for all heart-related ailments. He urged people to approach the facility freely. Victor Hospital has also upgraded its cardiovascular department. Dr M D Dixit, senior cardiac surgeon attached to the hospital, said they would shortly perform interventions that are not routinely done in the state. “The heart transplantation procedure called TAVI, or trans-aortic valve replacement will be started in the hospital along with paediatric cardiac surgery,” Dixit said. Presently, at least five children with heart ailments are referred to hospitals outside Goa ever month since the necessary treatment is not available locally. Victor Hospital has also upgraded its cardiovascular department. Dr M D Dixit, senior cardiac surgeon attached to the hospital, said they would soon perform interventions that are not routinely done in Goa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/victor-hospital-to-give-free-treatment-to-ddssy-beneficiaries/articleshow/81320455.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly polls: Ally trouble erupts in AIADMK, DMK camps||CHENNAI: Wednesday happened to be a day of more action but little progress on the seat sharing front in both the ruling AIADMK and the opposition DMK camp, though the date for filing nomination is less than 10 days away. While the national parties — the BJP in the AIADMK camp and the Congress in the DMK side – took time off from the seat sharing engagements, the smaller parties in both the camps too talked tough through the day. On the AIADMK side, DMDK has upped the ante. In the DMK camp, MDMK has convened a meeting of its high level committee on Saturday, March 6, in the wake of a meagre offer of seats from the DMK. Thol Thirumavalavan’s VCK too was in no hurry to return to the discussion table to finalize the seat sharing agreement. Only G K Vasan’s TMC and actor Vijayakanth’s DMDK – allies of AIADMK — were in the thick of discussions and deliberations. Beyond that, there was little concrete action but lot of posturing in private and public from the smaller parties. In the AIADMK camp, TMC presented a list of 12 seats, including Pattukotai and Erode West. “The electoral promises of the AIADMK and the welfare schemes rolled out by the government last month would pave way for electoral victory,” Vasan said. He added that his party would continue its legal battle to secure ‘cycle’ symbol from the election commission. The party, he said, will strive for the victory of the AIADMK alliance in all 234 seats. Despite an offer of 15 seats and a RS seat from the AIADMK during the two-hour long talk, the DMDK turned belligerent. Party deputy secretary L K Sudhish told partymen at a meeting in Arani, that it was the AIADMK that was pleading for an alliance with the DMDK and not the other way around. “Had we not aligned with the AIADMK in 2011, the party would have become non-existent. The DMDK aligned with them after consulting the cadres, functionaries and became the opposition. I receive calls from all parties now and many want us to float an alliance and are ready to join us,” Sudhish said. The two Communist parties – CPM and CPI – which are part of the DMK camp, are upset with what they were offered during their first round of talks on Monday. Under the garb of internal discussions, they are yet to return to the table at Anna Arivalayam, the DMK headquarters, for finalizing the seat sharing talks. “We are not sure. We will know only tomorrow if there will be a call from the DMK asking us to come for another round of talks. As of now, numbers have not been finalized,” CPI state secretary R Mutharasan told TOI. CPM too was in no hurry. “They are referring to a peculiar ratio and offering a mere four seats. How can we face our party leaders and cadres? We will know only tomorrow if there’ll be a meeting,” CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ally-trouble-erupts-in-aiadmk-dmk-camps/articleshow/81319302.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi court turns retriever for businessman’s golden boys||NEW DELHI: A pet owner has won back custody of his two golden retrievers after a city court observed that depriving him of the companionship and ownership of his pets was unjustified. NGO People for Animals had taken in the canines on grounds of cruelty even as businessman Anand Kumar Mohatta had claimed the dogs were like his own children. The NGO argued that his neglect had led to the pets suffering from the canine parvovirus disease. Mohatta and the dogs’ veterinarian appeared via video conferencing to present their case and the court directed that the dogs be restored to the owner. “Custody of the two pets should be handed over to revisionist, who is the legal owner of the golden retriever dogs,” ordered additional sessions judge Anil Antil on February 25. Earlier, a magistrate’s court had upheld the NGO action on account of the poor health of the golden retrievers and directed Mohatta to appear in court on April 14. Mohatta challenged the magistrate’s court order through counsels Tarun Rana, Rohin Oza and Vivek Jaiswal, claiming that People for Animals had illegally entered his premises with the cops in “total disregard of rules” and without search warrants. He alleged an ulterior motive for the “raid” on his home. Mohatta denied the accusation of cruelty to the dogs and asserted that they got care and comfort from him. The police report, filed on the court’s direction, said that at the businessman’s home in central Delhi’s Feroze Shah Road, 400 sq ft of the total of 15,000 sq ft was reserved for the dogs’ accommodation. The public prosecutor, however, said the magistrate’s court order had been well-reasoned and the allegations of animal cruelty were proved by the canines found suffering from high fever and swollen eyes owing to an infection. It was recorded that Mohatta lived in Mumbai and shuttled between that city and Delhi owing to the nature of his work. Mohatta claimed he got daily feedback on his pets from the house-helps and added that the two animals were regularly taken to the veterinarian for check-ups and medication. The vet corroborated this and produced medical papers showing the dogs had been vaccinated for canine parvovirus. Before releasing the dogs to his custody, the court directed Mohatta to furnish a bond of Rs 40,000 for each pet and to file health reports twice a month. The court also ordered him not to sell his pets during the pendency of the court proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-court-turns-retriever-for-bizmans-golden-boys/articleshow/81319316.cms||Aamir Khan
March 4, 2021||Goa||As per law, give 60 days for CZMP feedback: Greens||Panaji: Goa Foundation has objected to the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) giving the public only one month to send in their objections to the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) and has requested that a fresh notice be issued in accordance with law. In a letter to the authority, Goa Foundation has stated that GCZMA has no power under the CRZ notification or the Environment Protection Rules, 1986 to lay down restrictions when the rules themselves require the period to be of 60 days. The notice has also not been printed in the Goa government gazette which is a requirement of Environment Protection Rules, 1986, the letter stated. Goa Foundation has stated that public consultation is the only forum available for the public and environmental groups to voice their objections and concerns to the drafts which have hundreds of errors and that the matter cannot be rushed. “A bad and incompetent CZMP is worse than no CZMP,” director Claude Alvares stated. “There is no information provided whether GCZMA carried out its own appraisal before notifying the drafts for objections. The CZMPs were not placed before any meeting of GCZMA. It is therefore not clear whether GCZMA or National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management or the department of science and environment is to be held accountable for the plans uploaded in public domain,” Alvares stated. The notice states that the public is to provide comments/observations and objections to the draft CZMP by February 28, 2021 which works out to period of one month. “This limitation is illegal,” Goa Foundation stated.  Abhijit Prabhudessai of Rainbow Warriors said the plans submitted by 118 panchayats and eight municipalities after deliberations, and after being passed at gram sabhas are not reflecting in the latest draft plans. “What guarantee is there that the suggestions and corrections submitted now will be incorporated?” he said. To environment minister Nilesh Cabral’s contention that the plan isn’t meant to show people’s houses, Prabhudessai said the guidelines state that all existing authorised developments should be demarcated. “Once the plan is approved, it becomes a law and anything outside that will not be allowed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-per-law-give-60-days-for-czmp-feedback-greens/articleshow/81319309.cms||Lisa Monteiro
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||T employee caught for Rs 40k bribe||Hyderabad: An assistant director of school education department was caught red-handed by the ACB sleuths when he took Rs 40,000 bribe from the complainant on Wednesday. The accused official is, B Srinivas, assistant director, private schools permission section, office of the director of school education, Tenagana State. ACB officials caught Srinivas red-handed when he demanded and accepted Rs 40,000 bribe at his office from the complainant, N Shiva Shankar, the manager of a private school. “The accused took the bribe to process the application of the complainant to upgrade the school from upper primary level to high school,” said an ACB official. The bribe amount was recovered from the accused and he was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-employee-caught-for-rs-40k-bribe/articleshow/81319324.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||‘Air quality to improve by 20% by 2024’||Lucknow: The air quality of various cities improved by 27 to 66% during the lockdown in April last year in comparison to April 2019, state environment minister Dara Singh Chauhan told the UP assembly on Wednesday. Chauhan also told the house that the various rivers in the state recorded better water quality during the lockdown period. He said that this was also because of an increase in the water flow in rivers. His response came on a query raised by BSP legislator from Azamgarh, Azad Arimardan, who sought to know if the state government had any policy to maintain a better air and water quality index. Chauhan said that the state government was working as per guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board to lessen the air and water pollution levels by 20% by 2024. Meanwhile, urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon informed the UP assembly that the state government seized 936.72 tonnes of non-recyclable polythene since September 2019 when the law banning their use came into force. Tandon made a revelation while responding to a question raised by SP legislator Sanjay Garg who sought to know if the ban was restricted to urban areas while in rural areas the use of polythene continued unabated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/air-quality-to-improve-by-20-by-2024/articleshow/81320443.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC notice to govt, AMNS in land case||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday issued notice to the state government and Arcelor Mittal Nippon Steel India Ltd over a PIL seeking to restrain the government from regularizing possession of a land parcel transferred to the company in Hazira in Surat district, allegedly without undertaking a competitive bidding process. Two petitioners, Harshad Shukla and Bharat Adhia, have demanded that the land allegedly illegally occupied by the company, which was earlier known as Essar Steel India Ltd, should be taken back by the government because the company has not paid Rs 2,973 crore according to the revenue department’s order passed on March 6, 2010. The money was towards premium for regularization of a 72-hectare land parcel. Part of this was transferred by one Hazira Apbal Ganotiya Kheti Sahakari Mandali Ltd from its 126 hectare land, which was given to the Mandali by the government in 1959. The state government pointed out that the HC had recently issued notice to the company over an environment PIL. The bench of Justice R M Chhaya and Justice R P Dholaria asked the government and the company to file replies by March 30, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-notice-to-govt-amns-in-land-case/articleshow/81318043.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man poses as jailed gangster, makes a Rs 2 crore extortion call||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has arrested two men and foiled an extortion bid of Rs two crore. Posing as a gangster calling from Tihar Jail, a caller had been threatening a businessman to pay the money. The two accused have been identified as 27-year-old Deepak Sahrawat, a resident of Gol Market, and his accomplice Satish Kumar (19) from Uttam Nagar. “The businessman said that the caller on January 23 threatened him to pay Rs two crore and gave him two days’ time to arrange for the money. On the same day, the businessman received two more calls from the same man at 5pm and at 9pm, reiterating the demand for cash. He also threatened the businessman,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh said. The DCP said, on the basis of technical investigation, the locations of the suspects were identified. “It was revealed that they were active in the area of Hari Nagar and Janakpuri in west Delhi. After confirming their presence in the area, a raid was conducted and one of the suspects, later identified as Satish Kumar, was apprehended from Uttam Nagar,” he said. “During interrogation, he confessed his involvement in the crime and was subsequently arrested. His personal mobile phone containing call records with his associates was recovered. His associate Deepak Sahrawat who had made extortion calls to the complainant was also arrested from his house. On his instance, two mobile phones with SIM cards, which were used for making extortion calls, were recovered,” the DCP said. It was found that the accused, Sahrawat and Kumar, earlier worked at a chemist shop in Janakpuri close to the complainant’s business premises. “They said they wanted to earn quick money and therefore hatched the conspiracy. The accused called the complainant from the vicinity of Tihar Jail and identified himself as gangster Shakti. They did not use their personal mobile numbers for the purpose of making extortion calls,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-poses-as-jailed-gangster-makes-a-rs-2cr-extortion-call/articleshow/81319351.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||Chiluatal to get a facelift||Lucknow: A second water body is set to be developed as a tourist spot in Gorakhpur. The tourism department has prepared a proposal to beautify Chiluatal and develop it as a picnic spot as has been done with Ramgarh Tal. This water body is located between Gorakhpur and Nepal and could be developed a new tourist destination for both domestic and foreign travellers, said an official. The tourism department has proposed a budget of Rs 52.36 crore for this project. “Gorakhpur’s manure plants are located next to Chiluatal. In 2014-15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for new plants in place of the ones that had been lying defunct for about two decades. It was decided that the company setting up the plants would beautify the lake with the government’s help,” said a government spokesperson. He said that the proposal made by the tourism department for the beautification of the lake has allocated Rs 24.72 crore for the lake and remaining for land acquisition. There is a proposal to acquire 25hectare land for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chiluatal-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/81320479.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Goa||Ryots in Goa extend support to nat’l farmers’ protest||Panaji: Extending solidarity towards the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border, agriculturists and farmers in Goa gathered at Azad Maidan in Panaji on Wednesday. They demanded that the three new agricultural bills be withdrawn. “It appears as though rules and regulations do not apply to this government. However, in order to maintain citizens’ rights, we had to come forward in protest,” one farmer said. Agriculturist Sandra Fernandes said that people should be grateful to farmers for the food they eat. Instead, she said, there is brutality being meted out to farmers. “It has been over 100 days that they have been ask1ing for their rights which they’re being denied. Nearly 85% of people depend on farming and it is unfair to turn a deaf ear to them. The government must solve the farmers’ problems by taking them into confidence and withdrawing the bills. Only then will we have a strong India,” she said. Secretary of Goa unit of the Communist party of India (Marxist), Victor Savio Braganca, accused the government of being deaf and blind and “in the pockets of a few capitalists who have ideas to take over the agricultural production in India.” “Though the government is trying its level best to get them to compromise with small amendments here and there, the farmers have refused to compromise and agree to any amendments. We stand with the demands of the farmers of India who are protesting,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ryots-in-goa-extend-support-to-natl-farmers-protest/articleshow/81319345.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Bareilly||With blackbuck numbers doubling in 2 years, Budaun set to get ‘conservation reserve’||Bareilly: Uttar Pradesh’s Budaun is set to get a dedicated ‘blackbuck conservation reserve’ for the species — denoted as schedule one animal — from external factors such as accidents, poaching, etc, with the last census — taking place in 2020 — recording more than 300 blackbucks in the grasslands in the district, especially on the banks of the Ganga. Buoyed by the 2020 census report that found the numbers of the Indian antelope doubling in four forests ranges of Budaun, Sahaswan, Bisauli and Dataganj in just two years — the count was between 150 and 180 in 2018 — the UP forest department had sent a proposal to the UP government to declare the foliage area (blackbuck populated area) as a blackbuck conservation reserve in September last. The detailed project report (DPR) was recently approved by the state government. It has now been forwarded to the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) for final approval. Divulging details, divisional forest officer (DFO) Vivek Gupta said, “Since there were no conservation plans to save the species, the forest department had sent the proposal through the Budaun DM. Encouraged by the UP government’s approval, we have forwarded the DPR to MoEF for final approval and sanctioning of the budget. Once approved, it will be a one of its kind conservation reserve in the state dedicated to the blackbucks, which is listed as schedule one animal under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972.” “After the notification, the forest department will have a dedicated mobile rescue team for timely rescue and treatment of injured blackbucks. Besides, signboards will be installed on the roads instructing motorists to drive slowly in the blackbuck protected area for the protection of the animals from accidents,” added the DFO. Blackbuck — normally found in social forestry regions as they inhabit in grassy plains and areas near water bodies — is the fastest running wild animal in India which can attain a speed of up to 80 km per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-blackbuck-numbers-doubling-in-2-years-budaun-set-to-get-conservation-reserve/articleshow/81316911.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 4, 2021||Goa||Cong conveners to 4 blocks appointed||Panaji: Congress appointed conveners for four constituencies — Panaji, St Cruz, Shiroda and Tivim blocks. The new appointees will not only spearhead the membership drive in those constituencies, but also help reconstitute and lead the blocks after the membership drive. State party president Girish Chodankar said that the party is likely to announce the block convener for Cortalim soon. The party is yet to initiate the overhaul of Madkai and Taleigao blocks. “Goa Pradesh Congress Committee has approved the appointment of the following conveners with immediate effect. The names of office bearers and other members will be declared later,” state party vice president M K Shaikh said. Joel Andrade has been appointed convenor for the Panaji block. Sushant Govekar will head St Cruz, former sarpanch Sushant Gaonkar has been given charge of Shiroda, while producer-director Uday Salkar heads Tivim. Salkar’s appointment is likely to rankle GFP’s working president Kiran Kandolkar, who is the former Tivim MLA. GFP and Congress are in the process of thrashing out an arrangement for the coming civic elections. “For practical purposes, they are block presidents, but since the membership drive is on, we have to wait,” Chodankar said. Goa Pradesh Congress Committee has approved the appointment of the following conveners with immediate effect. The names of office bearers and other members will be declared later||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-conveners-to-4-blocks-appointed/articleshow/81319340.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||India||Education system must lift language barrier, let talent flourish: PM Narendra Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday stressed the need for the education system to overcome linguistic barriers so that talent from rural areas gets opportunity to flourish and said the new National Education Policy (NEP) will be implemented on a mission mode towards this purpose. Addressing a webinar on effective implementation of the provisions in the Union Budget for the education sector, the PM said academics and experts of every language should make available the best content in the country and the world in Indian languages. He said it is necessary to produce content in Indian languages for every area of expertise, be it medical, engineering, technology or management. Asserting that there is no dearth of talent in the country, Modi said those living in villages and the poor, who do not know any language other than their local language, have no shortage of talent. “We should not let the talent of our villages, our poor die due to language (difficulties),” he said. “With this thinking, the doors of several sectors such as space, atomic energy, DRDO, agriculture, are being opened for our talented youngsters,” he said. Modi said the second biggest focus after health in this year’s budget is on education, skill, research and innovation. Modi pointed out that to build a self-reliant India, confidence of the youth is equally important. “For a self-reliant India, the youth of the country need self-confidence and it will come only when the youth has complete trust in their knowledge and skills. A new national education policy has been created with this thinking. Now, we have to work fast to implement it from pre-nursery to PhD as soon as possible,” he said. As a result of these efforts, he said, India has come in the top three countries in terms of scientific publications, number of PhD scholars and start-up ecosystem. He said India has joined the top 50 ranks in Global Innovation Index and is continuously improving. The PM said the focus is on issues ranging from Atal Tinkering Labs in schools to Atal Incubation Centres in higher institutions. A new tradition of hackathons for start-ups has been created in the country, which is becoming a huge force for both the youth and industry. Modi informed that for the first time, “Research Foundation is being built for which a provision of Rs 50,000 crore has been made. The budget shows a 100% contribution to research related to biotechnology”. In order to double farmers’ income, those engaged in biotechnology research are very much expected to work for the betterment of the agricultural sector, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/education-system-must-lift-language-barrier-let-talent-flourish-pm-narendra-modi/articleshow/81321433.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nashik||AMC chief: Follow norms to avoid stricter curbs||Aurangabad: A day after 325 new confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported in Aurangabad district — the highest daily case-count in the recent past — civic body chief Astik Kumar Pandey on Wednesday appealed to the public to strictly follow all Covid prevention norms. “If citizens continue to throw caution to the wind, we will be compelled to enforce a lockdown. Such a measure will not be imposed in a blanket manner, but will cover only the Covid hotspots and areas witnessing crowding,” he said. Acting district collector Anant Gavhane said the district administration was keeping a close watch on the Covid-19 situation. “We feel there is no need for additional curbs right now. Wearing masks and maintaining physical distance can be effective shields against Covid and people should realise this before the situation worsens,” he added. Gavhane also said that expediting the third-phase of the vaccination that covers senior citizens and those above 45 years who have comorbid conditions could hold the key to fighting the viral infection. Before Tuesday’s spike, Aurangabad district has reported 1,821 Covid-19 cases over a period of one week since February 23. The total number of confirmed cases had reached 50,916 by Tuesday in Aurangabad district. So far, there have been 1,271 deaths. As per the official data, the district currently has 2,387 active cases. On Wednesday, the civic administration continued its Covid testing drive at the airport, the railway station, various bus stands and busy markets among other places. Those testing positive are sent to identified health facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/amc-chief-follow-norms-to-avoid-stricter-curbs/articleshow/81315977.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||State govt transfers 40 IAS officers||Lucknow: In a big administrative reshuffle, the state government transferred 40 IAS officers on Tuesday night. Prathamesh Kumar has been made special secretary to chief minister and Anita Meshram has been appointed as chief staff officer of chief secretary. V. Hekali Zhimomi is the new principal secretary for child development and nutrition, while Badaun DM Kumar Prashant is now special secretary (home). Bareilly divisional commissioner Ranvir Prasad is the new relief commissioner while Pankaj Kumar, principal staff officer, chief secretary, is the new MD of UPPCL. Moradabad commissioner Virendra Kumar Singh has been posted as MD PCDF. Chitrakoot DM Shesh Mani Pandey is now special secretary, handloom, while Prem Prakash Meena, special secretary, labour, is joint magistrate of Chandauli. Krishna Kumar, who was additional IG stamp and registration, is now special secretary APC and has been replaced by PC Srivastava. Devendra Kushwaha has been posted as special secretary APC, while Vipin Jain is now joint MD of Jal Nigam. Krishna Kumar Gupta is joint state election officer, Dr Vijay Kumar Singh is rajya sampatti adhikari, Anjani Kumar Singh is director, mandi and Dinesh Chand is posted as special secretary, culture. Ashutosh Niranjan is new DM Deoria, Deepa Ranjan will be DM Badaun, Shubhrant Shukla is DM Chitrakoot, Ravindra Mandar will be DM Rampur and Jitendra Kumar Singh as DM Kanpur Dehat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-govt-transfers-40-ias-officers/articleshow/81320514.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Bareilly||Blackbuck killed Bareilly, three booked||Bareilly: A blackbuck was allegedly killed by three people after they found it grazing on their agriculture fields in Mahimapatti village under Bhojipura area in UP’s Bareilly district on Tuesday evening. The accused had secretly dumped the carcass in a field to hush up the matter, but after a local informed the forest department, the accused were booked under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. Forest officials on Wednesday sent the carcass to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) here for the autopsy. The report is awaited. Divisional forest officer (DFO) Bharat Lal told TOI, "A rope tied around the blackbuck's neck like a cattle suggests that it was made captive by someone. After the animal broke free from captivity, it entered the crop field when the accused managed to catch it and killed it. Normally, it’s very difficult to catch a blackbuck.” “We are waiting for the autopsy report to confirm the exact reason for its death. We have registered an FIR against the three accused and effort is on to arrest them,” said the DFO, adding that the blackbuck is a schedule one animal, which ensures the maximum legal protection for wild animals, and even making such animals captive is a crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/blackbuck-killed-bareilly-three-booked/articleshow/81316921.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||CM counters Oppn charge, says we came clean on Covid||MUMBAI: Hitting back at the Opposition during the debate on the governor’s address, CMUddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said the ruling coalition had tackled the pandemic in a transparent manner and questioned the BJP’s record of being a custodian of national interest. Participating in the discussion on the motion for the Governor’s address in the lower house, Thackeray countered BJP’s allegations of “high-level corruption” in Covid-19 management by questioning its nationalistic credentials. “Shiv Sena was not a part of the freedom struggle. However, even BJP’s parent body (RSS) was not part of it. If you (BJP) could not give justice to the common man, then you have no right to chant ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’,” said Thackeray. Thackeray questioned the Modi regime’s stand on issues linked to the state, saying its unwillingness to grant classical status to Marathi language, Bharat Ratna to VD Savarkar, rename Aurangabad airport as ‘Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj Airport’ raised questions. He said its stand on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border row, the sudden decision to announce a lockdown, the steep increase in fuel prices, the new farm laws, the ‘Thali Bajao’ initiative, the Kanjurmarg metro land issue, were all indicative of poor governance. “Petrol prices have reached hundred rupees while gas cylinders are heading towards the thousand-rupee mark. Thanks, at least they have not increased the rate of bicycles,” said Thackeray. Referring to the now-famous meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah at Matoshree in 2019, before the elections, Thackeray said, “The strategy on how to go ahead together was discussed in a room. However, you (Shah) ‘shamelessly’ denied everything outside. Yes, though ‘shamelessly’ is an unparliamentary word I am using it. Is this your Hindutva? Is this your love towards late Sena chief Balasaheb Thackeray?” said Uddhav. Shah on a recent visit to Maharashtra, had publicly denied that he promised Thackeray that the chief ministership of the state would be a rotational post between the erstwhile allies, BJP and Sena, after the assembly polls. In his assembly speech, Thackeray also claimed that the cost of the Metro III rail project has escalated by Rs 10,000 crore owing to an ongoing dispute over the Kanjurmarg land. Thackeray appealed to the Opposition to cooperate with the government on the issue saying both Centre and state have a stake in the Metro rail project. The CM refuted the corruption charges relating to the handling of the pandemic, which were raised by opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis. He said the state did not hide the number of positive patients or the deaths. “Covid risk is still persistent. There shouldn’t be politics over the pandemic…the lockdown was the only solution to tackle it…Coronavirus does not make a distinction between members of the ruling and opposition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cm-counters-oppn-charge-says-came-clean-on-covid/articleshow/81320604.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 4, 2021||Puducherry||Pondy: BJP faces AINRC ire over seats, CM post||Puducherry: The BJP’s plan to form a coalition government in Puducherry has suffered a setback with All India NR Congress (AINRC) hinting it may break withthe AIADMK-BJP alliance and face the polls alone. AINRC founder-leader N Rangasamy, who held discussions with party MLAs and functionaries for the past two days to elicit their views on the alliance with the BJP and the AIADMK, on Wednesday parried repeated queries on whether his party continues to be in the alliance. “We will let you know,” was all he said. Party insiders said most of the functionaries were fine with having ties with the AIADMK but not with the BJP. The BJP’s reluctance to declare Rangasamy as the chief ministerial candidate was one of the main reasons for the fallout. The saffron party, which garnered a mere 2.4% votes in the past assembly polls, made right moves ahead of 2021 polls to reach the present position of strength. But the party found no option but to make a commitment on the chief ministerial candidate to senior Congress leader A Namassivayam after he joined the BJP eyeing the top post. Rangasamy maintained that his party will contest in not less than 18 seats to the 30-member assembly of the Union territory and that the rest can be shared between the AIADMK and the BJP. The BJP, which did not have an elected member in the past three assemblies, was keen on contesting in 9 or 10 seats, leaving 15 for AINRC and six for the AIADMK. This irked the Puducherry unit of the AIADMK, which won four seats in the previous election. The local unit has briefed the party high command on developments to take a final call. “We are ready to settle even for 15 seats but our leader (Rangasamy) must be announced as the chief ministerial candidate by the BJP and AIADMK,” said an AINRC functionary. The AINRC has not also ruled out the option of siding with the DMK if the long-term alliance between the DMK and Congress ends in Tamil Nadu. Congress has been bargaining hard with the alliance leader DMK in Tamil Nadu and the latter has so far not offered more than 18 seats. If the partnership ends, the AINRC will not hesitate to seek an alliance with the DMK in Puducherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-bjp-faces-ainrc-ire-over-seats-cm-post/articleshow/81319354.cms||Bosco Dominique
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat crosses 10L shots||Ahmedabad: With 63,175 vaccinations in a day – including 60,093 to the beneficiaries of the third phase – Gujarat on Wednesday crossed the figure of 10 lakh vaccinations, accounting for 1.5% of the state’s total population. With 20,428 of the beneficiaries getting second shot of the vaccine, the number of those inoculated completely reached 2.17 lakh. State health officials claimed that they have not received any major complaints of side effects so far. “The vaccination has seen an upward trend, as we are getting a good response from the senior citizens. There is rise in awareness, and in several cases their kin motivated persons above 60 years to get inoculated in large numbers,” said a senior health department official. “The number of those getting vaccinated under co-morbidities category is relatively smaller. But one must see the figure in the light that in all, they consist of about 3-4 lakh out of 55 lakh-odd beneficiaries in phase III.” The state completed a week of 400-plus cases with the 42-day high of daily cases at 475. Analysis of the cases revealed that compared to 380 a week ago, the tally on Wednesday was 25% higher. The analysis also revealed that the cases remained concentrated in four major cities – with 72% or close to three-fourth of the cases in 24 hours recorded from Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-crosses-10l-shots/articleshow/81318105.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Shift of DU’s art college to AUD sparks row||New Delhi: The Delhi cabinet’s decision to merge Delhi College of Art with Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) has not gone down well with Delhi University, which had the institute under Faculty of Music and Fine Arts. The university administration has alleged that the move was made without taking DU’s approval, though any decision to take away affiliation requires a nod from the academic and executive councils. Many in the university also apprehend that the decision could pave the way for the government shifting more such institutions from DU. The university had sought a comment from the college principal after receiving a government letter a few days ago, said registrar Vikas Gupta. “There is a procedure for the disaffiliation of a college in DU. But without following the proceudre, the government announced it,” he alleged. “According to Statute 30 of DU Act, any such process needs the approval of our AC and EC. We are also unaware if AUD has the power to affiliate a college,” Gupta said. Officiating principal B S Chauhan has, however, welcomed the decision. The DU administration’s request to him was not valid as “College of Art is a government college and has to follow its norms”, he said. “If DU did not give PhD admissions to our students last year despite the college being registered with it since 1974 and didn’t conduct our first- and second-year exams, how they could ask us for a comment. The college does not even have a governing body.” Chauhan also alleged that DU had not allowed recruitment of teachers and promotions. A shift to AUD will also be beneficial for students, he added. “The college is governed by multiple institutions. Our students have not got their scholarships revised. If we come under AUD, students can get grants from the government.” Chauhan stressed that “the government’s decision should be appreciated”. A Delhi government spokesperson also said the decision didn’t require DU’s approval as “Delhi College of Art is fully funded by Delhi government”. A group of AC and EC members, part of a teachers’ group, has written to DU acting VC P C Joshi opposing the decision. They referred to disaffiliation of Delhi College of Engineering in 2009 and that of NSIT in 2019. “This is a unilateral attack... and part of a larger design to disintegrate the university into pieces... We demand that Delhi University administration should not repeat its slack approach on this issue,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shift-of-dus-art-college-to-aud-sparks-row/articleshow/81319368.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nashik||32 private hospitals to give shots in Aurangabad district||Aurangabad: The Covid vaccination for identified target groups is scheduled to begin at 32 private hospitals in Aurangabad district in the next couple of days, district immunization officer Vijaykumar Wagh said on Wednesday.The private hospitals registered under Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Arogya Yojana and those having cold storage facilities are eligible. “All private hospitals have been asked to appoint a nodal officer for executing the vaccination programme. The required jabs can be taken after online registration or through walk-ins,” he saidThe registration can be done at cowin.gov.in for the shots and the price is capped at Rs 250 per dose.“The online registration has to be done 24 hours in advance. For on-site registration, the beneficiary should carry the Aadhaar card or age proof and certificate of comorbidity for individuals aged above 45 years. As the OTP is being generated during the registration, mobile phone is necessary,” said Wagh. Marathwada Hospitals Association founder president Praveen Suryawanshi said the beneficiaries should prefer online registration over walk-ins for taking the vaccine to prevent crowding at hospitals.The hospitals identified include Kabra, International, JJ Plus, Century Multispecialty, Sawji Multispecialty, Sanjeevani, Krupamayi, Utkarsh, Nimai, Care-well, Dr Dahifale Foundation, MGM, YSK, Manik, Lifeline, United CIIGMA, MIT, Dr Hedgewar, Bajaj, Alpine, Sai Krishna, Adarsh Cooperative, Sai, Shree Multispecialty, Ganpati, Ajanta Multispecialty, Icon, Dhoot and Waluj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/32-private-hospitals-to-give-shots-in-aurangabad-district/articleshow/81315991.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Search launched decade after student went missing||Ahmedabad: A decade after a 19-year-old student disappeared mysteriously from his hostel in Banaskantha district, police have launched a search operation at the behest of the Gujarat high court. As the police have initiated tracing Jigar Jadav, who at present would be a 29-year-old man, the Banaskantha DSP hopes that cops may find out the whereabouts of the missing person. The high court has also ordered all concerned people to take this matter “very seriously and cooperate with the police agency”. The case involves Jigar Jadav from Diyodar town. He was studying in Jagruti Uttar Buniyadi Vidhya Mandir in Devas and staying in Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Kumar Chhatralay. Jigar’s father, Laghdhirbhai Jadav came to know on October 1, 2011, from a friend of his that the hostel authorities had informed him that Jigar was missing for last 10 days. Jadav approached police, but no complaint was registered. A month later, police recorded his statement and an entry was made for a missing person. While the family continued its search for the teenager, it also made representations before the home minister. In 2015, he received last communication from the police informing him that there was no headway in the case. A decade passed and Jadav finally moved the high court through advocate Naynavati Jethva last month complaining that he had kept running from pillar to post to search for his son. His habeas corpus petition reads, “The police authorities have remained negligent and passive and failed in taking timely action to trace out the missing son of the petitioner since long.” The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Sangeeta Vishen issued urgent notice asking Banaskantha police to show what efforts were taken to trace Jigar. Last week, the DSP appeared before the court and informed the court about the efforts to trace the corpus. The court has ordered all the authorities to cooperate with the police. It has even ordered the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to cooperate with the police, who intend to trace the corpus through Aadhar card, if it was issued at all to Jigar. The court has posted further hearing on March 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/search-launched-decade-after-student-went-missing/articleshow/81318131.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||CM to inaugurate jaggery fest on Mar 6||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate a jaggery festival in Lucknow on March 6. The event, to be organized by the AYUSH department, is aimed at promoting the use of jaggery, sensitizing people about its medicinal benefits and at improving its production and marketing. A government spokesperson said that the festival will also see discussions on co-products of jaggery. “The event will be held at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan. Subject experts will participate in discussions on packaging, marketing, e-marketing and export potential of jaggery and will share their experience in making fine quality jaggery products,” he said. The agenda includes a discussion with sugarcane experts on co-harvest farming, improved species and making sugarcane farming more beneficial. Jaggery traders will be exposed to information on new technologies, product varieties, storage, marketing and export avenues. Jaggery of various kinds will also be on display and visitors will get a chance to see and taste various qualities of jaggery that are often not available in the market. The government has also announced a prize for three stalls which are involved in making the best products from jaggery. The spokesperson added the event will boost the government’s one district, one product scheme as jaggery is an ODOP product of Muzaffarnagar and Ayodhya districts. Therefore, the first jaggery festival was held in Muzaffarnagar. “By holding the festival in Lucknow, the government hopes to inspire sugarcane farmers of Purvanchal as well as Ayodhya to make processed products from jaggery,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-to-inaugurate-jaggery-fest-on-mar-6/articleshow/81320547.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Man strangles wife to death||Warangal: Man murders his wife in Madikonda police station limits on Tuesday. According to ACP, B Ravindra Kumar, the couple were living in a rented house. Dharawath Chandrashekhar, 31, suspicious of wife Saritha, 25 strangulated her throat during sleep. The accused has been taken into custody. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-strangles-wife-to-death/articleshow/81313683.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Schools in Bengaluru rope in finance companies to help parents pay fees||BENGALURU: With parents and schools refusing to blink on the fee issue, many educational institutions in Bengaluru are roping in finance companies to help parents pay school fees with no interest burden. Schools will pick up the tab instead. Many companies are offering to pay fees to the schools upfront and collect it from parents in monthly instalments. Parents who otherwise cough up lumpsum amount every term have the option to pay in monthly instalments, under this scheme. Some finance companies have sweetened the offer with insurance and a few other rewards. Fee financing firms claim big growth in past yearEducation institutions typically pick up the interest tab that enables companies to offer zero-percent interest payment options to the parents. With Covid threatening the financial stability of many families and schools struggling to collect the due amounts, fee financing companies claim they have registered big growth in the past year. Of 4,500 schools, colleges and skilling institutes it works with in the country, Financepeer says as many as 2,000 were added in the previous year. It works with 1,200 schools in Karnataka, and 500 of them were added in the Covid year. “Many parents who never had problems suddenly are in a financial crisis. A majority of the schools in the country have not been able to get 50-60% of the fees. Fee collection is nearly 90% in our associate schools because of the payment convenience,” said Sunit Gajbhiye, chief business officer, Financepeer. Interestingly, the number of parents using the fee offers has remained the same despite zero-interest offer. “This is because many of them are still unwilling to pay for the current year. While tier-1 schools have collected most of the fees, challenges are high in tier-2 and tier-3 schools,” said Nikhil Saraf, CEO and cofounder of Neev, a non-banking finance company. Said Rishabh Mehta, CEO of GrayQuest: “In an average Indian household, 24% of its income goes into paying school fees. While Covid helped us in aiding parents who wanted to pay, many did not want to pay. The recent government order on 70% cut came as a blow to schools collecting fees as many parents decided to wait.” “We saw a five-fold growth in a year. That’s also because we have raised funding and expanded operations into other parts of the country,” he added. Schools said the option has brought in flexibility for parents in the year of the pandemic. Sakina Qasim Zaidi, principal, Orchids the International School, Panathur, said: “We understand the financial crisis of the last year. We recently tied up with Financepeer. With this arrangement, parents can pay fees in monthly or quarterly installments at zero-interest rate. This reduces the parents’ burden of paying the fees annually or half-yearly. With the school bearing the interest component, parents can pay fees at their convenience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/schools-rope-in-fin-cos-to-help-parents-pay-fees/articleshow/81321479.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Masked man in Mumbai robs jeweller at gunpoint||An unidentified man robbed a Bhyander-based jeweller’s workshop on Monday and fled with 450 grams of gold worth Rs 17 lakh and cash Rs 1.7 lakh. The jeweller, Telaram Modi was alone in the workshop when the robber entered and pulled out a pistol and demanded gold and cash. Navghar police has filed an FIR and suspect it to be an insider’s job as the accused knew Modi would be alone at that time. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/masked-man-in-mumbai-robs-jeweller-at-gunpoint/articleshow/81321255.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Bail denied to kidnap accused||Ahmedabad: A city sessions court has denied bail to four persons who were arrested in connection with kidnapping of two youths and taking Rs 40 lakh as ransom from a victim’s family. Last month, the Ahmedabad crime branch nabbed four persons — Sikandar Hodda, Vipul Aal, Dharmendra Parmar and Nilesh Bar. They were accused of abducting Samir alias Pintu (20) and Samir Vadhwania (18) and then extorting Rs 40 lakh as ransom. Investigation revealed that the criminal conspiracy was hatched by the accused because Hodda and Aal had had heavy debts. A month later, additional sessions judge Prashant Rawal refused regular bail to all four accused persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bail-denied-to-kidnap-accused/articleshow/81318157.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi municipal bypolls: People rejected BJP for its misrule, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Elated over the thumping victory of Aam Aadmi Party in the municipal bypolls, AAP national convener and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said Delhi had rejected BJP due to its incompetence and misrule in the corporations over the past 15 years. While AAP won four of the five seats, snatching the Shalimar Bagh ward from BJP, Congress grabbed the remaining seat. The results are politically crucial because elections for the three civic bodies would be held early next year. This by-election was considered the semi-final to the main event. Kejriwal said the results proved that people were very happy with the work AAP had done in the past six years and that’s why they had given four seats to the party. “The people of Delhi once again voted in the name of work. Congratulations to all. The public has been perturbed by the 15-year BJP’s misrule in the MCD. People are now desperate to form the AAP government in the municipal corporations of Delhi,” the chief minister tweeted. After the results were declared, Kejriwal visited the AAP headquarters where many party functionaries had gathered to celebrate the occasion. Addressing party members, he said, “The full form of MCD is Most Corrupt Department and people do not want this corruption. They want the corporations to function as effectively as the Delhi government.” Slamming the municipal corporations for not being able to pay regular salaries to employees, Kejriwal said, “Delhi government has given all funds as mentioned in the Constitution. We have received no help from the central government. If I cannot pay salaries to teachers, I should leave my position. Any government that cannot pay salaries to its employees doesn’t deserve to stay in power.” “BJP has done nothing in the last 15 years, apart from corruption and making the city dirtier. These results determine the outcome of the 2022 civic polls,” said the CM, while advising the newly elected AAP councillors to not let the trust of people shatter. Highlighting that the most important task of a councillor was to ensure cleanliness in his/her area, Kejriwal told them to work with full dedication. “If you do that, we will win the elections again in 2022. It pains me to see dirt and garbage on the roads and lanes. This is the only thing left for us to do since we have worked on everything else,” he added. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the results showed that people had immense faith in AAP and advised the newly elected councillors to work hard. AAP functionary Gopal Rai said the final power lay with the people and if they wanted, BJP could be reduced to zero even at the national level. “The message is not only for the municipal bypolls, but also a warning that BJP must listen to the protesting farmers as well as people,” he added. Kalkaji MLA Atishi said the four councillors would work towards making their areas “model wards”. “Making Delhi a world-class city is now the dream of the people. They will vote unanimously for AAP to form the government in all three municipal bodies,” Atishi added. Watch Delhi municipal bypolls: AAP wins 4 wards, Congress one||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-people-rejected-bjp-for-its-misrule/articleshow/81319370.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 4, 2021||Bareilly||Sambhal DM bans ‘jeans & T-shirts’ in govt offices||BAREILLY: Sambhal district magistrate (DM) Sanjeev Ranjan has ordered a ban on informal dressing - wearing jeans and T-shirts - in all government offices. He stated that the move is aimed at maintaining "office decorum" and ensuring that employees’ code of conduct is followed in the district. Besides, it will "ensure seriousness among employees at work". Any violation of the rule will invite action, he said. The DM added that no specific dress code has been proposed though. Speaking on the occasion of 'Sampoorna Samadhan Divas' on Tuesday, the DM said, “Only a handful follow office ethics. Most of them are spotted wearing casuals such as T-shirts and jeans at work. This violates the government employees’ code of conduct. Wearing formal clothes in government offices will make them look more serious towards their duties. And will ensure office decorum.” The DM continued, “Therefore, it has been made mandatory for the officials and employees of all government departments not to wear such casuals during office hours in the district. There is no specific dress code proposed yet, but it has to be ensured that informal outfits are not worn by the employees.” According to the instructions, the DM’s order should now be followed by officials at district hospital, Collectorate and Public Works Department, among others. This is not the first time such orders have been issued by a DM in Sambhal. Similar steps were taken earlier too. But, it could not be implemented. Activities such as smoking and chewing tobacco products were also banned in government offices by earlier DMs in Sambhal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sambhal-dm-bans-jeans-t-shirts-in-govt-offices/articleshow/81316938.cms||Maria Khan
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||Interfaith couple elopes, takes sleeping pills overdose; stable||Lucknow: A woman went missing from her Jankipuram residence on Tuesday following which her father lodged a case under anti-conversion law against a man of another community. The interfaith couple were traced and caught by the families and consumed overdose of sleeping pills following which cops rushed them to Balrampur hospital. SHO, Jankipuram, Brijesh Singh told TOI, “One Vijay Prakash, a resident of Jankipuram, lodged a complaint against a youth Shahrukh (26) accusing him of luring away his daughter Dipti (24) to change her religion for marriage. Prakash said his daughter was missing from 8pm on Tuesday. We lodged an FIR of kidnapping, abducting or inducing the woman to compel her for marriage, and under anti-conversion law.” Police started conducting raids to locate the duo following which Shahrukh’s family said they would cooperate in tracing the couple. On Wednesday evening, the family of the accused called officials and informed them that they were bringing the couple to the police station. “During questioning, Shahrukh and Dipti said they were adults and wanted to marry each other. We noticed that both were very drowsy and on checking recovered a suicide note from Shahrukh’s pocket,” said Singh. Lady constables found a similar suicide note on Dipti’s person, stating that they had taken a poisonous substance to end life, the SHO added. Police rushed the couple to Balrampur hospital where doctors said the man and the woman couple had taken an overdose of sleeping pills. Both were stable and out of danger. It was the first case to be registered under the new anti-conversion law in the Lucknow police commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/interfaith-couple-elopes-takes-sleeping-pills-overdose-stable/articleshow/81320574.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||UGC vigilance team probes grant disbursal at Vidyapith||Ahmedabad: A four-member vigilance team from the UGC is camping in Gujarat Vidyapith to investigate alleged irregularities in appointments and disbursals of UGC grants at this century old university founded by Mahatma Gandhi. The move was initiated following a PIL and the high court seeking an impartial inquiry. The UGC has also for the first time permanently removed the sole trustee committee member in the four-member vice-chancellor search committee, thus eliminating any say of the Gujarat Vidyapith trustees in the VC selection process.Two months back on December 17, 2020, the UGC team had stalled all procedures involved in selection of the vice-chancellor. “One of the candidates shortlisted was the former registrar of Vidyapith, when the alleged administrative lapses had taken place,’ says a senior Vidyapith official. The official added, “The UGC had demanded one of its nominees in the selection committee which included Indira Hirve and Arvind Desai (Vidyapith trustee Mandal member) earlier. The VC selection process was stalled by UGC because of that. Now there will be just a three-member selection committee with no member from the Trustee Mandal,” adds the officer. The UGC has selected the GTU vice-chancellor as its nominee for the selection committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ugc-vigilance-team-probes-grant-disbursal-at-vidyapith/articleshow/81318167.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Vadodara||Man changes bank app password, duped||Vadodara: Online fraudsters often siphon off money from bank accounts by enticing the victims to share their passwords or OTPs. But a businessman engaged in industrial construction was shocked when Rs 14.71 lakh were siphoned off from his bank account despite the fact that he had never shared his bank app password, account number or even one time password (OTP) with anyone. The victim Jawharlal Yadav, who lodged a complaint with cybercrime cell, has a joint account with his wife in Dena Bank’s Makarpura branch. “Yadav got a letter from the bank on December14, 2020 that Dena Bank is merging with Bank of Baroda and it further read a cash credit number. The letter stated the maximum limit of online payment from his account is Rs 10 lakh,” police said. On December 15, Rs 24.42 lakh was deposited into Yadav’s cash credit account in Dena Bank towards some business payment. On December 17, when he entered the password in the bank’s app, it showed an error. He changed the password and got a shock of his life when he checked the bank statement. A total of Rs 14.71 lakh were siphoned by some fraudsters who made multiple transactions within a day on December 17. The money was sent online through various payment apps to different accounts. Yadav told police he had never shared his bank app password, account number or even one time password (OTP) to anyone. In fact, he never received any sms or email from the bank about the multiple withdrawals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-changes-bank-app-password-duped/articleshow/81316610.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Teachers to sign Rs 2 lakh bonds||Ahmedabad: Candidates chosen for the ongoing recruitment drive by the state education department for teachers in grant-in aid secondary and higher secondary schools need to enter into an employee bond contract in which a candidate will have to forfeit Rs 2 lakh if he or she fails to turn up for work after being selected. Many candidates are opposing this move with some even seeking legal recourse, said sources aware of the matter. In the ongoing recruitment drive, the state education department plans to enlist 2,306 teachers in secondary schools and 3,407 in higher secondary schools. The contract puts out conditions, where those who break it will have to pay harsh penalties.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teachers-to-sign-rs-2-lakh-bonds/articleshow/81318178.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Ashaworkers to be roped in to push vaccination drive||KOLHAPUR: District collector Daulat Desai has directed the health department to rope in teachers and Asha workers and ensure that maximum number of senior citizens registers for vaccination against Covid-19. “We will be vaccinating more than six lakh senior citizens. It is a humongous task and to ensure 100% turnout, we will have to rope in more foot soldiers, who will help in covering the recipients from their villages,” he said. Desaid said the help can be sought from local mandals, youth clubs and other organisations to reach every potential beneficiary. “We have asked the authorities to use traditional means such as ‘Davandi’ (announcing while beating the drum) to make citizens aware of the drive.” Vaccination is being carried out for senior citizens aged above 60 years ago and those aged above 45 with comorbidities at 120 centres in Kolhapur district. Every primary health care centre has vaccination facility. On Wednesday, 510 citizens aged above 60 years and 131 above 45 years with comorbidities from Kolhapur city got the jab. In Sangli district, the figures for the two groups were recorded at 662 and 308 respectively. Desai also asked the taluka health officers to send proposals of large private hospitals where vaccination can be started. At present, only 15 such facilities have been empanelled for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ashaworkers-to-beroped-in-to-push-vax-drive/articleshow/81316000.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Property of Thackers attached for Rs 7 crore dues||MUMBAI: BMC on Wednesday attached the property of Thackers Caterers for failing to pay property tax of Rs 7.3 crore. Officials pasted notices on Thackers Caterers at Girgaon Chowpatty. The attachment is part of a drive to recover property tax dues from all violators. BMC has an outstanding of close to Rs20,000 crore. BMC is facing a severe cash crunch this year, due to Covid-19, and a slew of discounts to builders and contractors, it will then auction the properties. “We had issued notices but the tax was not paid, so we will attach the property till the tax is paid. If it is not paid, we will auction the property,” said Dr Sangeeta Hasnale, assistant municipal commissioner, assessment and collection. Established in 1960, Thackers is known for authentic Gujarati food and is on Birla Krida Kendra’s premises. BMC missed its property tax target of Rs 5,200 crore this year, and so far only collected Rs 950 crore. It has only three weeks to recover the remaining Rs 4,300 crore. Officials said the property tax target was revised to Rs 4,800 crore due to Covid-19. “We will try and achieve the target. For commercial properties, we have time until March 8, but for residential properties the deadline is March-end,” Hasnale said. Officials said Thackers Caterers sought a hearing with the additional municipal commissioner on Thursday. Thackers could not be contacted despite several attempts. A senior civic official said most dues are from builders, hoteliers and commercial complex owners, who have not paid in some cases since 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-property-of-thackers-attached-for-rs-7crore-dues/articleshow/81319408.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||Jamiat open school to have smart classes||Lucknow: In a bid to change the image of madrassas as obsolete, orthodox institutions into centres of holistic learning, the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind (JuH), a national-level body of clerics, has decided to take 2,000 madrassa students from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Maharashtra under its wings and provide them contemporary mainstream education. ‘Jamiat Open School’ will provide the infrastructure and trained staff to the students for studying computers, mathematics, sciences and language among other subjects offered under National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS). For the pilot project, JuH has selected 90 private madrassas not getting government aid from 12 districts of western UP, 10 madrassas from Delhi and 100 madrassas from 10 districts of Maharashtra. JuH will register 20 students from each madrassa, for the open school from March 15. These students will be taught subjects that will help them in getting secondary-level certification and prove helpful in their employment. JuH will take care of student scholarships, smart classes, online and offline reading material, teachers’ training and other amenities required with the help of sponsors and donation. “We have started training one teacher each from these madrassas with the help of Pune-based Maharashtra Cosmopolitan Education Society and its president PA Inamdar. The second batch is undergoing month-long training in Pune. We will start registration of students on March 15,” said JuH secretary Niaz Ahmed Farooqui who is spearheading the pilot project. This idea was envisioned two years ago at the governing body meeting of JuH and was speeded up after the 21-member executive body meeting two months back, Farooqui added. “We want to change the image of madrassas. Although religious studies will remain the primary part of our system, the need for secondary level certification — Class X — was deeply felt as it is mandatory as identity proof, for government jobs, higher education and passport and might become compulsory in future,” said Farooqui. Students will be selected on the basis of an entrance exam, while teachers have completed their madrasa degree of Aalim (senior secondary) and Fazil (post-graduation) along with mainstream graduation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jamiat-open-school-to-have-smart-classes/articleshow/81320613.cms||Yusra Husain
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Election shadow on Holi hotel bookings as owners, tour operators fret over cancellations||Kolkata: Elections in Bengal— scheduled to begin March 27, a day before Dol—is likely to play a spoilsport for the tourism industry, especially in places, like Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and East Midnapur, that draw a large number of visitors during the festival of colours.  According to hoteliers and tour operators in Bengal, several bookings have already been cancelled and local cops have notified them about requisitioning tourist vehicles for  purpose. A team of tour operators and travel agents even submitted a memorandum, highlighting the issue, to the state election commission’s office on Wednesday, pleading before the commission to consider changing the first date of election of March 27 and to spare tourist vehicles of election work. “The pandemic had hit the tourism industry badly and we were banking heavily on Dol Utsav and Holi to serve tourists who flock to Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram belt during this time of the year. The election will hamper tourism in this area. Lakhs have already booked hotels and the entire industry will lose business,” said Nilanjan Basu, secretary of Travel Agents’ Association of Bengal. Tourists who had been planning a Holi trip for months say they had no choice but to cancel bookings as they did not want to get into any hassle. “We had planned to spend Holi at Jhargram. But with election dates being announced I don’t want to take any risk,” said techie Soumya Mukherjee. Same is the case with Bandel resident Somnath Debnath. “We had booked a resort at Garpanchakot in Purulia for March 26, 27 and 28. But the election date has ruined our plan and we have cancelled it,” said Debnath. Hoteliers say they have been allowing customers — those who had paid a major part of the booking money—to reschedule their stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/election-shadow-on-holi-hotel-bookings-as-owners-tour-operators-fret-over-cancellations/articleshow/81318204.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||One held over spurious bidis||Ahmedabad: Nikol police on Tuesday raided a house at Mohan Park Society in Nikol and detained a 52-year-old man, Ashok Pragji Patel, and seized raw tobacco and packaging material bearing the trademarks of various tobacco products companies along with manufacturing and packaging machines. An FIR was filed for offences under the Copyright Act by Hiren Patel, 34, proprietor of M4U Intellectual Property Rights Services on behalf of the makers of various tobacco products. The accused was allegedly rolling, packaging and selling spurious bidis of the ‘Telephone’, ‘Char Bhai’ and ‘Jashwant Chhap’ brands. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-held-over-spurious-bidis/articleshow/81318200.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai : Minister differs with Centre, says outage inquiry reveals sabotage||Mumbai: Although the Union government denied reports about sabotage and termed it “human error”, state energy minister Nitin Raut on Wednesday stated in the assembly that the massive power outage across Mumbai in October last year could be cyber sabotage. BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said he will write to the Centre seeking a CBI probe into the issue. A day after the Centre clarified that there is no evidence to connect the grid failure to a hacking attempt, state energy minister Raut made a statement in the lower house on Wednesday saying that the probe established that attempts were made from IP addresses traced to “foreign” companies to log in to the power network and nearly “14 Trojan horses” carrying malware entered the computer system of Mahavitran electricity board and tried to cut off the power supply. — Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-minister-differs-with-centre-says-outage-inquiry-reveals-sabotage/articleshow/81320718.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 4, 2021||Puducherry||Deadlock in seat sharing: TNCC says ball in DMK court||Chennai: The deadlock in the seat sharing talks between the DMK and the Congress may not end anytime soon as both sides remained unrelenting from their chosen stand. While neither side openly reached out to the other on Wednesday, the Congress has opted to elicit individual views of its district secretaries and state level functionaries on Thursday. TNCC president K S Alagiri told reporters in Cuddalore on Wednesday evening, “The ball is in the DMK’s court.” Alagiri is likely to return to Chennai on Thursday evening. On Tuesday, when the Congress team led by Alagiri met the DMK seat sharing team, the former was miffed with the fact that the latter reiterated the offer of only 18 seats. “The discussion did not move further beyond a point,” sources said, adding that Alagiri’s “all well” message was only for media consumption. “Forget the numbers. There was not even a sense of friendship and cordiality in the talks, though the two parties have remained allies for more than 15 years, barring the 2014 Lok Sabha election,” a senior Congress leader said. “We are asking them to accept 18 seats, with an assurance that we will ensure they win at least 15. Whenever we offer more seats to the Congress, our cadres slacken. We can direct the cadres only to an extent,” a senior DMK leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/deadlock-in-seat-sharing-tncc-says-ball-in-dmk-court/articleshow/81319406.cms||D Govardan
March 4, 2021||Patna||Mother tongues to be medium of elementary education in Bihar: Minister||PATNA: Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said in the assembly on Wednesday that the medium of instruction in all the elementary schools of the state will be the mother tongues of the respective linguistic zones, as per the new education policy (NEP) announced by the Centre last year. “The medium of instruction for teaching in the elementary schools will be the mother tongues of the areas, like Maithili, Magahi and Bhojpuri,” Choudhary said, adding that it will facilitate easy understanding of the subjects for the students. The state has 72,000 elementary schools, including 43,000 primary schools and 29,000 upper primary or middle schools. The state government has also decided to celebrate the birth centenary of noted novelist Phanishwar Nath Renu, who used ‘anchalik bhasha’ (regional/local languages) in his works. Choudhary said the state budget for the education department was to the tune of Rs38,035 crore for 2021-22, that was around 6% of the GSDP, as per the NEP. Further, the plan expenditure to be made in the education department is 21.91% of the total budgetary layout. Choudhary was giving the government’s reply to the House debate on the budgetary demand of the education department. The House passed the budget by voice vote. Choudhary also said the government was committed to improving the quality of education in the schools and, accordingly, the stress would now be on increasing and assessing the “learning output”. “We have been providing incentives like midday meal, school uniform and bicycles to the students. While this will continue, the government’ concern has moved to another stage. Now, we will assess and improve the learning output and make sustained efforts to improve the quality of school education in the state,” Choudhary said. He also said the regional education directors and other officials will be required to accord honour to the teachers, who will not be harassed by them. “We also ask the teachers to do their basic duty, which is giving quality education to the school students,” Choudhary also said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mother-tongues-to-be-medium-of-elementary-edu-in-state-minister/articleshow/81318202.cms||Abhay Singh
March 4, 2021||Pune||Diplomats term vaccine diplomacy a success, eye vital role for IT sector in post-pandemic world||Pune: Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Tuesday said India’s Covid-19 accine diplomacy had been a success. In his address on the final day of the Asia Economic Dialogue, the foreign secretary said India sent 36 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine around the world, of which 80% were in the form of exports whereas the rest were in the form of grants. “The doses were exported after taking care of the country’s domestic needs, much of it from the Serum Institute of India’s plant in Pune,” he said. The Asia Economic Dialogue (AED) had been organised by the Pune International Centre (PIC) and the Union Ministry of External Affairs. He said India’s supply of the vaccines to its neighbouring countries, under the “neighbourhood first” policy, significantly raised India’s profile among the people in those countries. He also praised India’s overall vaccine policy, titled Vaccine Maitri. Union commerce secretary Anup Wadhawan, who was also the part of the AED panel, accepted that India “had not utilized” its full potential when it came to boosting trade partnerships, but said, “India’s economic imprint across the globe cannot be wished away.” Wadhawan said India’s information technology (IT) sector could play a key role in the post-pandemic economic order. He also emphasised on the need to create “pockets of excellence”. “We have to create pockets of excellence like China and this would be our focus this year as the world moves into Plug n Play model of doing business. India has already done a good job of creating industrial zones and clusters,” Wadhawan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/diplomats-term-vaccine-diplomacy-a-success-eye-vital-role-for-it-sector-in-post-pandemic-world/articleshow/81299107.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Legal immigrants’ kids get a shot at US citizenship||Mumbai: A pleasant surprise for the Indian diaspora is contained in the ‘American Dream and Promise Act’—the reintroduction of which was announced by Congress woman Lucille Roybal-Allard on Wednesday. The reason: It promises a pathway to citizenship, not just for ‘dreamers’ but also for ‘legal or documented dreamers’—aka children whose parents immigrated legally to the US, say under the popular H-1B visa program. Earlier legislative bills had ignored the legal dreamers. David J Bier, immigration policy analyst at Cato Institute, a Washington-based think-tank, has tweeted, “The Dream and Promise Act has been introduced and it ‘includes’ most legal dreamers in the US right now. This is a tremendous improvement to the bill that will help nearly 200,000 immigrants who grew up in temporary statuses in the US achieve US citizenship.”He points out that the bill will help everyone in the EB green card backlog, and many L (intra-company) and H-1B visa holders, because as soon as these kids get citizenship and are over 21 they can petition for their parents. “It will have a very large positive economic effect,” he emphasises.According to an earlier study done by Bier, the employment-based green card backlog (EB2 and EB3 skilled category) for those from India had reached 7.41 lakh in April 2020, with an expected wait time of 84 years. Around 1.36 lakh children from Indian families were caught up within this backlog and it was estimated that 84,675 of them (or 62%) would age out without getting a green card. ‘Improve The Dream’, an organisation led by young immigrants who have grown up in the US, was one of the many voices advocating for a change which would permanently end ageing out and provide a path to citizenship for every child who grew up in the US regardless of status (whether undocumented or documented). Its website points out: Our parents brought us here at an average age of 5 and we have been living here for an average time of over 12 years. But due to various issues in the immigration system, we don’t have a clear path to citizenship. This organisation has tweeted: “Exciting News: Dream and Promise Act of 2021 includes Documented Dreamers! This is a major step forward in ensuring all children who grew up here receive a clear path to citizenship.” Dreamers are currently protected from deportation and are also eligible for work authorisation, but legal dreamers do not enjoy this leeway. TOI has on several occasions covered the plight of children of Indian families. The spouse and dependent children of an H-1B worker hold an H-4 or dependent visa. When these children turn 21 (age out), they can no longer continue with this visa. Either they have to transit to an F-1 visa meant for international students—which has its own challenges such as higher fees and restricted work eligibility; or they have to self deport to India. The huge employment based green card backlog for those from India, compounds the problem, as a large majority age out before the green card can be obtained. This bill and the earlier introduced comprehensive immigration bill, which seeks to prevent the child from aging out of eligibility for a green card, if he or she was under 21 years when the parent filed the green card application or applied for certification have been welcomed by the Indian diaspora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/legal-immigrants-kids-get-a-shot-at-us-citizenship/articleshow/81339696.cms||Lubna Kably
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||50-year-old gets 3 years for flashing minor in a speedy, 23-day trial||MUMBAI: In a speedy trial that lasted less than a month and took only seven court dates despite impediments caused by the pandemic, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court this week convicted and sentenced a 50-year-old unemployed man to three years’ rigorous imprisonment for flashing his private parts at his 13-year-old neighbour in October 2020. The accused was previously accused of molesting his daughter too, but was acquitted as she turned hostile in court. While Pocso Act prescribes for a trial to be completed within a year, many remain pending for years. Finding the accused guilty, special judge M A Baraliya said, “Though the accused in his statement has said he and his wife both had been to the market to buy a mobile (at the time of the alleged offence) but apparently he is making a false statement as there is no motive for the witnesses to make false allegations against him. The accused has failed to come with a strong defence why he came to be implicated falsely in the matter.” The court, though, said considering his age, the nature and gravity of the offence and the six children he has to maintain, it would be justified if the minimum sentence of three years is imposed. The accused was also fined Rs 10,000 which, if recovered, will be given to the child as compensation. Among the five witnesses who deposed in the trial that commenced on February 6 and ended with the judgment being pronounced on March 1 were the minor, her mother, a neighbour and the police. The case of the prosecution was on October 11, 2020, around 3.15pm, when the child was playing with her friends, the accused, her neighbour, pulled down his shorts and showed his private parts. He also told the child to come home at night and offered to pay her Rs 100. The child then rushed home and told her mother about it. Her mother, though, asked her to ignore him. The child then returned to her friends. The accused too returned and repeated the act and even held her hand. The child again ran back home and informed her mother about it. The mother came out of the house and reprimanded the man who, in turn, abused her. Police were called but the accused fled. Subsequently, he was apprehended. He has been in jail since October and had not sought bail. The court refuted the defence submission that non-examination of the child’s friends was fatal to the case. “It is for the prosecution to decide how many witnesses they want to examine. It is the quality and not the quantity of the witness which matters. Thus, there is absolutely no reason to disbelieve the testimony of the witnesses,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-50-yr-old-gets-3-yrs-for-flashing-minor-in-a-speedy-23-day-trial/articleshow/81319474.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 4, 2021||Kolhapur||MSRTC buses head to Karnataka as Covid -ve report rule done away with||Kolhapur: Karnataka government has allowed entry to Maharashtra’s public transport buses from Wednesday without the RT-PCR test for the passengers. The compulsion of the test had caused inconvenience to the passengers and the Maharashtra state transport buses going to Karnataka were cancelled a week ago. Till now, passengers were travelling up to Kolhapur depot from across the state and boarding Karnataka transport buses to enter the state. With the change in rules, over 30 Maharashtra state transport buses left from Kolhapur depot for Karnataka, taking along nearly 1,200 passengers on Wednesday. Now, buses from all depots can enter Karnataka. After Karnataka government announced its restrictions on travel from Maharashtra, Kolhapur district guardian minister Satej Patil had threatened to obstruct Karnataka buses and passengers moving in Maharashtra. Solapur district administration went ahead and banned outside vehicles, especially from Karnataka, and mandated that every passenger should have Covid negative test report with them. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai wrote to the Maharashtra chief secretary and asked him to intervene as the obstruction of passengers at Kognoli entry point may cause law and order issue. Ajay Patil, Kolhapur depot manager of state transport utility, said, “From Wednesday morning, we have started sending our buses to Karnataka. Now, the compulsion of Covid RT-PCR test has been done away with for those travelling in state transport buses. However, at the check post, the temperature of the passengers continues to be checked.” The passengers travelling through private vehicles must have RT-PCR test report with them. Kolhapur travellers have come up with ways to bypass the compulsion. The owner of a private transport company said that they are asking the passengers to board Karnataka state transport buses and leave the bus after it crosses Kognoli entry point. From thereon, they pick up the passengers and take them to their destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/msrtc-buses-head-to-karnataka-as-covid-ve-report-rule-done-away-with/articleshow/81316078.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rs 6.5L worth of cloth stolen||Ahmedabad: An Usmanpura resident has filed a complaint with Madhavpura police that five unidentified persons decamped with cloth material worth Rs 6.5 lakh from his shop in a commercial complex on Dudheshwar Road between January 27 and February 4. Jitendra Parikh, 64, a resident of Kalash Residency in Usmanpura, said in his FIR that he was a cloth merchange with a a shop in Sumel Complex. On February 26, when he was supposed to deliver cloth material to businessman, he found that some cloth bundles were missing from his shop. He checked the CCTV footage and found that unknown persons had opened the shutter of his shop using a duplicate key. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-6-5l-worth-of-cloth-stolen/articleshow/81318207.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||Trust buys 7,285 sq ft land near Ayodhya's Ram temple complex||AYODHYA: As part of its ambitious plan to expand the premises of the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya from 70 acre to 107 acre, the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has purchased an additional 7,285 square feet land adjacent to the proposed complex. The land is adjacent to the 70-acre area given by the Supreme Court in its September 2019 verdict for the construction of the Ram Temple. The land belongs to a local resident Deep Narain who was paid Rs 1 crore by the Trust. "The rate was approximately Rs 1,373 per square feet," says a Trust member. In its 70-acre premises, the Trust had 30,49,200 square feet of land in its possession and now has added 7,285 square feet more. To complete its mission to have 107 acre land, it needs 14,30,195 square feet more and is already in talks with the owners of land situated adjacent to the complex. "We have purchased that land as we need more space for our Ram Mandir project," Anil Mishra, one of the trustees, told TOI. Deep Narain signed a registry deed of his 7,285 square feet land in favour of Champat Rai, the secretary of the Ram Mandir Trust on February 20. Dr Anil Mishra and Ayodhya's Apna Dal MLA Indra Pratap Tiwari were the two witnesses on the occasion, said SB Singh, the sub-Registrar of Faizabad, in whose office the deed was signed. "I was fortunate to be a part of the first purchase deed signed by the Ram Mandir Trust," said Indra Pratap Tiwari. With this purchase, the process to acquire more land adjacent to the Ram Janambhoomi premises has speeded up. The Trust is in talks with owners of temples, houses and open lands adjoining the premises. The main temple will be constructed over 5-acre land and rest about 100 acre would be used to develop different facilities like museums, library, yagyashala, picture gallery depicting different episodes of Lord Rama’s life etc, Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/trust-buys-7285-sqf-land-near-ram-temple-complex/articleshow/81320661.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
March 4, 2021||Lucknow||Unemployment rate dips to 4.1% in Uttar Pradesh: CMIE||LUCKNOW: After jumping to number two spot in the country, on the gross state domestic product (GSDP) list, UP recently achieved another feat by bringing down the unemployment rate to 4.1% in February this year as per a Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) report. Last year, in the wake of corona-induced lockdowns, the unemployment rate in the state had sky-rocketed to 21%. In Rajasthan, it was over 25% during the same period. The statewide unemployment rate and figures were released by the CMIE recently. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, who is also spokesman of the state government, told TOI that as per CMIE figures, the unemployment rate was 17.5% before 2017. In early 2020, the state government managed to keep it at 10%, but outbreak of the novel coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdowns posed a challenge before the state government as the unemployment rose to 21% Sehgal said that under the able leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a series of steps were initiated by the MSME sector, which is also considered as the largest job giver sector. These measures helped the state in recovering from Covid-triggered economic gloom, he said and added that gradually global giants started attracting towards the state, triggering much-needed economic activities. Besides, to address problems faced by migrants the state government had set up a Migrant Commission, he said and added that all these measures enabled the state to bring down the unemployment rate to 4.1% from 21% in 2020. The state has already risen to the number two position in the ‘ease of doing business’ in the Yogi regime and also its GSDP is next only to Maharashtra, leaving behind even Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unemployment-rate-dips-to-4-1-in-up-cmie/articleshow/81320713.cms||Subhash Mishra
March 4, 2021||Bareilly||Three poachers & farm owner arrested for killing tiger in Kheri||Bareilly: UP forest department has arrested four people in connection with the death of an eight-year-old tiger that had succumbed to excessive bleeding after being caught into the poacher’s wire trap in a social forestry area in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday midnight. The accused-- the owner of the field and three poachers-- had laid a trap to kill wild boars, nilgai, deer but the tiger accidentally got trapped into it, said forest officials.The male tiger was killed in Dokarpur village near Mohammadi range of forests. Officials believe that the tiger was killed accidentally. Forest officials have arrested three locals Vinod, Ritesh, Sandeep and one Saryu, a resident of Maqsudabad. All the accused have been charged under the sections of Wildlife Protection Act and sent to jail. Names of few other persons are expected to come forward during further investigation in this case.Sub divisional officer Ravi Shukla said, “None of the accused will be spared. We have sent four persons to jail so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-poachers-farm-owner-arrested-for-killing-tiger-in-kheri/articleshow/81316999.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: 40-day closure of crucial taxi track at airport for runway work||KOLKATA: A crucial taxi track used by flights to enter or exit the primary runway after landing or before departure has been shut down for re-carpeting work on the secondary runway. A notice to airmen (NOTAM) has been issued to alert pilots about the 40-day closure when alternative taxi tracks have to be used during flight operations. The taxi track A is used by incoming planes to exit the primary runway after landing from the Rajarhat-end. It is also used by departing planes to enter the primary runway when flights start the take-off run from the Madhyamgram-end and lift off towards Rajarhat. The take-off or landing direction is determined by the wind at the time. Airport officials said the secondary runway repair and re-carpeting work at a cost of Rs 40 crore began in November 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by this May. The work is now at the crucial home stretch. In the original schedule, the project was to get over last month but had to be extended by three months as the work had ground to a halt during the lockdown. The re-carpeting of the secondary runway was last done in 2006. Over the years, the surface wore off. Though repairs had been carried out from time to time, the runway had become bumpy over the years. Pilots, who used it when the primary runway was shut, said the experience was a nightmare. Once completed, the runway, crucial for uninterrupted flight operations at the airport, will be more comfortable for planes to land and take off, and safer too. The secondary runway is required twice a week on Sunday and Wednesday when the primary runway is shut for maintenance of the CAT III-B instrument landing system for four hours each. Though the secondary runway is long enough to handle all types of aircraft that airlines currently operate to Kolkata, absence of a taxi track at the end means planes have to enter in the middle of the runway, backtrack over 600m, make a U-turn and then commence the take-off run. This keeps the runway needlessly engaged for additional two minutes per flight. Work is simultaneously underway to extend taxi track F so that flights can enter at the end of the runway and start making the take-off run immediately, thereby saving two minutes in flight operations at the airport. This will improve the runway efficiency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/40-day-closure-of-crucial-taxi-track-at-airport-for-runway-work/articleshow/81318213.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man beats, drives out wife||Ahmedabad: A 31-year-old woman on Tuesday filed a complaint against her husband and in-laws after they evicted her from the house when she objected to him speaking to another woman over video call in her presence. Kusum Sikarwar stated that she has two sons from her marriage to Ravindra Singh Sikarwar, a trader, who are 10 and eight years old. “When I would object to my husband’s relationship with this woman, he told me, ‘I will maintain this relationship with her, if you have a problem you can go back to your parents’,” Kusum stated. She added that on Tuesday her husband beat her over this. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beats-drives-out-wife/articleshow/81318211.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Seniors brave fear to line up for the jabs||NEW DELHI: Senior citizens showed more enthusiasm in coming forward to take the vaccine on the third day of the drive. The Co-Win portal was also working better with less glitches and hardly any chaos was reported at the hospitals. Neerja, a 65-year-old retired special educator, and Avay Shukla, a 71-year-old retired IAS officer from Himachal Pradesh, took the help of their son to get themselves registered on Co-Win on Tuesday. They had gone to Max Super Specialty Hospital, Patparganj, where the queues stretched till outside. “The hospital is close to our house in IP Extension and we luckily got an appointment for Wednesday. Since we will be visiting our house in Himachal next month, we decided to take the vaccine,” said Shukla. However, Kuldeepak Gupta (79) and his wife Manjula were not lucky enough to get an appointment at Max Hospital. “Being residents of Patparganj and regular visitors to the hospital, Max was our first priority. But after we failed to get an appointment, we searched for other nearby facilities and went to Metro Hospital,” said Manjula, a retired teacher. The couple live alone and as Gupta has medical issues, he couldn’t go out since March 2020. “I have to take double precautions before going out to even buy household items. To fill information online, I read a lot, made mistakes and still managed to succeed,” said Manjula. Dharam Prakash Sharma (87), a resident of Shriram Nagar, doesn’t have a smartphone or knows how to register online. But that was hardly an issue. He visited Swami Dayanand Hospital on Monday. “I was guided well and today I turned up with all my documents. I got free within an hour,” he said. Many people from NCR were also seen coming to get inoculated. Uma Batra (82) and Maharaj K Batra (85) had registered themselves on Co-Win and came from Gurgaon accompanied by a caretaker. Uma, whose husband has lost his eyesight, said, “He was quite keen on getting vaccinated. As we were registered, there were no problems.” Amiya Kumar Verma, nodal officer for the vaccination programme at Max Patparganj, said, “Due to glitches on the initial two days, we faced challenges in uploading information. This demotivated the visitors, but we adjusted them the next day. Thankfully, the situation improved a lot on Wednesday. We have two rooms slotted for vaccination and plan to add two more.” Dr Prashant Kulshrestha, deputy medical superintendent at Pushpawati Singhania Research Institute, said there were just minor glitches now. “We met the health department officials and were given full access. Now, we can get registered users on the active list. If there had been no technical problems, the number of people getting vaccinated would have been higher,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/seniors-brave-fear-to-line-up-for-the-jabs/articleshow/81319505.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Woman accuses ex-fiance of rape||Ahmedabad: A 20-year-old fourth semester commerce student, a resident of Vastral, on Tuesday filed a complaint alleging rape, causing hurt and criminal intimidation against her former fiance. She stated that he forced her into having sex several times and later broke off the engagement due to her objection to pre-marital sex. In her complaint with Odhav police, the complainant stated that she was engaged to the accused at his house in Janatanagar, Odhav, on September 13, 2020, when they held a tika ceremony. She stated that after that, they would speak on the phone and would go out together, to places such as the riverfront, public gardens and temples. He’d taken her to his home on false pretext and raped her, she alleged.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-accuses-ex-fiance-of-rape/articleshow/81318214.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||New BMC policy makes it difficult to give freebies||MUMBAI: In a major policy change, the BMC moved the Rs 650 crore of the corporators’ funds from its revenue budget to capital budget this year. This means distribution of freebies and recurring works being carried out by corporators from these funds will become more difficult. According to officials, for many years the corporators’ funds were part of the revenue expenditure, which consists of salaries of staff and maintenance of BMC’s properties and projects. TimesViewThe BMC’s decision to move corporators’ funds to capital expenditure is a welcome move. At a time when the BMC is facing a cash crunch, it is surprising to see that corporators are going on a spending spree using civic funds to distribute freebies ranging from sewing machines to tarpaulin sheets. The BMC must seriously rethink whether it can afford to distribute such items to residents. The BMC must first focus on providing basic civic amenities like good roads and open spaces to citizens. Corporators’ funds must be used to create durable assets and civic amenities.All new projects like roads, gardens, sewage plants and storm water drains are part of the capital expenditure in the budget. Amid a controversy over the misuse of funds by corporators, the BMC administration slashed the standing committee’s amendment fund in this year’s budget by Rs 100 crore. This year, the standing committee has been allocated around Rs 650 crore compared to last year’s budget allocation of Rs 750 crore. The standing committee passed the budget and accepted the Rs 650 crore despite the election year. A senior civic official said that standing committee chairman and Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav had asked for around Rs 1,000 crore this year in view of the 2022 BMC polls. “However given the current financial crisis that the BMC is facing, we decided to curtail the spending. Only Rs 650 crore has been allocated,” a senior civic official said. Despite falling revenues and a drop in income amid Covid-19, the BMC budget rose by 16.74% to Rs 39,038 crore from last year’s budget outlay of Rs 33,441 crore. The BMC’s capital expenditure has been pegged at a massive Rs 18,750 crore, compared to last year’s Rs 11,764 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-moves-650cr-corporators-funds-from-revenue-budget-to-capital-budget-/articleshow/81319541.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||INC national spokesperson Shrinate slams Modi govt over unemployment, farm protests||Rudrapur: Cornering the central government on issues like unemployment, farmers’ protest, and fuel price hike, among others, Supriya Shrinate, national spokesperson of Indian National Congress, on Wednesday said that it is time for the Prime Minister to listen to ‘desh ki baat’ rather than focusing on his radio address ‘mann ki baat’. Commenting on the farmers’ rally held in Rudrapur a few days ago, she said that it was satisfying to see the name of the ground being changed from ‘Modi Maidan’ to ‘Kisan Maidan’. Shrinate, who was in Rudrapur on Wednesday, criticised the Modi government for not being able to find a solution to the issues of the farmers. “The PM and all of the cabinet ministers are busy campaigning in poll-bound states but they don’t have the time to address the grievances of the farmers, who have been protesting for months just 20 kilometres away from the national capital,” Shrinate added. She said that the BJP-led central government has failed to create job opportunities despite promising in its manifesto to create two crore jobs each year. The Modi government has enacted policies that destroyed India's economic structure. The unemployment is bound to rise further due to the mismanagement of the economy and lockdown. "The Center has cheated youths, farmers, soldiers and every common man of this nation. They are working only to benefit a few capitalists. The entire nation saw laborers walking on foot, farmers on the roads against agri laws, unemployed youth demanding jobs, rising prices of petrol-diesel-LPG, budget cut for education, soldiers dying in vain at borders but this government in its arrogance has failed to do anything. It is demanded that the Modi Government wakes up and takes necessary measures to arrest the continuous down slide by addressing these issues", she added. Notably, Shrinate had come to the city to extend her support to the protesting apprentices of a leading automobile company pf industrial area. These apprentices were selected under the "Ashirvad" scheme - a joint venture of the company and state government- and were trained at the company for the past six years. It is alleged that despite being promised the company did not give them jobs. Shrinate assured them to take the issue to Congress leadership and discuss with the commerce minister and also with the ministry of labour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/inc-national-spokesperson-shrinate-slams-modi-govt-over-unemployment-farm-protests/articleshow/81317044.cms||Aakash Ahuja
March 4, 2021||Chennai||Chennai and suburbs lose 1,500 eateries to pandemic||CHENNAI: Around 1,500 restaurants and eateries in Chennai and its suburbs have shut shop since the Covid-19 pandemic hit almost a year ago. The city had 10,000 licensed restaurants before Covid and the closure of 15% businesses has rendered 1.5 lakh people unemployed. According to the Chennai Hotels Association, 6 lakh were employed in the hospitality sector during pre-Covid times of whom around 75% of the workforce comprised migrant workers from the north and north-eastern states. Most of the shut eateries and restaurants include popular neighbourhood names. Standalone restaurants were hit the worst. Five big vegetarian brands have not reopened 50 of their branches. One chain, with a pan-India presence, shut 10 branches in and around the city. Another chain is yet to open 15 of its 35 branches. Many restaurants along Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) downed shutters as there were no customers. The IT corridor had around 450 eateries and restaurants with a seating capacity ranging from four to 100. "Around 200 of these did not renew their licences or registration," said a food safety department official. Restaurants with an annual turnover of more than `12 lakh need an FSSAI licence and those with income below `12 lakh have to register with the department. The licence and registration are valid for one to five years. Several hoteliers have abandoned their businesses. For instance, Rajkumar, a restaurateur who had three units at Perungalathur and at Melmaruvathur, has wound up his business. "Never thought that I would be out of the hospitality business, but Covid-19 did it. I made a renewed attempt to reopen my restaurants in August, but I could not sustain because of the high running costs and poor patronage," he said. "In Perungalathur, five vegetarian restaurants have shut down in the past one year," he said. On Chamiers Road in Nandanam, a Japanese restaurant, and in Saidapet a decades-old south Indian cafe have shut down. A former employee of the cafe said it was closed two days before the lockdown in March last year and never reopened thereafter. "We are clueless about its status," he said, adding that the café’s 25 employees have returned to their hometowns and have found jobs. M Ravi, president of the Chennai Hotels Association, said the hospitality sector is yet to recover. "The 1,500 eateries and restaurants just disappeared during the pandemic. Owners could not afford to pay high rentals for the buildings due to poor footfalls and we do not get input credit on GST," he said. Some owners were forced to look for jobs after winding up their business, he said. "As far as the workers are concerned, those rendered jobless returned to their villages and took up available employment including setting up small eateries for their livelihoods," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-and-suburbs-lose-1500-eateries-to-pandemic/articleshow/81318218.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
March 4, 2021||India||BJP slams Rahul Gandhi, calls RSS biggest school of patriotism||NEW DELHI: BJP on Wednesday lauded the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) as the “world’s biggest school of patriotism” as it slammed Rahul Gandhi for likening the Hindutva fountainhead to radical Islamist outfits in Pakistan. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar told a press conference that it would take the Congress leader a long time to understand the RSS, the ideological wellspring of BJP and allied organisations. “The RSS’s role is to effect good changes in people and inspire patriotism in them,” he told reporters when asked about Rahul’s comments. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said accepting that the Emergency was a mistake was another theatrical exercise by Rahul to fool the nation. “Such insincere and tactical regrets cannot wash away the memories of the dark chapter when fundamental rights were infringed, press was gagged, institutions were held hostage,” he said. “The country has not forgotten how the government of the day had the gumption to tell the Supreme Court that the right to life had been suspended,” he added. Javadekar said Rahul’s comment did not reflect remorse, it was actually part of a pattern where Congress, after being rejected by people, expresses regret for the Emergency only to deploy the same authoritarian DNA after it succeeds in hoodwinking people. In a conversation with Kaushik Basu, professor at Cornell University a former chief economic advisor, Rahul had said on Tuesday that the RSS used schools run by it to push a particular worldview like the radical Islamists in Pakistan did in madrassas. The Congress leader also termed the Emergency imposed by former PM Indira Gandhi a “mistake”. Hitting back at Rahul, Javadekar said his statement was “laughable” as his party had then ended the independence of institutions, denied media freedom and jailed dissenting voices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-slams-rahul-gandhi-calls-rss-biggest-school-of-patriotism/articleshow/81321613.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Shapoorji Pallonji jetty deadline extended to 2023||Gandhinagar:The deadline for construction of a jetty at Chhara in Gir Somnath district has been extended to April 2023, the state government informed in the Gujarat assembly on Wednesday. Shapoorji Pallonji Pvt Ltd is constructing the jetty. Una MLA Punja Vansh sought to know the status of the project, which was to be completed by October 2020. He also sought to know the cost at which the company has been asked to complete the project. In reply, the ports minister said that as of December 31, 2020, only 22% of the work for the jetty has been completed and the cost of the project is Rs 3,900 crore. In his reply, the minister said that the company has sought an extension because of delays due to cyclones Vayu and Okhi, and the deadline for completion has been extended to April 2023.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shapoorji-pallonji-jetty-deadline-extended-to-2023/articleshow/81318225.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ludhiana||IIT team to visit today to study design, discharge water volume||BUDDHA NULLAH PROJECTLudhiana: In a relief to businessmen who are against the Rs 519-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project, a team from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee, will visit Ludhiana on Thursday to study and assess the volume of water that is being discharged in the drain. On the basis of the study, the team will inform the local authorities if the design and technicalities of the project were correct or needed some changes. Sources said the team was invited by the local bodies department to put an end to the controversy over the rejuvenation project’s alleged inflated cost and flawed design. The development comes in the wake of a letter sent recently by businessmen to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention in restraining the Punjab government from executing the project. Tarun Jain Bawa, president of Bahadur Ke Textile and Knitwear Association, said, “It seems it has been confirmed that there are anomalies in the Buddha Nullah project approved by the state government. If that was not the case, then why the local bodies department has invited the team from IIT, Roorkee. The officials know there are flaws in this project. We hope the IIT team’s findings will stress the design faults and recommend changes.”About the flaws, Bawa said, “The project is not as per the required capacity and this has been proved in a study by Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana. The study corroborated that the water flow level in Buddha Nullah (which is to be cleaned) is approximately 2,000 MLD (millions of litre per day), but the rejuvenation project has been finalised on the basis of a report prepared by the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC) in which the discharge water level has been estimated at 700 MLD. Besides, the project cost is inflated as it has been allotted for Rs 519 crore, but can be completed for Rs 325 crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/iit-team-to-visit-today-to-study-design-discharge-water-volume/articleshow/81317054.cms||Mohit Behl
March 4, 2021||Ludhiana||75-year-old Khanna man dies; 4 students, 3 teachers among 72 +ve||Ludhiana: A man of Ludhiana district died of Covid-19 and 72, including four students and three teachers, tested positive on Wednesday.As per the local media bulletin, the 75-year-old deceased was a resident of Ram Nagar in Khanna. He had hypertension and died at a city hospital.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll tally has increased to 1,031 and that of outsiders stood at 510.To date, 6,75,958 persons have been tested.Of the 72 new cases, 43 were from flu corner, seven from OPD, four positive cases’ contacts, seven through tracing process, two health workers and two pre-operative cases. Besides, four students (one each of a government school in Hambran and a private school in Talwandi Kalan and two of a private school in Khanna) and three teachers (one from a private school in Jassowal and two of Government Senior Secondary School in Hambran) have contracted the virus. Fourteen outsiders, too, tested positive here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 27,367 and that of outsiders 4,267.So far, 25,673 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.81% of the total cases.There were 663 active cases till Wednesday. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,210.On the day, 162 persons were quarantined and 3,904 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government at CMCH.Eight patients, including four Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/75-year-old-khanna-man-dies-4-students-3-teachers-among-72-ve/articleshow/81317058.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Quirky queries by elderly take hospital staffers by surprise||New Delhi: Senior citizens were seen coming up with quirky queries at hospitals asking the staff questions like whether a person was contagious for 2-3 hours after getting the shot and why did the vaccine look like distilled water. At a private hospital in south Delhi, when an elderly woman asked about being contagious, the staffer was briefly taken aback. He finally replied: “Not at all. If it was so, we would have kept everyone in observation for a longer period.” She walked away relieved and happy. He added that the elderly had heard many things and thought they were true and wanted to confirm it with them. The administrative staff at another hospital said, “The other day an elderly couple asked us why the vaccine looked like distilled water. They also asked why weren’t people getting anything as seen while taking other vaccines.” Neelam Roy, an official at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital said, “We handed a fact sheet to those getting inoculated and asked them to go through it carefully. It’s important to have the right knowledge.” Dr Deepti Chaudhary, in-charge of the vaccination programme at Swami Dayanand Hospital in Dilshad Garden, said most people had queries about side-effects and issues related to diabetes, hypertension, heart problems and other complications. “We categorically told them to take the vaccine on priority as they were more prone to catch the infection and face severe issues later. Our physicians cleared all doubts before administering the vaccine,” she added. DP Saxena (83), a retired NCERT official, and his wife Swarnlata (78), had many queries for the doctors at Max Hospital, Patparganj. “I double checked with the doctors whether we would develop antibodies after 28 days and go out freely. We have to go abroad, so inoculation is important for us,” said Saxena, a resident of AGCR Enclave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/quirky-queries-by-elderly-take-hospital-staffers-by-surprise/articleshow/81319546.cms||Shradha Chettri
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Panel to probe 33cr plantations by BJP govt||Nagpur: Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday said the state government will appoint a legislative committee to probe 33 crore plantations taken up under ‘Green Maharashtra Mission’ by the former BJP government. Surprisingly, the committee is being set up despite the minister of state for forests Dattatraya Bharne admitting in the state assembly that the entire forest department allocation of Rs 2,429.78 crore was spent on planting 28.27 crore saplings and at the end of 2020, and the survival rate of these plantations was 75.63%. Replying to this debate, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “When the forest minister is himself admitting that there is over 75% survival of saplings, the state government is still going ahead with setting up a committee to probe 33 crore plantations. This shows either the chief minister has been wrongly briefed or he doesn’t trust the minister.” Former forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, MLA Nana Patole, Jaikumar Gore, Prakash Solankhe, Dharmaraobaba Atram took part in the discussions. Later briefing the House, Pawar announced the legislative committee will be set up by March 31. It will submit its report in four months and if need was felt the tenure of the committee will be extended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-to-probe-33cr-plantations-by-bjp-govt/articleshow/81318228.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 4, 2021||Delhi||New leap: Five species of shrub frogs discovered||New Delhi: A team of researchers from India and the US has discovered five new species of shrub frogs belonging to the Old World tree frog family Rhacophoridae. All the new species were discovered from the globally recognized Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot that extends along the southwest coast of the Indian Peninsula.The scientists, from University of Delhi and Kerala Forest Research Institute in India and University of Minnesota in the US, are tracing potential evidence for population decline of the five species and any threats that they may be facing within their known ranges, in order to protect them from extinction.The new frog species were discovered as a part of a long comprehensive study on the shrub frogs (genus Raorchestes) of the Western Ghats, carried out over nearly 10 years.Listing their unique mating calls, they studied the male calls of 48 species of shrub frogs. This large acoustic study is extremely useful for proper species identification and is the only one of its kind to be undertaken on frogs of this region. Also Raorchestes shrub frogs exhibit highly unique and diverse eye colours and patterns. This is the first time researchers have comprehensively examined this characters for all known shrub frog species of the Western Ghats. The new species are Raorchestes drutaahu — named for its unique calling pattern and derived from Sanskrit ‘druta’ (fast) and ‘ahu’ (call) and Raorchestes kakkayamensis, named after the place of its discovery, Kakkayam.Raorchestes keirasabinae, which is a unique tree frog inhabiting the highest canopy layers and named after a young nature lover Keira Sabin, in appreciation of the long-time support and commitment of the Andrew Sabin Family Foundation towards amphibian research and conservation around the world. Raorchestes sanjappai, a beautiful green shrub frog, was discovered from the Wayanad region of northern Kerala and named after M Sanjappa, a renowned Indian Botanist and former director of the Botanical Survey of India and Raorchestes vellikkannan whose name is derived from Malayalam ‘velli’ (meaning silver) and ‘kannu’ (meaning eye), referring to its distinct silver eye colour.This new study is one of the most comprehensive works on a considerably large and confusing group of Indian frogs. Over 80% of the globally known shrub frogs (genus Raorchestes) are restricted to the Western Ghats, and most species are known to have narrow geographical ranges.“The study is a testament to how little is known about the most threatened group of vertebrates in India. Shrubs frogs are among the most reasearched group of frogs in India, with frequent new discoveries being made over the past two decades. Yet, we are far from fully understanding their existing diversity and uniqueness,” said professor S D Biju, under whose leadership the study was carried out. “Several new species are often threatened even before they are formally named and known to science. Many of these may be extinct before they are discovered. It is an unfortunate fate that scientists call the nameless extinction,” said Sonali Garg, the lead author of the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-leap-five-species-of-shrub-frogs-discovered/articleshow/81319558.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
March 4, 2021||Ludhiana||Active Covid cases in district on the upswing, highest in over two months||Ludhiana: With the daily Covid-19 cases on the increase, Ludhiana’s active case count has reached the highest in the past more than two-and-a-half months. As per the state media bulletin of Tuesday, the number of active cases in the district was 630. It is the highest since December 16 last year, when the figure was 625 and 642 a day before.The data since July 10, 2020, shows that active cases rose from 647 on the day to 1,149 till July 31 last. The number increased to 2,028 on August 15 last and reached the highest value of 3,867 on August 22 and then dropped to 1,579 on September 15. The fall continued and there were 1,054 active cases on September 30 last and the lowest 208 on October 26.The graph again started rising and the figure reached 939 on December 2 last after the festive season before falling to 336 by December 31. This year, the active cases were 399 on February 20 before reaching the present value. Meanwhile, according to the latest state media bulletin, Ludhiana is third among the districts of the state in active cases. With 743, SBS Nagar is at number one and SAS Nagar second (665). Mansa has the lowest active cases (14). With the infection surging, the health department officials say residents must follow Covid-19 guidelines to check the virus spread. A senior officer of the health department says the cases are increasing as many people have started taking the pandemic lightly and ignoring the rules. “Cases will come down only if people wear mask, maintain social distance and hand hygiene,” he added. “I would advise people not to lower their guard as the pandemic is still there. We can fight the disease by following the guidelines,” said Dr Rajinder Gulati, a retired senior medical officer.CASE CHARTDistrict Active casesSBS Nagar 743 SAS Nagar 665Ludhiana 630Jalandhar 549Amritsar 503 Patiala 464Hoshiarpur 412Kapurthala 405Gurdaspur 144Ropar 90Bathinda 114Faridkot 39Fatehgarh Sahib 57Barnala 23Muktsar 27Tarn Taran 87Sangrur 101Moga 47Pathankot 33Ferozepur 30Mansa 14Fazilka 21*March 2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/active-covid-cases-in-district-on-the-upswing-highest-in-over-two-months/articleshow/81317061.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 15k infant deaths reported in 2020||GANDHINAGAR: Providing information in the Gujarat assembly on Wednesday, the state government said that 15,432 children up to the age of five died in the state during the year 2020. This figure is lower than the 17,453 deaths of children of these ages in 2019. Congress MLAs sought details of the number of deaths indifferent districts of the state through written questions. Based on the answers for individual questions, the party compiled a list of deaths in every district. The highest number of deaths in 2020 was in Banaskantha (1,290 deaths), while Dang district registered the fewest deaths with 117.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15k-infant-deaths-in-state-in-2020/articleshow/81318238.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||BJP should resign from civic bodies: AAP||New Delhi: Hitting out at BJP, Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Wednesday said that the party should resign from the corporations due to its miserable defeat in the municipal bypolls.“AAP got a stunning victory in the by-election, but BJP could not win even a single seat. People of Delhi have thrown out the corrupt BJP from the five wards. They do not trust BJP anymore and want AAP in the corporations too,” said Pathak.Thanking AAP workers and functionaries who worked hard for the victory, Pathak said, “The people of Delhi gave BJP massive support for the last 15 years. However, in these years BJP destroyed Delhi and the municipal corporations. Even as funds deteriorated, the income of BJP councillors and the party increased. The primary work of BJP was to ensure a clean Delhi, but not even a single street can be called clean. Even the lanes in areas under BJP councillors and Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta are not clean.”Accusing Bharatiya Janata Party of indulging in corruption, Pathak said, “BJP did so much corruption that today the corporations have become bankrupt. They do not have money to pay their employees. The faith that the people of Delhi had in BJP has been completely lost.”“BJP has lost its case in the people’ court. It no longer has any right over the municipal corporations, therefore we demand that BJP resign. We call for fresh elections where people, who no longer want BJP to represent them, are given the opportunity to remove them from the civic bodies,” Pathak added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-should-resign-from-civic-bodies-aap/articleshow/81319550.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Class X student beaten to death for sexual assault protest||Barasat: A 15-year-old Madhyamik examinee was beaten to death by some of his neighbours in a Duttapukur locality on Wednesday after he got a child molester arrested. The incident stokes memories of Madhyamik examinee Rajib Das, who was stabbed to death while trying to save his sister from drunken molesters in 2011. The victim, Jugal Das, was rushed to Barasat district hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. He was to have appeared for Madhyamik exams this year. Five persons, including the prime accused, Sambhu Bag, have been arrested in connection with the murder. They have been remanded in police custody for five days after being produced in a Barasat court on Wednesday afternoon. In Duttapukur’s Khudirampally, Bag, a bachelor and a 40-year-old labour contractor used to lure local children and assault them sexually with the help of some associates. On Tuesday evening, the victim caught Bag red-handed and informed cops. Bag managed to flee but was nabbed later. His associates thrashed the victim mercilessly, said Pratima Roy, a local woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/class-x-student-beaten-to-death-for-sexual-assault-protest/articleshow/81318239.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai :SIT for inquiry into scam in state body||Mumbai: Social justice minister Dhananjay Munde on Wednesday ordered an SIT probe and the suspension of staff members of the state body in Nagpur which had organised programmes for the 125th anniversary of Dalit icon Babasaheb Ambedkar. He said the Babasaheb Ambedkar Samata Pratishthan in Nagpur did not have bills for the event and corruption of Rs 3.6 crore had been established in a statutory audit. “The officials of the body did not place the findings of the statutory audit before the Comptroller and Auditor General, deliberately,” he said. “The corruption involved in this case is serious and irregularities worth Rs 14 crore could be revealed.” The issue was raised in the assembly by Shiv Sena MLA Sunil Prabhu. Munde announced the suspension of several staffers including the Pratishthan’s auditor and project directors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sit-for-inquiry-into-scam-in-state-body/articleshow/81320765.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 4, 2021||Delhi||AAP, Congress teamed up to defeat us, says city BJP chief||New Delhi: With BJP failing to win even one seat in the municipal bypolls held in five wards, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the party would contest the 2022 elections with renewed energy and a new strategy. He also accused AAP and Congress of reaching an “agreement” to defeat them. Gupta said BJP would introspect and find out the reasons for its bad performance and then adopt a new strategy. “We will see what went wrong and try to rectify it. However, our party members worked hard despite a negative campaign by AAP and its government on the working of the corporations. Our party is against corruption,” he added. In the last civic polls, almost all faces were new and BJP would take a call on this after its meeting to assess what went wrong. “There is a vast difference between bypolls and the main elections. BJP’s performance in all three corporations has been very good and people trust us. Whatever shortcomings have been there, we will try to overcome them as there is sufficient time for that,” said Gupta. “The results clearly show that Congress and Aam Aadmi Party teamed up. The decrease in vote share of Congress in Shalimar Bagh and increase in Chauhan Banger ward is enough proof. In the last polls, Congress had got 8,000 votes in Shalimar Bagh, but this time it’s down to 2,000. In Chauhan Banger ward, its vote share has gone up, which shows Congress and AAP worked in tandem against us,” said the Delhi BJP chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-congress-teamed-up-to-defeat-us-says-city-bjp-chief/articleshow/81319560.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kolhapur||131 people test +ve in Satara, 71 cases in Solapur rural||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 131 fresh Covid cases and one death due to the infection since Tuesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 59,183. The death toll has now risen to 1857. Maan taluka identified 31 cases, Koregaon taluka added 23 new cases, Karad taluka registered 12 cases, Phaltan and Khatav recorded 17 and nine cases, respectively among others. As many as 55,871 patients have recovered while 1,455 patients are being treated. Meanwhile, the rural parts of Solapur reported 71 fresh cases and Solapur city added 35 cases since Tuesday late night. As many as 56 patients were discharged after recovering while a 48-year-old man from Mohol taluka died due to Covid. The rural parts have 40,708 patients, which includes 1,185 deaths, 511 active cases and 39,012 patients recoveries. Pandharpur taluka has the highest number of cases 8,225. It also has 243 deaths and 58 active cases. In Solapur city, seven patients were discharged and no deaths were reported. The city has 12,516 Covid cases, including 662 deaths, 406 active cases and 11,448 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/131-people-test-ve-in-satara-71-cases-in-solapur-rural/articleshow/81316098.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Soon, you can report sightings of wildlife species, help animals in distress via an app||NEW DELHI: On World Wildlife Day, Delhi’s forest and wildlife department said it would soon launch an integrated wildlife app, which would not only help them build a database of Delhi’s birds and wildlife species but also identify hotspots of animals such as nilgai or golden jackal. The application, which is in the development stage, will allow people to click photographs of the sightings made to be submitted online, with its location being geo-tagged. This feature, officials say, will also help animals in distress receiving help quickly. “While we have a green helpline number that takes both animal and tree-related complaints, the proposal to design a wildlife-only app has been in works for the last two years. At present, we don’t have an updated database in terms of the animals or birds still being sighted in Delhi but with the help of this app, an automatic database will be prepared. This will allow comparison in the future in terms of an increase or decrease in the number of bird or animal sightings being made,” said a senior forest official. The project file is currently lying with Geospatial Delhi Limited, which has been asked to develop the application, the department says. “In addition to a mobile application, a website for the same may also be developed,” added the official. The forest department says people will be encouraged to click photographs of animals like nilgai, monitor lizards and civet cats being sighted in and around their neighbourhood. Birders in particular can use the application during bird counts. “The geo-tagging feature will serve two purposes. It will paint a map of the city with thousands of pointers in terms of where a particular bird or animal was sighted. In case of injured animals, the location will be automatically sent by the app to the nearest officer, who can reach and rescue the animal,” said the official. The department aims to release the app for public use after three months. “It is still being developed. We aim to make it ready in three months’ time,” the official added. At present, people can call on the Delhi Green Helpline — 18001 18600 for any wildlife or tree-related complaints. These include traffic of wildlife, wildlife in distress, illegal tree pruning or felling and tree-related inquiries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/soon-you-can-report-sightings-of-wildlife-species-help-animals-in-distress-via-an-app/articleshow/81319569.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 minors held for the murder of a security guard in Nalasopara||Mumbai: A teenager and two minors were held for allegedly murdering a security guard in Nalasopara on Monday. Police said robbery was the motive. Tulinj police said Hitesh Bhosale (18) and two friends, aged 16, stabbed Kailash Pathak (48) at Sankeshwar Nagar in Nalasopara (E) in the morning. Pathak was headed to work when the youngsters approached him and tried to snatch his cellphone and cash. When Pathak resisted, they assaulted him on the neck with a knife and fled. Pathak bled to death before being admitted to hospital Investigations, including CCTV images, zeroed in on the youngsters, seen loitering around the area. When questioned, they admitted that early on March 1, they had robbed an autorickshaw driver and taxi driver. The first robbery was committed at 3.30am when the auto driver was assaulted on the chest and abdomen before his cash and cellphone were taken away. Thirty minutes later they targeted a taxi driver who parted with cash. Police said Pathak tried to fight back and was assaulted. A case of murder was registered against the accused, jobless since lockdown. They earlier did menial jobs. Bhosale was remanded to police custody, while the minors went sent to a children’s remand home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-2-minors-held-for-the-murder-of-a-security-guard-in-nalasopara/articleshow/81319584.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kolhapur||48 Covid cases in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 48 fresh cases of Covid on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 50,553. Of the fresh cases, Kolhapur city reported 32. The total number of death in the district stands at 1,745. Currently, the district has 367 active cases, which has more than doubled in just a week. Of the total number of cases, 48,441 have recovered from the contagion. Sangli records 35 cases On Wednesday, 35 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Sangli district. The total number of patients in the district has reached 48,573, out of them, 187 patients are currently undergoing treatment, 46,625 have recovered while 1,761 have succumbed to infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/48-covid-cases-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/81316140.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Traffic cops get fire extinguishers for emergency||Kolkata: Traffic guard sergeants in the city will get fire extinguishers to tackle small fires on roads. Kolkata Police has procured 10 fire extinguishers for Bhowanipore and Vidyasagar Setu traffic guard sergeants who will use them for a trial. “Cars often get charred due to short circuits. Till the fire brigade reaches the spot, a traffic sergeant can help in checking the spread of the fire with the help of the extinguisher,” said a police officer. Sources said the extinguishers will serve a dual purpose. “Protesters often try to burn papers, banners or clothes to attract attention. That is risky during the movement of a VIP like a central minister or chief minister Mamata Banerjee. That is why, the Vidyasagar Setu and Bhowanipore traffic guards, who have to handle maximum VIP movements, have been chosen for the pilot project,” sources said. Sergeants from headquarters and south traffic guard along with those posted on the stretch from EM Bypass till the City Centre will be gradually provided with these extinguishers. “While responding to the call of a fire on road, we often get stranded looking for water. The fire extinguisher that will be in the form of a spray and user-friendly, will help us a lot” said an officer. The extinguisher, weighing 0.5kg, can be kept in both bikes and cars, he added. The trial has already started with the sergeants posted during VIP movements. “Several protesters have been trying to come close to the VIPs. For example, some protesting para teachers had crossed Adi Ganga to reach near CM’s residence and managed to block traffic on Kalighat bridge. We have been asked to be ready to tackle any emergency, one of which is the use of fire,” said the sergeant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traffic-cops-get-fire-extinguishers-for-emergency/articleshow/81318245.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Zero arrests for hit and runs’||Gandhinagar: In the past two years, there has been 373 hit-and-run cases in which 217 persons lost their lives. And yet, not a single arrest has been made in hit-and-run cases in Ahmedabad city and district during this period, the government informed the Gujarat assembly in reply to a question posed on Wednesday. No vehicles involved in hit-and-run cases have been seized either, it further added. Jamalpur MLA Imran Khedawala sought to know how many hit-and-run cases had been registered in Ahmedabad city and district in the two years ending December 31, 2020. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zero-arrests-for-hit-and-runs/articleshow/81318246.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Covid-19 scare may force deferment of HCBA polls||Nagpur: The inordinately delayed High Court Bar Association’s (HCBA) polls are likely to be further deferred by a month or so following a couple of contestants contracting Covid-19. The affected include those contesting for top posts of president and secretary. According to HCBA members, the election panel would take a final call on Thursday after meeting with the managing committee. The panel would also consult with senior judges. The polls, which were supposed to be conducted last year, were deferred after Covid-19 pandemic struck and lockdown was enforced in March last year. According to lawyers, one of the contestants had written to the election committee members requesting them to put off the polling due on March 12 as he was detected with the coronavirus and was recommended home isolation for two weeks. As such, he couldn’t go out and campaign. Meanwhile, on the last date of withdrawal of nominations on Wednesday, none of the candidates took back their forms, thus ensuring all 37 of them would fight it out for 19 seats of HCBA’s executive committee. # Contenders for HCBA polls for various posts: * President — VG Bhamburkar, Atul Pande, Shridhar Purohit, Sameer Sohoni * Vice President — Shreeganesh Abhyankar, Sharad Bhattad, Rajesh Nayak & Pankaj Tidke * Secretary — Rugved Dhore & Amol Jaltare * Treasurer — Mangesh Bute & Madhav Lakhe * Joint secy — PS Chawhan, Shriram Deoras & Bhanubhushan Kumar * Library in-charge — HM Bobde, Kaustubh Deogade & VC Oberoi * Executive members — Anirudh Anathakrishnan, Bosco Anthony, PM Awathale, Rushak Bawiskar, BA Bhendarkar, SU Bhuyar, Abhishek Deshpande, Nishant Gurnani, Aquib Haque, Amol Hunge, MM Kalar, Sagar Katkar, Gaurav Khond, Apurva Kolhe, Akshaya Kshirsagar, Sagar Mhaiske, D Padmagiriwar, Sunita Paul and Ananta Ramteke||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-scare-may-force-deferment-of-hcba-polls/articleshow/81318256.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||A’bad mask fines more than those for helmets||Gandhinagar: It has not even been a year since the first case of Covid-19 was detected in Gujarat. And yet, the fines collected for not wearing a mask is more than the fines collected for not wearing a helmet in Ahmedabad in the past two years, the state government disclosed in the Gujarat Assembly on Wednesday. Mahudha MLA Indrajitsinh Parmar sought information on the fine collected for not wearing a mask and helmet for the period between January 2019 and January 2021. In a written reply, the CM said a sum of Rs 22.23 crore was collected in two years for not wearing a helmet. On the other hand, until January 2021, a sum of Rs 26.96 crore has been recovered for not wearing masks. Gujarat was among the first states in the country to implement the new Motor Vehicles Act in September 2019 with fine of Rs 500 for not wearing helmet. Meanwhile, the state government imposed an initial fine of Rs 200 for not wearing a mask, which was increased to Rs 500 in July, and then raised to Rs 1,000 in August to curb Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-mask-fines-more-than-those-for-helmets/articleshow/81318243.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Covaxin shows 81% efficacy, say ICMR & Bharat Biotech||HYDERABAD: Covaxin, India’s first indigenous coronavirus vaccine, has demonstrated nearly 81% efficacy in preventing Covid-19 after the second dose in those without prior infection, according to its interim Phase 3 trials results made public on Wednesday. This interim efficacy trend puts Covaxin at par with other global front-runners, the desi vaccine’s co-developer, the Indian Council for Medical Research, said. The results, evaluated by an independent data safety and monitoring board, show that the vaccine is well-tolerated and efficacious across a wide range of age groups and variants, the ICMR added. Covaxin also demonstrates significant immunogenicity against the rapidly emerging variants, said Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella. According to the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker, the inclusion of the Algel-IMDG adjuvant in the vaccine enhances T-cell immune responses to Covid-19, leading to long-term protection. The 80.6% efficacy figure was arrived at after 43 cases of Covid-19 were reported among the 25,800 Phase 3 trial participants. While 36 volunteers who received the placebo shot got infected with Covid-19, only seven volunteers that received the two Covaxin shots got infected. The company said the interim analysis showed that severe, serious, and medically attended adverse events occurred at low levels. The second interim analysis will be conducted once 87 cases of Covid-19 are reported among the participants and the final analysis will be done once 130 cases are reported. "The bench-to-bedside journey of the completely indigenous Covid-19 vaccine in less than eight months’ time showcases the immense strength of Atmanirbhar Bharat to fight the odds and stand tall in the global public health community. It is also a testament to India’s emergence as a global vaccine superpower," said ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava. "The development and deployment of Covaxin ensures that India has a powerful weapon in its arsenal in a continually evolving pandemic situation and will go a long way in helping us win the war against Covid-19. The need of the hour is to ensure that people in India continue to receive the vaccine and break the chain of virus transmission," said Dr Samiran Panda, head of epidemiology and communicable disease, ICMR, and director, National AIDS Research Institute. The volunteers participating in the Phase 3 efficacy study, touted as the largest such study in India so far, are aged between 18 and 98 years. These include 2,433 participants over the age of 60 and 4,500 volunteers with co-morbidities. The Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, conducted on 755 participants, demonstrated high safety profile of the candidate vaccine with sero-conversion rates of 98.3% and 81.1% on day 56 and 104, respectively, as per the ICMR. While the results of Covaxin’s Phase 1 study have been published in Lancet, results of the study on rhesus macaques was published in Nature Medicine on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-shows-81-efficacy-say-icmr-bharat-biotech/articleshow/81320767.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Mining in Aravalis will spell disaster, say young activists||NEW DELHI: A group of young climate activists on Wednesday submitted a letter to the Haryana government, asking to not legalise mining in the Aravalis. The group of children, part of the ‘Aravalli Bachao Citizens’ movement, reached Haryana Bhawan and submitted a letter drafted for the Haryana chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar. The letter states that while the Haryana government is seeking the Supreme Court’s approval to begin mining in the Aravalis in Gurugram and Faridabad, the move could lead to considerable damage to what is considered the lungs of Delhi-NCR. The letter also asks the government to withdraw the Punjab Land Preservation Act Amendment Bill 2019, remove illegal encroachments from the Aravalis, grant forest status to 50,000 acres of Aravalis that have no legal protection and cancel their plans to set up a waste-to-energy plant at Bandhwari. “Legalising mining threatens the existence of historic and environmentally vital hill ranges. Aravalis with their natural cracks and fissures have the potential to put two million litres of water per hectare in the ground every year,” said Neelam Ahluwalia, a participant of the citizens’ movement. “If the government gets the approval, it could result in complete destruction of the NCR’s critical groundwater recharge zone, its green lungs and also impact the shield against desertification. The lives of millions of people and wildlife living in the Aravalis are at stake,” said Aanya Jain, a 17-year-old school student. Krish Chopra, another student, said illegal mining had already led to large-scale deforestation in the hill ranges. “Shrinking habitat has forced wild animals to venture into areas outside the forest in search of food and water leading to more cases of man-animal conflict,” said Chopra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mining-in-aravalis-will-spell-disaster-say-young-activists/articleshow/81319567.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||58-year-old arrested for killing property dealer in west Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 58-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing a property dealer in west Delhi’s Madipur. The accused, identified as Anil Kumar, was previously involved in nine criminal cases. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said that on February 16, property dealer Radhey Shyam (52) was found lying in a pool of blood near Madipur bus stand on Rohtak Road. He was declared brought dead at a hospital, she said. A case of murder was registered and it was found that the victim had left for home after 12pm from Sadar Bazaar. On Tuesday, a team led by inspector Narendra Kumar, special staff, arrested Kumar. Kumar told police his mother, who was an employee at GB Pant Hospital, had left two built-up houses in Nihal Vihar, but he fell in bad company and sold off both. Since then, he had been indulging in crimes. He had killed Kumar when he resisted a robbery bid, Goel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/book-editor-accused-of-sex-assault-case-filed/articleshow/81319590.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: Govt employees split over their choice||Hyderabad: Government employees are a divided lot over supporting the ruling party in the two graduate MLC constituencies going to polls on March 14. A section of them feel this is an opportunity to please chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to get a better salary (read: PRC) deal by voting for the ruling TRS-backed candidates, while others feel TRS needs to shown not to take employees for granted. A majority of government employees’ votes had gone to BJP in the postal ballot during GHMC elections. An official from the sericulture department said the situation would have been different had the KCR government given the pay revision to the employees before the poll notification. Then, there are left-oriented teachers’ unions too which are keeping the cards close to their chest. CPI and CPM have already extended support to independent candidate Prof K Nageshwar from Hyderabad-RR-Mahbubnagar seat. Telangana State United Teachers’ Federation general secretary Chava Ravi told TOI that there was a lot of unrest among government teachers against the TRS government.“Except for 43% fitment given after formation of Telangana, the government has not given any benefit to teachers. There is a strong suspicion that even the PRC report, which suggested 7.5% fitment, has been manipulated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-govt-employees-split-over-their-choice/articleshow/81318261.cms||Roushan Ali
March 4, 2021||Kolhapur||Minor glitches in Solapur & Satara drives||Kolhapur: The latest phase of vaccination drive for people above the age of 45 years with commodities and all above the age of 60 years has begun partially even as the administration continues to face some technical problems in Satara and Solapur. Though the CoWIN app was operational in Solapur and Satara district, the officials said many people could not register due to lack of technical information. Satara district chief surgeon Dr Subhash Chavan said people were continuously enrolling their names for the registration. The case was similar in Solapur. Solapur district vaccinated 301 people on Tuesday, which included 86 elderly. The facility of vaccination is available in 43 private hospitals, which are covered under the central government scheme of Mahatma Fule Janarogya. The administration has also launched a similar exercise for health care workers, who did not get vaccinated during the first phase. In Satara district, a vaccination drive will be undertaken at 18 government and five private hospitals. People have been appealed to register themselves as the administration has facilitated a separate link for the purpose. Around 9,000 healthcare workers are yet to be vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/minor-glitches-in-solapur-satara-drives/articleshow/81316161.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Just 2 GujCTOC cases in city||Gandhinagar: In reply to a question in the ongoing budget session of the Gujarat assembly, the state government informed on Wednesday that two cases have been registered in Ahmedabad city under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime (GujCTOC) Act. Nikol MLA Jagdish Panchal asked a question, seeking to know how many cases had been registered in the year 2020 under the act and how many persons were arrested under its provisions. In a written reply, the CM said two cases have been registered under GujCTOC Act and 18 persons have been arrested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/just-2-gujctoc-cases-in-city/articleshow/81318260.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Realty dispute led to outer Delhi violence, 5 arrested||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Wednesday said they have arrested five men for rioting and vandalising a few vehicles, including a police van, parked in outer Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy area. The vandalism, police said, was fallout of a property dispute between two groups and the accused fired in the air to intimidate people in the area. The men were arrested within 24 hours of the crime. Police said more suspects were likely to be arrested.The five accused have been identified as Rustom and his four associates Rahul, Arif, Rakesh and Amit Khanna. A video of the incident that took place on Monday, also went viral on social media in which the group members, with muffled faces, can be seen damaging some vehicles parked in the area.DCP (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan said, information was received on Monday that a group of antisocial elements had created a law and order situation in the area of Mukandpur. The perpetrators had damaged some vehicles and fired in the air to terrorise the people of the locality.“After the information was received at Bhalswa Dairy police station, a team was rushed to the spot. The cops found that some men had shattered the windshields and window glasses of some vehicles, including a police control room van. Accordingly, a case was registered for rioting and under other relevant sections, including sections of Damage to Public Property Act,” the DCP said.Ranjan said, his team gathered criminal intelligence and concerted efforts, including scanning of CCTV footage of the violence, were made to identify the suspects. “The suspects were identified and following raids, five rioters were arrested within 24 hours of the incident. However, some more suspects have also been identified. As per the developed information, all the arrested accused are budding criminals and are not involved in other cases. Interrogation of arrested persons has revealed that the incident took place following a property dispute over a plot in the locality,” the officer said. Raids are under way to arrest the remaining identified suspects, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/realty-dispute-led-to-outer-delhi-violence-5-arrested/articleshow/81319576.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Youth out on bail killed by friend over Rs50||Chandrapur: A youth was stabbed to death by his close friend during a quarrel over borrowed sum of Rs50 late on Tuesday night. Local crime branch sleuths have, on Wednesday, arrested Pawan Patil for the murder of Sonu Chandekar, 26. Chandekar was a resident of Babupeth locality and was a close friend of Pawan, who had borrowed Rs50 from the friend. The duo met near Viktubaba Math on Junona Road on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday night. A quarrel broke out between the two when Chandekar demanded money back. During the fight, Pawan stabbed Chandekar multiple times leading to his death on the spot. Pawan later fled from the scene. Police sources claimed the deceased Chandekar had criminal background with three offences related to kidnapping and rape registered against him. He was released on bail only a few days back. It was Chandekar who picked up the fight that resulted in the murder, sources told TOI. Pawan was picked up by the LCB team led by PI Balasaheb Khade from Maroda village in Mul tehsil during early hours on Wednesday. He was later handed over to Ramnagar police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/youth-out-on-bail-killed-by-friend-over-rs50/articleshow/81319587.cms||Mazhar Ali
March 4, 2021||Ludhiana||14 days on, 1 booked for bomb hoax call to airport asst manager||Ludhiana: The police have registered a case against an unidentified person for making a hoax call to the assistant manager of Sahnewal airport about planting bombs on four flights coming to Ludhiana. The incident occurred on February 18, but the police lodged the FIR on Wednesday after investigation. Pawan Kumar, an employee of the Airport Authority of India and assistant manager at Sahnewal airport who is complainant in the case, said on February 18, when he was on duty, he received a call on his mobile phone from an unknown number at 3.45pm. The caller posed as Navdeep Navi of Ludhiana and said that bombs would be planted on four flights within 24 hours, and if possible, try to save the airport. Following the call, the entire security of Sahnewal airport conducted a detailed search operation and the police were also informed. Focal Point SHO inspector Davinder Sharma said, “There is only one flight that arrives at Sahnewal airport. When the caller said four flights, we understood that it was a hoax call as the caller did not know about the frequency of flights. When the call was made, one flight was expected to reach Ludhiana, but it was yet to take off from Delhi. The airport authority in Delhi was approached and checks were conducted. Meanwhile, the police found the mobile number was of a Ludhiana resident, Navdeep Singh Navi. After detailed verification and investigation, the police identified that the caller made a call through some software, but the number that was displayed was of Navdeep. The investigation took time, so the FIR was lodged late.” Probe is on to trace the actual accused. A case has been registered under sections 505 (statement conducing to public mischief), 506 (criminal intimidation), 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) and 182 (false information with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) of the IPC.The inspector said earlier too someone had misused Navdeep’s number for some fraud. Investigation of that case is also pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/14-days-on-1-booked-for-bomb-hoax-call-to-airport-asst-manager/articleshow/81317085.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chennai||11-year-old boy playing in Chennai park electrocuted||CHENNAI: An 11-year-old boy was electrocuted while playing in a public park at Peerkankaranai near Tambaram on Tuesday, after touching a lamp post from which live wires were protruding. The same evening, residents of many surrounding villages protested on Tambaram-Mudichur Road, demanding action against the Peerkankaranai town panchayat officials and the park in-charge. The state human rights commission took suo motu cognizance of the incident and sought a report from the town panchayat director and Tangedco chairman in two weeks. TimesViewEvery time snapped live wires kill people, power managers come up with lame excuses ranging from bird hits to an ‘act of god’. A few months ago, in front of the Madras high court, they blamed it on ‘squirrel interference’. But for one rare exception, no official in charge of electric lines has ever been punished or even fined. Human blunder is totally discounted though deaths of innocents happen with disturbing frequency. No amount of compensation has proved a deterrent. Hence, treating such deaths as culpable homicides not amounting to murder, and slapping criminal charges like knowingly causing such deaths by negligence on officials alone would help. There is no dearth of either money or technology to stop such events, but officials do not invest on public safety because they are not held accountable and punished after such avoidable tragedies. Jail officials for negligence once, and then see the attitudinal change it brings in them.A police officer said V Goutham, a Class VI student whose parents are daily wage workers, went with a few friends to the public park in Shakthi Nagar, Peerkankaranai. The friends began a game of hide and seek when Goutham went to drink water from a tap but didn’t return. His friends went in search and found him lying unconscious near a lamp post, his hands still wrapped around the structure from which wires were sticking out. The children informed some adults who switched off the power and took Goutham to the Chromepet government hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’. A team of the Peerkankaranai police arrived and a case of death due to negligence was registered. As news of the death spread, hundreds of people from surrounding villages blockaded Tambaram-Mudichur Road, demanding action against those ‘responsible’. They dispersed after senior police officers promised action. Some visitors to the park said they had alerted the park in-charge about the wires protruding out of the lamp post. “We were in fear as many children used to throng the park. This was an incident waiting to happen,” said one. Every time snapped live wires kill people, power managers come up with lame excuses ranging from bird hits to an ‘act of god’. A few months ago, in front of the Madras high court, they blamed it on ‘squirrel interference’. But for one rare exception, no official in charge of electric lines has ever been punished or even fined. Human blunder is totally discounted though deaths of innocents happen with disturbing frequency. No amount of compensation has proved a deterrent. Hence, treating such deaths as culpable homicides not amounting to murder, and slapping criminal charges like knowingly causing such deaths by negligence on officials alone would help. There is no dearth of either money or technology to stop such events, but officials do not invest on public safety because they are not held accountable and punished after such avoidable tragedies. Jail officials for negligence once, and then see the attitudinal change it brings in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/11-year-old-boy-playing-in-park-electrocuted/articleshow/81318247.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC aspirants reach out to walkers at parks||Hyderabad: For MLC aspirants, it is all about catching voters early in the morning. At the break of day, candidates and their supporters are heading to parks to meet morning walkers and joggers to seek votes in the graduate MLC elections. The polls will be conducted on March 14. With early onset of summer and daytime temperatures increaing by the day, the candidates are finding parks to be the right places to meet voters. While she has been addressing several meetings organised in connection with her campaign in various districts, TRS candidate Surabhi Vani Devi began in right earnest by meeting morning walkers at KBR Park in the city to seek votes. Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, former minister Danam Nagendar and mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi have been accompanying Vani Devi, who has been fielded by TRS for the polls. She also visited Krishan Kant park and interacted with morning walkers. Congress candidate G Chinna Reddy visited the Mahbubnagar court complex, meeting advocates in the open area under the trees seeking votes. Prof Kodandaram, president of Telangana Jana Samithi and contesting the Nalgonda-Khammam-Warangal graduates’ seat, is going to educational institutions and police stations to canvass support for him. But early morning, the priority is to catch morning walkers. He joined morning walkers at the Waddepally lake in Warangal, and sought votes. For the last several weeks, top most on the agenda of Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, TRS candidate for the Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda graduates’ seat, has been morning walks. “You should notice the development that has taken place under chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Much more development will take place,” he tells morning walkers BJP candidate from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat N Ramchander Rao is trying to meet every segment of people he possibly can. The priority, like all other candidates, is ‘catch the voters early’ as he shows up at parks, as he did on Wednesday in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-aspirants-reach-out-to-walkers-at-parks/articleshow/81318250.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||KP plans digital forensic lab for new-age crimes||Kolkata: Amidst the poll season, Kolkata Police has decided to hone their investigating skills by remodelling and developing a state-of-the-art digital forensic lab that will enable them to “strengthen the existing cyber crime detection, analysis and investigation.” The state home department has set aside as much as Rs 1.3 crore to come up with this lab for the Special Task Force and the tenders for the work were floated last week. The bidding is expected to close on March 22 this year. Senior state cyber experts, who are being consulted about this project, said the lab “could help extract data that otherwise could have taken a much longer time by approaching a third party”. “Kolkata Police gathers evidence in the form of computer hard disks, finger prints, CCTV footage and social media contents from the spots of crimes. A primary analysis of collected data needs to be done for further investigation. It is important to do the analysis in a quick time,” said an officer.  “Such lab is useful for CCTV footage processing that needs special intervention for the probe of a crime. The proposed high-end server workstations can have the capability to provide a complete solution to the process and restore, clarify and analyse images and videos in a simple, fast, and precise way,” said an expert. “Social media data from Facebook, Google, Twitter, WhatsApp and Instagram extracted from storage media and mobile may also be handled in such a lab,” the expert added. The tender document claims that the components of the project will help in online vulnerability assessment during 24x7 operations of the existing IT infrastructure. “Network security has also been taken into consideration in the project as data security is vital to the organization. Big data analytics, including linking of available data for visual analysis, would be useful for the detection of a crime,” said the document. The experts also stressed why a significant amount of money is required to set up the lab. “I have no idea about how much this particular lab will cost. Generally, quality forensics laboratory can be expensive,” said Bivas Chatterjee, a cyber expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kp-plans-digital-forensic-lab-for-new-age-crimes/articleshow/81318299.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 4, 2021||Chennai||Books endorsed by Kamal fly off the shelves||Chennai: The books endorsed by actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s in the reality show he hosts have turned out to be big hits at the ongoing Chennai book fair. The actor’s party, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), has set up a stall at the fair, with posters and a single copy of books suggested by Kamal Haasan recently. At the MNM stall, Basha, a volunteer, is kept busy by enthusiasts who are curious to know about the availability of books suggested by Kamal . “There are more than a hundred inquiries every day,” said Basha. Some of the book posters placed in the MNM stall are P Singaram’s “Puyalile Oru Thoani”, Selvendhiran’s “Vaasippadhu Eppadi”, Albert Camus’ “The Plague”, Vanna Nilavan’s “Esther”, Jeyamohan’s “Venmurasu”, Ki Rajanarayanan’s “Gopalapurathu Makkal”, Perumal Murugan’s “Koolamaadhari”, Asoka Mitran’s “Karaindha Nizhalgal”. Apart from this, the party’s official Twitter account too has been sharing book suggestions every day since the fair began. G Muthukumar, a staff at Panuval bookstore, said his team has sold more than 250 copies of books by eminent folklorist and anthropologist Tho Paramasivan after Kamal’s endorsement. Selvendhiran’s “Vaasipadhu Eppadi” too is among the bestsellers at Panuval. “There are several who inquire about “The Plague” by Albert Camus. But it is not in print,” Muthukumar said. M Sanjay, manager of Discovery Book Palace, said that P Singaram’s “Puyalile Oru Thoni” has been flying off the racks steadily this year. The organizers too are a happy lot with the celebrity endorsement. “There are two kinds of people who visit the book fair- one with a clarity on what they want, the second who look out for suggestions. Kamal’s endorsements have ensured they know what to look for,” said G Olivannan, a publisher and vice-president of Bapasi (Book Publishers and Sellers Association of South India). Olivannan pointed out that book sales skyrocketing after celebrity endorsements is not unique to the publishing industry, especially in Tamil Nadu where former Chief Minister C N Annadurai’s endorsement of a book in his speech used to send youth to libraries in their colleges, much to the surprise of the teaching staff. “To an extent, Kalaignar also used to endorse books. Leaders of Dravidian parties have always endorsed good books. We are happythat Kamal is also doing it,” said Olivannan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/books-endorsed-by-kamal-fly-off-the-shelves/articleshow/81318289.cms||Srikkanth D
March 4, 2021||Chennai||Port-Manali oil pipeline project gets NGT’s nod||Chennai: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has given its clearance to the functioning of Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited’s crude oil pipeline project connecting Chennai port with Manali refinery. Referring to inspection reports filed by various state agencies, the tribunal dismissed a plea filed by local fishermen welfare association that claimed CPCL’s attempt to dismantle old pipes and replacing them with new ones had “caused them misery and had affected ground water quality.” The fishermen also alleged that CPCL had outsourced pipeline works to a private contractor, who had no expertise in laying pipes, apart from lack of a plan of action in case of an unforeseen accident. Both CPCL and the contractor objected to these claims and stated that they had obtained clearances from coastal zone regulatory authorities. In response, the fishermen association told NGT that a child had died because of non-compliance of necessary safety measures while laying the pipeline and a lot of houses had got damaged. They further claimed that oil spills had contaminated the groundwater, and that they were entitled to compensation. CPCL stated that whenever any such incident occurred, residents from houses were shifted to a different area and were permitted to occupy their houses only after repair work was completed. To ascertain this, NGT constituted a joint committee to look into the allegations and called for a final report, based on which a decision could be taken. This committee told NGT that there was no violation or damage caused to the environment because of the project. The panel’s stand was based on an IIT Madras study on ground water samples collected from the project area which concluded that there was no contamination. Report filed by the committee further stated that state-of-the-art safety measures were in place at CPCL's 42nd crude oil pipeline project. Based on these findings, NGT dismissed the plea filed by the fishermen. With respect to the child's death, CPCL said that the accident occurred outside the project area. Given that the mother of the deceased had already filed a writ petition before the Madras high court, NGT decided not to consider this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/port-manali-oil-pipeline-project-gets-ngts-nod/articleshow/81318264.cms||Ram Sundaram
March 4, 2021||Nashik||984 people get the jab in 2 days in Nashik rural||Nashik: Over 900 people from Nashik rural and Malegaon who are above 60 years of age or above 45 years with comorbidities have taken Covid-19 vaccine on Monday and Tuesday. Senior health officers said that the response would only increase in the coming days with the increasing awareness about the vaccination drive for people in the aforesaid categories.The vaccination drive for people in these two categories began from Monday. While private hospitals are still in the process of kick-starting the process of administering Covid vaccines, the process is getting good response at government centres.The vaccine is being administered at 14 government facilities in the rural district and two facilities under the limits of Malegaon Municipal Corporation.District health officer Kapil Aher said that the response on Tuesday was better than Monday. Thus, it is expected that more people would come for getting vaccinated. On Monday, 319 people took the Covid vaccine while on Tuesday, 665 people got the jabs in the rural district and Malegaon city. Thus, in two days, 984 people have taken the vaccine in the rural areas of the district.The district health department has made all the necessary measures to ensure that the vaccination programme is conducted as per the government guidelines.The recent spike in Covid cases across the district has made people wary about the contagion. While the infection rate is more in the city, the spike in cases is limited in talukas like Sinnar, Niphad and Nandgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/984-people-get-the-jab-in-2-days-in-nashik-rural/articleshow/81316197.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||MVA policies affecting Nagpur & varsities: Datke||Nagpur: The issue of city’s stalled development works worth crores echoed in the Maharashtra legislative council on Wednesday. Highlighting the inconvenience faced by citizens in the second capital of state, MLC Pravin Datke accused Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of stalling Rs315 crore works, mostly involving road concretization. The city BJP chief Datke also claimed that increasing political interference in the administration of universities was adversely affecting autonomy of the institutions. He also pointed out that due to alleged pressure from political leaders, vice-chancellors of North Maharashtra University at Jalgaon and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technical University (BATU) in Lonere in Raigad, were forced to resign. “Several allegations are being made about leaders pressuring top university officials to award contracts to favoured persons and even in appointments. Appointment of registrars at Nagpur and Mumbai universities have come under the scanner and Bombay high court had even stayed it in MU’s case,” he said. Quoting several examples of incomplete civic works, Datke, who is also former Nagpur mayor, pointed out that projects like concretization of stretch from Orange City Hospital Square to Khamla market and Sakkardara Lake beautification were abruptly stalled as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray led government stopped funds after assuming power in 2019. All these projects were sanctioned by Thackeray’s predecessor Devendra Fadnavis during his regime from 2014 to 2019. Datke pointed out that if the MVA government failed to release the sanctioned grants, citizens will face hardships during the forthcoming monsoon season. Taking a dig at former Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, Datke said the then civic chief had proposed 5,000-bed jumbo Covid Care Centre on Radha Soami Satsang premises and wasted Rs2.5 crore on purchasing beds and mattresses for housing patients. “He (Mundhe), however, failed to take into consideration the scorching summer of Nagpur city when maximum temperatures rise up to 48 degree Celsius. Ultimately, the taxpayers’ money had gone down the drain without a single patient being treated there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mva-policies-affecting-nagpur-varsities-datke/articleshow/81318297.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Nearly 3k elderly vaccinated, 45 new Covid cases surface||Dehradun: The total cases of novel coronavirus shot up to 97,134 in Uttarakhand after 45 new infections were reported from across the state on Wednesday. However, no coronavirus-related fatality was recorded in the state for the third consecutive day. Also, the cured cases reached 93,575 after 31 more people recovered from the virus. On Wednesday, 2,796 elderly people, above the age of 65 years, were vaccinated in 114 vaccination sessions across Uttarakhand. These included 204 persons with comorbidities. In the last three days, a total of 5,654 elderly people, including 377 persons with comorbidities, have been vaccinated. “As many as 30,833 healthcare workers have been fully vaccinated in the state and 84,295 health department workers have been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine,” said Dr Saroj Naithani, director National Health Mission (NHM).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nearly-3k-elderly-vaccinated-45-new-covid-cases-surface/articleshow/81317101.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||New parameters fixed for formation of municipal bodies||Jaipur: The directorate of local bodies (DLB) has fixed the parameters for the formation of municipal corporations, councils and municipality in the state.The framework was prepared after the high court recently cancelled the formation of 17 recently formed municipalities in the state. A notification has also been issued by the DLB mentioning the parameters, which include population, per capita income, livelihood and others. For the formation of a municipal corporation in the state, the city should either have a minimum 5 lakh population or it should be a divisional headquarters. Similarly, population density should be 1,000 people per square kilometre. Moreover, the source of revenue per person should be minimum Rs 500. The livelihood of minimum 50% of the population should be different from agriculture. The municipal council can be formed in cities where population is more than 1 lakh but less than 5 lakh and it should be a district headquarters. Also, the population density should be minimum 500 people per square kilometre and per person source of revenue should be minimum Rs 200. The livelihood of minimum 25% of the population should be different from agriculture.For municipality, which is the smallest form, it will be necessary to have a minimum population of 10,000 but less than one lakh. Population density should also be 200 people per square kilometre. Moreover, there should be sources of revenue receipts at a minimum of ₹10 per person. The livelihood of minimum 10% of the population should be different from agriculture. It is believed, the new parameters will bring transparency in the process of formation of new municipal bodies. The cities meeting minimum criteria fixed by the state government can be formed as municipalities. An official said, the new parameters are formed after the formation of 17 new municipalities was challenged in the high court. The petitioner has raised a point that municipalities were formed without setting the criteria. “After seeking legal opinion from the advocate general, a notification was issued to withdraw the formation of 17 new municipalities formed by issuing notification. In a similar case, the Supreme Court has also ordered to set the parameters for the formation of municipalities,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-parameters-fixed-for-formation-of-municipal-bodies/articleshow/81318280.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Indira Shobhan quits Cong, meets Sharmila||Hyderabad: TPCC official spokesperson Indira Shoban Poshala met YS Sharmila at her Lotus Pond residence here on Wednesday after resigning from Congress. Speaking to reporters after meeting Sharmila, Indira Shoban said she quit the Congress because of growing group politics within the party. Saying that injustice was meted out to her in the Congress, she said: “Sharmila announced that Telangana will be her priority. So, I have decided to extend my support to her.” Indira Shoban said Congress was not able to give a formidable fight to the ruling TRS and added there is a greater need to fight the TRS. Sources said Indira Shoban was aspiring for the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubangar graduates MLC constituency, but the party leadership gave the ticket to former minister G Chinna Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indira-shobhan-quits-cong-meets-sharmila/articleshow/81318274.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ludhiana||Ex-councillor, hubby booked for not getting tenants verified||Ludhiana: The police booked Anuradha Nagar, a former BJP councillor, and her husband Satish Nagar for not conducting the police verification of their tenants. The police had earlier arrested two tenants of the Nagar family under the NDPS Act and also recovered 1.29 lakh intoxicating pills from their possession that were kept at a building owned by Anuradha Nagar in Chhawni Mohalla.The FIR has been lodged under Section 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. On Tuesday, the Division 4 police had arrested Anoop Kumar Sharma and Hemant, tenants of the Nagar family, for drug peddling. The police had also booked Satish Nagar, who too is a former BJP councillor, but are not divulging his role in the case. Additional deputy commissioner of police-I Pragya Jain said during investigation, the police identified that the building was owned by Anuradha Nagar and they did not get their tenants police verified before renting it out. The ADCP said further investigation was on to check the links of the arrested accused. On Sunday night, a team of Ludhiana police had reached Chhawni Mohalla for a raid, but faced resistance from the residents as they did not have a search warrant. On Monday, the police again went there with a search warrant and the raid continued for hours, following which the cache of pills was recovered. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal had issued an order under Section 144 of the CrPC for mandatory tenant, worker and servant verification. The police have booked several people for the violation of the order. On Tuesday, the Division 5 police had booked Gagandeep Sharma of Guru Nanak Pura, Civil lines, who is owner of Royal Guest House near bus stand, for not getting staffers verified.Under Section 188 of the IPC, an accused can be imprisoned for a month, which can be extended up to six months, and fined Rs 200, which can be extended to Rs 1,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ex-councillor-hubby-booked-for-not-getting-tenants-verified/articleshow/81317100.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Vijayawada||In 20 yrs, 70L MTs of limestone mined illegally in Andhra Pradesh's Palnadu||GUNTUR: In what appears to be a much bigger scam than projected till now, around 70 lakh to 90 lakh metric tonnes of limestone and mosaic chips — used in paint and poultry feed industry — have been mined illegally in Palnadu region of Guntur in the last two decades. The mines department in its affidavit to AP HC in 2018 said that 31 lakh metric tonnes of limestone worth Rs 130 crore had been excavated from Piduguralla and Dachepally. But the CBI in its probe said the scam was at least twice what has been estimated. It also said the scam was similar to the Obulapuram iron ore mining involving mining baron Gali Janardhan Reddy. Investigations by TOI, analysis of documents and satellite imagery reveal illegal mining has taken shape of organised looting since 2014 in several mandals of Palnadu. Between 2014 and 2019, patta lands, leased quarries and revenue lands in Piduguralla and Dachepalli were allegedly taken over by followers of then Gurazala TDP MLA Yarapathaneni Srinivas Rao, who was named in CBI FIR, and illegal mining was done. In November 2020, CBI sleuths conducted searches on Srinivas Rao and his followers. After doing a volumetric analysis of satellite imagery, the CBI said: “Lakhs of tonnes of limestone worth several crores of rupees have been plundered.” In the affidavit filed (on August 18, 2018) in court, the mines and geology secretary said: “A total of 31 lakh tonnes of limestone and mosaic chips have been mined and an amount of Rs 130 crore, including seigniorage fee, sale value and penalty, has to be paid by the accused who did illegal mining. FIRs have been filed against the accused in various police stations.” Whistleblower K Guravachary, who was the first person to file a PIL in the high court in 2014, alleged: “The satellite imagery has shown that more than 70 lakh tonnes of limestone has been excavated.” Former YSRC MLC TGV Krishna Reddy, who is also a complainant, charged Srinivas Rao and his followers with threatening leaseholders, mining the limestone blocks illegally and supplying mosaic chips to mills. “Despite HC orders to quantify the illegal mining and recover money from the illegal mining accused, no action has been taken. I had filed another writ petition in 2016 providing additional evidence of satellite imagery using 3D technology. In 2018, the HC issued orders again, asking why no action was taken,” he told TOI. TN Sharma, who was named as a co-accused by the CBI, alleged: “My patta lands in Kesanapalli were forcibly taken away by Srinivas Rao to do illegal mining. Lands of several other owners were also taken away. Despite my complaints, no action was taken and instead they named me as an accused in the case,” he bemoaned. However, Srinivas Rao refuted the allegations and said illegal mining has been going on in the area for the last 30-35 years. “I have been an MLA since 1994 and allegations came up only in 2014. Ever since I started questioning CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy family-owned Saraswati Cements digging up land in Macherla, they targeted me by filing PILs in the HC,” he told TOI. He said then TDP government conducted a CID enquiry but nothing came out of it. He alleged Sharma himself was doing illegal mining for 20 years and the figure quoted by the mines official in the affidavit pertains to the last two decades. “The present YSRC government handed over the case to CBI. I will come out clean,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-20-yrs-70l-mts-of-limestone-mined-illegally-in-palnadu/articleshow/81320769.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||50-year-old Mumbai man gets 3 yrs for flashing minor in speedy, 23-day trial||Mumbai: In a speedy trial that lasted less than a month and took only seven court dates despite impediments caused by the pandemic, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court this week convicted and sentenced a 50-year-old unemployed man to three years’ rigorous imprisonment for flashing his private parts at his 13-year-old neighbour in October 2020. The accused was previously accused of molesting his daughter too but was acquitted as she turned hostile in court. While Pocso Act prescribes for a trial to be completed within a year, many remain pending for years. Finding the accused guilty, special judge M A Baraliya said, “Though the accused in his statement has said he and his wife both had been to the market to buy a mobile (at the time of the alleged offence) but apparently he is making a false statement as there is no motive for the witnesses to make false allegations against him. The accused has failed to come with a strong defence why he came to be implicated falsely in the matter.” The court, though, said considering his age, the nature and gravity of the offence and the six children he has to maintain, it would be justified if the minimum sentence of three years is imposed. The accused was also fined Rs 10,000 which, if recovered, will be given to the child as compensation. Among the five witnesses who deposed in the trial that commenced on February 6 and ended with the judgment being pronounced on March 1 were the minor, her mother, a neighbour and the police. The case of the prosecution was on October 11, 2020, around 3.15pm, when the child was playing with her friends, the accused, her neighbour, pulled down his shorts and showed his private parts. He also told the child to come home at night and offered to pay her Rs 100. The child then rushed home and told her mother about it. Her mother, though, asked her to ignore him. The child then returned to her friends. The accused too returned and repeated the act and even held her hand. The child again ran back home and informed her mother about it. The mother came out of the house and reprimanded the man who, in turn, abused her. Police were called but the accused fled. Subsequently, he was apprehended. He has been in jail since October and had not sought bail. The court refuted the defence submission that non-examination of the child’s friends was fatal to the case. “It is for the prosecution to decide how many witnesses they want to examine. It is the quality and not the quantity of the witness which matters. Thus, there is absolutely no reason to disbelieve the testimony of the witnesses,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/50-year-old-mumbai-man-gets-3-yrs-for-flashing-minor-in-speedy-23-day-trial/articleshow/81317112.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Over 3k bid for liquor shops in e-auction||Jaipur: The e-auction of composite liquor shops begun on Wednesday. After making amendments in the policy (2021- 2022), the excise department is organising the e-auction for the first time, instead of allotting shops through lottery.Under the new policy, Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor both will be sold in the same shop. In phase-1 on Wednesday, 3,262 bidders participated to bid for 1,669 shops including 81 from Jaipur.Till last data received at 8.45pm, the excise department had received the highest bid price of Rs 8.91 crore against the base price of Rs 2.56 crore for the shop situated in Sanganear, Gaj Singh Pura in Jaipur.A senior excise department official said, “The bidding is ongoing and estimation of actual revenue earned can be made after the process is over.”Questing on the transparency of the online bidding process, Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare Society said, “It practically not possible that department can receive a bid of about Rs 9 crore for one shop as its not financially viable. Virtually bidders cannot see the person who is bidding at other end. There is serious doubt that government agencies such as Rajasthan State Beverages Corporation Ltd. (RSBCL) participating are increasing the bid unnecessarily,” he alleged.On the first day, participants faced difficulty in placing the bid online as server was down for almost one hour. An official informed, “For 36 liquor shops the department did not receive a single application for bidding, while for 460 shops only single bidder participated. The bidding for remaining 848 shops will continue till late night,”On Thursday, 1550 shops including 80 from Jaipur will be put under the hammer. An official Till 6 pm, total of 1925 applicants deposited fee for bidding.There are a total of 7,665 liquor stores in the state. In Jaipur, 404 shops will be allotted. An official said, the last e-auction will be organised on March 10. The bidding, which was scheduled to be held on February 24 and 25, will now be organised on March 4 and 5. Similarly, instead of auction on February 26 and 27, it will now be held on March 9 and 10.An official source said, “Last year, when lottery system was prevalent , the received total received 3.5 lakh application for entire shops. This year, the number is 30,000, which is abysmally low. Out of total applicants only 8,000 have deposited application fee to participate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-3k-bid-for-liquor-shops-in-e-auction/articleshow/81318292.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Deputy leader of opposition apologises for Devnani’s behaviour in Assembly||Jaipur: The House returned to normal functioning on Wednesday after BJP deputy leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore apologised for the unruly behaviour of former minister Vasudev Devnani.Devnani was suspended for a day on Monday after he rushed to the well of the House for not being allowed to raise the issue of the alleged attack on ABVP by NSUI workers.In protest, the entire opposition BJP walked out of the House boycotting the proceedings for the day in protest.As soon as the House resumed on Wednesday, the opposition members assembled in the well of the House. Speaker then asked the members to go back to their seats and asked the leader of the opposition to speak.In the absence of leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader Rajendra Rathore said, “We want the House to function. Devnani entered the well in anger, which was not right. If the Chair will not protect us, then where will we go.”Speaker C P Joshi said the behaviour of Devnani was wrong. He was raising issue when the Chair was giving a ruling. This sets a bad precedent and senior legislators should have objected to such behaviour.Speaker pointed out that neither the opposition leader nor the member himself apologised for the unsavoury incident. Rathore then said, “I am sorry if the chair was hurt. I apologise and assure that such incident will not be repeated.”Following this, the Question Hour resumed. Earlier in the day, at the BJP legislature party meet before the assembly session, it was decided that Devnani will not apologise for the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/deputy-leader-of-opposition-apologises-for-devnanis-behaviour-in-assembly/articleshow/81318304.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||State seeks more time for counter in citizenship case||Hyderabad: Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of Telangana high court on Wednesday adjourned the citizenship row case involving Vemulawada TRS MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh to March 18. This was preceded by a request from the state government to grant some more time to file its counter. Additional advocate general J Ramachandra Rao, who earlier said that the state government wants to have a say in the matter, sought more time on Wednesday for conveying the government’s stand on this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-seeks-more-time-for-counter-in-citizenship-case/articleshow/81318294.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Congress MLA put its own government on the mat||Jaipur: Former minister and Congress MLA from Sheo (Barmer) Amin Khan targeted education minister Govind Singh Dotasra in the assembly much to the embarassment to the ruling party on Wednesday.Participating in the Budget debate, Khan directed his ire against Dotasra saying Sheo constituency had a government model school where the number of children were comparatively less. The result was good even though there were no teachers for major subjects.“I met the education minister several times seeking appointment of teachers. The director education recently gave posting to a new principal to the school. The principal however as part of a strategy has given transfer certificates to about 100 students to other schools so that the model school could be closed,” Khan alleged.Barmer and desert region is considered to be place for punishment postings or those who are given postings with no political patronage.Khan said he wanted to take up the matter with the education minister and twice went to his residence, but to no avail. Khan said he was told that the minister was unwell, so taking rest.The Congress MLA said India is a poor country and the ministers should not have so much luxury.He said, “If the MLA gets such a response, what would be plight of the common man?” He said Sheo and Chohtan are mostly inhabited by backward classes. In most of the schools, no teachers for English, maths, geography and Hindi. When the school gets poor result, the department puts the blame on poor students.The MLA said the members often express concern over the poor result in government schools, but teachers for many subjects like English, maths and geography were vacant. How could we think of improving the quality of education, asked the member much to the cheer of ‘shame’ by the opposition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-mla-put-its-own-government-on-the-mat/articleshow/81318300.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Actor’s assistant found hanging||Kolkata: A 36-year-old man, working as an assistant to actor Ankush Hazra, allegedly ended his life at his Narkeldanga residence on Tuesday. The victim, Pintu Dey alias Bappa, was found hanging from a window grille with the help of a towel in the bathroom. Cops said he was rushed to NRS Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. No suicide note has been recovered. Dey’s kin alleged that he was being threatened over phone since February that his private video would be made viral, if he did not pay up to the caller. “He might be a victim of cyber fraud. A probe has started,” said a police officer. However, his kin alleged that cops had not taken the matter seriously. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/actors-assistant-found-hanging/articleshow/81318312.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Independent MLA’s remarks on Raje expunged||Jaipur: Deputy leader of Opposition in assembly Rajendra Singh Rathore objected to Independent MLA Sanyam Lodha’s remark on former chief minister Vasundhara Raje when she was not present in the House. The chairperson Rajendra Pareek warned the member for making the remarks amid uproar in the House .Rathore objected to Lodha’s remark on the former chief minister citing Rule No 273 of the assembly under which an MLA cannot level allegations against a member of the House if he/she is not present.“Before levelling allegations against a member of the House, a notice should be given,” he said.The chairperson intervened amid uproar in the House and said, “It is an assembly and not a chaupal. Nothing will be recorded and it is true that a notice should be given before making allegations against anyone. The members should maintain the decorum of the House. The entire Rajasthan is watching us. I won’t allow this to happen. What do you all want to prove? The tradition of the House must be respected by all.”Meanwhile, BJP MLA Vitthal Shankar Awasthi attacked chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s ‘jaadugar’ remark during his speech while presenting the state budget. Awasthi said, “The magician (jaadugar) left after his performance. But, the reality is there’s never any truth in a magic show and the Congress party is suffering from ‘Modi phobia’. They forgot that they are in power in the state and didn’t discuss anything on the budget. Forget about Modi, he will return to power next time as well and Yogi (Adityanath) is preparing himself for the successive terms. They (state government) keep making announcements, but haven’t implemented the promises made last year.”Congress MLA hit out at the centre on the issue of rising petrol, diesel and LPG prices, drop in export of local goods and the three farm laws. There was uproar in the House when he said the “BJP MPs and MLAs did not contribute to the CM Relief Fund during Covid crisis while adding that “they only contributed to the PM Relief Fund”. “The centre reduced the budget for the minorities as well. In order to promote their communal agenda, they introduced CAA, and now they are presenting the budget keeping religion in mind,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/independent-mlas-remarks-on-raje-expunged/articleshow/81318325.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Specially-abled persons to be nominated to municipal bodies||Jaipur: For the first time in the country, specially-abled persons in the state will be nominated as members to the urban local bodies. Under the Rajasthan municipal amendment bill, 2021, which has been tabled in the state assembly by local self-government minister Shanti Dhariwal, one specially-abled person will be nominated as a member to each municipality body in the state. The municipal bodies include Nagar Nigams, Nagar Parishads and Nagar Palikas. Among the other amendments include - the number of nominated members has been increased with the increase in the number of wards; the specially-abled child will not be counted for disqualification of a candidate at the time of filing of nomination papers during elections.“It (the bill) has been tabled and it will be passed in this (budget) session. This (nomination of specially-abled persons) will be done for the first time in the country. The matter was approved by the cabinet earlier,” said Deepak Nandi, director and ex-officio special secretary, local bodies.Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh, vice-president, Hemant Goyal said, “The disability court has written to additional chief secretary (ACS), rural development and panchayati raj department (Rohit Kumar Singh) to provide 4% reservation to specially-abled persons in MGNREGA work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/specially-abled-persons-to-be-nominated-to-municipal-bodies/articleshow/81318337.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Serve needy to avoid jail: Telangana HC to babus||HYDERABAD: A day after sentencing Rajanna Sircilla collector D Krishna Bhaskar and two officials to three months of jail for disobeying its orders, the Telangana high court on Wednesday extended relief to two convicted bureaucrats by asking them to do voluntary service in lieu of the punishment meted out to them. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this opportunity to IAS officer Prashant J Patil, who is presently Nalgonda district collector, and his former junior colleague at Warangal civil supplies wing P Sandhya Rani. Both were convicted in a contempt case filed by a rice mill owner of Parvathagiri mandal in Warangal district. The court had imposed a penalty of Rs 2,000 on each of them and ordered them to undergo jail for six weeks if they fail to pay the penalty. Patil preferred an appeal over this and sought quashing of the conviction order. The bench agreed to do so provided he did social service. State’s special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar readily agreed to this and assured the court that the officers would serve some needy sections like orphaned children or poor kids. The bench posted the case to April 7. “Though the current appeal was filed by Patil, we will request the court to apply this verdict to the other contemnor (Sandhya Rani) also,” the state counsel said. The court in its previous order had ordered Patil and Sandhya Rani to restore supply of paddy to the mill owner for the purpose of custom milling and supply the same later to the Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation. The court also took a serious view of efforts to subvert its order. It all started when the civil supplies officials booked a case against the miller following discrepancies at his unit. They punished him by seizing half of the stock at the mill. They also stopped paddy supply to the mill and blacklisted his mill. The aggrieved miller then approached the court and questioned the punishment without even proving the case against him. He also told the court that several mills in the district were facing similar cases, but none of them was blacklisted. “I was singled out and was subjected to double jeopardy,” he contended. The court agreed with him and directed the officials to restore paddy supply to the mill. It was after this order that the officials still tried to blacklist the miller. A single judge bench of the high court then saw an unwarranted design in this and convicted Patil and Sandhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-babus-serve-needy-to-avoid-jail/articleshow/81320805.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Agra||Innocent man walks out of Agra jail after 20 years||AGRA: Vishnu Tiwari walked out of Agra Central Jail on Wednesday with three bags to start a new life. In them were his clothes, Rs 600 left over from the stipend he got in jail for his work and a copy of the high court judgment that had ordered his release after 20 years of wrongful incarceration on rape charges. He was wearing a T-shirt gifted by one of his fellow inmates. As he made his way out, they cheered, garlanded him and applauded. He was finally getting justice and the inmates — the only friends he had had — were happy for him. The moment he stepped out, it all fell silent. No one had turned up to receive him. Two of his brothers and father had died years ago. His elder brother had long disowned him. His younger brother, 33, could not make it. But he did not let that get his spirits down. “No one should go through what I did. Many innocent people are languishing in jail. The authorities should at least get them a fair trial,” Vishnu told TOI minutes after being released. He had lost the fight in him while he was in prison, after trying once, in 2005, to challenge the trial court’s decision to sentence him to life. But prison authorities stepped in on his behalf, approached the State Legal Services Authority and placed his case in HC again which, on January 28, found him not guilty. Now, the only thing Vishnu, 43, wants to do is set things right: “I bear no grudge. I want to live in peace now. I will go to my village, proclaim my innocence and reclaim my honour.” In Lalitpur village, some 350km away, his younger brother, Mahadev, has been restless. “I had been waiting for this day. My brother suffered for 20 years because of a flawed investigation by police and wrong judgment by a sessions court. He was not allowed to attend the last rites of our father and two brothers,” Mahadev, 33, said. “Back here, we were ostracised. I didn’t even get work here. I had to go several kilometres to be hired as a labourer.” He could not get married either. And that is one of the things on top of Vishnu’s mind. “I have to get him married. I will try and get some work,” he said. “We had six acres of farm land. My parents had to sell that in their effort to get me out of jail. But they died waiting for my release … I do miss my old friends. I hope they will accept me.” Watch Agra: Man walks out of jail after 20 years - for crime which he never committed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/innocent-man-in-jail-for-20-yrs-walks-free-as-fellow-inmates-cheer-says-first-hell-reclaim-honour/articleshow/81317111.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand govt tables Bill in House to provide women co-ownership in husband’s ancestral property||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government tabled two bills – including the important Uttarakhand Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Bill, 1950 (Amendment) Bill — in the House on Wednesday. The bills aim to give women co-ownership in husband’s ancestral property. The amendments also mentions cases related to widow, unmarried daughters and abandoned daughters with no child in length. Besides, the government also tabled the Uttarakhand Panchayati Raj (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The statement and objectives of Bill mention, “Most of the Uttarakhand state being a hilly region has limited industrial activities, due to which most of the male of the state are employed in other states for the purpose of employment in government service/private institutions and most of the women are residing in their own state. Usually due to the right of men on land/property, the participation of women in economic development activities is not ensured, so that women are able to take loans from financial institutions for self-employment/enterprise etc. For the purpose of making women self –sufficient, it is inevitable to amend/insert sections 3(31), 130-A and 171 of the Uttarakhand Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 (Amendment) Bill to give right of co-sharer in ancestral property.” A new section 130-A has been inserted in the bill. It mentions, “During the lifetime of every male bhumidhar, who is bhumidhar with transferable rights under section 130, the name of his wife shall be registered as an co-sharer in the share of her husband.” In case of a woman remarrying after divorce, shall not remain a co-sharer in the former husband’s share. The provisions of this section shall apply only in the ancestral property of the male bhumidhar with transferable rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-tables-bill-in-house-to-provide-women-co-ownership-in-husbands-ancestral-property/articleshow/81317114.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||HC rejects divorce plea saying wife being non-manglik isn’t ‘cruelty’ to hubby||Nagpur: Coming to a woman’s rescue, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court dismissed her husband’s petition for a divorce because she was not a ‘manglik’, as she was made out to be at marriage. Upholding the Nagpur family court verdict, the HC made it clear that being a non-manglik can’t be a ‘cruelty’ to the husband. The 37-year-old husband had contended that the wife and in-laws cheated him by forging her date of birth and showing her as a manglik. He claimed to be a manglik himself, and wanted to marry a manglik woman ‘to avoid misfortune’. “Even if it’s assumed that there was misrepresentation regarding the wife’s birth date, that doesn’t affect matrimonial relations between the couple. The petitioner himself failed to prove that he was manglik and he intended to marry the girl having the same horoscope,” a division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryawanshi said. Observing that the petitioner’s submissions don’t make out any case of cruelty on the wife’s part, the bench held that there’s no substance in his contentions about cheating him with her non-manglik status. “The family court has rightly come to the conclusion that the husband has failed to prove his case for cruelty and desertion. He also failed to prove that the wife has persistently or repeatedly treated him with such cruelty to cause reasonable apprehension in his mind that it will be harmful or injurious for him to live with her,” they said. Citing Hindu beliefs, the petitioner had earlier argued that a manglik person needs to marry a partner with a similar horoscope to avoid bad omens. He pointed out that the wife’s bio-data given to him mentioned her date of birth as September 26, 1993, and her qualifications were shown as BA final year. As per this birth date, she was manglik. She had also refused to provide him details of her educational qualifications. It was only after her father handed him her documents related to educational qualifications, that the husband came to know that she was born on September 27, 1979. As per her original date, she can’t be manglik, the husband pointed out. Following differences between them on this account, the wife left for her matrimonial home and refused to join him for cohabitation. She even filed a police complaint against the husband for harassing her. The husband then filed a case for divorce in the family court, pleading that the wife was non-manglik and cheated him by providing a false birth date. After rejection of his plea, he moved the high court. What HC said * Hubby failed to prove he was manglik and intended to marry girl with same horoscope * No substance in his contentions about cheating and her non-manglik status * His submissions don’t make out any case of cruelty on wife’s part * If there’s misrepresentation in wife’s birth date that doesn’t affect matrimonial relations * He failed to prove that wife persistently or repeatedly treated him with cruelty||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-rejects-divorce-plea-saying-wife-being-non-manglik-isnt-cruelty-to-hubby/articleshow/81319644.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 4, 2021||India||Government OKs 24x7 Covid vaccination at hospitals||NEW DELHI: Looking to step up the pace of vaccination against Covid, the government allowed round-the-clock vaccinations at hospitals with surplus capacity and resources, enabling people to schedule their appointments along with better crowd management, health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday. As familiarity with processes increased and more hospitals activated their links to the Co-Win portal, a little over 6.9 lakh doses were administered till 7pm on the third day of the second phase of vaccinations being extended to people above 60 and between 45-60 years with specified co-morbidities that can increase risk from the infection. In the last three days, over 8.4 lakh recipients were above 60 years of age, whereas just over 1 lakh were between 45-60 years with co-morbidities. “The government has lifted the time restriction to increase the speed of vaccination. People can now get vaccinated 24x7 according to their convenience. PM Narendra Modi understands the value of health as well as the time of citizens,” Vardhan tweeted on Wednesday. The extension of vaccination timings will, however, depend on hospitals and their capacity and decisions taken by states. In swift redress of teething issues like over-crowding, unavailability of vacancies at private hospitals or non-scheduling of appointments and delay in receiving OTPs, the government took a series of measures including allowing all private hospitals with adequate facilities to join the vaccination drive. Initially, only those private hospitals that were empanelled under Ayushman Bharat, CGHS and state health insurance schemes were involved for Covid vaccination. The government also relaxed the 9am to 5pm slot for sessions and instead allowed hospitals to organise sessions beyond 5pm with flexibility on the Co-Win platform to facilitate the same. This had been announced on Tuesday. Hospitals with largescale infrastructure and trained resources can organise multiple sessions spread out through the day. Officials said the number of sessions was likely to increase significantly by the end of this week as empanelled hospitals prepare themselves better and more hospitals join the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-oks-24x7-covid-vaccination-at-hospitals/articleshow/81321624.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||State officials at wits’ end on reopening land dispute cases||Hyderabad: With Telangana high court on Tuesday directing the state government to follow due judicial procedure in land disputes and dispose of the cases only after hearing both parties, officials are at their wits’ end. Over 16,000 cases pending in various revenue tribunals have been disposed of by district collectors recently without any hearings and now the government has to reopen them. Sources said the officials are in a dilemma over reopening the cases as orders have been issued in several cases. “We are waiting for the government orders on this issue,” a senior revenue official of Medchal-Malkajgiri district said. For instance, A Amrutha, a resident of Bongulur village in Rangareddy district, filed an application two years ago with Ibrahimpatnam tahsildar on her land mutation in Bonguluru and Mangalpally villages. The district collector as chairman of the newly-created revenue tribunal and additional collector as a member delivered a judgment on January 28, directing her to approach the competent forum after adjudicating the matter in a civil court. As per revenue department records, there were 16,910 cases pending in the revenue courts in 33 districts. The highest number of cases (1,665) pending was in Rangareddy, followed by Nalgonda with 1,552 cases and Bhuvanagari Yadadri district with 1,402 cases. “Of 16,910 cases, 11 districts have more than 500 cases, while the rest 22 districts have less than 500 cases. Since Hyderabad does not have open and agriculture land, only 49 cases were pending. Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district had 50 cases pending,” a senior revenue official revealed. Senior revenue officials said they had seen this coming as only oral directions were issued by the authorities to dispose of the cases hurriedly. Advocate T Jaswanth Kumar said: “Even advocates were not allowed to present their arguments before the revenue tribunals. The advantage of the revenue courts is that petitioners need not pay any fees and cases are disposed of at the earliest as they are special courts. But, the government scrapped the revenue courts,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-officials-at-wits-end-on-reopening-land-dispute-cases/articleshow/81318374.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Raj sees record turnout on Day 3 of 2nd phase||Jaipur: Elderly people (above 60) showed enthusiasm as they turned out in large numbers at vaccination centres across the state on Wednesday. Out of 2,15,213 vaccinations done, which is record single-day inoculations, 1,95,144 persons were above 60 years.On the same day, Covid-19 fresh cases got doubled in 24 hours. On Tuesday, the state had reported 102 Covid-19 cases but in Wednesday, 215 persons were found infected with the virus.In just three days, 3,73,916 above 60people have got vaccinated in the state.Besides, 13,591 persons vaccinated were those who are above 45 years to 59 years with specified co-morbid conditions. A total of 2,15,213 persons were vaccinated on Wednesday bringing the overall tally to 12,20,438.“We are targeting to vaccinate 88 lakh above 60 people and 15 lakh above 45 years to 59 years with specified co-morbid conditions in March. In coming days, we are eyeing to vaccinate more than 4 lakh people in a single day. We will achieve it by increasing the number of vaccination centres across the state,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director(immunization), health department.Vaccination sites are witnessing enthusiasm among elderly people (above 60) coming for the Covid-19 jabs among those are elderly who are feeling the necessity to get vaccinated for safe elective surgeries such as joint replacement, cataract surgery and non-urgent interventions were made to wait during the peak of pandemic.A 65-year-old resident Lata Saini of the Walled City area, who came to a government vaccination site at SMS hospital’s vaccination site has spent painful past few months. Doctors have advised her to undergo knee replacement. “During past few months, my children have not allowed me to go out due to Covid-19 pandemic. I have pain in knees and doctors have advised me for knee replacement. But, we have postponed it. Now, I have come here for vaccination to get it done today, but let’s see if I got the jab today,” she said.Besides, Sarita, 68-year-old, have cataract in her eyes, but she postponed the surgery due to Covid-19 pandemic. “I will get it done when I will have some protection against Covid-19,” she said.Over the past few months, the number of surgeries at SMS hospital has gone down. “In comparison to before Covid-19 situation, the number of surgeries which we have performed during Covid-19 has decreased. But, number of surgeries have increased in past few months,” said an SMS hospital official.Even the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had appealed to the people to postpone the elective surgeries to ward off risk of getting infected with the virus. The doctors also facing difficulty in performing the surgery as they have to wear face shield, face mask, personal protection equipment kit and other protective measures they have to take while performing surgery.Also, prior to surgeries, they are following the protocol to get the Covid-19 test done of the patient, which is why, the alot of elective surgeries have been postponed. The state reported 215 newCovid-19 infections on Wednesday bringing its overall tally to 3,20,772, while no death has been reported. The state’s toll stands at 2787.Districts which reported new cases are Dungarpur (50), Jaipur (40), Jodhpur (19), Udaipur (18), Rajsamand (16), Ajmer(14), Kota (11), Barmer (9), Bhilwara (8), Banswara (5), Hanumangarh (5),Jalore (4), Jhunjhunu (4), Baran (3), Dholpur (2), Nagaur (2), Alwar (1), Dausa(1), Sriganganagar (1), Pali (1) and Sirohi (1).Day 1Day 2Day 345-59 year olds wih co-morbidities3768950013591Over 60 years55250123522195144||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-record-turnout-on-day-3-of-2nd-phase/articleshow/81318375.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Despite Covid, health budget up just 0.7%||Gandhinagar: Despite the major impact ofthe Covid-19 pandemic on the state government’s health infrastructure and and extraordinaryrise n health spending over the past one year, the state government chose notto effect a significant hike in budgetary allocation for the health and familywelfare department. Comparedto a budgetary provision of Rs 11,243 crore in the 2020-21 budget, financeminister Nitin Patel, who is also health minister, announced a budgetaryallocation of Rs 11,323 crore for the year 2021-22, a meagre rise of Rs 80crore. While presenting the budgetin the assembly on Wednesday, Patel dwelt at length on the untiring work by employeesof the health department during the pandemic and the infrastructure that thestate government put in place to handle the situation. He drew praise from thespeaker as well for the government’s handling of the pandemic. When asked about themere 1% rise in budgetary allocation for the health and family welfare department,finance minister and health minister Nitin Patel said the government spent amassive amount of money for Covid-19 relief from various sources, includinggovernment of India grants. “Budgetary allocation is for long terminfrastructure and permanent development of health sector, so there is no needfor specific Covid-19 related allocation. We have sufficiently allocatedfunds for new medical colleges cum new hospitals, expansion in medical servicesand bringing new technologies. During the year, we can increase allocation forthe department,” he said. AroundRs 1,800 crorespent on Covid control In the past 11 months,the Gujarat government spent a whopping around Rs 1,800 crore additional budgeton Covid-19 management. A senior officer said, “As we got additional directfunds from GOI, CM relief fund and the contingency fund for Covid-19 reliefactivities, we did not require much fund from the state budget. Moreover, due tothe lockdown, the department has saved funds meant for capital expenditure, soour overall budget required did not increase much. In 2021-22, the governmentexpects no major hike in the expenditure, as Covid-19 is expected to be fullyunder control in the coming months.,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/despite-covid-health-budget-up-just-0-7/articleshow/81318440.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Pune||Duo rob, beat up scrap dealer & employees||Pune: A 52-year-old criminal on police record was arrested and his accomplice booked on Tuesday on the charge of demanding extortion and robbing a scrap dealer of Rs12,300 after beating him up and threatening him and his employees. The incident occurred at survey number 110 in the Ramtekdi industrial area around 6pm on Tuesday. The complainant Satish Gaikwad (32) deals in industrial scrap material. He jointly runs his shop with his partner Mauli Kamble. Gaikwad in his FIR report stated that on Monday evening the suspect Jalindarsingh Kalyani and his accomplice visited his shop and forced their employees to stop their work by threatening them of dire consequences. Gaikwad said the suspects demanded ‘hafta’ of Rs6,000 per day from Kamble and threatened to close down their business if their demand was not met. Gaikwad rushed to his shop when he got to know of the incident from his partner. The duo threatened to kill Gaikwad and Kamble and fled. “The suspects visited the shop again on Tuesday and beat the employees and forced them to stop working. They beat up Gaikwad and threatened to kill him and his employees if their demand was not met and fled,” the FIR stated. The duo also robbed Gaikwad of Rs12,300. After Gaikwad lodged an FIR on Tuesday, a police team led by sub-inspectors Bolenath Ahiwale and Bhushan Potwade arrested Kalyani. A police team has been formed to arrest the second suspect, who is on the run, an officer from Wanowrie police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-rob-beat-up-scrap-dealer-employees/articleshow/81318376.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nashik||Spl classes for SSC students||Nashik: Though the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has shut down schools and colleges, the civic body has given special permissions to its 13 schools allowing them to conduct classes only for SSC students as they are going to appear for their board exams The NMC’s education department said only students, who have given their parent's written consent, have been allowed to attend the classes. NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav on Monday had ordered the closure of schools and junior colleges from Class V to Class XII till March 15 due to the rise in Covid cases. Eight students from a city-based junior college also tested positive last week. “We have a total of 13 schools with 1,039 students from SSC. Of which, only 13% attended the schools on Tuesday. But the attendance improved on Wednesday with 19% attendance,” said Sunita Dhangar, the NMC’s education officer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/spl-classes-for-ssc-students/articleshow/81316215.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Rs 1,094cr for door-to-door water connections: PHED minister||Jaipur: PHED minister B D Kalla on Wednesday told the Assembly that the Budget 2021-22 has set aside Rs 1,094 crore door-to-door water connections under the Jal Jeevan Mission.He said a comprehensive DPR will be prepared before August 30 and the plan will be taken forward as soon as possible. He informed that the state government is committed towards providing fluoride-free drinking water to the people of the state.He was replying to a supplementary question of MLA Narayan Singh Dewal during the Question Hour.Speaker cracks the whipSpeaker C P Joshi on Wednesday directed the ministers to be present in the house during Zero Hour amid thumping of the table by the Opposition members. He said the tendency of the ministers going out of the house after question hour is a bad precedent.Similarly, he said the MLAs should not go to the ministers’ bench during working of the Assembly and those who wanted to meet the ministers should meet them only in their chambers.He also directed that it is the duty of the officials to bring to the notice of the government the issues raised by the MLAs in the house.Speaker Joshi wondered if the matters raised by the MLAs were not brought to the notice of the government, then what is the use of discussions in the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-1094cr-for-door-to-door-water-connections-phed-minister/articleshow/81318345.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||65-year-old man stabs wife to death in Telangana, consumes poison||HYDERABAD: A man who frequently quarrelled with his wife in Thallada of Khammam district, killed her on Tuesday night and later killed himself as well. Thallada police said that S Vijaya Lakshmi, 60, died after her husband attacked her with a a knife. Subramanyam, 65, was later found dead, having consumed poison. Officials said that the man allegedly quarrelled with Vijaya Lakshmi frequently. “The couple has two daughters, one of whom stays in the USA. Lakshmi was supposed to visit their daughter in the US, but Subramanyam had been insisting that she not go, for the past few several days. It’s unclear what the trigger was on on Tuesday night,” Thallada police told TOI. According to police, on Wednesday morning, when the milk delivery boy came to the house the door was open and Subramanyam was on the couch. In the bedroom, Lakshmi was lying on the floor in a pool of blood. She had multiple stab wounds on her body. The milk delivery boy immediately alerted the police. Post mortem examination was performed at a local government hospital and the couple’s other daughter, who lives in Mancherial, was informed of their death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/65-yr-old-man-stabs-wife-to-death-consumes-poison/articleshow/81318385.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi schools look to strengthen Covid shield||NEW DELHI: After cases of Covid-19 were reported from some schools in the city, elaborate plans are being made to tackle a worse situation, if any. Though there is no defined rules, schools also say the children who miss exams due to Covid will be allowed to take them later. Schools are strictly implementing the safety regulations, seeking cooperation from parents and following a rotation policy for calling students. Tania Joshi, principal of Indian School, said “we would hope that we do not see such a scenario at all”. But the school is taking all precautions and “making sure that nothing happens. We have involved the parents to make sure that students don’t form a group once they step out of the school gate”, she said. The school has set separate timings for classes X and XII and have allotted seperate school gates for students of different sections to avoid crowding, said Joshi. Earlier this week, two Covid cases were reported from two private schools. One of the schools was shut for a week. Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Group of Schools, said, “If Covid-19 is detected, we are ready for isolation of students and contact tracing. We have bubbles of 10-15 students each, so it is easy to trace and identify them for home isolation.” Tracing is easier because fewer students are coming to school, Pandey said. “We are asking staff/parents who are entitled to go for a vaccine shot. We are also asking students to avoid forming groups and coming too close physically.” Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales Pusa Road, said “we are sanitising the school and spreading information to the students and the parents as this is a challenging situation and the entire world the schools are reopening and we must work through it”. Parents, too, will have to play their part, she added. “If there is a child who is showing symptoms, parents should let us know. This cannot be done by the school and there is a partnership with the parents and the community.” Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International, said they were flexible and would allow positive students to appear for the exams later. “Parents have been told to keep everyone informed on account of any such case. We have a clinic opened and ambulances, too, in case we see any kind of symptoms in any child,” added Sethi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/schools-look-to-strengthen-covid-shield/articleshow/81319692.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Man killed over property dispute||Hyderabad: A property dispute between two families led to a farmer in Asifabad district being murdered, on Wednesday. Asifabad police said that 42-year-old O Shenkar, who is from Karji village, had an argument with his cousins Sai, Satish and a few others, since both Sai and Satish were both claiming their right over the property. The victim was attacked by the accused using knife. The incident took place at 10 am in a cotton field, which is the cause for dispute among the men. The accused were taken into custody and investigation is underway. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-killed-over-property-dispute/articleshow/81318389.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Pune||Volunteers build artificial river & ponds for birds||Pune: Volunteers at Anand Van Mitra Mandal (AVMM) have constructed an artificial water body and ponds inside the gated forest reserve of Anand Van in Kondhwa. The man-made water bodies will help birds get some relief as days get hotter through the summer months.President of AVMM Praveen Kumar Anand said, “Birds struggle to find clean water in the city. Our volunteers have built a water body that runs down a 500-600 ft slope inside the premises so birds have access to clean water. They can come and drink from it and wash the pollution and dust off their wings to get some relief. Squirrels and small animals also have access to these water bodies.”Apart from the artificial water body, the premises now has three man-made artificial ponds. Volunteers aim to complete construction of 100 such small ponds — ten in each zone — by March 31. They have also planted a variety of fruit-bearing plants, including mulberry and jujube, that are favourites among avian life. Most volunteers involved in the construction work have been students. “We have students coming from over 15 schools and universities to learn forest-making as a part of their environment training workshop. So far, we have trained more than 2.50 lakh students over the last 7-8 years. Currently, we have about 120 youngsters volunteering with us on different projects. They do 40% of the work in the forest reserve as a way of learning,” he added.The forest reserve is struggling to get access to water and it is buying 7-8 tankers of water as of now. “We are asking people for donations of water. We have also submitted a letter to the Pune collector requesting access to the grey water from sewage treatment plant,” said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/volunteers-build-artificial-river-ponds-for-birds/articleshow/81318387.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Targeted by mining mafia: Whistleblowers||Guntur: Whistleblowers and locals of Guntur, who filed complaints in the illegal limestone mining case, said they are being beaten up by illegal mining gangs or implicated in false cases. Whistleblower K Guravachary of Pidiguralla, who first filed a PIL in 2015, told TOI, “I was badly beaten up by the illegal mining gang. When I sought police help, they were shifting me from one police station to another. For 20 days, police hid me. The CBI has recorded my statement,” he said. TN Sharma, a co-accused in the mining scam, said then Gurazala MLA Yarapathaneni Srinivas Rao and his followers had threatened him in April 2014 to hand over his family-owned property of limestone quarry. “The AP Brahmana Seva Samakhya had represented the matter to the Crime Investigation Department. The CID wrote a letter to Guntur rural SP enquiring about the life threat to me. False cases were filed against me but I obtained bail. A false case of SC, ST Atrocities Prevention Act was also booked on me. I went underground to Bangkok and Nepal to save my life,” Sharma told TOI. Another whistleblower and former MLC TGV Krishna Reddy, who also filed a PIL, was booked in a fake murder case. He said whoever opposed illegal mining was targeted. “Even police, revenue and mining officials are acting against whistleblowers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/targeted-by-mining-mafia-whistleblowers/articleshow/81318383.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 4, 2021||Pune||Water from Bhama Askhed triggers bouts of illness||Pune: After years of waiting, citizens from the eastern parts of Pune began to get water from the Bhama Askhed dam in January. But, people from Yerawada, Kalyaninagar and other areas along Ahmednagar Road have no reason to rejoice because the quality of water is poor and they fear it will lead to ailments. Local resident Sanjay Chavan said the water flowing through their taps was yellowish, and the administration must run checks. Other citizens said the water quality has dropped ever since they started getting supply from the Bhama Askhed project. The problem has been around for the last two weeks and needs to be addressed at the earliest, they said. The Pune Municipal Corporation started water supply to the city’s eastern parts from the Bhama Askhed project since January. Water has reached areas like Lohegaon, Dhanori, Yerawada and Kalyanianagar along Ahmednagar Road. Local coporator Ashwini Landge said she has been receiving complaints from the residents about poor quality water. “It is good that the supply has improved in some areas but the water quality is not up to the mark. People are complaining of throat infection and ailments like loose motions. We have told people to boil water before consumption. The civic administration should act now to provide good quality water,” Landge added. She led a delegation recently to the PMC’s water supply department and met municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar. “We have requested the authorities to supply water from the Cantonment water works till the pipeline supplying water from Bhama Askhed is cleaned,” Landge said. Officials from the water supply department said the water quality has been a problem in some pockets, but water coming from Bhama Askhed is undergoing all the set standards of purification and chlorination. “The water first goes to the purification and filtration plant at Kuruli and it is then supplied to the eastern parts,” Sudesh Kadu, executive engineer at PMC, said. Anirudh Pavaskar, head of the PMC’s water supply department, said, “ Distribution lines from a tank supplying water in Yerawada and adjacent areas seems to be the issue. We have decided to re-clean the pipeline and wash these lines to clear the silt. Work is expected to get over in the next few days. It will eliminate the poor quality of water. Till then, we have decided to supply the water from the Cantonment water works to the affected areas.” Another official said work on laying of pipelines to distribute Bhama Askhed water was underway since the last few years. The supply has been commissioned now. Though the cleaning and washing has been done, some pipeline patches require more cleaning. “We will do it now,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-from-bhama-askhed-triggers-bouts-of-illness/articleshow/81318397.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Illegal mining of limestone continues||Guntur: There is no let-up in illegal mining in Palnadu region. Locals allege that small gangs continue to plunder the limestone blocks in Piduguralla and Dachepalli areas. Some of the gangs are also fighting among themselves to gain control over the limestone blocks. When TOI visited the areas, locals were found excavating the limestone and mosaic chips. In September 2020, two groups of the same community clashed in Narayanapuram of Nadikudi after one of them was murdered. Police imposed section 144 of CrPC to defuse tension as four persons were injured in the fighting over quarrying of limestone. Gurazala police said Tammisetty Neelakantham (19) of Anjanapuram Street was injured when rivals attacked him. Neelakantham succumbed to injuries in Guntur Government General Hospital. TDP leader and former Gurazala MLA Yarapathaneni Srinivas Rao said illegal mining goes on in the area unabated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/illegal-mining-of-limestone-continues/articleshow/81318388.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Agra||Minor boy kills Dalit girl for resisting oral sex in Aligarh||AGRA: A 17-year-old mentally-challenged Dalit girl was allegedly killed by a 17-year-old boy after she resisted his attempts to have oral sex with her. The murder took place in a village in Aligarh on Sunday and zeroed in on the boy on Tuesday. The accused boy told police that he was watching porn when he saw the girl, who was also speech-impaired and took her to an agriculture field. After strangling the girl with her dupatta, he dragged the body to another field and dumped it there. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muniraj G told TOI that the boy hails from an adjacent village and had confessed to killing the girl after she resisted his attempt to have oral sex with her. The SSP said relevant sections of the SC/ST Act and section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of IPC will also be included in the FIR as per the available evidence. “The boy has been sent to a juvenile home after producing him before the juvenile justice board on Wednesday,” the SSP said, adding that medical examination of the boy will also be conducted to ascertain his actual age. According to the forensic report, that arrived on Wednesday, no semen was found on the girl’s body, said the SSP. SP (crime) Arvind Kumar said though the boy is a class 8 dropout, he is proficient in using the internet and other digital devices. His father works as a labourer in Delhi and he works in the field in his village. Taking advantage of the girl’s inability to speak more than a few words at a time, he took her to a nearby field where no one could see them and tried to have oral sex with her. As she was not ready for it even after several attempts, he smothered her and strangled her with her dupatta. After the girl died, he dragged the body to another field that falls in her village in order to avoid suspicion on a person from his village, the boy told police. In a bid to destroy evidence, the boy threw her dupatta in a canal, and it could not be recovered. The victim’s slippers, which were thrown in the field close to the crime spot, has been recovered. Police said 118 porn videos were found in the boy’s android mobile phone and that he is a member of a groups that shared such videos. The police have seized his mobile phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/minor-boy-kills-dalit-teen-girl-for-resisting-oral-sex-in-aligarh-village/articleshow/81317140.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Constable, her cop lover held for hubby’s murder||MUMBAI: A policewoman and her paramour, also a cop posted at Vasai police station, have been arrested for allegedly killing her husband. Also, three contract killers that the two allegedly hired have also been nabbed. Early on February 17, the police were informed about an autorickshaw that had turned turtle on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway, at Manor, near Dhekale village. The driver was found dead with severe head injuries. An accidental death report was filed. However, the autopsy revealed that the driver died after being hit on the head with a sharp object. The body was identified as that of Pundalik Patil (35), a resident of Vasai. His wife Snehal (25), the woman cop, is posted with the traffic wing of Vasai police. A probe revealed that Pundalik had frequent fights with Snehal over her alleged relationship with a constable, Vikas Pashte (30), attached to Vasai police station. The couple has a three-year-old child. The police said that Pashte, who is married and has a child, was in a relationship with Snehal since 2014. Pashte and Snehal were open about their relationship even at the police station. Pundalik used to visit the police station to give tiffin to his wife and had learnt about the affair. According to the police, Snehal had given Rs 2.5 lakh to Pashte to eliminate her husband. Pashte hired three men — an outsourcing agent Swapnil Govari, an electrician Avinash Bhoir, and a security guard Vishal Patil who were known to Pashte. The police said that the three men hired Pundalik’s autorickshaw on February 17 for Manor. When they reached Dhekale village, they asked Pundalik to halt to answer nature’s call. They stepped out and assaulted Pundalik with an iron rod. He died on the spot. The men tried to place the body on the highway to make it look like an accident. However, as they could not pick up Pundalik’s heavy body, they left him in the auto, turned it turtle and fled. Motorists who noticed the vehicle informed the police. Police said that the men had hired Pundalik’s auto twice before the murder. Also, Pashte had called up Pundalik four times from unknown numbers and had convinced him to travel to Manor. He had paid Rs 1,000 for each trip. All the five are in custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-constable-her-cop-lover-held-for-hubbys-murder/articleshow/81319714.cms||Sandhya Nair
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Pvt hosps charge R250 per dose from their own healthcare workers||JAIPUR: After receiving the first dose of Covid vaccine free, healthcare workers (HCWs) of private hospitals will have to pay Rs 250 for the second dose at the hospital where they work or any other private hospital where they will be vaccinated. However, a few private hospitals have claimed that they are providing free second dose to their staff. The vaccination drive was launched in January and healthcare workers were the first to get it. Some HCWs of private hospitals expressed displeasure that they had to pay Rs 250 per dose and it was not a question of money, but a question of self-esteem. “Initially, the government promised to give vaccines to HCWs free of cost, but now we have to pay,” said a dejected private hospital employee, who got himself vaccinated by paying Rs 250 at his own hospital. The private hospitals, too, expressed their limitation. “The first dose was provided to us by the government for free and at that time we provided vaccine to the staff free of cost. But, now we have to pay Rs 150 per dose to the Centre,” said Ish Munjal, medical superintendent of a private hospital, adding that he too had paid Rs250 to get the second dose. Mukesh Kalla, medical director of a private hospital said, “The first dose was free as it was provided by the government for free, but we have to buy vaccine now paying Rs 1,500 for 10 doses. If eight persons get the vaccine, the two doses go waste, once the vial is open. I too, have paid Rs250 for the second dose.”Private hospitals are charging Rs 250 from their own staff on the basis of the letter issued by the Centre on February 27. The letter states, “The service charge to be recovered by private hospitals, acting as Covid-19 vaccination centres, would be subject to a ceiling of Rs 100 per person per dose. In addition, private hospitals will recover Rs 150 per person per dose as cost of vaccine. Hence, financial ceiling of the total amount recoverable by private hospitals is Rs 250 per person per dose. It has also been informed that this arrangement will remain effective till further orders.” However,the letter started saying, “This is in reference to the next phase of Covid vaccination that is to begin from March 1, 2021, for the next priority group that includes the citizens that are aged 60 years or more and those that are aged 45 years to 59 years with specified co-morbidities.”But, it also stated that “The vaccination would be provided free of charge at the government health facilities while it would be on payment basis in the private health facilities.”The health department has also acknowledged that the Centre has allowed the private hospitals to recover Rs 250 for vaccination per dose. “The vaccination is free for the HCWs at vaccination centres run by the government. The Centre has allowed private hospitals to recover Rs 250 per dose,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer(Jaipur-I).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-hosps-charge-r250-per-dose-from-their-own-healthcare-workers/articleshow/81318393.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||‘Non-board students not ready for exams this April’||Dehradun: The decision of the state education department to conduct exams for students of non-board classes invited protests from teachers as well as students, who said students of government schools had missed most online classes due lack of means and were not prepared for the exams. Notably, state-government run schools and government-aided schools have been asked to conduct home exams between April 22 and May 25, 2021. The syllabus will be relatively lesser as compared to previous academic sessions. It is likely that the home exams will be conducted only for classes 6-9 and class 11 since their offline classes started only last month. Meanwhile, students of classes 1-5 will be evaluated on the assignments given to them in online classes. Students of up to standard 5 are promoted to next class irrespective of their grades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/non-board-students-not-ready-for-exams-this-april/articleshow/81317142.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 4, 2021||Pune||Pre-dawn fire guts goods in Rasta Peth flats, shops||Pune: A major fire broke out and gutted goods in eight properties, including flats and shops, and the car of former city mayor Mohansingh Rajpal at Rasta Peth around 3am on Wednesday. No casualty was reported and the cause of the fire was being ascertained. “The fire first broke in one of the properties at Om Sai apartments and damaged household articles such as furniture, garments and electric wires in three flats on the first and second floors, two shops on the ground floor and a security guard’s cabin in the basement,” fire officer Prakash Gore said. “Three fire tenders, two ‘devdoot’ tenders and a water tanker were sent to the spot. We doused the flames in 40 minutes,” Gore said. The firemen helped the residents trapped on the terrace take a leap on the deck of another building and come out of the apartments. Om Sai apartments resident Atharva Veer said, “ The fire broke out in a ground floor shop and its flames engulfed the decoration panel and reached our first-floor flat.” Bibvewadi godown destroyed in blaze A fire gutted a mandap decorator’s godown spread across around 6,500 sq ft at Adarshnagar in Bibvewadi around 3.15pm on Wednesday. The cause behind the fire could not be established immediately. Fire officer Ramesh Gangad said,“We pressed eight fire tenders and three water tankers into and doused the flames by 4.45pm.” Godown owner Santosh Shetty said, “I was at the godown when the fire broke in one of the corners. I don’t know how the fire broke out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pre-dawn-fire-guts-goods-in-rasta-peth-flats-shops/articleshow/81318419.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 4, 2021||Nashik||Nashik city vax drive gets streamlined||Nashik: Day-3 of the vaccination drive for people aged above 60 years and those above 45 years who have comorbid conditions at the three vaccination sites in the city — two sites at the New Bytco hospital and one at the Indira Gandhi hospital in Panchavati — was significantly more streamlined as the officials did not face too many problems registering and verifying the beneficiaries. “There were no glitches in the app like yesterday (Tuesday). The registration and verification process was much much faster on Wednesday,” said Jitendra Dhaneshwar, the medical officer of the NMC’s Nashik Road division and in-charge of two vaccination session sites at the Bytco hospital. On Tuesday, in the first three hours, only 50 beneficiaries could get the vaccine at the New Bytco hospital. On Wednesday, the number rose to 175 during the same time. “We had deployed four to five employees for registration and verification of beneficiaries. It took around 10 minutes to register and verify each person. In comparison, on Tuesday, it took nearly 30-40 minutes per person,” said Dhaneshwar. “The process was very slow on Tuesday and I had gone back home. On Wednesday, it hardly took me 45 minutes — from registration to vaccination,” said 65-year-old Machhindra Parakh. “I had to remain in the queue for over half-an-hour for the registration and verification process. I was administered the vaccine within a few minutes thereafter,” said 75-year-old P Shirsat. The NMC is in the process of increasing the number of vaccination sites in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-vax-drive-gets-streamlined/articleshow/81316233.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 4, 2021||Delhi||13.8k seniors take jab, glitches a spoilsport||New Delhi: The total number of senior citizens getting Covid shots in Delhi has crossed 29,000 in the first three days. The process improved slightly on Wednesday, but several vaccination centres reported glitches on the Co-win portal, causing delays. Since the second phase of the vaccination drive has been launched to cover the senior citizens and the 45+ age group people with 20 comorbidities, 13,794 elderly people received the shot on Wednesday, 10,213 the day before and 5,176 on Monday, the day the round was launched. The number of vaccinated people in the 45-59 age group has also increased. At several centres, vaccination was carried out after manual verification to make the process smooth. The walk-in registration was the worst-hit, said sources, adding that many people who planned to get registered at a vaccine centre had to return disappointed. An official said the Co-WIN portal reported problems in verification of self-registered beneficiaries and many centres reported that the system often hanged when new registrations were attempted. “Healthcare and frontline workers who were pre-registered did not report issues in verification,” said an official. For manual verification of registered senior citizens, the centres took copies of their identity cards and registration numbers were noted down in the log. The details will be fed into the system later. A total of 34,600 individuals were expected to be vaccinated and the total turnout was 74.4% as against 62.3% reported the day before. The number of vaccination centres increased to 346. According to a government report till 6pm, 25,054 individuals, including senior citizens, healthcare and frontline workers, and all others, were inoculated. Among them, 20,858 people — 13,794 above 60 years, 1,625 between 45 and 59 years of age, and 3,364 frontline and 2,075 healthcare workers—received the first dose, while 4,196 healthcare workers took the second dose. Only four minor adverse events were reported. In West district, 2,245 senior citizens got the jab, the highest among all districts, followed by 1,869 in South East and 1,856 in South districts. All the districts reported a high jump in the turnout, indicating growing confidence among senior citizens about the vaccines. In all, 227 individuals in the 45-59 age group got the shot in South district, followed by 211 in West, 188 in North West and 173 in East districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/13-8k-seniors-take-jab-glitches-a-spoilsport/articleshow/81319734.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Stray dogs in Khaparkheda burnt, poisoned to death||Nagpur: Strays in Khaparkheda — a town 16 kilometres from Nagpur — are being reportedly killed by burning alive and poisoning. The cruelty came to the fore when a few days back, local animal lover Daddu Ganvir learnt that a stray dog was burnt, tied with a rope and thrown in a drain. The pictures and videos of the animal soon got viral and Ganvir approached Khaparkheda police station to lodge a complaint. However, till late night, no action was taken. Seeing the posts on social media, city animal welfare officer for the state Swapnil Bodhane along with animal activists Rajesh Doshi, Milind Bagde and others rushed to Khaparkheda. “The dog was killed in a very brutal way. We met the police officials and explained them the severity of the case, along with existing rules,” said Bodhane. Following this, Khaparkheda police filed a first information report (FIR) against unidentified person under relevant sections of The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). While the police was investigating the matter, the news spread. Two days back, an unknown person released videos on social media where a man is seeing preparing balls of substance and feeding it to the strays. “It was evident that he was poisoning the dogs. When we enquired, residents in the vicinity informed that over five dogs have been found dead in last one week. A pig, which is believed to have eaten the poisoned ball, was also found dead,” Bodhane told TOI. Cops are trying to trace the man seen in the videos. As is being reported by TOI, the cases of animal cruelty have been on a rise. Few days back, a labourer killed a calf with a spade at Sadhbhavna Nagar near Manewada. “The police doesn’t have much awareness about animal cruelty and does not act urgently when such cases come up. Also, no stringent punishment is ensured,” said Bodhane. He added that in villages and rural areas, local bodies should ensure sterilization of stray dogs to control their population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stray-dogs-in-khaparkheda-burnt-poisoned-to-death/articleshow/81318436.cms||Manka Behl
March 4, 2021||Agra||Hathras killing: Main accused still on the run, liked to flaunt pictures posing with guns & netas on social media||Agra: A 29-year-old man, who allegedly shot dead the father of a woman he had been accused of molesting three years ago, remained missing on Wednesday as Hathras police announced a reward of Rs 1lakh on any information leading to his arrest. Several police teams have been formed to nab Gaurav Sharma. Gaurav’s profile on social media platforms shed some light on his interests. A BTech from SRM Institute, Ghaziabad, he has posted several photographs brandishing guns, some of them were shared widely on Facebook. While in some posts he is seen posing with local leaders, from almost all the parties-- SP, BJP and BSP. He can also be seen standing with BJP MP from Aligarh, Satish Gautam, and former BSP minister Ramveer Upadhyaya. Some tied him to SP also, but the party rebutted it on Tuesday. A SP delegation led by former cabinet minister Ramji Lal Suman met the woman’s family members on Wednesday. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has already distanced himself from Gaurav, saying he didn’t hold any party post. Meanwhile, police have arrested two more co-accused in the case. With it, three out of the four persons named in the FIR are behind the bars now. Gaurav allegedly shot dead the 50-year-old man on Monday after a brief scuffle in Naujarpur village of Hathras. It all started at a temple when families of Gaurav and that of the woman ran into each other. Later, Gaurav called some of his associates to the spot and shot the woman’s father dead. Gaurav had a long-standing enmity with the deceased and his family as he was accused of molesting the latter’s younger daughter in 2018. He was released on bail after spending a month in jail. Soon after the murder, an FIR was registered against four persons -- Gaurav Sharma, Lalit Sharma, Rahitash Sharma and Nikhil Sharma -- and two others at Sasni Kotwali police station. Two accused, Nikhil and his grandfather Rohtash Sharma, were arrested on Wednesday. Superintendent of police (SP) Hathras Vineet Jaiswal told TOI, “Rohtash and Nikhil are Guarav’s relatives while Lalit who was arrested earlier is his close friend.” The post-mortem report revealed three bullet wounds on the deceased’s body and the cause of death was shock and hemorrhage, he added. Additional director general of police (Agra zone) Rajeev Krishna said that he has also marked an inquiry to probe the allegations leveled by the woman against local policemen, who advised her to call 112 instead of helping her when she was threatened by the accused. “IG (Aligarh range) will probe the matter and submit his report soon,” he said. “National Security Act (NSA) will be invoked against the murder accused as they disrupted public order by opening fire in broad day light,” he said. According to sources, Guarav’s father Munesh Sharma works as an agriculture development officer (ADO) in Shravasti district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-killing-main-accused-still-on-the-run-liked-to-flaunt-pictures-posing-with-guns-netas-on-social-media/articleshow/81317144.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 4, 2021||Pune||Flames damage fuel tanker||Pune: A tanker loaded with 10,000 litres of petrol and 9,000 litres of diesel was gutted in a fire that broke out in the early hours of Wednesday at Kunjirwadi near Loni Kalbhor. Two more tankers parked nearby were shifted away with the help of Pune Rural police. No one sustained injuries in the fire. The Loni Kalbhor police said around 7pm on Tuesday, the tanker was filled at the petroleum company’s plant near Loni Kalbhor. “The tanker was to go to a petrol pump in Mahabaleshwar. The driver had parked it at its owner’s parking in Kunjirwadi to avoid driving in the night,” said an officer from the Loni Kalbhor police. Prima facie, it appears that the fire may have been triggered by a short circuit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flames-damage-fuel-tanker/articleshow/81318433.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Shakti Mills gang rape accused held for assault in Mumbai||Mumbai: The crime branch on Tuesday arrested two people, including an accused in the Shakti Mill gang rape case, for brutally assaulting a 28-year-old Bandra resident over a petty fight. Rizwan Shafi Qureshi who was brutally assaulted is battling for life in Sion hospital. A crime branch team led inspector Nandkumar Gopale arrested Shakti mill gang rape accused Akash Jadhav alias Gotya (25) and his friend Ankit Naik (25). Jadhav was 17 when he was arrested with four others in the gang rape case in 2013.  “He has become a habitual offender with cases of assault, extortion and other petty crimes registered against him. On February 28, he was in Bandra where he asked Rizwan for mephedrone or MD. When Rizwan said he was not a drug peddler, it led to a argument and Akash and his accomplice assualted Rizwan and fled,” said Gopale. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shakti-mills-gang-rape-accused-held-for-assault-in-mumbai/articleshow/81316491.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Pune||Pune region: Paid vaccination starts, around 55 private sites in district soon||PUNE: Care Hospital at Wagholi, Giriraj hospital (Baramati), Yogeshwari hospital (Daund) and Baramati hospital became the first few private hospitals in the district to start paid Covid vaccinations on Wednesday. Other private hospitals such as Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, the Aundh Institute of Medical Science and several others are set to join the vaccine drive from Thursday. Another set of 19 hospitals will soon be added to the region' list of vaccine sites, officials said. Leading private hospitals awaiting a nod from the Centre to carry out the drive include Sahyadri super-speciality hospital, Jehangir, Poona hospital and research centre, KEM hospital, Noble hospital, DY Patil Hospital and Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad. Dr Mahesh Kamble from Care hospital, Wagholi where the vaccination drive commenced on Wednesday, said, “On Wednesday, we vaccinated 68 beneficiaries, 60 were senior citizens. Our observation is that senior citizens are enthusiastic and positive about the vaccination which is a very good sign for us.” Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, said, “Our endeavour is to intensify the drive for this age group as the number of beneficiaries is high. It is close to six lakh. As a result, we will have to start at private hospitals at the earliest. We are conducting training sessions of staffs of private hospitals online for the last few days.” Dr V D Gaikwad, resident medical officer of the Pune Cantonment Board, said, “We have been receiving calls from senior citizens and other beneficiaries for vaccination ever since the drive commenced on Monday. The zilla parishad authorities have told us to wait for the next few days.” As for vaccination in private hospitals, Manisha Naik, a senior official from the PMC’s health department, said, “The process of software updation, creating user IDs and passwords for the vaccination is underway for the remaining hospitals. The other technical upgrades are also underway. They will be completed and these hospitals will also be able to do the vaccination within a day or two.” Rajesh Patil, commissioner of the PCMC said that few private hospitals are likely to start the paid vaccination drive from Thursday. Meanwhile, around 55 private hospitals will offer paid vaccination across Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural limits. These include 37 hospitals in Pune rural, 10 in Pimpri Chinchwad and eight in Pune civic limits. Pune zilla parishad has already verified their infrastructure such as cold-chain point to store vials of vaccine, separate entry and exit points at the vaccination room and vaccinators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/paid-vax-starts-around-55-private-sites-in-district-soon/articleshow/81318403.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 4, 2021||Vijayawada||Secret survey predicts wins for Jagan Mohan Reddy in all 12 civic bodies in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A secret survey conducted for chief minister and YSRC president YS Jagan Mohan Reddy revealed that all the 12 municipal corporations going for polls on March 10 would be won by the ruling YSRC. While victory was predicted in all corporations, YSRC would face tough fights in at least five constituencies from opposition TDP, according to the survey. The survey was made available to the chief minister on Tuesday, following which he instructed cabinet colleagues, MPs, legislators and senior party leaders to make efforts for victory. The chief minister had reportedly alerted ministers and senior leaders in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada municipal corporations, where the party is locked in a tight fight with TDP in several divisions. While the survey had given a clear edge to the ruling YSRC in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada, the party is said to be facing stiff challenges from TDP in 27 divisions in Greater Visakhapatnam and 14 divisions in Vijayawada. As per the survey, while it is placed better in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Ongole and Vizianagaram municipal corporations as compared to others, TDP’s chances of winning are few. For the aforementioned corporations, the survey predicted wins in 20 of the 98 divisions (Visakhapatnam) for TDP and win in 50 divisions for YSRC. The chief opposition party is predicted to give YSRC a tough challenge in eight divisions and win seven divisions in Ongole. Sources said that Jagan had asked senior ministers, MLAs and other leaders to identify divisions where TDP is giving YSRC a tough fight and take steps to overcome the hurdles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/secret-survey-predicts-wins-for-ysrc-in-all-12-civic-bodies/articleshow/81317757.cms||Gopi Dara
March 4, 2021||Amaravati||Obesity found to be a major factor behind nearly half of all Covid-19 cases and deaths||Amaravati: Obesity is going to be one of the biggest health concerns for the people as well as the governments in the coming days. Handling of obesity has become the most important issue for the medical professionals particularly in the context of covid-19. Situation is so alarming that more than 50 percent of the children between 0-5 age and over 40 percent of the children between 5-19 are struggling with obesity in India. According to studies carried out by the Global Obesity Forum (GOF), obesity is found to be the chief culprit behind more than 50 percent of the covid-19 positive cases including in the deaths. “Unless, we switch into action mode, we are not in a position to tackle another pandemic,” said noted bariatric surgeon Dr Raju Badipati of Ramesh Hospitals group. He explained that higher obesity percentage among the children particularly in southern India including AP and Telangana has been recorded during various studies, which is a big concern to handle.  He said that dietary habits, malnutrition, lack of physical activity are prime reasons for the situation. “First, we needed to recognize that Obesity is a disease. We can contain it only when proper awareness among the commoners is spread about the ill-effects of obesity,” said Dr Raju. He said that India is fast becoming capital for diabetes and obesity would add to the already high numbers of diabetes. He said that obesity is posing a big challenge to healthcare professionals as it is having impact on all the organs and inducing new ailments. “Obesity will first hit the immunity levels of the body which would finally result in mortality,” Dr Raju noted.  Recent studies of GOF revealed that the obesity among the children across the globe might touch a staggering 60 percent by 2030 making it very difficult to manage. The children growing up with obesity would have lower capabilities to handle physical works and also stress. It would result in several health complications leading to huge burden on the families to take the healthcare of such people. “In fact, it will also be a big burden to the healthcare system including government hospitals as obesity would cause multiple health disorders,” said noted cardiologist and managing director, Ramesh hospital group, Dr Ramesh Babu Pothineni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/obesity-found-to-be-a-major-factor-behind-nearly-half-of-all-covid-19-cases-and-deaths/articleshow/81317931.cms||Samdani MN
March 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||1 ward, 4 representatives but still lagging||Visakhapatnam: The 98th ward, numerically the last ward of the city which falls at the foothills of Simhachalam, comes with its own set of unique features. While some parts of the ward come under Bheemili assembly segment, other colonies fall under Pendurthi assembly constituency. In terms of Lok Sabha constituencies too, the ward is split between two constituencies — Visakhapatnam and Anakapalli. The ward, as a result of these constituency splits, is represented by two members of Parilament (MP) and two members of legislative assembly (MLA). During its visit to the area on Wednesday, TOI observed aggressive campaigning for upcoming municipal elections on March 10. Even after a decade, locals here are still awaiting the completion of the bus rapid transit system (BRTS) project. Despite the completion of 95% of the project, the long-pending dispute over land rights for a stretch of nearly two kilometres, between Patha Adavivaram to Gosala, has seen inordinate delay of work on this phase. This narrow stretch is the cause for traffic congestion and slow vehicular movement during peak hours. The land under dispute, belonging to the Simhachalam Devasthanam, pertaining to five villages has become a major hindrance for development projects in the area. Locals have not been either allowed to construct new houses in these lands or go for repairs. Simdi Sankar a local of Adavivaram, said the long-running land dispute has pushed development towards Pendurthi, Sujatha Nagar and other areas. “If the land issue had been resolved by now, Simhachalam and Sontyam would have witnessed unprecedented development and transformation,” he says. Mutta Tatababu, a resident of Balaji Nagar, said that the underground drainage system is limited to only a few parts of the ward. “The floating population of the area, due to the presence of Simhachalam Devasthanam, is increasing with each passing year. Commercial activity has increased manifold in the last one decade. The BRTS project has further enhanced visibility,” said Tatababu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/1-ward-4-representatives-but-still-lagging/articleshow/81317581.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Stakes high for 1st GVMC polls following merger of Bheemili & Anakapalli||Visakhapatnam: The stakes are high for all parties in the upcoming GVMC polls as this is the first time the corporation is going for elections, to be held on March 10, following the merger of Anakapalli and Bheemili municipalities into Greater Visakha. While the ruling YSRC is banking on its several welfare schemes to swing the votes its way, opposition TDP is also pinning its hopes on the urban middle class. ‘YSRC national general secretary V Vijayasai Reddy has been campaigning hard for his party’s candidates for the past 10 days and has already covered most parts of the city. “We will give the Vizag mayor’s post as a gift to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. We will win the elections with a solid majority,” the YSRC Rajya Sabha member said. The TDP, which won four out of seven assembly segments in the city in the 2019 elections, is counting on the urban middle class voters. “People will vote for the TDP this time too because our party has done many good things for the urban voters. People still remember the TDP government’s excellent services in the aftermath of cyclone Hudhud,” AP TDP president K Acchannaidu said. After Visakhapatnam became Greater Visakha in 2005, the first elections were held in 2007 in which TDP won 32 seats out of 72 wards, while the then ruling Congress under YS Rajasekhar Reddy’ leadership got 27 seats. Independents won 10 seats, CPM won two seats and CPI won one seat. With support of independents and ex-officio members, Congress formed the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stakes-high-for-1st-gvmc-polls-following-merger-of-bheemili-anakapalli/articleshow/81317968.cms||Siva G
March 4, 2021||Pune||RTO to move appointments to Alandi Road to control crowd||Pune: The Pune regional transport office (RTO) has decided to shift half of the learner’s licence appointments to the Alandi Road office to reduce crowding.Speaking with TOI, deputy RTO Sanjiv Bhor said 750 aspirants appear for the learner’s licence exam at the RTO near Sangam bridge. “Before the lockdown, the tests would also be conducted at the Alandi Road facility. However, operations at the facility did not resume once the lockdown was relaxed. With 750 appointments being given each day, all aspirants had been coming to the main RTO office so crowd control and maintaining social distance has become an extremely challenging affair,” he said. Bhor added that despite their best effort, limited space at the office made it difficult to manage operations.“Considering the recent rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, it is extremely important that social distancing is maintained. Hence, it has been decided to cut down on the number of people coming to the main RTO to 350,” he said. The remaining 400 people will have to appear for the test at the Alandi Road facility. “We have been thinking about how 400 aspirants can be managed and re-starting tests at the Alandi Road facility is the best option. The new arrangement should start by the end of this week,” Bhor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-to-move-appointments-to-alandi-road-to-control-crowd/articleshow/81318443.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 4, 2021||Vadodara||Fleeing couple from Udipi held from train at Vadodara rly station||Vadodara: When the Ernakulam Nizamuddin Express waited for a few more minutes than its halting time at Vadodara railway station on Tuesday evening, the passengers were surprised. Soon, a team of railway protection force (RPF) rushed from one coach to another that made the passengers curiouser. Within 15 minutes, the RFP detained a woman and man travelling in S6 coach and asked them to deboard the train. “A missing person complaint was registered in Udupi district in Karnataka for the woman who is married. Her husband Ajith Poojari had filed a complaint as she went missing from her home,” said Dharmendra Guriyani, assistant security commissioner, RPF, Vadodara.“We were informed that she had boarded the Ernakulam-Nizamuddin Super Fast Express that has very few stops. When the train stopped at Vadodara railway station, we checked every coach and finally found the woman with her paramour Gaffar Hasrat Ali Chaudhary. We had requested the authorities to extend the halt of the train by a few more minutes to conduct the search operation,” Guriyani told TOI. Guriyani added that the woman wasn’t happy in her marriage and was fleeing to UP with Chaudhary.“The duo has been handed over to the Udupi police that came to the city on Wednesday,” Guriyani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fleeing-couple-from-udipi-held-from-train-at-vadodara-rly-station/articleshow/81316619.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Vijayawada||2 corps and 10 towns already in YSRC bag||Amaravati: YSRC has bagged two municipal corporations and 10 municipal towns without contest as single candidates remained in the fray across all divisions in these towns. Chittoor and Tirupati municipal corporation cities along with three municipal towns in Kadapa district turned unanimous by the deadline for withdrawal of nominations on Wednesday. From Guntur, Chittoor and Kurnool districts, two municipalites each and one from Nellore district have also been bagged by the ruling party. In CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s hometown of Pulivendula, all 33 wards became unanimous a day before deadline for nomination withdrawals. With no one coming forward to file papers even after the state  commission granting special permission, home of panchayat raj minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Punganur municipality also became unanimous. All 31 wards in Punganur saw single nominations, all of them from YSRC candidates. The situation was similar in Palamanair of Chittoor district and Rayachoti under Kadapa district. YSRC bagged 30 of the 50 divisions under Chittoor Municipal Corporation uncontested, thus ensuring the ruling party will also get the mayor’s post irrespective of results in the other 20 divisions which will go to polls. Under Tirupati Muncipal Corporation, YSRC won 19 of the 50 divisions without contest. Pidurugalla municipality in Guntur district become unanimous with all 33 wards having single nominations. As many as 16 wards of the total 35 wards in Madanapalle town turned unanimous which is expected to pave the way for YSRC to bag the municipal town too without much effort. Dhone, Atmakur municipal towns in Kurnool district have also become unanimous. YSRC candidates bagged 22 of the 32 wards in Dhone, represented by finance minister Buggana Rajendranath, while ruling party candidates won 15 of the 24 wards in Atmakur municipality. YSRC also won Sullurpet municipality in Nellore without contest as the party won 13 of 25 wards unanimously..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-corps-and-10-towns-already-in-ysrc-bag/articleshow/81317859.cms||Samdani MN
March 4, 2021||Surat||Seven schoolchildren test positive in Surat||Surat: Seven schoolchildren tested positive for coronavirus infection in Surat city during a special drive carried out in various civic zones by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Wednesday. The civic body has directed schools to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines and reopening protocols to ensure that the virus does not spread. “In order to halt the spread of Covid-19 in schools, we carried out a special testing drive in the different civic zones. During the testing in Varachha (B) zone's Kaushal Vidhyalay, five students of Class VII were found infected. In Limbayat zone, 533 students and teachers from 13 schools and colleges were tested of which two students tested positive,” said an SMC official. “We have asked the respective schools to be vigilant and isolate all those who came into contact with Covid-19 positive students,” the official added. Surat city has witnessed a surge in Covid cases over the past few days. On Wednesday, 87 new Covid-19 cases were reported, highest being 30 in Athwa zone followed by 18 in Rander zone. The total number of cases has now reached 40,902 since the pandemic struck March last year. The vaccination against Covid-19 has also been going on full swing in the city. Till now, a total of 85,942 people have been vaccinated which include 31,249 healthcare workers and 23,668 frontline workers. SMC has already started a second dose of vaccination, also called 'booster' dose, to those vaccinated earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-schoolchildren-test-positive-in-surat/articleshow/81317087.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nashik||Nashik admin to keep eye on vaccine drive in hospitals||Nashik: District administration will keep a strict vigil over the vaccination programme for people above the age of 45 years with commodities and all above the age of 60 years, which will be done in both private and government hospitals.“The inoculation drive through private hospitals will be started in a couple of days. Only those fitting the criteria must be given the vaccines. Hence the district administration along with the Nashik Municipal Corporation’s commissioner and the Nashik ZP's CEO will keep a strict vigil over the provision of the vaccines sent to private hospitals and also administering the same,” said collector Suraj Mandhare. The citizens have to produce the documents to support their claims of age and comorbidity. A certificate by a registered medical practitioner has to be submitted to prove the claim of comorbidity. The administration will ask the officials to ensure the certificates presented are genuineThe collector also said overcharging of the vaccine would cost the hospitals participating in the exercise. “Whether the hospitals registering themselves for inoculation are overcharging will also be verified from time to time,” Mandhare said. A meeting of the district task force (DTF) will be conducted soon in which mechanism would also be evolved to monitor all these issues.“In the past, there have been some instances about injection being sold clandestinely and we do not want the same to happen with vaccines,” the collector said. There are about eleven private hospitals in the city limits of NMC and two private hospitals in the rural areas – who are ready to start the inoculation process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-admin-to-keep-eye-on-vaccine-drive-in-hospitals/articleshow/81316245.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Govt promises jobs for 2 lakh youths over 5 yrs||GANDHINAGAR: With job markets coming under tremendous stress following Covid-19 induced slowdown, the state budget 2021-22 sought to soothe the nerves of job-seekers by promising recruitments. “In the next 5 years, new recruitment of 2 lakh eligible youth will be made in government, board-corporations and local self-government offices,” Nitin Patel said in the budget speech. Stating that investment in industrial service sectors is increasing substantially in the state due to government’s various incentive policies, Patel added that a platform has been created through Rojgar Mela to secure jobs for youth in private sector. “In the next 5 years, 20 lakh employment opportunities will be created in different sectors like manufacturing, pharmaceutical, energy, engineering and infrastructure among others,” Patel added. The state budget also made a provision of Rs 53 crore for the recruitment of 1 lakh apprentice under Mukhyamantri Apprentice Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-promises-jobs-for-2l-youths-over-5-yrs/articleshow/81318445.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Pune||Public response surges, over 2,500 senior citizens get jabs in region||Pune: Day 3 (Wednesday) of the Covid vaccination drive for citizens saw numbers of senior citizens and those above 45 with underlying conditions climb across the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). This is despite the heat, long lines and CoWIN niggles at certain sites. The 27 vaccination sites in Pune city limits had 1,378 senior citizens and 148 citizens above the age of 45 turning up. At Pimpri Chinchwad sites, there were 1,063 senior citizens. And in Pune rural, 840 elderly and 44 with underlying conditions turned up on Wednesday. Officials said crowding at some sites — largely because of the simultaneous vaccinations of healthcare workers, frontline staff and citizens — will ease once more vaccination centres open up across the region. At the Bindumadhav Thackeray clinic in Karvenagar, the crush overwhelmed both staff and beneficiaries. Yashomati Gurav, 71, who arrived at the site at 9.30am waited until 12pm for her turn. “There is not enough staff here. The PMC should increase the number of personnel,” she said. At Sutar hospital, there was no immediate access to a wheelchair for senior citizens. Senior citizens in the queue also requested the hospital’s administrators to move their vaccination site to the ground floor, for better convenience. But the vaccine experience for many has started to improve. Kothrud resident Dr Jayant Wable (73), who came with his wife Vijaya to Sutar hospital, said, “On Tuesday, we had to go back without getting our jabs, because of the crowd. But it was much smoother on Wednesday. We came in at 12pm and got our shots at 2.30pm. The staff were very helpful,” he said. At Kamala Nehru hospital, Vijay Matnani, who arrived with his 77-year-old mother, Jyoti, from Wakad, said, “My mother has trouble walking. But the staff here immediately provided us a wheelchair. She received her jab within 15 minutes.” Rajesh Patil, commissioner of the PCMC, said the CoWIN system too has started to stabilised. “The vaccination process is becoming smoother. Once the private hospitals join in, we expect improved amenities and response from the public,” he said. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director (health), Pune circle, said, “The response of beneficiaries despite shortcomings from our side has been really admiring. We will improve the system. The private hospitals in the region — empanelled and non-empanelled — will start administering the vaccine within a day or two, which will also result in a better experience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/public-response-surges-over-2500-senior-citizens-get-jabs-in-region/articleshow/81318457.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 4, 2021||Vijayawada||Polls for vacant panchayat seats notified by SEC||Vijayawada: The state  commission (SEC) has issued notification for elections to panchayats where polling did not take place in the recently-concluded elections. In its statement issued on Wednesday, the SEC stated that few panchayats did not go for elections in the general round held in February due to legal issues. In some panchayats, no nominations were filed and as such the seats remained vacant. The nomination process for this round will be completed by March 6 and last date for withdrawal of nominations is March 10. Polling will be conducted on March 15 followed by counting. The panchayat raj department has asked officials to prepare the list of panchayats eligible to go for polls as per the election commission’s fresh notification. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has instructed district collectors to follow court orders before issuing notifications for specific panchayats and wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/polls-for-vacant-panchayat-seats-notified-by-sec/articleshow/81317888.cms||Venu Lanka
March 4, 2021||Pune||Health experts demand free inoculation at pvt hospitals||Pune: Public health experts have questioned the Union government’s move to cap the Covid vaccine cost at Rs250 at private hospitals and demanded that the vaccines be provided for free, considering the gravity of the situation. Country’s foremost vaccine expert and professor of microbiology at the Christian Medical College in Vellore, Dr Gagandeep Kang, told TOI that as far as she was aware, India was the first country to charge for the vaccination at private hospitals. “Since the vaccines are not yet licensed, but approved for restricted use, I am not sure about the basis of the government’s move,” she said. Kang said in other countries, where the vaccines have been given emergency use authorisation, the governments were providing them free of cost even at private facilities. “One way to thing about this is that the government is not charging for the vaccine but for services of purchasing it and providing it to private facility,” she reasoned.K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, said cost of the vaccine must be borne by the government. “Even if private hospitals are administering it, the overhead charges may be levied by the private facilities to the patients opting for the vaccine but the supply should be the responsibility of the government. “Vaccination in an epidemic is a public good and must be financed from government revenues,” he said. Reddy said the central and state governments should work out their shares of the vaccine cost, but the principal should be applied across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-experts-demand-free-inoculation-at-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/81318500.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 4, 2021||Pune||86 builders in state get approval for in-office registration process||Pune: The IGR, Maharashtra, has allowed 86 developers across the state to register new projects from the latter’s facilities to ensure less footfall in the registration offices.The builders would be provided with access to the software of the registration department to enable the process. An official in the registration department said the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing restrictions on travel have prompted the move to revive the real estate market. “We plan to scale up the registration by the builders at their facilities to reduce the footfall in our offices, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic. We have 86 developers on board and want more builders to register this year,” state inspector general of registration and stamps (IGR) Sharvan Hardikar told TOI on Wednesday. Confederation of Real Estate and Developers Association of India (Credai) national president Satish Magar, who was among the first to get access to the registration process for his project in Pune, said it was carried out smoothly without any middlemen and both the developers and the clients were assured of good service.Pune Credai president Suhas Merchant said such online registrations was the way to look forward for the realty market keeping the ongoing situation in mind. “We are happy to see more builders coming under the ambit of the new process,” he said. The registration department official said the process was earlier tried with a few developers. A different software was then used with some pre-conditions like 500 flats to register and a dedicated BSNL line. “Now with the easing of conditions, more developers can be covered,” he said.The official said the entire process would be monitored by their office and there would be extra checks on the builders who would be provided with the software.In the meantime, the government is yet to issue any announcement on the Ready Reckoner rate. The developers have been urging the government not to tincrease the RR rate this time. The RR rates are usually announced in April. The last time the government announced the rate was in September 2020. An official in the registration department told TOI that they were carrying out the process of assessing area-wise rates and would be following the usual process. The official said the rates would be ready by March-end, but the government would take the final call on the announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/86-builders-in-state-get-approval-for-in-office-registration-process/articleshow/81318503.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||811 metric ton biomedical waste generated in U’khand during Covid phase||Gairsain: Pritam Singh Panwar, independent MLA from Dhanaulti, on Wednesday raised a question on the disposal of bio-medical waste, including masks and gloves, during the ongoing assembly session. In response, environment and solid water management minister Harak Singh Rawat said that the biomedical waste is being disposed of as per the guidelines issued by the Centre on March 16, 2020. He told the House that during the Covid-19 phase – from March 2020 to February 15, 2021 – a total of 811 metric ton of biomedical waste was generated at the various hospitals, Covid-19 care centres, and quarantine centres in the state. Out of the total, 657 metric tonnes of waste was treated, 90 metric tonnes of waste was disposed of at Dr Susheela Tiwari Hospital, and the remaining 64 metric tonnes of waste was buried deep. Rawat told the House that the Central pollution control board has set up guidelines for treatment of the waste generated by the patients of Covid-19. According to the set norms, the masks and gloves from the quarantine centres should be kept for 72 hours in a paper bag before being disposed of. “A time of 72 hours has been defined to ensure that no one comes in contact with the virus. Thereafter, it is taken to the concerned disposal centre,” said the minister. “All guidelines regarding the disposal of biomedical waste are being followed. There are two collective biomedical waste treatment centres in Uttarakhand and they have a 100 kilogram waste treatment capacity per hour. The two centres are located at Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar,” added the minister. While answering a question on the precautions being taken by authorities, he said that all district magistrates, health department officials, and the staff have been directed to comply with all the guidelines for the disposal of Covid-19 waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/811-metric-ton-biomedical-waste-generated-in-ukhand-during-covid-phase/articleshow/81317216.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 4, 2021||Pune||Karad man held with fake police identity card||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A 33-year-old man from Karad in Satara district was arrested on Tuesday evening on the charge of posing as an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) attached to the Mumbai police. The police have recovered a fake identity card from him. The police investigation revealed that the accused Pravin Suryawanshi was using the fake identity card to avoid paying toll. “Suryavanshi runs a shoe factory in Karad. He claimed that he had been using the fake card for the past six months,” said inspector Ajay Bhosale of the Chikhali police station. On Tuesday evening, a team of Pimpri Chinchwad traffic police was taking action against drivers not wearing masks at Jadhav Sarkar Chowk in Kudalwadi. “Constable Sunil Gaikwad noticed two men in a car not wearing masks. When Gaikwad stopped them, one of the men told him that he was an ACP attached to the Mumbai police so Gaikwad told him to show his identity card,” the officer said. He said that Gaikwad became suspicious after noticing the identity card. The national emblem and the star were seen on his uniform but ACPs in the state only have three stars, not the emblem. “The man was taken to the Kudalwadi police chowky for questioning. He admitted that he had been using a fake identity card,” the officer said. Suryawanshi was held under Sections 468, 471, 420, 170 and 171 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/karad-man-held-with-fake-police-identity-card/articleshow/81318486.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Simian menace: U’khand to set up monkey cages at 5 key locations in ongoing fiscal||Gairsain: To tackle the issue of simian menace, especially in the hills where it leads to crop damage, the Uttarakhand government on Wednesday announced to set up monkey cages at five locations – Kedarnath, Almora, Chidiyapur, Ranibagh and Pithoragarh. The monkey cages would be completed in the ongoing financial year and the government intends to keep 40,000 monkeys at these locations. Chandan Ram Das, BJP MLA from Bageshwar, drew the attention of the House towards the issue through his question. He pointed out that chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and forest minister Harak Singh Rawat had earlier made assurance to set up monkey cages “but the project is yet to start”. In his reply, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat pointed out that from 2015 to 2020, the state government caught 38,115 monkeys. “These monkeys were brought to the rescue centres at Chidiyapur and Ranibagh. However, we cannot keep them forever. Therefore, after sterlisation these monkeys were set free in the jungle areas,” said the minister. Rawat claimed that, according to rough estimates, there are around 1.5 lakh monkeys in the Himalayan state. “We are well aware of the challenges and the problems faced by people, especially in the hills. Therefore, priority will be given to the making of these monkey cages,” added the minister. Ram Singh Keda, Independent MLA from Bhimtaal, claimed that the forest department staff of Uttar Pradesh were releasing monkeys caught in the neighbouring state in areas under his assembly constituency. “These monkeys were creating issues in the Bhimtal area as they were entering the houses and attacking people, especially the children,” said the MLA. In response, Harak Singh Rawat said that not only forest department teams but also the teams of police and district authorities deployed at the border of the two states have been directed to take stern action against any person “trying to release monkeys caught in neighbouring states in any part of Uttarakhand”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/simian-menace-ukhand-to-set-up-monkey-cages-at-5-key-locations-in-ongoing-fiscal/articleshow/81317242.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 4, 2021||Nashik||All CCCs in Ahmednagar set to reopen||Nashik: Citing a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, Ahmednagar district collector Dr Rajendra Bhosale has sought the reactivation of all Covid care centres (CCCs) in the district to ensure better patient health management. Bhosale said that in view of the increasing number of cases, both the administration as well as citizens need to take measures to contain the spread of the virus. He has asked all the tehsildars to reactivate the CCCs in their talukas.“All the tehsildars should ensure that the CCCs in their areas are reactivated within two days. All measures have to be in place to provide the necessary health services to people who test positive for the infection,” Bhosle said. The number of active cases in the district jumped from 879 on February 18 to 1,016 on March 2. The administration has taken serious note of the steep rise in the number of Covid-19 patients and is unwilling to take any chances. The collector also called for intensifying the RT-PCR testing of suspects in the high-risk category.“It is important that the confirmatory tests of people who have come in contact with those who have tested positive for the contagion be carried out. In this manner, the diagnosis is carried out at the earliest and the chain of the virus’ spread can be broken,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/all-cccs-in-ahmednagar-set-to-reopen/articleshow/81316248.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mega mobility gets `2k cr momentum||Ahmedabad: The state government made an allocation of Rs 2,068 crore for the bullet and Metro train projects for Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar, and Surat. The allocation also included Rs 1,500 crore for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train, for which contract has been awarded and work has also begun. This is probably the highest allocation in a single year for both bullet and metro train. Both projects are being funded by the central and state governments, and the budget allocation pertained to the state’s share. Apart from these, the state government has also announced Metro Lite and Metro Neo projects for Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar. Metro for tier II cities The Union government had announced that the Metro Lite and Metro Neo technologies will be deployed to provide metro rail systems in tier-2 cities and peripheral areas of tier-1 cities, at much lesser costs with the same experience, convenience and safety. The state government, in line with the Centre’s strategy, has announced the projects for Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar cities. The Metro-Neo has already been adopted in Nasik in Maharashtra. The project will be on PPP model and funded by the Centre. State government officials said that allocation of Rs 50 crore will be for the feasibility study needed for project sanction. Allocation for Metro for Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar and Surat: With the Metro phase-I connecting Vastral to Thaltej and APMC to Motera in Ahmedabad likely to be completed before the 2022 elections, the state government has now taken up the Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar connectivity. The Gandhinagar Metro will relate to the phase-I from Motera station. State government officials said an allocation of Rs 568 crore also included funds for work Surat Metro, besides Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. Work on both the stretches have already began and hence the allocation for the year 2021-2022 was made to speed up the work. The phase-II of Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar metro will be completed by 2024. Bullet train: The National High-Speed Rail Corporation has already issued contract for the 325km stretch of the 508km long Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project. The work for construction of the pillars has begun and the work for ground preparation for the Sabarmati depot is scheduled to begin this year. The budget stated that “the international level project of Ahmedabad-Mumbai Bullet Train is in full swing.” The government has made provision of Rs 1,500 cr for share capital of state for this project of High-speed Corridor. The project is jointly funded by the state governments of Gujarat and Maharashtra at 25% each, and the remaining 50% expenses borne. Allocation in numbers: · Rs 568 crore for Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Surat Metro · Rs 1,500 crore for Ahmedabad-Mumbai Bullet train · Rs 50 crore for Metro Neo and Metro Lite for Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar · Rs 3 cr for developing heliport in the state||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mega-mobility-gets-2k-cr-momentum/articleshow/81318509.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Housing scheme for labourers to be launched on PPP basis||Gandhinagar: Waking up to the need of housing for labourers, the state government on Wednesday announced that a scheme will be launched for providing housing to labourers near their factories. The announcement comes after an unprecedented migration of labourers to their home states soon after the lockdown was announced last year. Migration of workers had crippled production at industrial units in the state.“In order to ensure that the labourers get their dwellings nearby the factories where they work, our government is going to launch Mukhyamantri Audyogik Shramyogi Ane Industrial Housing Aawas (MASIHA) scheme,” Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister who also holds the finance portfolio, said while presenting the state budget for 2021-22.Under the scheme, housing for labours will be constructed at concessional rate on the public-private partnership (PPP) basis. The state budget made a total provision of Rs 1,502 crore for the labour and employment department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/housing-scheme-for-labourers-to-be-launched-on-ppp-basis/articleshow/81318499.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Two killed in Bhilwara mishap||Drivers of two trucks were killed in a head-on collision at Sawaipur intersection on Bhilwara-Kota highway in Bhilwara in the early hours of Wednesday. While two helpers with one each in the trucks are critical. The collision was so severe that the front part of the trucks was completely crushed, leaving the drivers trapped for an hour. A crane was called in to remove bodies from trucks while the injured were sent to a hospital in Bhilwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-killed-in-bhilwara-mishap/articleshow/81318491.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Raining chaos in scorching sun at GMCH’s vax centre||TOI’s Sudhanshu Bisen Gives A First-hand Account Of The Mess Up. No Separate Queue For Those Registered With Co-Win App And The Walk-in Ones Left Everyone FumingNot that she wasn’t willing, but the sudden spurt, coupled with some senior citizens testing positive in my apartment, pushed my mother, Sumati Bisen, to take the jab at the earliest. Like most people of her age, she isn’t tech-savvy enough to quickly fill in the OTPs in the Co-Win link. I got her appointment scheduled at ward number 49 of the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) for ‘forenoon’ on Wednesday.We reached the spot at 9.05am and saw around 30 people standing in a queue. While most of them were walk-in ones, there were a few who had an appointment fixed. Some polite enquiries later, we were told that there isn’t a separate queue for those who have registered via Co-Win. There wasn’t any doctor at the gate to respond to queries. Only a couple of men in khaki, almost like a broken record, kept saying that there is one common queue for all. The hotchpotch arrangement defeated the entire purpose of the Co-Win app and the registration process.My mother was made to stand outside in a queue for a good one hour, after which tokens were distributed. She had token number 68. Those with the first 50 tokens were asked to sit inside while my mother was allowed in 40 minutes later, at around 10.45am. Thank god for the makeshift mandap erected outside the ward, she was better placed as compared to those at the end of the queue. Once inside, she was asked if she has had any breakfast, which they said, is mandatory before vaccination. She answered in the affirmative after which she was given a form to fill in Marathi. She filled it herself but those who aren’t well-versed with the language were allowed to go out and get the form filled by someone else.An hour inside the waiting room wasn’t of any inconvenience as there were chairs and even beds for senior citizens.Chaos ensued when those standing in the queue, some even in the blazing sun outside the mandap, were told at around 11.30 that no more tokens would be distributed for the day. Even those who had a fixed appointment were told to come the next day. Though some went back disappointed, those with appointments lost their cool. It was only when the vaccinators stepped in that the confusion ended. It was announced that only those who have ‘forenoon’ and ‘afternoon’ appointments will be allowed. By that time, some with appointments had returned home.“There is Site ‘A’ and Site ‘B’ in the same ward. The authorities could easily have made two queues for walk-ins and registered persons. It’s common sense,” said Rahul Ruthe, whose father, 72, had to stand in a queue for an hour before getting vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raining-chaos-in-scorching-sun-at-gmchs-vax-centre/articleshow/81317232.cms||Sudhanshu Bisen
March 4, 2021||Pune||Activists slam plan to slash fines for helmet & seat belt offences||Pune: Road safety activists have slammed a proposal by the state transport department to impose reduced fines for traffic violations in the city and a higher penalty for the same offences on the highways.According to the suggestions put forward by the transport department, small fines could be slapped for driving a two-wheeler without helmet and for not wearing seat belt while driving a four-wheeler in city areas, whereas hefty penalties were necessary for the same offences on highways.As of now, the fine for these two offences is Rs200 each, while under the amended MV Act passed by the central government, the fine for the same is Rs1,000 each. The Motor Vehicle (amendment) Bill, 2019, was passed by the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha in July 2019.However, Maharashtra has so far not implemented the the amended Motor Vehicle (MV) Act, 2019. State transport minister Anil Parab and his predecessor Diwakar Raote have been against imposition of heavy penalties and have told TOI earlier that they have urged Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari to consider lowering the penalties. Also, road transport falls in the concurrent list of the Constitution and the states have powers to make their own rules while implementing a central enactment.Parab told TOI recently, “We have sent a proposal to the chief minister (CM)’s office for reduced fines for these two offences in the city areas. We feel the fines for helmet and seat belt rules under the amended MV Act cannot be the same for short distance driving in cities and long-distance driving on highways. This will lead to conflict and anger among people. A final decision on our proposal is awaited.”Asked when the amended MV Act will come into force in the state, Parab said, “We have been discussing implementation for some time now, and it would be done soon.” With traffic offences like wrong-side driving, driving without helmets, signal jumping etc rampant in Pune, transport experts and activists slammed the attitude of the state government.Harshad Abhyankar, director, Save Pune Traffic Movement, called it a populist move. “Fines are meant to be deterrent and they are not at all supposed to please people. Why do we forget that if people don’t like fines, they will have the option and obligation to follow the rules and regulations?” he said.Recently, road safety month was celebrated in Maharashtra. Different agencies, including the police and the RTOs, had organised several programmes related to road safety and following traffic regulations.Ranjit Gadgil, programme director, Parisar, said that the compliance levels should be high when it comes to offences.He said, “This can be achieved through a combination of appropriate deterrent fines levels, but equally by constant, comprehensive and on-road enforcement. As long as the government is firm that the law will be enforced, we feel fine levels are secondary. For helmets, the enforcement has to be for both rider and the one riding pillion. All passengers travelling in a car should wear seatbelts. We expect that the government will fully back enforcement agencies, who must be allowed to enforce laws without fear of backlash from political leaders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-slam-plan-to-slash-fines-for-helmet-seat-belt-offences/articleshow/81318459.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 4, 2021||Pune||61% of police personnel in PMR get first shot||Pune: A total of 9,055 out of 14,843 (61%) officers and personnel from the Pune Metropolitan Region, which includes Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural police units, have received the first Covid-19 shot, so far. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said, “The drive is going smoothly. Out of our total strength of 9,000 police officers and personnel, 5,000 have received the first shot of the vaccine.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) started the inoculation drive for the Pune police and other police units from February 11. The 9,000 Pune city police personnel also include those posted with special units such as the Anti-Corruption Bureau, Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, training units and others. Shisve said, “No one has reported any side effects of the vaccine, so far.”As many as 1,350 Pune police personnel have been infected with Covid-19 and 10 personnel have succumbed, so far. Policeman Rajaram Ghogare said, “I am happy to receive the vaccine shot. Barring pain in the arm muscle, there was no side effect.” Pimpri Chinchwad’s deputy commissioner of police Sudhir Hiremath said, “A total of 2,234 members of our force, including 176 police officers, have received the first shot of the vaccine.” The Covid-19 vaccination for Pimpri Chinchwad police began at the PCMC Premlok Park dispensary in Chinchwad on February 9. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash took the first shot of the vaccine. Later, the additional commissioner Ramnath Pokale and other officers too were given the vaccine. Pimpri Chinchwad’s total police force has 3,212 personnel. A total of 570 Covid-positive cases and three deaths have been reported from the Pimpri Chinchwad police force, so far. At present, 14 personnel are positive. In Pune rural police, 1,821 personnel including 142 officers have been vaccinated, so far. “The vaccination process is still on,” senior inspector Ashok Shelke said. Pune rural police has a total of 2,631 personnel. At present, seven personnel are undergoing treatment, while seven deaths have been reported, so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/61-of-police-personnel-in-pmr-get-first-shot/articleshow/81318478.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||240 new cases, three deaths; positivity rate now at 0.35%||New Delhi: Delhi recorded three fatalities due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, even as 240 new cases pushed the city’s infection tally to 6,39,921. The positivity rate was 0.35%, the health department said. Wednesday’s cases were detected from 68,831 tests conducted on Monday, according to the data shared by the department. This included 44,886 RT-PCR and 23,945 Rapid Antigen Tests. Meanwhile, 196 more people have recovered from the disease in the national capital, officials said. The number of people under home isolation rose to 826 on Wednesday, from 777 on Tuesday, officials said, adding over 6.27 lakh people have recovered. There are a total of 5,711 beds designated for Covid-19 patients in the national capital. Of them, 513 are occupied and 5,198 are vacant, data shows. Doctors stress on the need to continue wearing masks and sanitising hands regularly to reduce disease spread. The emergence of Covid-19 caused by newer strains of the virus is a major concern, doctors say, adding that Delhi needs to be on high alert to detect new clusters of Covid-19 and to carry out tests to rule out any such possibility. The emergence of newer strains of virus isn’t uncommon, the experts say, adding that it is however important to map such instances to detect significant changes that may affect the transmissibility or virulence of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/240-new-cases-three-deaths-positivity-rate-now-at-0-35/articleshow/81319829.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BSF jawan killed, four injured in practice firing||JAISALMER: A BSF jawan was killed and four were injured during firing practice at the Pokhran firing range in Jaisalmer district late on Tuesday night. Sources said a “premature blast” in the muzzle of a 105mm gun resulted in splinter injuries to 4 BSF personnel, while killing one. Satish Kumar’s body was sent to his native place in Agra after a wreath-laying ceremony with complete military honours on Wednesday. He is survived with his wife and daughter. The BSF has ordered an inquiry into the accident. The injured include head constable Mahesh Chandra and soldier Abid Ali. They were referred to MDM Hospital Jodhpur after first aid and their condition is said to be stable. The other 2 BSF jawans with minor injuries were admitted to Pokhran Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-jawan-killed-four-injured-in-practice-firing/articleshow/81318514.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra official wants parking space for horse at collectorate||AURANGABAD: A senior accountant working with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme in Nanded district sent a letter to the district collector seeking permission to tie horse on the premises of the collector’s office. Satish Deshmukh, the revenue staffer, in his application stated that he was suffering from back pain and spondylosis and coming to the office on a two-wheeler was adding to the existing pain. In his application, Deshmukh wrote: “I have decided to purchase a horse. Riding the horse, I will reach the office on time. May I please be granted permission to tie the horse on the office premises.” Though later Deshmukh withdrew his application, his letter sparked off a social media storm of funny memes, posts, captions etc. Soon after the letter was given to the inward section of the Nanded district collector’s office, it had gone viral. Some netizens believed that since Deshmukh was a government employee, he could not openly protest against the government for the rising fuel prices and, therefore, he might have decided to purchase a horse. When contacted, district collector Dr Vipin Itankar confirmed that he had indeed received such a letter. “Being an MBBS graduate myself, I will never recommend a person with back pain or spondylosis to opt for horse riding as the galloping will only aggravate his condition.” Itankar said though there is no illegality in the application, he was still curious to know what exactly prompted Deshmukh to write such an application. He said that Deshmukh had eventually withdrawn the application. Revenue staffers said Deshmukh was a punctual employee and has a good track record. Deshmukh himself could not be reached for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citing-spondylosis-accountant-wants-to-go-to-office-on-horse/articleshow/81318507.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Drones and slum surveys to help control railway crimes in Mumbai||Mumbai: With eyes in the sky and boots on the ground, security agencies on Mumbai railways are set to tackle crimes, particularly instances of ‘fatka’ theft, which have been on the rise. Four ‘fatka’ cases were reported on the Harbour line within a week last month and none have been solved. While the Railway Protection Force (RPF) will start using drones later this week for aerial survey and mapping, the Government Railway Police (GRP) plan to kick off a door-to-door survey in slum colonies located adjacent to tracks. “Harbour line is dotted with slum colonies, which makes it more vulnerable. Offenders live in these colonies or could take cover after committing a crime,” said a police officer. On February 15, a commuter, Sanjay Maurya, was whacked with a stick by a thief who had clambered up a railway pole near Tilak Nagar station around 7.40pm. Maurya dropped his phone on the tracks. Five minutes later, another commuter, Dinesh Aldar, was similarly robbed of his phone at this location. Then, on February 20, a female commuter, Pragati Sarfare, was struck with a stick just before Sewri station and her phone was looted. Half an hour earlier, a student, Sahil Pawar, had been robbed at the same location by a ‘fatka’ thief. “Policemen will go door-to-door in slum colonies located adjacent to tracks for a survey,” said Quaiser Khalid, GRP commissioner. Individuals will be quizzed on their education, occupation, if they have prior criminal records and what are individuals recently released from prison up to. Police believe that the exercise may also have a deterrent effect on criminal elements, who will know they are under surveillance. “We have also begun externment proceedings against repeat offenders — sending them outside city limits for at least a year,” said Khalid. Later this week, a drone will be seen hovering over Central Railway tracks for real-time monitoring of locations having a high crime rate. “We have purchased one unmanned aerial vehicle for about Rs 3.5 lakh last month and will procure another one soon,” said senior divisional security commissioner, RPF (CR), Jitendra Shrivastava. Besides keeping an eye on ‘fatka’ locations, the drones would map locations where deaths from track crossing are frequently reported. “An area up to 2 km can be mapped live and a video can be recorded for analysis in future. Based on the findings, we can plan better on protective measures such as fencing. We have applied to the police commissioner’s office for permission for flying,” said Shrivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drones-and-slum-surveys-to-help-control-railway-crimes-in-mumbai/articleshow/81320846.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||BRO aiming to complete new bridge near flash-flood hit Raini village by Friday||Mussoorie: The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is aiming to complete the construction of a new bridge connecting villages near Raini in Chamoli by March 5, in just nine days. An existing bridge at Raini village on Joshimath-Malari road was damaged by flash-flood on February 7. The BRO had started the work to build the bridge on February 25 at a height of 10,000. The new bridge has a span of 190-feet and weighs 40ton. “The construction is likely to be completed by March 5,” AS Rathore, chief engineer of BRO told TOI on Wednesday. Rathore told that the work was quite challenging due to high altitude and lack of adequate clear space on one side. “Despite all the challenges, we will be able to complete the bridge construction in just nine days,” Rathore said while adding that this bridge was constructed at an altitude of 10,000 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bro-aiming-to-complete-new-bridge-near-flash-flood-hit-raini-village-by-friday/articleshow/81317257.cms||Anmol Jain
March 4, 2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal to get vaccinated today||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will receive the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday morning, at Lok Nayak Hospital, a statement from Delhi government said. Kejriwal, who is 52 years old, has been receiving treatment for diabetes, government officials said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-kejriwal-to-get-vaccinated-today/articleshow/81319861.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Pune||Fifty micro containment zones in PMC limits||Pune: The civic body on Wednesday declared 50 micro containment zones -- most of them housing societies -- for the first time this year. The Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward has seven micro containment zones -- the highest in a ward in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, followed by five each in Kasba-Vishrambaug, Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar, Bibvewadi, Bhavanipeth and Kothrud-Bavdhan wards. Warje-Karvenagar, Shivajinagar-Ghole Road and Sinhagad Road wards have four micro containment zones each. Three micro containment zones each have been earmarked in Ahmednagar Road-Wadgaonsheri and Wanowrie-Ramtekdi wards. The respective civic wards issued orders regarding the micro containment zones. The ward officers have told the housing societies identified as micro containment zones to check oxygen level and body temperature of the visitors and ensure the residents followed social distancing norms and used face masks. The Pune civic limits did not have containment zones in January and February because Covid cases were plummeting. The recent rise in cases compelled PMC to earmark the micro containment zones. Heads of the civic wards said steps were initiated to put notice boards outside the societies about the declaration of micro containment zones. Ashish Mahaddalkar, the head of Kasba-Vishrambaug civic ward, said, “There is no plan to seal the entire housing societies, but we want the residents to follow the measures.” Somnath Bankar, the head of the Hadapsar-Mundhwa civic ward, said, “We have displayed boards outside the societies and told residents to follow norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fifty-micro-containment-zones-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/81318508.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 4, 2021||Goa||Goa: 47 more test +ve, active count at 581||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active Covid-19 cases inched up to 581 on Tuesday with 47 people testing positive for the virus. Meanwhile 48 people were reported cured. No Covid mortalities were reported over the last 24 hours. The state’s case positivity rate and recovery rate remained unaltered at 3% and 97% respectively. On Tuesday, 40 patients were home isolated while 18 had to be hospitalised. In North Goa, the primary health centre at Porvorim saw its tally dipping to 28 while that of Panaji urban health centre rose to 54. Other centres that have a relatively higher number of cases are Candolim, Mapusa and Chimbel. In South Goa, the cases at the urban health center, Margao reduced, to 85. Centres that have higher caseloads, but below 50, are Chinchinim, Cortalim, Loutolim, and Ponda. The centres of Navelim, Shiroda, Balli and Sanguem reported less than 10 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/47-more-test-ve-active-count-at-581/articleshow/81301157.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Student from Mumbai law college posts obscene video on WhatsApp group||Mumbai: A student from a leading south Mumbai law college posted an obscene video on a WhatsApp group created for coordination of online lectures. While immediate attempts were made to trace the student, the phone number could not be identified and others in the class could not establish the person’s identity too. Eventually, the number was blocked and a complaint submitted to the college principal who, in turn, sent a letter to Marine Drive police station seeking a probe. After a month passed and the teachers began to moderate all online groups, the student allegedly started harassing a female classmate using the same phone number. The teachers have now once again written to the principal seeking a complaint with the cyber police cell, alleging no steps were taken to identify and penalise the student in the past. Three teachers from the college and a few students were administrators on the group where 80 others were members, mentioned the letter written to the police station on February 4. The video, which outraged the modesty of women, was posted on the group on February 1. A teacher from the college said there has been a delay in action. “If a person is not penalised for his actions, he is bound to repeat it. Many of us wanted a cyber crime complaint to be filed in the matter. The person is obviously using multiple mobile numbers because after that we have been moderating the groups. On WhatsApp the name had appeared as Tarzan and on caller ID it showed up as Mercedes E-Class,” said the teacher. Sharing an obscene video amounts to violation of sections under the IT Act as well as sections for sexual harassment in the Indian Penal Code. The college principal remained unavailable for comment. An officer from Marine Drive police station said no one from the college has come to record their statement yet and they will look into the matter. While online classes have become a necessity in the pandemic, sharing of obscene content and abuses under the garb of anonymity have been a nightmare for teachers. “Many teachers still live with this fear every day. Colleges need to back teachers and take strict action against offenders to set an example,” said a teacher from another college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/student-from-mumbai-law-college-posts-obscene-video-on-whatsapp-group/articleshow/81317297.cms||Yogita Rao
March 4, 2021||Pune||Daily infections rise above 1,700 on increased testing||Pune: Daily Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) increased to 1,714 on Wednesday, with the PMC limits leading with 853 new infections, followed by the PCMC areas (483) and rural pockets (378). The region recorded 774 recoveries in the last 24 hours, pushing the total discharges above 3.91 lakh. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that over 13,900 samples were tested in the region for the infection on Wednesday. Of these, more than 8,000 samples were checked in the PMC limits alone. The total sample testing in the region reached 23.52 lakh on Wednesday evening. The daily sample testing in the region has been on rise for last three consecutive days. The report stated that seven patients succumbed to the infection in the region on Wednesday, taking the region’s toll 9,265 on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-infections-rise-above-1700-on-increased-testing/articleshow/81318523.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Attempt to free prisoner foiled||The chalani guards foiled an attempt to free a life imprisonment convict from a bus in Bharatpur on Wednesday.The guards were taking convict Dharmendra Gujjar back to the prison after his appearance in a lower court when the bus was attacked by four heavily armed miscreants. They came to free Gujjar and fired 2-3 shots. The miscreants escaped after realising that they can be caught by the passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/attempt-to-free-prisoner-foiled/articleshow/81318505.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri plans a memorial for 1996 mid-air collision victims||Rohtak: Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri district, the site of the horrific 1996 mid-air collision of two airplanes, is working on a project to erect a memorial for 349 people on board who died when a plane from Kazakhstan and another going to Saudi Arabia collided and then crashed. Saudi Arabian Airlines Flight 763, a Boeing 747 en route from Delhi to Dhahran in Saudi Arabia, and Kazakhstan Airlines Flight 1907, an Ilyushin Il-76 en route from Kazakhstan to Delhi collided over the Tikan village of Charkhi Dadri on 12 November 1996. The plan for a memorial-cum-park was mooted to give the families of the victims who visit the crash site a place to remember their loved ones. “When family members of those who were killed in the mishap come to Dadri, they want to go to the site of the accident. However, there is no place where they can pay tribute to their loved ones. In these circumstances, the district administration is exploring the possibility of constructing a memorial for people who died in the air crash at Tikan village and also work on a plan to develop a tourism complex and park there,” Charkhi Dadri deputy commissioner Rajesh Jogpal said on Wednesday. He said the names and other information of those killed in mid-air collision will also be written on the proposed memorial. The district is yet to get approval from the Haryana government for its plan, but the administration plans to subsequently involve the Union aviation ministry, Airport Authority of India, along with the embassies of Saudi Arabia and Kazakhstan in the project. After the construction of the memorial, Arabian Airlines and Kazakhstan Airlines would be requested to provide free air travel to the families of those killed died in the mid-air accident, the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryanas-charkhi-dadri-plans-a-memorial-for-1996-mid-air-collision-victims/articleshow/81319907.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Pune||More than 4,000 out-of-school kids identified in rural Pune||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad that recently completed a survey on out-of-school children found that 4,279 students are now out-of-school in the rural areas under its jurisdiction. Of these, the maximum number, 2,050 students, belong to the age group between three and six who have not been admitted in any pre-primary schools, aided or unaided, nor are they beneficiaries of the Integrated Child Development Scheme. As many as 387 students have been kept away from school by parents citing physical or mental disability. Zilla Parishad officials feared that the pandemic has led to an increase in child labour and in a bid to check it especially in hotspots such as sugar cane cutting, agriculture, roads, construction sites, dhabas and brick kilns, various committees of teachers and anganwadi workers were told to conduct the survey. The teachers could admit the students in a school. A total of 8,87,163 households were surveyed where 10,24,280 children in the age group of up to 18 years were found. Of them, 1,386 children in the age group of 6 to 14, were found to be out-of-school. The survey found 456 students not attending any school or college in the 14 to 18 age group. Pune ZP education officer Sunil Kurhade said their survey had been completed, but some pockets were not covered. “Now that the state government has initiated a massive micro-local level survey, we are once again collecting data from these missing pockets. We will ensure there is no duplication of names in the final report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-than-4k-out-of-school-kids-identified-in-rural-pune/articleshow/81318530.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Sherdil researchers rescue lion cub entangled in fishing net||Ahmedabad: It had been a tense 60 minutes. When wildlife researchers Umesh Khetani and Mehul Dudia reached Chanch village in Amreli earlier in the day, they were little prepared for the strange sight right out of their childhood storybooks: a lion caught in a net; a cub to be precise. While a mouse rescues the lion in the story, the duo had to perform the deed as the cub had entangled itself so badly in the fishing net that it would have died. The rescue was not easy. The two had to face an extremely protective lioness, who along with the two cubs, paced close to the entrapped cub. “On World Wildlife Day, the villagers called us at 7 am, saying a cub has been trapped. We reached the spot but whenever we moved close to the cub, the lioness got aggressive. The cub had been caught in the net for over two hours. So, we informed the forest department. They said that the veterinary team would take at least two hours to reach us. Mehul said we should rescue the cub ourselves or it might die,” said Khetani. However, any attempt by the researchers or the foresters to get close to the cub would agitate the lioness. It became more aggressive as more and more people gathered. On the advice of the forest trackers, the group decided to obstruct her vision. They parked two motorcycles in such a way that it would obstruct the lioness’s vision. This enabled the men to cut the cub loose from the net and release it in the direction that the lioness was sitting. Khetani said, “The rescue was tough and dangerous due to the presence of the lioness and other two cubs in the vicinity. Had we waited for the officials to come, the cub would have died,” he said. Forest officials said that the village was a fishing village and the people had hung up unused fishing net around the house to ward off attack from wild animals. Confirming the development Chief Conservator of Forest D Vasavda said, “The lion cub was trapped. Forest trackers reached the venue in time and released the cub from the net.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sherdil-researchers-rescue-lion-cub-entangled-in-fishing-net/articleshow/81318570.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Wife, sister, lover held for murder at secluded spot||Thane: Mumbra police arrested a housewife, her sister and paramour for the murder of a man, found with throat slit, last week. Mohammad Nafis Shaikh (33) is an auto driver, Rukhsar (30), wife of deceased, and Reshma Sayyed (28), the sister-in-. They were been arrested for hatching a conspiracy to eliminate Ahmed Shaikh last week. A senior officer said the accused and deceased were friends, but Mohammed had an illicit relationship with his wife. “The deceased probably learnt about it,” said the officer. The victim was taken to a secluded place near MM Valley and Mittal ground on February 27, where both drank liquor. When the victim felt uneasy, the accused attacked him and fled. Meanwhile, another body was found on a road from Mumbra to Diva, near Sabe village, on Tuesday. Police said it was smashed with a sharp weapon. Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-wife-sister-lover-held-for-murder-at-secluded-spot/articleshow/81319928.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Civil court awards three-month jail to Bundi ex-DM, nine others||KOTA: A civil court in Bundi awarded 3-month civil imprisonment to former Bundi district collector, chairman of TATA Projects, Sikandarabad in Telangana, managing director of the company and 7 others including other officials of the company and Bundi municipal council, for committing negligence in civil work carried out in Bundi city and contempt of court’s order. The court also ordered to seize the property of each of the ten officials. Civil court judge Nikhil Kumar Nad awarded 3-month civil imprisonment to former district magistrate of Bundi district Mahesh Chand Sharma; chairman, TATA Projects, Sikandrabad, Telangana, Somaiya Ramkrishnan; Managing director of the company, Vinyak Deshpandey; project manager, sewerage planning, Bundi city, Jagdish Verma; project manager Rakesh Sharma; assistant engineer, PHED, Bundi, JP Dadich; Bundi municipal council Sabhapati Mahaveer Modi; officiate commissioner Arunesh Sharma; M/S TATA Projects Ltd CVS Rao and M/S Joti Building Technique, for committing negligence in the sewerage works in Bundi city and for contempt of court’s order, issued in June 2018. The working agency had allegedly laid the roads open with deep ditches with electricity, water and telephone lines broken after the sewerage work under urban development projects and the work had allegedly reflected severe patches in planning. A city based youth identified as Mahaveer Meena, on behalf of the locals, in February 2018 filed a case in Bundi civil court on the unplanned sewerage work being carried out in the city, and the court, in June 2018 ordered the working agencies, their officials and district officials to improve the work and to complete it within next 3 months to comply with the court’s order, with status report in person. The concerned agencies and officials failed to comply with the court’s order and to appear before the civil court. Hailing the civil court’s decision as a mark of welfare in civil society and civil rights, Congress leader Charmesh Sharma, whose statement in court, played significantly said the decision also defines the responsibility of the working agency and public servants. The civil court judge Nikhil Kumar Nad passed the decision on February 26 but the copy of the decision was issued on Wednesday. “We will move to the district judge (DJ) court against the civil court decision for stay on the decision,” Rajkumar Mathur, local counselor of M/S TATA Projects Ltd said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civil-court-awards-3-month-jail-to-bundi-ex-dm-9-others/articleshow/81318527.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Hospitals set up help desks to make registration simpler for Sr citizens||New Delhi: Standing in a queue next to the help desk set up at Metro Hospital & Cancer Institute, Preet Vihar to assist senior citizens for registration on the Co-Win portal, Aniruddh Kumar, 68, was keenly checking his documents to ensure nothing was missing. A resident of Mandawali in east Delhi, Kumar came along with his wife Ganpati Devi, 66, at the hospital at 10.15am, got himself registered on the government portal and luckily, managed to get vaccinated at 12.30pm on the same day. To make the inquiry and vaccination registration exercise simpler, a majority of hospitals have set up two to three help desks, which are operational from morning till evening. “We were approached by many people who claimed to have got themselves registered but their information was not showing on our system. To avoid this confusion and save time, we decided to make our desk system robust. We are asking people to come here and we will assist them in every possible manner,” said Chhaya Malhotra, nodal officer for vaccination programme at Metro Hospital. Aniruddh Kumar got infected with Covid last year. “I have been visiting the hospital for a long time for treatment. Though I recovered easily, the first thing on my mind was to get vaccinated and I was making enquiries at reception every time I visited the place,” he said. “We got ourselves registered and received vaccination on the same day,” said RA Amrohi (70) who visited the hospital with his wife. At Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, young students were seen assisting people at each help desk. Neelam Roy, an official at RML, said, “As the senior citizens come from far away, we have also kept the on-site registration option open.” At Swami Dayanand Hospital in Dilshad Garden, there was no end to vaccination-related queries. “We have streamlined the whole system. We are asking for their documents such as Aadhaar Card and ID proof before guiding them. On average, 130 people are coming in a day and we are expecting the number to increase to 200,” said Dr Deepti Chaudhary, in-charge of the vaccination programme at hospital. At Pushpawati Singhania Research Institute (PSRI), around 30-35% of the elders coming to get the vaccine are just walking in without registering. “As it is important to get them registered and they get the SMS and reminder for the second dose, we have been helping them. That is the reason we are going slow,” said Prashant Kulshrestha, deputy medical superintendent at PSRI. At Max Hospital Saket, those who are coming without registering are allowed to get their vaccine between 3 and 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hospitals-set-up-help-desks-to-make-registration-simpler-for-sr-citizens/articleshow/81319920.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 4, 2021||Pune||Over 6.5 lakh aspirants clear centralised TET||Pune: Over 6.5 lakh teachers from across the country cleared the Centralised Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The candidates will receive digital certificates for the first time for the exam conducted on January 31. In accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 23 of the RTE Act, the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) has stated that candidates should pass TET which will be conducted by the appropriate authorities. For paper I, about 12.4 lakh candidates appeared and for paper II, 11 lakh candidates gave the test from various zones of CBSE. Of these, nearly 6.5 lakh qualified. The mark sheet of candidates, who appeared in CTET examination will be available in Digi Locker to those who have qualified. The candidates will be provided with login details on their registered cellphone numbers, director of CTET, Anurag Tripathi, said. The mark sheets and eligibility certificates will also contain an encrypted QR code to enhance security. The QR code can be scanned and verified using the Digi locker mobile app, he added. DigiLocker will minimise the use of physical mark sheets and eligibility certificates and it will be easy to validate the authenticity of these documents electronically. Tripathi said, “It will also be convenient to candidates as their mark sheets will now be available anytime, anywhere and can be shared electronically.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-6-5-lakh-aspirants-clear-centralised-tet/articleshow/81318532.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Jhalawar man gets death penalty for killing wife, 3 kids||Kota: An upper district and sessions court in Bhawanimandi town of Jhalawar district on Wednesday sentenced a 48-year-old man to death for the brutal murder of his 40-year-old wife and three kids, including two daughters, two years ago at his home in Dhabla Khinchi village under Sunel police station.Terming the crime heinous in institute of family, the upper district and sessions court judge Dr Prabhat Agrawal held Shakir Lakhara of guilty under Section 302 and other sections of IPC and awarded him death penalty by hanging till last breath, public prosecutor Lokesh Gupta said.Gupta said convict Shakir Lakhara committed the crime in October 8, 2019. Lakhara was allegedly reeling under heavy debt and into gambling. He poisoned his wife Jahida, two daughters Muskan (14), Alfia (12) and 10-year-old son Alfez at his home. But when he found that they were still alive, he slashed their throat with a sharp weapon, he added.Gupta said Lakhara fled after the murder and was arrested on November 14, 2019. He was booked under Section 302 and other Sections of IPC. Since then he had been in jail under judicial custody. The statements of 32 witnesses were recorded before the court during the trial and 55 documents were produced, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhalawar-man-gets-death-penalty-for-killing-wife-3-kids/articleshow/81318539.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Aisha’s sister hospitalized||Ahmedabad: There seems to be no end to the Makranis’ trauma. Even as they struggle to come to grips with the loss of their 23-year-old daughter Aisha, their elder daughter landed in hospital due to the stress and anxiety triggered by her sister’s untimely death. Aisha’s sister Heena, who is married and a mother of three children, had to be rushed to the hospital on Wednesday. “Heena keeps on repeating: ‘why did Sonu (Aisha) suffer this fate’? She loved her younger sister and has been unable to come to terms with her death. She has been affected by the helplessness Aisha shared in the video before her death,” said Aisha’s father Liyaqat Ali Makrani.Makrani is a tailor by profession and earns a living by stitching garments at home for ready-made garment factories. He said Aisha was the third of four children. Other than Heena and Aisha, he has two sons: Amir and Arman.The distraught father, who spent the morning in court at the bail hearing of Aisha’s husband Arifkhan Gafurji, said that nature will serve him justice.“Within a year of being married, Aisha got to know of Arif’s various affairs. But she was a woman who loved her husband... probably that was her mistake. In her death, too, she did what Arif asked her to do-- die but record a video exonerating him,” says Makrani. “In fact, it was Arif who shared the video widely after Aisha’s death. Contrary to his belief, Aisha’s pain became evident and it pulled at the hearts of the people and the police, leading to action against him,” said Makrani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aishas-sister-hospitalized/articleshow/81318573.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Pune||Std XI pupils in school for extra classes||Pune : A CBSE school in the city was reported to have called a few students to school on Wednesday. Some parents said their school has told their children to report for the standard XI final examination that the school had conducted. Another parent said the school had told every student standard 11 to come to school for offline examinations and the students had gone to school to give their exams on Wednesday. When contacted, the school’s principal said the students were called for academic improvement. She said, “Some students who were weak in their academics had been told to come to school for their own progress. Extra classes were being conducted for such students and hence they were called to school.” The Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation have ordered all schools and colleges to remain closed till March 14 after the Pune Metropolitan Region recorded a spike in Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/std-xi-pupils-in-school-for-extra-classes/articleshow/81318540.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||In Mumbai, BMC rakes in a huge sum from the unmasked in Andheri||Mumbai: In April last year, a month into the Covid-19 outbreak in the city, BMC made wearing of face masks compulsory in public places. It was decided that clean-up marshals would impose a Rs 200 fine for violation of the rule. Now, even city police have joined the marshals in penalising those found without masks. Cumulative data on the number of people penalised so far shows wards which attract tourists and those with a larger floating population have witnessed more people being penalised in comparison to largely residential areas.For instance, the maximum number of people so far, at 1.3 lakh, have been penalised in K-West Ward, which covers parts of Juhu, Lokandwala and Oshiwara, followed by K-East (Vile Parle East to Jogeshwari East) at 1 lakh. In K-West Ward, the penalty totalled Rs 2.6 crore and in K-East Rs 2.1 crore. Also, in F-South Ward (Parel), which has several public hospitals and thus a large floating population, 82,237 persons have been penalised. AGNI coordinator Zahida Banatwala of Juhu Citizens’ Welfare Group said in areas such as Juhu beach, marshals are being too stern. “Even single persons in a car are being made to pay a penalty for not putting on their masks, which is wrong as the BMC directive says in a private vehicle there is no need for it. While people also tend to get very lax, it is essential that a balance is maintained and action is taken fairly.”Advocate and activist Godfrey Pimenta said K-East Ward where he lives comprises several private offices and also small-scale industries in MIDC and the Andheri-Kurla Road belt. “As the floating population is high, it is not surprising that a large number of people has been penalised in the ward.” In largely residential wards such as T (Mulund), comparatively fewer persons at 47,992 have been penalised and D, which comprises areas such as Malabar Hill, Tardeo and Grant Road, 49,023. A civic official said the total number of people penalised also depends on how large the ward is. “K-East, for instance, is the largest civic ward while those such as B (Dongri) and C (Bhuleshwar) where only 34,336 and 45,235 persons have been penalised, respectively, are comparatively smaller. L Ward is large and covers parts of Powai, Kurla and Saki Naka to an extent. Another aspect is how efficient and vigilant are the marshals deployed,” said the official. Colaba corporator Makrand Narwekar from A Ward where 76,833 persons have been penalised said the marshals are not acting against offenders in the areas they should. “For instance, A Ward is much beyond high footfall areas such as CSMT and no action is taken against those living in slums in the ward.” BMC corporator Sheetal Gambhir from Mahim area said, “With the economy now opening up, people are moving around without realizing the importance of masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-mumbai-bmc-rakes-in-a-huge-sum-from-the-unmasked-in-andheri/articleshow/81318559.cms||Richa Pinto
March 4, 2021||Pune||Sugar museum proposed as tribute in Shivajinagar||Pune: A proposal to construct a sugar museum in Pune has been sent by the sugar commissionerate to the state government. The museum will have miniature working models of sugar production machinery, digital exhibitions telling the history of sugar production in the state and in the country besides facilities like a cafeteria, multi-purpose halls among others. Currently, there are such museums in Berlin, Mauritius and Australia. A letter proposing the setting up of a museum on the 5-acre space opposite the sugar commissionerate was sent to the additional chief secretary department of cooperation, marketing and textiles by sugar commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on February 16. “Pune district is a leader in sugar cane cultivation in Maharashtra and there are 16 cooperative and private factories operating here. We also have research centres and institutes in Pune that study new varieties of sugar cane, means for better production of sugar, develop innovative technology and even guide the sugar industry. Besides that, the sugar cane ecosystem has also played a huge role in the history and development of the state. Hence, it is imperative that there be a museum commemorating all this,” he said. Gaikwad in his proposal also mentioned books and events where sugar has played a role or has been written about. An in-principle approval was given by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar as well as deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, he said. “The proposal approximates spending of up to Rs 40 crore in five years for the construction of the museum. A national-level competition must be organised to choose the design of the museum. Maintenance and repair of the museum can be done by charging an entrance fee as well as from the sugar complex recovery fund,” Gaikwad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sugar-museum-proposed-as-tribute-in-shivajinagar/articleshow/81318545.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Chhota Udepur MLA’s brother hangs himself||Ahmedabad: Chhota Udepur Congress MLA Mohansinh Rahwa’s brother, Pratapsinh Rathwa, 43, on Wednesday committed suicide by hanging himself at his Sector-29 home in Gandhinagar. The reason behind his suicide was not known to police as cops did not find any suicide note at his home or among his other belongings. Inspector M B Bharwad of Sector-21 police said Rathwa was working as a peon at Aranya Bhawan in Gandhinagar, an office of the state forest department. “The incident came into light when Pratapsinh’s daughter saw the lights of his room on at around 4am on Wednesday. When she entered, she saw her father hanging,” said Bharwad. He said his daughter informed other family members who called the police control room. A team of Sector-21 police reached the house and recovered his body. It was first sent to Gandhinagar Civil Hospital and then handed over to his family members who went to their native place in Chhota Udepur for his last rites. “We are yet to know why he had committed suicide because he did not even say anything to his family members,” he said. Bharwad said that he was attending office regularly and did not have any issues at his workplace either. Sector 21 police registered a case of accidental death and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chhota-udepur-mlas-brother-hangs-himself/articleshow/81318541.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||HC commutes man’s death sentence to life imprisonment||Jaipur: The high court on Wednesday commuted the death sentence of the convict to life term in the abduction and murder case of a seven-year old boy Rudraksh in Kota in 2014.The division bench of Justice Sabina and Justice M K Vyas issued the order on an appeal against the sentence by convict Ankur Padia while dismissing the death reference by the state government.Rinesh Gupta, counsel for the petitioner, said the death sentence has been commuted to life term with condition that he will be in jail for 25 years without any benefit of remission. He said the others’ conviction in the case would remain the same. The high court had earlier suspended the death sentence and ordered retrial of the case on appeal of accused that he was not given sufficient opportunity to present documents in the trial court.A special court in Kota had given death sentence to main accused Ankur Padia and life term to his elder brother Anup Padia on February 26, 2018. Two other accomplices Mahaveer Sharma and Karanjeet Singh were given four and two-year sentences, respectively, along with penalties.Ankur had kidnapped Rudraksh, son of a bank manager, from a park in Talwandi area near his house in Kota on October 9, 2014. The abductors had demanded a ransom of Rs 2 crore from the boy’s parents for his release. After the boy’s parents informed Kota city police about the abduction, police recovered the victim’s body from a canal in Jakhmund in Bundi district the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-commutes-mans-death-sentence-to-life-imprisonment/articleshow/81318543.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chandigarh||No govt nod needed to challenge court order regarding adverse remarks: Haryana AG office to Khemka||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has asked senior bureaucrat Ashok Khemka not to seek its permission to challenge an order passed by a single bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court in which some adverse remarks were made against him. “The complaint made by Ashok Khemka IAS, which has been adversely commented by the high court in judgment dated January 29, 2021, was in his private capacity and not in discharge of his official duties as a member of the service. Ashok Khemka does not require any previous government sanction in this case and may have recourse to any legal remedy for expunction of adverse remarks against him in the judgment,” the advocate general (AG) office Haryana has clarified in response to Khemka’s request. The matter relates to appointment of shooter Vishwajeet Singh, who is son of another IAS officer and former director of sports department, Haryana, Jagdeep Singh, in the coveted Haryana Civil Service (executive branch) under sports quota. The Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) had recommended Vishwajeet’s name for appointment as HCS officer but his appointment was halted after Khemka made a complaint, raising questions on the affiliation of tournaments for which Vishwajeet was issued the sports gradation certificate that helped him get the job. However, Vishwajeet had approached the HC, which in its order dated January 29 directed the state government to give him the appointment. The single bench of the HC had also made some adverse comments on Khemka in its judgment. Significantly, the state’s AG office as well as the office of chief secretary, Haryana, have already found the single bench judgment fit for appeal and to challenge the order. However, sources confirmed that the appeal from the state could not be filed till date because of the intervention of a senior leader of BJP coalition partner, JJP, who has requested chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar not to challenge the decision. The matter regarding the appeal, however, is still pending with the government. As the remarks were made against Khemka, who was not even impleaded as party in the case, he decided to challenge the judgment of a single bench. Before filing the appeal in his individual capacity, Khemka, who is presently posted as principal secretary, department of archaeology and museums, Haryana, had sought the approval of the state government in view of the All India Services (conduct) Rules 1968. BOX What rules stipulate Rule 17 of the All India Services (conduct) Rules 1968 provides that no member of the service shall, except with the previous sanction of the government, have recourse on any court or to the press for the vindication of official act which has been the subject matter of adverse criticism or attack of a defamatory character. It further states that if no such sanction is conveyed to the government within 12 weeks from the date of receipt of the request, the member of the service shall be free to assume that the sanction sought for has been granted to him. However, nothing in the rule shall be deemed to prohibit a member of the service from vindicating his private character or any act done by him in his private capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-govt-nod-needed-to-challenge-court-order-regarding-adverse-remarks-haryana-ag-office-to-khemka/articleshow/81319939.cms||Ajay Sura
March 4, 2021||Delhi||Informal waste-picker files plea to get C-vax along with Safai staff||New Delhi: Manuwara Begum, an informal waste collector from Safai Sena, has filed an online petition on Change.org platform to get the Covid-19 vaccination along with other formal sanitation workers. She argues that the informal sector workers toil day and night to keep cities clean and disease-free, and they should also get access to the vaccination. Sixty-two people had signed the petition till late night on Wednesday. Ruby Makhija, one of the signatories, said that she felt strongly about the cause. Chander Sabherwal, another signatory, said, those who worked hard to keep our cities clean and sanitised deserved our gratitude, protection and care. “They collect tonnes of waste daily, including masks and gloves, and are more vulnerable to the disease. We should help them get access to the Covid-19 vaccination,” said Chitra Mukherjee, the head of advocacy and policy at Chintan NGO. “We live near polluted landfill sites and crowded JJ clusters where social distancing is not possible. We have a very limited access to clean water and toilets, which makes it even more challenging to tackle the pandemic,” the petition states. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/informal-waste-picker-files-plea-to-get-c-vax-along-with-safai-staff/articleshow/81319948.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||At Kumaon Regiment recruitment, 200 found with fake certificates||Almora: Around 200 applicants have been caught with fake tax certificates at the ongoing recruitment drive at Kumaon Regiment headquarters in Ranikhet, 150 of them on Tuesday alone. One of the accused, Sukhwinder Singh from Karnataka, who turned up with fake documents at three different Army recruitment drives, was arrested. Inspector Rajesh Yadav of Ranikhet thana said, “A case has been registered under sections 420, 467, 471 against Singh at Ranikhet police station. The accused said that he got fake certificates made from an operator at Kalakhera, Bazpur. The Army has also started an investigation into such incidents fraud certificates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/at-kumaon-regiment-recruitment-200-found-with-fake-certificates/articleshow/81317292.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: VK Sasikala quits politics, urges ‘Jaya followers’ to ensure DMK defeat||CHENNAI: In a development that may come as a shot in the arm for the ruling AIADMK, V K Sasikala, the close-aide of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, on Wednesday announced her decision to quit politics. “I have decided to step aside from politics to ensure that the golden rule of Amma (Jayalalithaa) prevails, I am praying hard to my sister whom I consider as god and every god I know,” Sasikala said in a two-page emotional statement. The announcement came on a day when the ruling AIADMK led by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam ruled out any tie-up with Sasikala and her nephew T T V Dhinakaran. The BJP, meanwhile, made it clear that it would not interfere in the internal affairs of the AIADMK. Sasikala urged the “true followers of Jayalalithaa” to stay united and work for the continuance of the golden rule of former chief ministers M G Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa. Jayalalithaa’s wish was to see the party rule the state for more than 100 years, Sasikala said. “Cadres will have to work hard to prevent the evil force DMK from returning to power and ensure that the golden rule of Amma prevails,” she said, thanking party workers and well-wishers. Reacting to Sasikala’s decision, AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy said he was happy to note that Sasikala remained loyal to Jayalalithaa. “But it is Dhinakaran, who is creating hurdles for the continuation of Jayalalithaa’s government in Tamil Nadu. We have to remember that Jayalalithaa had kept Dhinakaran away from politics for more than 10 years,” Munusamy said. Dhinakaran said while his aunt’s decision saddened him, it was aimed at uniting Jayalalithaa’s loyalists. “She was worried that Amma’s followers were not united,” the AMMK leader said, emerging from a meeting with his aunt at her T Nagar residence. “Sasikala wanted to be in politics when she came out of prison and hoped everyone would be united,” Dhinakaran said. On February 8, while returning to Chennai by road and enthused by the rousing reception, Sasikala told reporters that she would return to active politics. “I tried to convince her not to go ahead with her decision to quit politics. I urged her to try and do what she wanted (help Jayalalithaa’s government to return to power) by being inside and not by keeping away from politics. That’s why there was a delay of half an hour in her releasing the statement,” Dhinakaran told reporters. In her statement on Wednesday, Sasikala said she remained the same person that she was even after her friend’s death. “I am not hankering after any position, title or power. I will remain grateful to beloved cadres of Puratchi Thalaivi (revolutionary leader) and the people of Tamil Nadu,” she said. Sasikala was released from Bengaluru prison in January after a four-year imprisonment in a disproportionate assets case. She was hospitalized for treatment for Covid-19. After her release from hospital and a two-week isolation period, she set out on a long journey by road on February 8 and reached Chennai in the early hours the following day. “She was the one who ensured the continuation of Amma’s (Jayalalithaa’s) government by getting the MLAs to elect the present chief minister. She wants unity in the party and all cadres to stay united. While there is a debate of even admitting her in AIADMK, she has taken the decision to quit politics to ensure unity,” Dhinakaran said. Dhinakaran said AMMK would go ahead and contest the assembly election. “Talks to form an alliance are on. We will announce it in due course of time. Meanwhile, the party will announce the candidate list on March 10,” Dhinakaran said, adding that he would contest the polls. TNCC president K S Alagiri said Sasikala had “escaped the trap laid by BJP”, which wanted to take control of AIADMK by creating internal trouble. “Sasikala had enough experience in understanding politics and governance, having spent several years in assisting Jayalalithaa in carrying out her work. But she lacked the stature of a tall leader,” Alagiri said. Watch Tamil Nadu assembly elections: VK Sasikala quits politics||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasikala-quits-politics-urges-jaya-followers-to-ensure-dmk-defeat/articleshow/81318547.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Parents urge city school to not hold exams offline||Jaipur: Parents and guardians of students of St Anselm’s, Malviya Nagar, went to meet the school authorities on Wednesday to convince them to take back the decision of conducting offline examination. Members of Parents’ Association of Rajasthan were also part of the delegation and attempted to convince the administration that they were not comfortable sending their kids for offline examination. On Tuesday, district education officer Ram Chandra Pilaniya had issued an order stating that schools have to abide by the SOPs and cannot force parents to send their wards for offline examination. President of Rajasthan Parents’ Association Sushil Sharma said, “Schools are not abiding by the DEO’s order and are not ready to budge. We are not comfortable in sending our children to school yet, then why are they so adamant. They gave us example of CBSE order issued and said according to the board guidelines, they are conducting offline examination. But in the CBSE order, nowhere is it mentioned that only offline mode of examination should be conducted.” Member of Gyandeep Education Society (under which all the Catholic schools come) Edward Olivera said they have made their stance clear that examination for classes IX to XII will be conducted offline. “We are following the CBSE order that said we must conduct examination above class VIII through offline mode. We want to prepare students for the board examination that will be conducted next year. Moreover, children are going to every social gathering, public transport and markets. Then why can’t they be sent to school? We are ready to conduct examination in two to three days but it will be conducted offline as we care for students,” said Olivera.On Tuesday, hundreds of parents and students of Sophia School, Jaipur protested in front of the school against the offline mode of examination. Police were called by the authorities and the school administration refused to take back their decision of exams in offline mode. Many other schools tried to go completely offline but seeing the resentment from parents, they decided to keep the option for online mode open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-urge-city-school-to-not-hold-exams-offline/articleshow/81318546.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Acquired hearing loss setting in early: Experts||Hyderabad: With an increasing number of young children glued to smartphones and laptops, ‘acquired hearing loss’ is setting in among people as early as 25 to 30 years of age, audiologists say. They were speaking on the occasion of World Hearing Day on March 3. Acquired hearing loss refers to a gradual loss of hearing due to exposure to loud sounds over a period of time, although the individual is born with perfect hearing capability. “Constant exposure to loud sounds, be it on the mobile, roadside honking, or at pubs, can cause acquired hearing loss. Exposure to an extremely loud noise even once can cause internal damage to the ear. This can happen to people of all ages right from kids to elderly. We are seeing an increase in such cases,” said Dr Manish Gupta, resident medical officer, Government ENT Hospital, Koti. Even as parents tend to feel happy that their child can operate touchphones at two or three years, they do not understand the implications, say experts. “While in newborns, the problem of hearing loss can be addressed with hearing aids, it is children who are two years and above who need to be watched. With small kids hooked to gadgets, we see many cases of hearing loss early on in life, which were not seen a decade ago. Partial hearing loss can happen among those in the 25 to 30 age bracket,” said Dr Imad Khan, general secretary, Telangana Audiologists and Speech Language Pathologists Association (TASLPA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acquired-hearing-loss-setting-in-early-experts/articleshow/81318556.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 4, 2021||Goa||Don’t know how I reached Maharashtra: Forest guard||Poinguinim: Yogesh Velip, the 30-year-old forest guard from Ponsulem in Canacona who went missing for three days, was united with his family. But it is still unclear how he landed in Pandharpur, Maharashtra. Velip told the police that he doesn't recollect how he landed at Pandharpur from his work place in Canacona. “The last thing I remember is a truck at 11am on Saturday, which I allowed to pass inside the Bela forest gate after opening it. Thereafter, I don't remember anything else,” he told the police who were also intrigued by his disappearance. Villagers were shocked as his motorcycle with the keys, bag and a wallet containing an ATM card were recovered at the gate he was manning. When the police asked him how he knew the place was Pandharpur, he replied that he saw advertisement boards. “Then I realised that I was not at the work place,” Velip told the police, adding, “I could sustain myself as I had Rs 1,500 in my pocket.” After a frantic search by forest and police personnel, besides his family and friends, Velip was traced after three days in the temple town of Pandharpur on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-know-how-i-reached-maharashtra-forest-guard/articleshow/81319949.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Goa||New temple on anvil at Calangute||Calangute: The Babreshwar Devasthan at Khobrawaddo, Calangute has decided to construct a new temple at the site of old structure, devasthan committee president Chandrakant Chodankar said. The annual Kelyanchi Zatra (banana festival) at the Babreshwar temple, popular owing to the numerous bananas offered to the deity by devotees, began on Wednesday. Chodankar said work on the new temple will begin soon after the zatra culminates. The temple will be built at an approximate cost of Rs 2.7 crore and should be ready in a year’s time, he said. Ports minister and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo, who was also present, said the Kelyanchi Zatra should be highlighted by the tourism department as part of its efforts to promote the state's cultural attractions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-temple-on-anvil-at-calangute/articleshow/81319950.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Pune||1,958 people sans masks pay penalty||Pune: Police on Wednesday penalized 988 citizens in the Pune civic limits and 48 people in areas under the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Coproration for violating the face cover norms and collected from them Rs5,14,200 in fine. The rural police penalized 922 such offenders and collected Rs1.16 lakh in fine. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1958-people-sans-masks-pay-penalty/articleshow/81318552.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Telephone Exchange Square Metro station to be operational soon||Nagpur: MahaMetro has announced that 80% work of the station situated at Telephone Exchange Square has been completed. The station, which will be a crucial hub of reach 4, is expected to get operational in the coming three-four months. “The centrally-located station has huge potential to increase ridership with numerous banks, shopping complexes, commercial shops and residential houses in the area,” stated a release by MahaMetro. The length of the station is nearly 83 metres while its width is about 21 metres. “All major work of utilities, painting, plastering, roof construction, escalators and area development has been completed. The remaining work will be finished soon,” the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/telephone-exchange-square-metro-station-to-be-operational-soon/articleshow/81318564.cms||Manka Behl
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur youth killed for objecting to liquor biz||Jodhpur: Protesting against liquor and smack business at Boyal village here cost a youth his life. The victim has been identified as Shrawan Ram. The killers are still at large. Villagers are staging demonstration and refused to accept the body. They are also demanding compensation, a government job for the next of kin and arrest of all the accused. Assistant superintendent of police (Jodhpur Rural) Sunil Panwar said that different police teams have been constituted to apprehend the accused and assured that they would be in police net soon. According to information, Ram had been allegedly assaulted by four persons identified as Ravi Meghwal, Mallaram Meghwal, Prem Bishnoi and Mahendra Bishnoi on Monday late night when he had been going to his home. The accused bludgeoned and stabbed him and fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-youth-killed-for-objecting-to-liquor-biz/articleshow/81318549.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||RLP to field candidates in all 4 assembly seats||Jaipur: Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) chief Hanuman Beniwal on Wednesday said he would field four candidates for the four assembly bypolls in Sahara, Rajsamand, Vallabnagar and Sujangarh. Beniwal said his candidates would give an able alternative to voters of the poll-bound constituencies. He reminded the BJP that most of the Lok Sabha seats won by the party had the contribution of RLP workers. Beniwal had joined the NDA before the Lok Sabha polls in 2018 and quit the alliance in 2020 over farm laws.Beniwal accused chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former CM Vasundhara Raje of being hand-in-glove with each other. “Why Gehlot is not taking action against Raje makes it clear that both have a tacit understanding of not harming each other during their terms. This association is a betrayal of trust of the people in the state,” said Beniwal. Taking a jibe at the BJP national president JP Nadda’s visit to Jaipur, Beniwal said Nadda should be in the poll-bound states like West Bengal. “His visit here proves that there is a divide within the party over power struggle,” said Beniwal, who is a vocal critic of Raje.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rlp-to-field-candidates-in-all-4-assembly-seats/articleshow/81318551.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Arif remanded to police custody||Ahmedabad: The husband of 23-year-old Aisha Makrani who died by suicide by jumping into the Sabarmati last week, has been sent to police remand till Saturday afternoon.  Arifkhan Gafurji was arrested on March 1 evening from Pali in Rajasthan and brought to the city. He was produced before the additional chief metropolitan magistrate No-10 on Wednesday. The Riverfront West police asked for five-day custodial interrogation of Gafurji mainly on the ground that he did not cooperate with investigators during the initial police custody. After shooting a two-minute video — reportedly on her husband’s demand — Aisha, a resident of Vatva, had jumped into the river last Thursday. The video surfaced three days later. In its remand application, the police maintained that Gafurji, who is a resident of Jhalore town in Rajasthan, was arrested on charges of abetment to suicide for mental harassment caused to his wife and for telling her that “die if you want to, and send me the video”. The police sought five-day remand of the accused stating that his phone needs to be recovered to find out whether he had circulated the video. The cops also want to know if he was in contact with his wife through any social media platform and whether he had harassed her. The investigating officer also submitted that Gafurji’s custodial interrogation was required also to find out whether anybody else had abetted in this case. After the hearing, advocate Zafarali Khan, who represented the victim’s family, told media persons that Aisha was a victim of cruelty and she was constantly targeted by her in-laws by making wild allegations with regards to her character. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/arif-remanded-to-police-custody/articleshow/81318575.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Centre must help resolve Maratha quota issue in state’||Mumbai: The Centre must help the state government ensure reservation in jobs and education to the Maratha community, said public works minister Ashok Chavan, who is heading the committee set up to resolve the issue.Replying to questions raised during question hour in the legislative council on Wednesday, Chavan said nearly 16 states had committed to quotas that were more than the 50% limit. “It is no longer an issue of one state, the Supreme Court has clubbed the reservation issue of Haryana and Chhattisgarh along with that of Maharashtra. Will the Centre aid the state in resolving this issue?” asked Sharad Ranpise, Congress legislator. Chavan said the next hearing is on March 8, and the attorney general has been made a party. “The SC has placed the matter before a five-judge bench. Since this is a substantial legal matter, the Centre must ask for it to be placed before a nine- or 11-judge constitutional bench. It is an unique opportunity for the state and Centre to work together.” When MLC Satish Sawant said under Schedule 9 of the Constitution, the Centre can’t in-tervene, Chavan said the reserv-ations in TN have been granted protection under this provision. “The issue of quota for the economically weaker sections is also before SC. The Centre must tag all the issues together and ensure their resolution.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-centre-must-help-resolve-maratha-quota-issue-in-state/articleshow/81319966.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder is U-turn CM: BJP||CHANDIGARH: BJP general secretary and party in-charge in Punjab Dushyant Gautam on Wednesday accused Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh of being a “U-turn CM”. Gautam said that after a complete U-turn on electoral promises made before coming to power in Punjab, now Amarinder has done the same on decisions taken as the chief minister of the state. The BJP leader reminded Amarinder of the statement issued by the Punjab government on April 14, 2017, which stated: “Taking another major step towards the elimination of VIP culture from the state, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh has prohibited the inclusion of names of any government functionaries, including ministers and MLAs, on foundation stones and inaugural plaques. CM himself is not excluded from these orders, which are aimed at building a stronger connect between the government and the people by removing the VIP culture barriers.” Gautam expressed his extreme dismay that cabinet ministers, MPs and MLAs and even IAS and IPS officers have blatantly flouted the decision of the chief minister not once but many times. Citing three instances from the government’s official press releases, he said one release said, “On October 25, 2020, on the occasion of Dussehra, Capt Amarinder laid the foundation stone for many important development projects, including the first sports university of Punjab, Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University and new bus stand in Patiala.” Gautam added that photographs of this event clearly show that the name of the chief minister is inscribed on the foundation stone. On May 30, 2019, Amarinder laid the foundation stone of a vegetable processing plant, wherein the foundation stone clearly mentions the CM’s name. Gautam added that on February 3, 2021, Amarinder virtually laid the foundation stone of Sardar Bahadur Amin Chand Soni Armed Forces Preparatory Institute at Hoshirapur’s Bajwara village. “In this case too, the name of the Punjab CM, who keeps beating drums of ‘high morals’, is there on the foundation stone,” asserted Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-is-u-turn-cm-bjp/articleshow/81319958.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Stampede at event with Dhoni as guest in Jalore dist||Jodhpur: Former Team India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni had to face a sour moment in Jalore on Wednesday when the crowd turned chaotic in a public event he had been invited to.In an attempt to get close to their cricketing hero, there was a stampede-like situation by the uncontrolled fans. Police had to resort to lathicharge to disperse the crowd and Dhoni had to be taken away to safety. Dhoni had been invited for inauguration of Sanghvi Teejaben Mishrimal Kataria Govt. Sr. Sec. School at village Jakhal in Sanchore sub-division of Jalore district. The event had been organised by the donor who had built a new building of the school at a cost of Rs 2 crore.“Dhoni reached the village in the afternoon by road where he inaugurated the new building along with forest and environment minister of Rajasthan Sukhram Bishnoi and Jalore MP Devji Patel”, said a police officer. When youths of the village came to know about Dhoni’s arrival, they converged at the spot in large numbers causing a stampede-like situation. “Fans present at the event tried to get close to the cricketer for a handshake and autograph resulting into a chaos,” said the officer. Though the organisers and police appealed to the crowd to maintain order, nothing worked and the situation went out of control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stampede-at-event-with-dhoni-as-guest-in-jalore-dist/articleshow/81318561.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||One year of Gairsain as summer capital: Cultural events to be followed by ‘Deepotsav’ today||Gairsain: To mark one year of Gairsain being declared as the summer capital of Uttarakhand, preparations are afoot to hold grand celebrations on Thursday. Assembly Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal said, “We will celebrate the occasion in a beautiful manner. After the proceedings of the House on Thursday, we will have cultural events which will be performed by local artists and school children.” The cultural events would be followed by Deepotasav on the line of Diwali. “Diyas (earthen lamps) would be lit in and around the assembly building premises. Last year, it was a Holi and Diwali-like celebration and this time we would be holding a Deepotsav,” said the Speaker, adding that it was a coincidence that the budget for 2021-22 is also being presented on March 4. On March 4, last year, the CM had announced Gairsain as summer capital. After consent from Governor Baby Rani Maurya, the official notification in this regard was issued in June 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-year-of-gairsain-as-summer-capital-cultural-events-to-be-followed-by-deepotsav-today/articleshow/81317313.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Driver gets Rs 4.89cr tax notice, suspects misuse of Aadhaar||Jaisalmer: An interesting case has come to light in Barmer district in which the income tax department has sent a notice of Rs 4.89 crore to an auto-rickshaw driver as outstanding tax for a transaction of Rs 32.63 crore. The driver has lodged a police case in this regard suspecting that his Aadhaar card and PAN card were being misused by someone operating a fake firm. Police have started investigation and have contacted the income tax department too. The driver, quite disturbed on getting the notice, said that he is a labourer and earns Rs 8,000-10,000 per month by running an auto-rickshaw in the village. This transaction of crores of rupees was beyond his understanding. Gajedan Charan of a village in Sedva subdivision gave a report at Bakhasar police station on February 19 that the state tax department on February 11 served him a notice of Rs 4.89 crore and asked him to pay the outstanding tax.He alleged that he had given his details to a finance company at Chauhatan. Around a year ago, he had bought an auto-rickshaw and had given the documents to get financing. Apart from this, he also runs a provision store and had also taken agency of 1-2 companies for mobile recharge and the companies too had taken his documents. In such a situation, who has used his documents and cheated, he does not know. The victim alleged that some person in his name has registered a GST firm, m/s SLV international and the mobile no. in the registration is 9116921023 and the email ID there is also not his. Someone has registered a fake firm in his name.  At present, the Bakhasar police have lodged a case against unidentified people under Section 420 for cheating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/driver-gets-rs-4-89cr-tax-notice-suspects-misuse-of-aadhaar/articleshow/81318578.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Three more held in silver theft case||JAIPUR: Vaishali Nagar police on Wednesday arrested three more accused in silver theft case. The case was registered on February 24. Manraj Meena (26), Dilkush Meena (24) and Mohammed Naimuddin have been arrested from their native villages in Tonk and Sawai Madhopur, respectively. Police have recovered Rs 18 lakh from Naimuddin paid to him by the main accused Shekhar Agarwal. So far, eight persons have been arrested in the case and police are suspecting that few others can also be involved in the case. The other four accused include – Jatin Jain, Kaluram Saini, Kedar Jat and Banwari Jangid. The trio was responsible for digging a 20-feet long tunnel which led to the theft of over 500 kilogram of silver from the residence of Dr Sumit Soni in Vaishali Nagar on February 12. The case, however, was filed on February 24. Police says that the trio had worked as a daily wage labourer in Soni’s farmhouse. They were introduced to Soni by Shekhar Agarwal. “Manraj and Dilkush dug half the tunnel and refused to complete another half citing the collapse of the water tank whose foundation came in the way. Thereafter, the main accused roped in Mohammed for the said job who dug up another half. He was also behind the breaking of boxes and taking out silver sheets one by one from the tunnel,” said Anil Jaimani, SHO of Vaishali Nagar police station. Mohammed was given one silver sheet for his work by the main accused Agarwal on the day of the incident. ‘After a few days, Agarwal paid Rs 20.73 lakh to Mohammed and took away the silver from him, revelled Mohammed to the police. “On the basis of Mohammed’s directions, the amount was recovered from his native place and Rs 50,000 which he had confessed to having deposited in the bank,” said Jaimani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-more-held-in-silver-theft-case/articleshow/81318568.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||HC hearing against Tamnar alignment adjourned to Apr 6||Panaji: A new public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the high court in connection with the 400 kV high tension line (HTL) from Karnataka to Goa via the biodiversity-rich border area. The PIL filed by Goa Foundation and some landowners has been adjourned for April 6. The court has granted the respondents - central government, Goa government and Tamnar project contractor- time to file objections by March 22. This is in addition to the petition filed by Goa Foundation some months ago against the three linear projects under Wildlife protection act, 1972. The PIL filed by five landowners whose lands will be affected, and Goa Foundation, has challenged the approval granted for the new alignment for the power line which will connect Narendra sub-station in Dharwad to Goa, where more trees will be affected. The PIL challenges the approval dated November 28, 2018 issued by the central electricity authority (CEA) for an alignment of the 400 kV HTL as it directly affects forests, wildlife and a total of 1,31,082 trees in the ecologically sensitive area of the Western Ghats. The petitioners allege that alignment of the 400 kV HTL has been shifted illegally by the private contractor. The line was originally approved from Narendra to Xeldem in Mapusa, but is now routed to Sangod and then to Mapusa, which the petitioners say as per the records available, is completely unauthorised. The petitioners have stated that the Goa government even today is unaware of the alignment and the ecological and social havoc it involves, as the minutes of the expert body meetings of the CEA at which the project was approved indicate that the Goa government remained unrepresented. The five landowners include Gajanan Vasant Sawaiker, Antonio Mario Barreto, Vishwasrao Desai, Vishwanath Krishna Deveshekar and Josephine Fernandes, and Goa Foundation who have challenged the possible destruction of 22,140 trees on private lands. The petitioners have stated that the forest blocks on which the project has been approved includes the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, the Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary, Western Ghats Ecologically Sensitive Areas (ESAs), including the ESA of Bondla Wildlife Sanctuary, and the adjoining forest areas which together form part of one of the largest blocks of contiguous forests in the Western Ghats which themselves are a part of the 8 global biodiversity hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-hearing-against-tamnar-alignment-adjourned-to-apr-6/articleshow/81319957.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Goa||Mormugao Port Trust moots Ro-Ro, Ro-Pax at new international cruise terminal in North Goa||PANAJI: Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) unveiled an ambitious plan to develop a domestic and international cruise terminal, which will include Ro-Ro and Ro-Pax services and will enable cruise passengers to directly travel by smaller ferries and launches to North Goa, reports Newton Sequeira. The plan also includes a commercial hub, which will come up within the terminal building, so that foreign tourists who do not wish to travel can still get a taste of Goa’s culture, cuisine and handicrafts, MPT chairman E Ramesh Kumar said. “The rate at which cruise traffic is increasing shows that there is tremendous potential. The international and domestic cruise terminal is going to be developed on the theme of green cruise terminal and will ensure that tourists spend less time at the port,” Kumar said. He was speaking at the Maritime India Summit on a session on investment opportunities in Goa. At present, MPT has a 450m-long cruise berth that can comfortably accommodate cruise vessels. A second berth, which is presently leased to the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard, is used as and when two cruise ships make a simultaneous port call. The berth which was allotted to Western India Shipyard is now being considered for cruise operations after it is refurbished, sources said. Kumar said that as part of the initiatives to promote cruise tourism, a Ro-Ro facility for vehicles, a Ro-Pax facility, a fast ferry service and a ropeway will be built. While inaugurating the Maritime India Summit 2021, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that steps are being taken to introduce urban water transport systems in key states such as Gujarat, Goa, Kerala and in Mumbai. “The cruise terminal will come up in Vasco, but most tourists want to visit North Goa and they can take one of these options to reach North Goa. The ferry service that we are planning will be on three or four identified routes such as Dona Paula to Captain of Ports jetty and towards Old Goa and from South Goa to any of the beaches in North Goa,” Kumar said. Each ferry route will have a distinct colour code and hop-on-hop-off buses with the corresponding colour code are also being considered by MPT to receive cruise passengers. “Most cruise tourists are from European countries and are elderly and though a few opt to go see North Goa, there are many who would actually want to spend their time at the terminal itself. For this purpose we are planning a commercial hub spread over 4,000sqm of area. The commercial hub will be primarily designed to depict the old Portuguese architecture and will showcase handicraft, handlooms, cuisine of various states and cultural forms such music,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mpt-moots-ro-ro-ro-pax-at-new-international-cruise-terminal/articleshow/81319962.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur airport slips to 14th spot in ACI quality ranking||JAIPUR: In the ranking by the Airport Council International, the Jaipur airport has ranked 14 out of 22 airports based on 33 parameters. Last year, the airport was at the 13th position. According to officials, the low ranking is because of the ongoing construction work at the city airport. ACI World has revealed this year’s Airport Service Quality awards which highlight the world’s best airports as judged by their customers. The Covid-19 pandemic had a dramatic impact on global passenger traffic in 2020 as well as changing customer perceptions and expectations of the airport experience. Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, airports managed to collect ASQ surveys from their customers throughout the year and 108 awards have been won by 89 individual airports around the world. In this survey, 22 airports from India were ranked out of which Varanasi was at the top followed by Chandigarh and Amritsar in the category of the airports with an annual passenger footfall between 20 to 50 lakh. Jaipur Airport Director, J S Balhara said, “The rankings are done every quarter and total points taken to give the annual ranking. Jaipur was 14th as majority of the year we had various construction work going on here due to which obviously the passengers also faced difficulty. Moreover, due to pandemic, the survey could not be done in April-May.” There are 33 parameters on which the airports are surveyed. These include ground transportation to/from the airport, parking facilities, availability of baggage carts/trolleys, waiting time in check-in queue, flight information screens, restaurants, cleanliness of toilets, comfort of waiting areas and behaviour of the staff amongst others. In 2017, Jaipur had ranked at the top position in the same survey. To deal with the space constraints, various infrastructure development projects were started at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-airport-slips-to-14th-spot-in-aci-quality-ranking/articleshow/81318579.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||I-T raids not linked to BJP: I&B minister in Mumbai||Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, while responding to a question at a press conference in Delhi, rejected the allegations that the income-tax seraches on the premises of filmmaker Anurag Kashyap and actor Taapsee Pannu were linked to critical comments of the BJP. “This is too much,” he said, adding that “probe agencies undertake investigations based on credible information and the matter later goes to courts as well.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-t-raids-not-linked-to-bjp-ib-minister-in-mumbai/articleshow/81320924.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||Goa: Activist gets transit anticipatory bail in toolkit case||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail to 29-year-old Subham Kar Chaudhuri in the alleged ‘toolkit’ case. The high court stated that in the event of his arrest, in connection with the FIR dated February 4, 2021 registered by Delhi police’s cyber crime cell, he will be released on bail on furnishing a bond of Rs 50,000. “The protection is granted for a period of 10 days (from March 3 to March 12) in order to enable the applicant to approach the competent court for seeking appropriate reliefs,” the court said. Chaudhuri stated that he has been a resident of Goa since August 2020, working towards the accreditation of khazan lands as a United Nations agricultural heritage site, and apprehended being falsely implicated in the case. He stated that on February 28, a person residing in Goa known to him was contacted by an officer of Delhi police, who was trying to trace him. Chaudhuri submitted to the court that he had nothing to do with the making of the alleged online ‘toolkit’, which Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk and Disha Ravi are alleged to have conspired to create. He also stated that he has no connection in the offences alleged in the FIR. Through his counsel, Carlos Alvares Ferreira, Chaudhuri, who holds a BSc in hospitality from IHM-Mumbai, stated that he has volunteered for a well-known environmental organisation called ‘Extinction Rebellion’, and is presently the South Asia liaison in-charge of the organisation. He also stated that he is an ardent environmentalist, actively involved in seeking ecologically-sustainable solutions and proposing an environment-oriented approach towards policymaking. Chaudhuri submitted to the court that he has not interacted with any member of the Poetic Justice Foundation or any other Khalistani organisation, and is a peace-loving non-violent environmentalist who has been dragged into the case. He submitted that Jacob and Muluk are members of Extinction Rebellion’s India chapter, and his interaction with them is strictly in his capacity as liaison and in their capacity as volunteers in the group, which is completely unconnected with the offences alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/activist-gets-transit-anticipatory-bail-in-toolkit-case/articleshow/81319967.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Bareilly||Home guard, 38, run over by tractor-trolley of ‘mining mafia’||strap: Bareilly: A 38-year-old home guard, who tried to stop a vehicle for inspection, was allegedly crushed under the wheels of a tractor-trolley by a member of a gang involved in illegal mining near Bilaspur Road under Kemri police limits in UP’s Rampur district on Tuesday. A case has been registered and the accused is absconding, police said. The deceased has been identified as Subhan Shah, deputed as home guard at Bilaspur police station. The guard was on duty near Bilaspur Marg under Kemri police station and he tried to stop the tractor-trolley with possibly illegal mining materials, sources said. The driver, however, ran over him and fled. Shah sustained grievous injuries. He was rushed to Bilaspur CHC by police where he was declared "brought dead". The deceased cop is survived by wife and children. An FIR has been registered under IPC sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) against an unidentified person. When contacted, Kemri SHO, Rampur, Indresh Singh said, “The home guard was alone at the time, and therefore, things are not clear yet. Movement of illegal mining materials is common at night here. So, it is possible that the cop, on duty, may have tried to stop him." "It is all a matter of investigation now. The cop's body has been sent for postmortem. The accused is still at large,” the SHO added. Notably, sand mining activity is rampant in Rampur and its adjacent districts, where illegal mining gangs carry out illicit activities usually in late hours. It is common along various rivers, including Kosi, located in Swar area while in Moradabad, such activities continue unabated near Ramganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/home-guard-38-run-over-by-tractor-trolley-of-mining-mafia/articleshow/81316287.cms||Maria Khan
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Learn to break barricades, tractors like tanks for farmers: Tikait||Jaipur/Nagaur: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait while addressing a kisan mahapanchayat in Nagaur on Wednesday said, “The farmers (of Rajasthan) should learn to break the barricades and the tractors are like tanks for them.” He also said unless the farmers break the barricades and move forward, they won’t be able to take their movement to Delhi.He further appealed to the farmers to move towards Delhi carrying their grains on the tractors. “Be prepared to sell your grains at the Parliament where the MSP/rate was fixed,” he said.“Your tractors have been stopped. The parking area is about 2 kilometre away. Unless you (farmers of Rajasthan) break the barricades and move forward, you won’t be able to take your movement to Delhi. The strength of the farmers should be four times that of the barricades. Learn to break the barricading. There should not be barricading anywhere in the movement. Some of them are masters of breaking the barricades. Could anyone break the barricades in Delhi just by reading the Ramayan? The tractors are like tanks for the farmers. This movement can’t be led sitting inside your cars,” said Tikait.“At least 15 persons should get on one tractor from one village and be prepared to be there (in Delhi) for 10 days. Load your grains on the tractor. Also pack your ration for 10 days. This is the formula of an ideal combination and only then farmers will survive,” he added. “If the police stop you, tell them that Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has introduced a scheme and you are going to sell your grains at MSP (minimum support price) wherever it could be sold. Tell them, ‘either you buy it, or let us go to Delhi. The mandi in Delhi is the Parliament.”Tikait further said, “We don’t know how long the movement will continue. There are about 15,000 tractors near the Tikri border, but they (the central government) think the movement is over. Farmers have not gone anywhere. Thousands of people are sitting there surrounding Delhi. They even alleged that farmers are stealing electricity. We told them to give us a connection and take the bill in advance.”“Big companies like Walmart will come here and capture your farmland. The farmers will turn landless and the inflation will skyrocket. You will have to participate in the movement, set up committees in the villages and only then it will be successful,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/learn-to-break-barricades-tractors-like-tanks-for-farmers-tikait/articleshow/81318586.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Rescued kids had ashram as their home address in Aadhaar cards||Jaipur: The child commission team that rescued 27 minor boys from an unregistered shelter at Chomu near Jaipur has found that the minors had Aadhaar cards that showed the Vishwa Hindu Parishad-run ashram as their home address. The officials will record individual statements of all children and a report will be prepared by Monday. The VHP office bearers alleged that they did not get recognition despite repeated attempts. The child commission officials claimed that no one approached them for any assistance in the matter. Officials said the shelter was being used for child trafficking. Claiming it to be a tip of an iceberg, officials said the possibly the children were brought to be used as child labour as the villagers initially protested and helped two of the 29 boys escape when the child commission’s team reached the ashram, Bharatiya Vidya Niketan, late on Monday night. Sangeeta Beniwal, chairperson, Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights said, “If the organisation really wanted to do charity, then how come they did not do something for the children of Rajasthan? In fact the Aadhaar cards, which the children have, does not have the address of their actual homes but of the shelter in Rajasthan.” All the rescued boys are minors and aged between 7 and 16 years. They come from states like Nagaland, Meghalaya and few even from Uttar Pradesh as well as Nepal. The VHP office bearers claimed that the ashram was not given recognition despite multiple attempts. Beniwal added, “Our organisation does not have the authority to get them registered but in case they were facing difficulties, then they could have easily approached us but they did not. Moreover through sources, we have found that similar centres are being run across the country. The department will look thoroughly into the matter and present a report by Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rescued-kids-had-ashram-as-their-home-address-in-aadhaar-cards/articleshow/81318581.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||CM inspects Kumbh Mela works||Haridwar: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday met seers at Haridwar, where the the first Peshwai, of Niranjani Akhara, was conducted. The CM inspected the media centre which is being built in Neeldhara island along the main stream of Ganga and the base hospital in Pawan Dham. He spoke with the mela and district administration to take stock of preparedness for the mega event, scheduled to be held from April 1 to 30. “An 150-bed hospital at Pawan Dham, Bhupatwala is ready, to provide healthcare to pilgrims. The newly made media centre at Neeldhara is equipped with all modern facilities and will help the media persons coming from across India and abroad report on the Mela,” the CM said. He added that the Kumbh will be organised in a “clean and green” way and that most works had been completed and the rest will be done soon too. The CM also met saints of Bairagi akhadas at their camp. The seers here handed him a memorandum for the works to be completed in time. Bairagi akhada’s mahant Dharm Das told TOI, “No basic amenities have been provided so far in the Bairagi camp for seers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-inspects-kumbh-mela-works/articleshow/81317335.cms||MS Nawaz
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Walk to create awareness||Hyderabad: Telangana Audiologists and Speech Language Pathologists Association (TASLPA) organised a walk at the Tank Bund, to create awareness about hearing problems. Nearly 350 audiologists, staff, hearing impaired patients and students participated in the rally. State health minister Eatala Rajender said an audiology college would be set up in the coming days and effort would be made to provide hearing aids by the government to the poor. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/walk-to-create-awareness/articleshow/81318582.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai law student posts obscene video on Whatsapp group||MUMBAI: A student from a leading south Mumbai law college posted an obscene video on a WhatsApp group created for coordination of online lectures. While immediate attempts were made to trace the student, the phone number could not be identified and others in the class could not establish the person’s identity too. Eventually, the number was blocked and a complaint submitted to the college principal who, in turn, sent a letter to Marine Drive police station seeking a probe. After a month passed and the teachers began to moderate all online groups, the student allegedly started harassing a female classmate using the same phone number. The teachers have now once again written to the principal seeking a complaint with the cyber police cell, alleging no steps were taken to identify and penalise the student in the past. Three teachers from the college and a few students were administrators on the group where 80 others were members, mentioned the letter written to the police station on February 4. The video, which outraged the modesty of women, was posted on the group on February 1. A teacher from the college said there has been a delay in action. “If a person is not penalised for his actions, he is bound to repeat it. Many of us wanted a cyber crime complaint to be filed in the matter. The person is obviously using multiple mobile numbers because after that we have been moderating the groups. On WhatsApp the name had appeared as Tarzan and on caller ID it showed up as Mercedes E-Class,” said the teacher. Sharing an obscene video amounts to violation of sections under the IT Act as well as sections for sexual harassment in the Indian Penal Code. The college principal remained unavailable for comment. An officer from Marine Drive police station said no one from the college has come to record their statement yet and they will look into the matter. While online classes have become a necessity in the pandemic, sharing of obscene content and abuses under the garb of anonymity have been a nightmare for teachers. “Many teachers still live with this fear every day. Colleges need to back teachers and take strict action against offenders to set an example,” said a teacher from another college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-law-student-posts-obscene-video-on-whatsapp-group/articleshow/81319992.cms||Yogita Rao
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||‘More research need of hour’||Hyderabad: Community engagement, outreach programmes and research in the area of hearing loss are the need of the hour, said Dr Vikas Bhatia, the director of AIIMS, Bibinagar. He also suggested that cohort groups for some diseases of public health importance should be developed. “These cohorts can conduct research or plan activities on that,” he said. The departments of paediatrics, and community and family medicine also organized an awareness programme for patients. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-research-need-of-hour/articleshow/81318589.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||Goa: Another setback for govt, HC restores houses to Corporation of the City of Panaji area||PANAJI: In yet another blow to the government, the high court of Bombay at Goa held that the director of municipal administration (DMA) has no authority to alter the area of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) to exclude houses that were within its jurisdiction. The DMA, on February 4, issued a notification abruptly excluding the houses of businessman Nelson Cabral and others from CCP limits. Cabral and some other petitioners, also Cabrals, challenged the order in the HC. A bench comprising justices Mahesh Sonak and Bharati Dangre found that Nelson Cabral not only lived within the area that constituted Panaji municipality, he was also elected councillor in 1995. After the establishment of the CCP in 2002, via the City of Panaji Corporation Act, his wife was elected as corporator. In 2006 and 2011, too, he (Nelson) contested elections but lost where his brother contested and was elected corporator in 2011 and 2016. “From all this, it is quite clear that the said three houses which have now been abruptly excluded by the impugned notification were always included within the Corporation area,” said Sonak. “Based on such inclusion, right from the year 2002, the petitioners have been contesting and even on occasion winning elections to the Corporation.” “Section 9(2) of the said Act, according to us, does not empower the director to alter the Corporation area or to exclude houses which were already a part of the Corporation area,” the court held. “Section 9(2) only empowers the director, with the approval of the state government, to specify for the city the number and boundaries of the wards into which the city shall be divided for the purpose of the ward election of councillors and the number of councillors to be elected for each ward.” When advocate general Devidas Pangam raised Article 243-ZG of the Constitution, which bars the court from interfering in electoral matters, the bench said, “The bar under Article 243-ZG will not apply in the peculiar facts of the present case, particularly since we are, in no manner, interfering with the election process or the election schedule in any manner. The election schedule is to proceed as announced by the state election commission”.  Pangam added that the names of the petitioners were included in the rolls of the village panchayat of Taleigao for 2019 and 2020, and that the petitioners didn’t protest that inclusion for two years even though two elections have already taken place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-setback-for-govt-hc-restores-houses-to-ccp-area/articleshow/81319979.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Unemployed youths to begin campaign against Cong in upcoming bypolls||Jaipur: After the meeting between Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh and the government on their 17 demands failed on Tuesday, the unemployed youths have decided to begin their election campaign from Rajsamand on Thursday. They have already announced candidates for bypolls due on four assembly seats. They will be launching a campaign against the Congress government with the slogan “Naukri nahi toh vote nahi”.“Our agitation will continue on the 17 demands that we’veput forward before the government. We will start the ‘Naukri nahi toh vote nahi’campaign from Rajsamand on Thursday and after that we’ll head towards Udaipur,”said Upen Yadav, convener of the mahasangh.The Tuesday’s meeting between ministerial sub-committee including – B D Kalla, Rajendra Yadav and Shubhas Garg – and the BerozgarEkikrit Mahasangh was also attended by 12 IAS officers.“We will go to every house in the four assembly seats and appeal to people not to vote for the Congress. If they fulfill our demands, we will not fight against the Congress party in the bypolls and all off the agitation. During the meeting the committee members said they have forwarded the report to the cabinet. Thereafter, it will be approved by chief minister(Ashok Gehot). We requested them to issue an order on at least 4-5 demands, of the 17. But, they refused,” he added.The bypolls are due on four assembly seats including Sujangarh, Sahada, Rajsamand and Vallabhnagar.BoxJaipur: The state election commissioner P S Mehra onTuesday urged the local-self government (LSG) department to hold in abeyance,if any such proposal is under consideration, the formation of newmunicipalities till the completion of Zila Parishad and panchayat samiti pollsin 12 districts. He asked the panchayati raj department to take action as per the notification issued on February 23 for the fragmentation of the newly-formed municipalities under the department. He said, the creation of new municipalities should be postponed in order to avoid any kind of legal hassles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unemployed-youths-to-begin-campaign-against-cong-in-upcoming-bypolls/articleshow/81318590.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Tender apology to people for failing to bring ITIR: KTR to BJP||Hyderabad: TRS working president KT Rama Rao said the BJP leaders should tender an apology to the people of Telangana for failing to bring Information Technology and Investment Region (ITIR). In a statement, KTR, who is also IT minister of Telangana, said BJP Telangana president Bandi Sanjay was trying to mislead the people on ITIR project. Referring to the Union IT and electronics minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s statement in the Parliament that the ITIR scheme has been shelved in the country, KTR said that the BJP state president Bandi Sanjay was unaware of this fact and this shows his ignorance. “Bandi Sanjay’s letter on ITIR is bundle of lies. He wrote the letter to gain publicity ,” KTR said. The TRS working president said that ITIR has not gone ahead even in Bengaluru, though it’s the same party that runs the government at the Centre and in Karnataka. “Apart from Hyderabad, the ITIR project was sanctioned to AP, Orissa, and Karnataka but has not seen any development in any of these states. Is the TRS government responsible for no development there too?” KTR asked. “We will provide all the letters written to the union government since 2014 and also the Detailed Project Report of ITIR to Bandi Sanjay. Does he have the power to get ITIR to Hyderabad?” KTR asked. If the Telangana BJP has any sincerity towards bringing ITIR to Hyderabad, they should make the Centre announce it, he added. “I challenge Bandi Sanjay to either bring ITIR or a project equivalent to ITIR to Hyderabad,” KTR said, and added the BJP has disappointed the youth of Telangana who have been waiting for ITIR. The TRS working president said that ITIR has not gone ahead even in Bengaluru, though it’s the same party that runs the government at the Centre and in Karnataka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tender-apology-to-people-for-failing-to-bring-itir-ktr-to-bjp/articleshow/81318591.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||MahaMetro to start feeder service from Mihan today||Nagpur: In a major relief for over 50,000 people working in Mihan, MahaMetro has started an on-call feeder service between Khapri metro station and the industrial estate. The service will be operational from today. On Wednesday, MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit along with other senior officials inaugurated the service. The feeder service has been started to ensure end-to-end connectivity for employees of various companies and residents living in the vicinity. According to officials, a cab and a bus will be available daily between 8am and 8pm. “Charges will depend on the distance that will be covered. Facilities like monthly subscription and passes will also be available. The feeder service will just be a call away. It will ensure that employees are dropped and picked up from their respective offices,” said officials. MahaMetro is hopeful that the connectivity will help thousands of employees working in the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), IT companies, Lupin, Tech Mahindra and other companies. “Many residential townships are also coming up and this service will prove to be beneficial to residents too,” officials added. MahaMetro has procured feeder vehicles from a private contractor. Under a similar feeder service, an electric bus is operating between the Nagpur airport and airport metro station. MahaMetro plans to increase the number of vehicles in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahametro-to-start-feeder-service-from-mihan-today/articleshow/81318610.cms||Manka Behl
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||First allocation for Project Lion||Ahmedabad: The state government for the first time has allocated funds for the Project Lion announced by the Union government. The state budget has allocated Rs 11 crore as its share for the centrally funded project. The state government said the allocation of Rs 11 crore was for the first year of Project Lion created by the Centre for protection and conservation of lions in the Gir National Park and Sanctuary – the sole abode of Asiatic Lions —and revenue areas of larger Gir like Junagarh, Gir Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar and Botad districts. Also, a provision of Rs 10 crore has been made for setting up a Sambar Breeding Centre for preparing a prey base for the lions in Gir National Park and Sanctuary and larger Gir area. The breeding centre will provide more prey for lions in the sanctuary, and may help reduce their spread to other areas. Meanwhile a provision of Rs 7 crore was made for establishing a Mega Rescue Centre for leopards to prevent their depredation in Amreli and Jambughoda areas. The state finance minister and deputy chief minister, Nitin Patel, said farmers have to work late in the night when power supply is given and have to face the risk of encountering animals like lions, leopards, snakes, scorpions etc while irrigating the land. To rid the farmers of this hardship, the state has launched Kisan Suryoday Yojana to provide power supply to farmers during daytime. Implementation of the scheme has started in a majority of districts like Junagadh, Gir Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar, Botad, Rajkot, Morbi, Porbandar among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/first-allocation-for-project-lion/articleshow/81318662.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder patronising Mukhtar Ansari to please Sonia: Tarun Chugh||CHANDIGARH: BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said on Wednesday that Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab was patronising gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari to evade appearance in various courts in Uttar Pradesh. Chugh said the Punjab government was doing so to please Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul. Ansari, sitting BSP MLA from Mhow, is presently lodged in a Ropar jail in connection with an extortion case. Quoting a communication from BJP MLA from Mohammadabad assembly seat in UP Alka Rai, in which she accused the Congress government in Punjab of helping Ansari, Chugh asked the Punjab chief minister why he was trying to save this notorious criminal. Alka is wife of former MLA Krishanand Rai who was shot in 2005 along with six others. The Delhi CBI court had later acquitted Ansari and others in Rai’s murder case in 2019. Chugh said the Congress aims to use Ansari for attracting Muslim votes in the forthcoming UP elections but the Yogi government would not let it play its game. The BJP leader further added that courts in UP had summoned Ansari but the Punjab government is not ready to send him. He also demanded action against the jail authorities which were hand-in-glove with Ansari in protecting him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-patronising-ansari-to-please-sonia-chugh/articleshow/81319975.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Bitterness on farm laws spilling over abroad||JALANDHAR: Bitterness between anti- and pro-farm laws groups is now visible abroad also. During a pro-farm ‘Tiranga’ Maple rally in Brampton, Ontario, there were acrimonious and abusive exchanges on Sunday. On the same day, a car of Sikh youths was attacked with baseball bats and rods. They have alleged that it was a hate crime and those attacked them were also Indians. The incidents have generated heat on social media, and communal references and slurs are also being used. In Brampton, a Tiranga car rally was confronted by anti-farm law groups. In a video clip already doing rounds on social media, a person can be seen pushing behind a participant of the Tiranga rally who fell to the ground. Somebody shooting the video could be seen hurling abuses and communal slurs in Punjabi. In another video, a car occupant could be seen being abused and mocked, while slogans against PM Narendra Modi’s supporters and Kisan Mazdoor Ekta could also be heard. In a separate video clip, a man is seen taking down a Tricolour atop a car and throwing it down, while also hurling a couple of expletives. After these incidents, Canadian Hindu Advocacy with Ron Banerjee as a director from its twitter handle @canhinduadv on Tuesday tweeted, “Our crew will be visiting Brampton and walking the sidewalks in front of Sikh temples. We will show up with no advance notice and we shall expose evil. We’ve done it before and we’ll do it again.” As there was mixed response to this announcement, including support and criticism, the same twitter handle on Tuesday tweeted: “Our peaceful rally will be staged lawfully on public property. We support moderate Sikhs, like Dr Bikram Lamba, and we will not target any community. Public spaces, beside places of worship displaying images honoring terrorists, are good locations to bring our message of peace.” The same Twitter handle had tweeted on February 9, 2017: “We, in fact, do seminars where we (accurately) portray 1984 and Gujarat 2002 (events as) heroic and anti-terrorist.”It had used hashtags #guj2002 and #celebrate1984 . Reacting to this call to reach outside gurdwara, Canada-based Punjabi journalist Gurpreet Singh Sahota posted on his Facebook page that if they would come outside, then serve them langar or tea and avoid any confrontation as attempts were being made to create a communal binary around farmers protest. Other Punjabis/Sikhs also supported the suggestion to avoid any confrontation. In Australia, a car of Sikh youths was attacked. In Australia, a car with Sikh youths inside was attacked by a group of persons, carrying baseballs bats, rods and blunt weapons, and all its windows were badly smashed. It is suspected to be a hate crime. The group had participated in an anti-farm law protest and one of the youths told TOI that they were either attacked due to their Sikh identity or for their support to the protest in Sydney. The incident took place on Sunday night, when the group was returning from a dinner at an Indian restaurant. All the five are in early twenties and are students. “It seems that someone noticed us at the restaurant and more people were gathered to attack us. “The first attempt to attack us was made by waylaying us, but we escaped,” said one of the students, name being withheld on request, while speaking to TOI on phone from Sydney. The incident has been caught on CCTV cameras in which a group can be seen attacking the car and the vehicle managing to race away and then a car immediately following it. “Then, we had to stop at the traffic lights ahead and the same group of about 12 people attacked us again. It was here that our car was bashed from all sides. The assailants attacked with baseball bats and rods, and at least one axe. Luckily, the lights turned green and we sped away. We could have been seriously hurt or there could have even been a loss of life the way the attack was executed,” said the youth. The student said that one of them had identified one of the assailants on Wednesday evening and given his name to the police. “The suspect had participated in a car rally a few days ago and had streamed a video also from there,” the youth claimed. Australian media has also reported that it was suspected to be a hate crime. A news outlet, while reporting the incident, referred to it as a case of “racial violence within Sydney’s Indian community” as tension had been brewing already and there had been a few of incidents of acrimony or confrontation in the past some time. “We have also told the police that we were attacked due to our turbans – either for being Sikhs or for participating in anti-farm laws protest,” the youth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bitterness-on-farm-laws-spilling-over-abroad/articleshow/81319995.cms||IP Singh
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||One year of Gairsain as summer capital: Initiatives taken, much needs to be done||Dehradun: In nearly one year of Gairsain being declared as the summer capital of Uttarakhand, projects worth Rs 70 crore have been initiated to provide potable water – which remains a major concern in the region. Some other key projects — including a new secretariat building — have also been announced. Also, the government has said that it will invest Rs 25,000 crore in the area in a period of 10 years. Besides, the centre of Indian Reserve Batallalion along with the state headquarters of Uttarakhand Tea Board are also proposed in Gairsain. It is also expected that the state budget will have some major declarations for Gairsain. “We have fulfilled the commitment made to the people. It was not just limited to making an announcement. The government, in a planned way, is carrying out development in the area. Our first aim is to ensure adequate water supply. Also, the secretariat, tea board headquarters are major steps towards setting up administrative machinery in the hills,” urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said. While the locals have welcomed the initiatives, they say more steps and regular visits of ministers are required to help address the problems of the people in the area. “Holding a few days of assembly session will not justify the tag of summer capital. Ministers and bureaucrats need to spend more time in Gairsain so that people can reach out to them.” He added, “The expectations of people are rising and thus, a lot of efforts are required to develop the area,” he added. To recall, Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had declared Gairsain as the state’s summer capital on March 4 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-year-of-gairsain-as-summer-capital-initiatives-taken-much-needs-to-be-done/articleshow/81317338.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||SoU gets another Rs 652 cr booster dose||Ahmedabad: The world’s tallest statue, the Statue of Unity (SoU) built to honor Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, has got another booster dose of Rs 652 crore in the state budget outlay. The allocation has been made for ongoing and upcoming projects under the Statue of Unity Area Development Project. The state government has announced a provision of Rs 315 crore for making available qualitative modern facilities to the tourists visiting Gujarat. Travel industry experts feel the decision of developing one tourism site fully will go a long way in giving people various alternatives to explore the same destinations in different contexts. The government has proposed an outlay of Rs 25 crore to set up a museum displaying the legacy of the erstwhile royalties who dissolved their states in unified India at the behest of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. “Gujarat is slowly becoming a tourism hub in India. People don’t just look for a good destination but various facilities around it are needed. The government must focus on developing at least one destination in each budget,” said Manish Sharma, chairman – Gujarat, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI). Taking into account the spread of helicopter service in Gujarat, especially at pilgrim locations, the government has proposed to set up heliports on a permanent basis. For this, a provision of Rs 3 crore for developing heliports at Ahmedabad, Somnath, Ambaji, Dwarka, Saputara and Gir. Helicopter service announcement at most pilgrim sites is a good move by the government as it will give an alternative to people to visit these pilgrimage sites, Sharma further explained. Key proposals for museums · Rs 18 crore: National Museum highlighting the tribal culture and contribution of tribal leaders who played important role in the national freedom movement, at Rajpipla in Narmada district · Rs 5 crore: Develop facility of the Light and Sound Show at Vadodara Museum and Picture Gallery · Rs 15 crore: Modernisation of Shyamji Krishna Varma Memorial at Mandvi-Kutch · Toy Museum to be set up at Science City, Ahmedabad · Museum to display history of Gujarat to be developed in the Gujarat Legislative Assembly at Gandhinagar Facilities at pilgrimages to be improved Rs 31 crore — Comprehensive development of Pavagadh-Machi Rs 30 crore — Developmental Narayan Sarovar-Kutch Rs 10 crore — Development of Bahucharaji pilgrim place Rs 10 crore — Development of Kantharpur-Vad in Gandhinagar district I-max theatre to be revamped; Science Park in Sabarkantha The government of Gujarat has proposed funds worth Rs 80 crore for renovation of I-max theatre, musical fountain and cafeteria constructed under phase-1 project and construction of aquatic and robotics gallery and astronomy and space science gallery under phase-2 at the Science City. To create more awareness about the geographical importance of the Tropic of Cancer passing through Salal village of Sabarkantha district, a Science Park will be developed there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sou-gets-another-rs-652-cr-booster-dose/articleshow/81318670.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||No testing or curbs for visitors to Goa: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Putting to rest all speculations that mandatory testing or strict SOPs for tourists entering Goa may return, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said there will neither be any compulsory testing for visitors nor is the government considering another lockdown. “There will be no compulsory testing as of now and whoever is coming in and has any symptoms, should get themselves tested willingly,” Sawant said. With cases on the rise again in the neighbhouring states and curbs on visitors, including from Goa, health minister Vishwajit Rane had suggested that the state may also consider strict SOPs for those entering Goa. Goa Medical College dean and in-charge of Covid hospitals in the state, Dr S M Bandekar, had also said his personal view was that people entering the state should be allowed only with a Covid negative RT-PCR certificate. But Sawant, who had asked the health department for details about the cases in the neighbhouring states, said the state is taking all necessary precautions. “Precautions are our biggest weapon. Our economic activities have just begun normalising and there is no point in having a lockdown at present. We are alerting those who are coming into Goa. It is equally important for those in Goa to also take precautions,” he said. Sawant said the number of new Covid-19 cases reported in Goa are fluctuating and are not on a steady rise. On Wednesday, Goa reported 70 new cases, while there were no deaths. “Some days ago, there were 100 new cases reported, later it was again down to 45. Though the vaccination has begun, people should keep in mind that maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and sanitising has to be mandatorily adhered to,” he said. “Also, anyone who finds any symptoms should get tested as soon as possible and home-isolate themselves. This is important,” the chief minister said. Sawant, who took the first jab of the vaccine on Wednesday morning at the Sakhali health centre near his private residence, asked all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. “My father, too, took the jab today (Wednesday) and the vaccine is safe. Prime Minister has himself taken the jab to promote vaccination. Being a doctor by profession and a frontline worker, I had registered and had decided that I will wait for my turn for the vaccination. Doctors called me up yesterday (Tuesday) and accordingly, I took the vaccination,” Sawant said. The chief minister said he wants to lead by example and was hopeful that people would gain confidence to go for vaccination. “There was no pain while taking the vaccine and there was no reaction in the following half an hour. If we want to make Goa free of Covid-19, it is important that we all take the vaccination. After taking the vaccination, there can be side-effects like fever and body ache in the first 24 hours. In Goa, no such case has been reported so far,” he said. At present there is some crowding only at urban health centres, but the directorate of health services has been instructed to give prior appointments to up to 100 persons and call them for vaccination, Sawant said. “Presently, there is no need to increase the number of vaccination centres. Vaccination in government hospitals is free of cost and private hospitals will charge Rs 250,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-testing-or-curbs-for-visitors-to-goa-sawant/articleshow/81320010.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||People using public transport less prone to Covid reinfection, finds study||HYDERABAD: People who use public transport and those involved in high-contact work have a lower risk of Covid-19 reinfection. This is because a large pool of people from such groups have already had Covid-19 infection and they have a high seropositivity for the virus. A study, involving data of seropositivity from 24 cities, including Hyderabad, reveals only one in four people, who have seropositivity, could recall they had serious symptoms. This means 75% of people, who had Covid-19, did not experience any major symptoms. They only recalled flu-like symptoms indicating a majority did not know they had the virus. The study involving 10,427 people from across India, including 2,073 staff from city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), and National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), was first published on January 19 and updated on February 28 on preprint journal ‘MedRxiv’’. Coronavirus live updatesThe study revealed only 50% of those who had seropositivity had fever while 25% lost taste and smell. About 3% had issues with breathing that required oxygen support. Read AlsoCovid-19: Overcrowding at vaccination centres worries health expertsExperts are concerned that the growing lines of vaccine-seeking senior citizens at hospitals may lead to superspreader events. Three days into phase 2 of the vaccination drive, the state technical advisory committee has flagged up the issue to officials.Researchers said people who use public transport had about 16% seropositivity as against 9% in people who use private transport. This means seropositivity is 20% more among those using public transport. “The fraction of such recovered subjects with resistance to reinfection was more than double among people performing high-contact jobs and using public transport,” researchers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-using-public-transport-less-prone-to-covid-reinfection-finds-study/articleshow/81318595.cms||Syed Akbar
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid panels to keep an eagle eye||Hyderabad: The United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) has set up Covid-19 panels to monitor people suffering from Covid-like symptoms and take measures like shifting them to hospitals or keeping them in isolation to avoid spread of virus to other inmates in apartment complexes and gated communities. UFERWAS general secretary BT Srinivasan said this is important in the wake of spurt in positive cases. “We cannot let guard down. It is the prime duty of every RWA to promote health and safety of the residents. The panels will stress on following the standard operating procedures issued by the Centre on Covid-19 mitigation,” he said. Panels will also see to it that essential commodities are supplied to those who are in isolation or doing quarantine and coordinate with local hospitals. UFERWAS is regularly monitoring all the panels round-the clock to ensure safe health of lakhs of flat owners staying in over 35,000 apartments, he said. Covid-19 panels have been set up in all six GHMC zones — Secunderabad, Kukatpally, LB Nagar, Charminar, Serilingampally and Khairatabad. With regard to the initiative for the elderly, K Narayan Reddy (70) of Malkajgiri urged the RWAs to monitor closely if all senior citizens who were administered the first dose of vaccine to not to miss the second dose. “It is better to follow the government’s statutory norms for our own safety and health,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-panels-to-keep-an-eagle-eye/articleshow/81318597.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chandigarh||British MPs to debate safety of farm protesters in India on March 8||LONDON: British MPs will debate the safety of farmer protesters in India and press freedoms in the House of Commons on March 8. The debate is in response to the petition ‘Urge the Indian Government to ensure safety of protestors & press freedom’ started by Maidenhead Liberal Democrat councillor Gurch Singh, who has ancestral roots in Ludhiana. It has garnered more than 115,000 signatures on the UK Parliament’s petitions website. Scottish National Party MP Martyn Day will open the 90-minute debate at 10pm (IST), which can be viewed in India on Parliament TV. On January 14, Westminster Hall debates were suspended owing to Covid-19 but are set to restart on March 8 in a hybrid fashion. “The debate will add pressure on to the UK government to take this issue up with the Indian authorities either directly or at an international level,” Singh said. “This is a matter of human rights, the right for farmers to peacefully protest against laws that would otherwise exploit them. It’s also about allowing journalists to freely report on what’s happening. This is no different from the UK government taking a stance on protesters in Hong Kong.” He said the petitions committee, which schedules debates for petitions with over 100,000 signatures, “realised that this is very much a live issue and it’s not something that can be delayed any further. Many farmers have lost their lives, some are still missing, others are locked away in prison and journalists are being silenced.” Jasvir Singh, chair of City Sikhs, has written a letter to UK PM Boris Johnson, asking him to take note of the “violations of human rights in India in relation to the farmers’ protests” and asking why UK did not “remind India of its legal responsibilities towards own citizens” when it held chair of the UN Security Council last month. Watch UK Parliament to discuss farmers' protest in India on March 8||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/british-mps-to-debate-safety-of-farm-protesters-in-india-on-march-8/articleshow/81319981.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||National programme on deafness now in all districts||Times News NetworkJAIPUR: Expanding healthcare services for the hearing impaired, soundproof rooms have been constructed in each district hospital under the National Programme for Deafness and Control of Deafness (NPPCD). The programme, which started in 12 districts in 2014-15, was later extended across the state. In all government district hospitals, facilities have been installed to check the degree of hearing loss among patients suffering from deafness. The tests are done through modern machines and techniques such as pure-tone audiometer and impedance audiometer.Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said the problem of deafness can be reduced to a great extent through awareness and information. He said if each newborn is screened and elders remain alert in this regard, cases of disease such as deafness can decline.A state-level seminar organised on World Hearing Day at Panchayati Raj Sansthan was organised on Wednesday. Prevention of hearing loss due to illness or injury, early detection and treatment of problems related to ears that reduce the hearing capacity, rehabilitation of all people suffering from deafness and distribution of hearing aids are being done under this programme along with capacity building of doctors is being done by imparting training to them. While claiming that more than 900 cochlear implants have been implanted in children by the state government, Sharma said the entire focus of the government is on better health of people of the state. “This is the reason that the state government in the Budget too has emphasised on strengthening health infrastructures,” he said. Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said to make this programme a success, its importance has to be explained to every household and family. If each person remains aware, then deafness in society can be kept at bay. He directed the doctors and officers attending the seminar to bring awareness at the local level.National Health Mission director Naresh Kumar Thakral said deafness was not an incurable disease and can be diagnosed with timely treatment and awareness. He said it is possible to easily treat deafness through various surgeries and equipment at government expense.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/national-programme-on-deafness-now-in-all-districts/articleshow/81318593.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||At over 5L, highest number of aged people are in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The state government has identified 51.4 lakh people, including the elderly and those between 45 and 59 years, who need to be given the jab in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination phase. It is making arrangements to get over 1 crore vaccine doses ready for the first and second doses. Hyderabad has the highest number of aged and people with comorbidities over 5 lakh, while Mulugu district has the least number at 39,000. Jangaon has 73,000 seniors and others who need to be given the jab. After Hyderabad district, Medchal Malkajgiri district has the second highest number of aged people (over 5 lakh) and others, followed by Rangareddy district (over 4 lakh) to get vaccinated. “Many people are under still under the impression that they need to register at the centre where they take the vaccine. Registration can be done from anywhere and spot registrations are also possible if people take required documents along with them,” said an official. The government has set up 1,200 vaccine centres. In each centre, arrangements have been to administer the shot to at least 200 people. Officials said there is a possibility to give the jab to 2.4 lakh people daily. Each centre has six healthcare staffers along with a medical officer to supervise the vaccination drive. On Wednesday, several additional private hospitals started administering the vaccine shot. Health officials are keeping an eye on the hospitals to see if there are any people who are not in the category of comorbidities but are also getting the vaccine. Officials warned that action will be taken against such persons. Meanwhile, some private hospitals are not collecting the service charge of Rs 100 extra. A majority of bigger hospitals in Hyderabad are charging only Rs 150 for each shot. The government had fixed the vaccine dosage charge in private hospitals at Rs 250.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-over-5l-highest-no-of-aged-people-are-in-hyd/articleshow/81318626.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Now, positive flyers from Middle East, Brazil can isolate in private hospitals||MUMBAI: BMC on Wednesday updated its quarantine guidelines for international passengers travelling from the Europe, the Middle East, South Africa and Brazil. One of important additions was if travellers are found to be Covid positive or asymptomatic on arrival or on day seven of their arrival, they can be shifted to private hospitals as well, if arrived from the Middle East, South Africa, Europe or Brazil. However if they have travelled from UK then they could only isolate in BMC run Seven Hills hospital only . The designated private hospitals are Bombay, Raheja, Hinduja and Reliance hospitals. If travellers are found negative on day seven, then they are to be discharged from institutional quarantine and sent to mandatory home quarantine for another seven days. All contacts of those travellers who turn positive during home quarantine are to be isolated too. These guidelines follow increasing evidence of mutant variants of SARS CoV2 in circulation in the UK, Brazil and South Africa. Until now, passengers from the Europe, South Africa and Middle East were admitted only at GT hospital. With the addition of Brazil to the list, BMC has also given the option of private hospitals. The Central government had made it mandatory for incoming passengers from Brazil to be sent to institutional quarantine for seven days from February 17, 2021. “Passengers arriving/transiting through flights originating from Brazil require compulsory seven days of institutional quarantine, irrespective of negative report on pre boarding,” states the updated guideline circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-in-mumbai-flyers-from-uk-middle-east-brazil-can-isolate-in-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/81318673.cms||Richa Pinto
March 4, 2021||Goa||ISL: FC Goa’s unbeaten run under threat as Mumbai City lie in wait||Margao: Nobody knows the route to the playoffs in Indian Super League (ISL) better than FC Goa. For four years in a row, Goa have made it to the semifinals, but in knockout contests, the Goans have not always made it count. Twice in the last three years, they have failed to jump the hurdle, and as the team comes face-to-face against Mumbai City FC at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Friday, doubts are certain to creep in. Mumbai, after all, are the champions. They are clearly the best side in the league, and the man guiding them is Sergio Lobera, who last year worked his magic at Goa, taking the team to the top before being controversially sacked. In two league games this season, Mumbai won the first narrowly – thanks to an added time penalty – and then the teams were locked 3-3 at the end of 90 minutes in the second leg. The games have shown there is little to choose, although Goa will feel handicapped with the suspensions of Spanish imports Ivan Gonzalez and Alberto Noguera, both of whom have had influential roles to play. "It's not a big problem for me to choose the best lineup," said Goa coach Juan Ferrando. "We have a very good squad. Of course, I want to field the best lineup, but it’s not (always) possible. Sometimes there are injuries, cards. But I am happy. The team is working hard in training." Goa are now on a 13-match unbeaten run, a record in the ISL. That record previously belonged to Mumbai – earlier in the season. Up against a team they have not defeated in two attempts, will there be doubts? "The most important is that the players enjoy the game. If FC Goa players enjoy, sure we have success. That’s my point of view. Pressure? Yes, there is because everyone wants to win. But for me it’s important that the players want to play football. I am not afraid when I see that," said Ferrando. Having won the League Winners Shield and qualified for next year’s AFC Champions League, Asian football’s premier club competition, Lobera has now seen the hunger in the eyes of his players to win the double. "I think I am very lucky because I have very good players and very good professionals," said Lobera. "They know how important it is to play the semifinals and win the trophy. They are ambitious. The players are very excited to play the semis. Everyone wants this situation, and me as a coach, it's easy to motivate." One player who will not need any motivational talk is Hugo Boumous. The French playmaker who won the Golden Ball last season – awarded to the best player – was suspended for the last four games after abusing the referee. That, curiously, happened during the 3-3 draw against Goa, his former team. "Hugo is a very important player for us, for our style of play. He can help us a lot now in this moment. It was painful for us, the four-game suspension," said Lobera. His return means Lobera will have to leave either Bartholomew Ogbeche or Adam Le Fondre on the bench, a tough call given their success against ATK Mohun Bagan in the decisive clash early this week. Lobera hasn’t made up his mind. Maybe two will play, or, as the coach said, "all three together." The three played the opening game against NorthEast United and didn’t click. Lobera must now take a call and he’s happy with this "amazing problem."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-fc-goas-unbeaten-run-under-threat-as-mumbai-city-lie-in-wait/articleshow/81336486.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Shot in the arm for seniors||Hyderabad: In an initiative which could go a long way in helping senior citizens get the Covid-19 jab without much hassle, resident0 welfare associations (RWAs) have decided to involve themselves in the vaccination drive in a big way. The United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS), an apex body of RWAs in the city, will work together with the state medical and health department. They will not only assist in getting the shot for the elderly people identified by the RWAs in their residential complexes and gated communities, but also allow them access to government hospitals and private hospitals without waiting in queue lines. The RWAs will also help the elderly people in enrolling their names online for taking the vaccine shot and on Co-Win app. Over 4,300 RWAs have volunteered to assist the elderly and people of 45 years and above with comorbidities to get the vaccination doses by getting appointments at hospitals. UFERWAS general secretary BT Srinivasan said they got into the thick of the action after realising that many senior citizens are not familiar with internet and the online process of OTP authentication, etc. “Over 60% of the elderly people in the city stay alone as their children are away from them having settled abroad or pursuing higher studies elsewhere. We will help them handle the processes,” Srinivasan told TOI. Though the state government had announced walk-ins for senior citizens, they are forced to wait for long hours without scheduled appointments, Srinivasan said. “This is where the UFERWAS will step in,” he said. He asked all RWAs under UFERWAS to collect data of senior citizens (above 60 years and who are not able to register online), submit the details at the nearest vaccination centre and fix their appointment. “We have also requested the health department to consider the lists sent by us and schedule early appointments so that the elderly are not made to wait,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shot-in-the-arm-for-seniors/articleshow/81318614.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Fire erupts in car at domestic airport in Mumbai||A fire erupted in a private car at the domestic airport at Santacruz (east) late on Wednesday. Civic officials said the road was cordoned off following the blaze. No injuries were reported. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fire-erupts-in-car-at-domestic-airport-in-mumbai/articleshow/81321003.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chandigarh||I will get farmers’ crop harvested and sell it on MSP: Abhay Chautala||HISAR: Raising the pitch ahead of Ellenabad byelection, former MLA and INLD principal general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala said if farmers of the area are busy strengthening the farmer movement, he would get their crop harvested and if the government does not buy wheat on MSP, then he will sell it on MSP by keeping a foot on the neck of the government. Addressing the Kisan Samman Sammelan held at the Grain Mandi of Ellenabad in Sirsa district, Abhay said, “The farmer whom the government is weakening today has to be liberated, for which every farmer in our region should be mobilized.” He said as the time of harvesting is near, the farmers should not worry about this. “If there is any problem in harvesting the crop, the farmer just should call me, and I will send the combine to harvest his wheat crop. I will sell it on MSP. If the government does not buy it, then farmers’ crops will be sold on MSP by keeping a foot on the neck of the government.” He said the people of Jind have already decided that no leader of JJP and BJP will be allowed to enter the village. On the same lines, the people of Ellenabad region should ask for resignation of the BJP-JJP leaders who would come here seeking vote, he urged. Abhay said the byelection of Ellenabad is going to take place soon and he owes a debt to this area’s people because the people here “believed me and sent me to the Assembly even when the Prime Minister of the country had come here to defeat me. Therefore, the BJP needs to be taught a lesson in the byelections too.” Abhay said the main reason for his resignation was to expose the chameleon-like politicians who go to the farmers’ movement and pretend to be farmer-friendly, but after his resignation they have no courage left to go among the farmers. The blood of Chaudhary Devi Lal running in my veins, who had rejected even the post of Prime Minister. He had resigned following the same tradition, Abhay said. Abhay said the Congress government had drafted all the three agricultural laws that the BJP had brought, but the Congress could not implement them due to lack of a majority. At that time, the leaders of the kisan-friendly regional parties of Mulayam Singh Yadav, Lalu Prasad Yadav, Mamata Banerjee, Sharad Panwar, Biju Patnaik had threatened to withdraw support to the Congress following which the three bills were put in the trash basket. The BJP government legislated the same draft under the cover of the corona epidemic, Abhay said. Farmer leaders Suresh Kauth, Sonia Mann, Poonam Pandit, Mankirat Aulak and Punjabi singer Ajay Hooda were also present at this programme. Ajay Hooda also sung the song ‘Modi ji thari top kde hum dilli aage’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/i-will-get-farmers-crop-harvested-and-sell-it-on-msp-abhay/articleshow/81320004.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Padma Rao takes vaccine||Secunderabad: Deputy speaker T Padma Rao arrived at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) around 9.30am and took the Covid vaccine on Wednesday. “I urge people to utilise the opportunity to be safe during the pandemic,” he said. Rao took to twitter to “thank the scientists, doctors & all other corona warriors who developed the vaccine”. He was accompanied by his wife while taking the shot. After vaccination, the deputy speaker attended a meeting at his office in Namalagundu to discuss the MLC graduate elections. Rao also disbursed cheques worth Rs 3 lakh for beneficiaries under Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/padma-rao-takes-vaccine/articleshow/81318674.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat budget allocates Rs 50 crore for Sabarmati Ashram development||AHMEDABAD: For the first time in its budget, the state government has made an allocation Rs. 50 crore under the tourism department for the overall development of Sabarmati Ashram and its development as a place of national eminence. The state government in the budget stated, “It is proposed for overall development of Sabarmati Ashram as a place of national eminence. For this purpose, an amount of Rs.50 crore would be required during the year 2021-22. Accordingly, it is proposed to provide an amount of Rs.50 crore in the budget estimates of 2021-22 for which new item is presented.” Apart from the Sabarmati Ashram the state government has laid focus on the fire services in the corporation areas. The budget proposal states, “Every year, Government provides firefighting and modern equipment to vehicles in all the municipal corporations and municipalities. A provision of Rs 39 crore under the scheme to procure new firefighting equipment was also made.” The government also made a provision of Rs 20 crore under the scheme to set up a Fire Safety Cope Portal and impart training to fire safety officers and issuing certificates to them. This was done as the cities in the corporations and other areas are facing shortage of manpower. Also in order to address drainage and storm-water issues, the state has made a provision of Rs 650 crore for creating water supply drainage, storm-water disposal and transport facilities in eight municipal corporations including Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot, Surat, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Jamnagar and Gandhinagar. Also, allocation will also be made for 23 municipalities under Amrut Yojana. The state government has made a provision of Rs 50 crore for human-intervention-free operation and maintenance of underground drainage system in the municipalities of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-50-cr-for-sabarmati-ashram-development/articleshow/81318657.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||CM needs to apologise to Ghat locals, must order immediate start of road widening: Harish Rawat||Dehradun: Amid the ongoing controversy over the protest by Ghat block residents near assembly premises, which saw a cane charge by a police team leaving people injured on both sides, former chief minister Harish Rawat visited Gairsain assembly building on Wednesday. Without mincing words, he was quick to launch a scathing attack on the Trivendra Singh Rawat government, Harish said that people had covered a long distance to meet authorities for their “genuine” demand. “And what did the government give these elderly women, girls, and youth was a brutal cane charge. This is how you treat senior members of your family. We do not need this government which thinks cane charge is the solution to all issues,” he said. The former CM asserted that without wasting time, the CM should go to Ghat block and apologise to people of the area for the “shameful act”. “He needs to immediately order the widening of the road, which was earlier approved by me when I was the CM in 2015-16. A matter which could have been easily solved through deliberations witnessed brutal assault only because of the failure of the state government to handle the situation,” added Harish. Terming the magisterial probe merely an effort to hide the government failure, the former CM demanded for an investigation by a sitting High Court judge. “The Governor’s address on the first day of the budget session was merely singing praises of the state government. It lacked vision, there was no roadmap for development. Rather than telling people what can be done for their welfare, it was limited to praising the state and the Union government,” said the former CM. Taking a swipe at CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, he said, “No new work has been carried out at Gairsain in the last four year. We started the construction of the assembly building. Apart from getting it painted and setting up hoardings in praise of CM Rawat, the four-year BJP government has done nothing for Gairsain or its people. Where is the secretariat building, for which the Congress government had given a new. Have any new buildings been made. He just wants to take credit for the works done by the Congress government,” Harish said. The former CM is scheduled to visit Ghat block on Thursday to meet the locals and extend solidarity with the protestors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-needs-to-apologise-to-ghat-locals-must-order-immediate-start-of-road-widening-harish-rawat/articleshow/81317440.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Bldr in Mumbai asked to refund home buyer Rs 17.9L||Mumbai: MahaRERA has directed Piramal Estate Pvt Ltd to refund a home buyer Rs 17.9 lakh with interest for failing to give possession of a flat on time. Thane resident Chirag Joshi had booked a flat in Vraj Tower at Vaikunth Cluster 4, Balkum project, in Thane (west). The builder was to hand over possession four years from the date of reservation (December 2015). But the builder failed to do so. Joshi said the total cost of the flat was Rs 1 crore, of which he had paid Rs 17.9 lakh. The builder alleged a letter was sent to Joshi informing him about change in possession date to December 2020. Piramal’s advocate Sonam Mhatre claimed no sale agreement had been executed and hence the complaint was not tenable. Upholding the complaint, MahaRERA observed the respondent had accepted money from the complainant and, hence, it could not deny his claim as allottee. Piramal's lawyer Ansul Bansal said they had appealed against the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bldr-in-mumbai-asked-to-refund-home-buyer-rs-17-9l/articleshow/81320059.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Haridwar to be ‘slaughterhouse free’: Order||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday declared all the urban local bodies under the Haridwar district jurisdiction as ‘slaughterhouse free’ areas. The government order, issued by Shailesh Bagauli, secretary urban development, has cancelled all the NOCs issued to slaughterhouses in the holy city. The order reads, “In exercise of the powers conferred by section 429A of the Municipal Corporation Act, 1959, and section 237A of the Municipal Act, 1916, I am directing to revoke the clearances given for the operation of animal slaughter schools in all the bodies of Haridwar district.” Several BJP leaders have welcomed the order intended to keep Haridwar free from slaughter houses. The issue of banning animal slaughter houses in Haridwar has been ongoing for a long time. A petition was also filed in the high court regarding this. Subsequently, the court had asked the government to check animal slaughter in the holy town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-to-be-slaughterhouse-free-order/articleshow/81317420.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||170 new cases, no fatalities||Hyderabad: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 168 new cases of Covid-19 and no deaths. With this the total count of cases so far in the state stand at 2,99,254 while the death toll is 1,635. A total of 2,95,707 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection while there are 1,912 active cases in the state currently. On Wednesday, a total of 40,444 samples were tested for coronavirus. GHMC recorded 29 new cases, while Medchal Malkajgiri recorded 15, Ranga Reddy recorded 13 and Karimnagar recorded 10. Jangaon, Kumarambheem Asifabad, Mahabubabad and Mulugu did not record any new cases, while all the remaining districts in the state recorded between 1 and 10 new cases each. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/170-new-cases-no-fatalities/articleshow/81318652.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Software to enhance test reports||Amravati: With the introduction of a new software for rapid testing of samples, the Covid-19 Molecular Diagnostic Lab at Sant Gadgebaba Amravati University will now be able to give 1,700 test reports per day. “The software will enable the lab to send reports online to the district civil surgeon and district health officer, helping them to expedite the treatment of positive patients,” said collector Shailesh Naval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/software-to-enhance-test-reports/articleshow/81318710.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Aurangabad||Goods worth crores gutted in MIDC Waluj factory fire||Aurangabad: An industrial plant in the MIDC Waluj was reduced to ashes after a fire broke out in the early hours of Wednesday. Apart from the raw material kept at the site, machinery and infrastructure were also charred. The fire also gutted several tonne of ready-for-despatch finished goods. No major injury or casualty has been reported. It took almost 11 hours for the fire tenders to douse the flames that continued to spread and grow in intensity due to the presence of a large volume of flammable items — raw and finished plastic, rubber and fibre. “We have been informed that items worth crores of rupees were reduced to ashes. An official complaint is awaited,” senior inspector Madhukar Sawant told TOI. The officer said the night shift was underway at the factory when the fire broke out. The employees immediately raised an alarm. All the workers and management-level employees managed to rush out. As a result, there has been no major injury or loss of human life. Police said the Darshan Group-owned Dhruvtara Wiretech Pvt Ltd caught fire. It came to notice at 2 am, following which, fire tenders of the MIDC Waluj, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation as well as some privately-owned water tankers were pressed into service. Police said that the factory that caught fire is a leading supplier of indicators and other plastic and fibre parts to the country’s leading automobile manufacturers. A short-circuit is believed to be the primary cause of the fire. An independent spot-panchanama was carried out by the police as well as fire brigade authorities on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/goods-worth-crores-gutted-in-midc-waluj-factory-fire/articleshow/81315605.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two mega textile parks to come up in Gujarat||Ahemdabad: In a major boost to the textile industry and to enable forward and backward integration in the sector, the government of Gujarat has announced establishment of two mega textile parks during the budget presentation in Gandhinagar on Wednesday. These parks will be set up as part of the Union Budget announcement, of setting up seven mega textile parks. Industry players feel the move will go a long way in making the industry globally competitive. “Mega Investment Textile Parks will make the industry more competitive at a global level and this will not just boost exports but at the back-end, it will also help generate more employment. At the same time, a single cluster will definitely help bring in more investments in the textile sector,” said Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham – Gujarat state Council. “This will give an impetus to MSMEs in the textile sector, which is the highest employment generator after agriculture. It will help ancillary units in textiles in a big way. Moreover, the plug-and-play model for the park will aid employment generation and also give an ecosystem to exporters and domestic manufacturers,” said Thaker. Industry stakeholders also said that the state government’s announcement on the Rs 1,500 crore outlay for providing subsidy to the industries under the textile policy will also go a long way in boosting competitiveness of the domestic manufacturers. Vijay Purohit, president, Gujarat Garment Manufacturers’ Association (GGMA), said, “A cluster approach not just brings in investments but instead it also helps build an entire textile value chain, which is currently very segregated in different geographical locations. This will help the industry grow, scale-up and innovate while being more competitive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-mega-textile-parks-to-come-up-in-gujarat/articleshow/81318708.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Name in voters list helps cops trace burglar absconding for 44 years||Nagpur: Laxman Bobde, 62, was traced by a special team of crime branch from Awari chowk near Vakilpeth after jumping bail and remaining absconding for 44 years. He was among the three arrested in a case of burglary by Ambazari police in 1977. One of his co-accused passed away in 1999 while another is still on the run. It is learnt Bobde had jumped bails and police returned empty handed for more than four decades even though non-bailable warrants were issued against him repeatedly. He was nabbed by a special team under ASI Vilas Chobitkar, attached to crime branch, with the help of a voting list that provided the squad a tangible clue on his whereabouts. Bobde was presented before an additional chief judicial magistrate on Wednesday but released on bail upon furnishing a surety bond considering his age and also vulnerabilty to Covid if sent to jail. “We had initially tried to find his (Bobde) name from the different government and semi-government offices that offered benefits and schemes. We finally found his name and address in the voters’ list,” said Chobitkar. He had admitted to committing the crime after cops nabbed him. “One of the accomplices of Bobde had died but we will nab the remaining one,” he said. Chobitkar was learnt to be entrusted by the ACJM with a list of more than 90 absconders whose trials are pending with their documents relegated to ‘dormant file’ section. Within a week, Chobitkar’s team, comprising constable Sujit Devhare and others, traced out five accused who had been absconding for decades including one Ramsumer Ahir, wanted in a case of robbery, who had been on the run since 1993. An astounding 51 warrants were issued against Ahir but he could not be traced. Chobitkar’s efforts were lauded last week when he traced an absconder with the help of the property tax details even after the accused had shifted from Dhantoli to Jaripatka 30 years ago. Chobitkar traced more than 200 accused who had been absconding for several years in his career. ACP, crime, Sudhir Nandwar said Chobitkar’s special skill had helped bring several absconders to justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/name-in-voters-list-helps-cops-trace-burglar-absconding-for-44-years/articleshow/81318716.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 4, 2021||Pune||Auto decline started before pandemic: ZF||Pune: The Indian arm of the German auto components manufacturer ZF has said the slump in the automobile sector in the country started pre-pandemic, although green shoots have been visible since mid-2020, with regulations and pent-up demand starting to take effect. “The drop in auto sales actually started from the second half of 2019, and then the pandemic happened. But if we look at sales from July 2020, we can see a V-shaped recovery. A lot of factors contributed to that, including pent-up demand, and the need for OEMs(original equipment manufacturers) filling in the pipeline owing to the shift to Bharat Stage-VI norms for emission standards. Our clients are also looking for the added value from our products, and they are also prepared to pay more for that,” said Suresh KV, the president of ZF India. Suresh said its decision to indigenise a large part of its sourcing base helped the firm control costs over a number of years, especially during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auto-decline-started-before-pandemic-zf/articleshow/81318686.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fire in dry grass hits train services between Khardi and Ombarmali||Kalyan: Train services on CR’s UP line between Khardi and Ombarmali section on Kalyan and Kasara route were hit due to a massive fire in the dry grass on the route. Services were suspended for 30 minutes from 8:45pm to 9:15pm for safety reasons. Local police and fire brigade reached the spot and controlled the fire. Two locals and A mail express on the UP line and 2 locals and 2 mail express services on Down line were affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fire-in-dry-grass-hits-train-services-between-khardi-and-ombarmali/articleshow/81321021.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||KIIFB probe: T M Thomas Isaac slams ED officials||T’PURAM/THRISSUR: State finance minister T M Thomas Isaac on Wednesday dubbed the Enforcement Directorate officials probing the alleged violations of regulatory frameworks by KIIFB as a ‘bunch of jokers’ subservient to the BJP government at the Centre. Isaac said that ED’s actions were triggered by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who, at a political meeting on Sunday when BJP state president K Surendran’s Vijay Yatra reached Tripunithura, questioned KIIFB’s right to mobilize foreign funding. Taking the attack to a personal level, Isaac said senior IRS officer Manesh Godra, leading the ED team in Kochi, was the son of a Rajasthan BJP leader and accused the officer for being the party’s man Friday. “This officer had conducted several raids for BJP. He did play several games to unsettle the Congress government in Rajasthan. The Congress leaders in Kerala should all know this,” said Isaac. Addressing media persons here, Isaac said the ED officials have no idea about the organizational structure and functioning of KIIFB and were making futile efforts to link the Infrastructure Board Fund with gold smuggling, money laundering and the like. “The questions that ED had asked the chartered accountant of M Sivasankar (chief minister’s former principal secretary) show how poor is ED officials’ understanding about KIIFB. They have mistaken it for an NBFC. The KIIFB officials were summoned to the ED office twice earlier and now the KIIFB CEO and deputy CEO have been asked to report at the ED office on March 4. The BJP government is misusing ED to settle political scores against the state government. The political bosses sitting in New Delhi should understand that it’s not the docile Congress leaders they are fighting against,” said Isaac. The agency decided to summon the KIIFB CEO and deputy CEO a day after Nirmala Sitharaman spoke against KIIFB at a public rally. The Union finance minister is using the probe agency under her for political purposes during the election season, he alleged. The ED, he said, was trying to scare and demoralize officials, insisting on certain answers they want to contrive from them. Isaac continued to hinge his argument that KIIFB is a body corporate and the existing laws and regulations in the country do not restrict a body corporate from sourcing funding from outside the country. “There is no FERA violation act. If they (ED) claim so, let them prove it. The masala bond was issued following all procedures, which includes clearance from RBI. It’s nonsense to say that the money sourced by a body corporate should be counted as the borrowing of the state government. If that is the case, why are the loans taken by NHAI not added to the liabilities of the Union government?” he asked. Centre violating model code,says VijayaraghavanCPM acting secretary and LDF convener Vijayaraghavan on Wednesday alleged that the Centre is indulging in gross violation of the model code of conduct by deploying ED to target KIIFB floated by the state government. Speaking to media persons, Vijayaraghavan said the Centre had been trying to decimate KIIFB through various means despite the institution doing yeomen services for Kerala’s development. “Now they are deploying the agencies like ED to destroy it on the eve of the elections. This is an open violation of the model code of conduct. The central agencies are expected to conform to the enforcement of the model code of conduct of elections. But they have blatantly violated it,” he said. Vijayaraghavan evaded questions on reports that the CPM district committee has finalized the list of candidates in the various assembly segments in Thrissur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kiifb-probe-isaac-slams-ed-officials/articleshow/81318762.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP must now apologise for Guj riots: NCP||Mumbai: Maharashtra cabinet minister and Nationalist Congress Party spokesperson Nawab Malik on Wednesday said after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi admitted that imposition of Emergency was a mistake, it was BJP’s turn to apologise for 2002 Gujarat riots. He said Congress also apologised for the Delhi riots, so it was BJP’s and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s turn to apologise for Gujarat riots. Maharashtra Congress unit president Nana Patole said, “Gujarat riots were a blot on humanity. Will BJP and Modi apologise for it?” SP leader Abu Azmi said BJP must apologise for the 2002 riots. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bjp-must-now-apologise-for-guj-riots-ncp/articleshow/81320099.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Industry-friendly’ govt cuts outlay by ₹418 cr||Gandhinagar/ Ahmedabad: Amidst tall claims of its intense focus on promotion of industries and mines sector, Gujarat government reduced the 2021-22 budget outlay for the sector by Rs 418 crore. With no fresh schemes being announced to aid industries, Gujarat government allotted Rs 6,599 crore for industries and mines sector for 2021-22 against Rs 7,017 crore last year. Besides announcing the setting up of two mega textile parks under the central scheme, the state also proposed an outlay for the bulk drug industrial park (Jambusar) as well as medical devices industrial park (Rajkot), which were previously announced. Industry players suggested that even though the budget did not have any new announcements for the industry per se, it is a balanced budget that works as an enabler. “It is a very balanced budget, with good allocation for agriculture as well as industries. Unlike freebies rolled out by other state budgets, Gujarat government has instead provided growth opportunities by being an enabler to both farmers and industries.” Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham Gujarat State Council. The allocation in the sector only marginally went up from Rs 1,450 crore in last year’s budget to Rs 1,500 crore this year. BOX: Plans for industrial estates · Establishment of multi-level sheds for MSMEs in industrial estates at Naroda, Umargam, Sarigam, Vapi, Sachin, Panoli, Ankleshwar, Jhagadia and Savli · Plans to establish new industrial estates through GIDC at Jalotra in Banaskantha district, Shekhpat in Jamnagar district, Kadajodra in Gandhinagar district, Pipavav in Amreli district, Nagalpar in Rajkot district and also in Patan, Anand, Mahisagar and Morbi districts, to promote employment. · Dahej, Sayakha, Ankleshwar, Halol, Sanand, Vapi and Lodhika Industrial Estates will be developed as Model Estate equipped with full facilities. Box: Boost for EODB · ₹14 crore -- Mini Cluster Scheme to facilitate quality control and common lab testing facility to micro and small industries · ₹5 crore – Facility to be created for ease of imparting environment clearance certificates for mining activities at cluster level Box: Measures for employment · Plan to establish several new industrial estates through GIDC · Rs 20 crore to provide Rs 20,000 per month to every start-up and 25% additional allowance in the case of a woman innovator under Start-up Innovation Scheme including the R&D Scheme. Quotes: There are no breakthrough announcements in the budget. However, it reflects priorities of the government for industry and agriculture. There is emphasis on job creation with some 2 lakh govt jobs in addition to some 20 lakh new jobs through private sector Vinod Aggarwal, vice-chairman, CII It is appreciable to find allocation of Rs 700 crore to develop Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara and Gandhinagar as smart cities along with allocating Rs 568 crore for metro rail. Investing in infrastructure will help the state build a concrete business roadmap Jaxay Shah, chairman, ASSOCHAM Western Council||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/industry-friendly-govt-cuts-outlay-by-418-cr/articleshow/81318897.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||UK strain in 1 of 90 samples from Mumbai, no other major variant in NCDC report||MUMBAI: Out of 90 samples sent from the city on February 17, only one showed the UK strain (B1.1.7), said preliminary reports shared with the civic authorities. Genome sequencing did not show any other significant variants at the moment. A final report is awaited. Samples from three categories of patients in Andheri’s SevenHills Hospital—mild, moderate and critical—were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in New Delhi to look for mutant strains that could explain the spurt in cases seen from February 10. “We have been told that only one sample has tested positive for the UK variant. No other major mutations have been found but we will wait for the detailed findings,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The city has already dealt with three cases of the UK strain. “We could control it well,” he said. B.1.1.7, also called the Kent variant, is now dominant in much of Britain and has spread to nearly 50 countries. In Mumbai, all the cases of the variant treated at SevenHills Hospital, a centre for foreign returnees who develop symptoms, were mild and moderate. Four patients and two positive contacts have been treated. “All had mild to moderate infection. Nobody went on a ventilator or became critical,” said dean Dr Balkrishna Adsul. Deputy dean Dr Smita Chavan said all these patients tested negative within seven days. Dr Sujeet Singh, director of NCDC, told TOI that the samples from Mumbai are still being analysed. “There could be some mutations, but it will be premature to comment. Mutations are common in viruses, but it is important to co-relate it with the disease spread. That’s the analysis we are doing now,” he said, adding that the detailed report will be shared in a week. In India, over 187 cases of the UK variant have been found, including 13 in Maharashtra and three in Mumbai. Over 350 samples from Mumbai and the districts of Vidarbha were sent to labs across the country for genome sequencing after two mutant Covid-19 strains—N440K and E484Q—were found in Yavatmal and Amravati three weeks ago. The detections happened around the time Vidarbha saw a near 200% increase in active cases, giving rise to fears that the mutation was causing the spike. But the Indian Council of Medical Research denied any “direct relation”. State officials didn’t provide an update on the samples from Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-of-90-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-from-mumbai-has-uk-strain/articleshow/81318766.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Special court nod to add section in case against MLA Pasha Quadri||Hyderabad: The special court for trial of MPs & MLAs on Wednesday allowed the petition filed by the prosecution to reframe the charges against AIMIM Yakutpura legislator Syed Ahmed Pasha Quadri and other party activists in connection with the 14-year old case of attack on public servants. After hearing the prosecution’s plea, special sessions judge Ch.V.R.R Varaprasad permitted the prosecution to add IPC section 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to any person being a public servant in discharge of his duty) with the present case already registered with the Rajendra Nagar police station in 2007. While there was a demolition drive underway by the municipal and revenue authorities in Rajendra Nagar area, AIMIM MLA Syed Ahmed Pasha Quadri, who was representing the Charminar constituency in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh state, arrived at the spot with other party activists to stop the work. Meanwhile, few persons pelted stones on the government officials, during which two policemen and a revenue official were injured. Rajendra Nagar police had registered a case under IPC sections 147, 341, 353 at that time and a chargesheet was also filed with the court. Since all the cases of MPs and MLAs are being tried at the specially constituted court, the prosecution sought permission to add IPC section 332 and the court was permitted to re-frame the charges against the legislator. The hearing of the case has been adjourned to March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/special-court-nod-to-add-section-in-case-against-mla-pasha-quadri/articleshow/81318763.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Pala bishop donates for Ram temple||KOTTAYAM: Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt donated money for the Ram mandir in Ayodhya. The move by the bishop of Pala diocese, which is known as the ‘Vatican of India’ in Catholic circles, proves that the church is no more averse to Sangh parivar. K N R Namboothiri, district sanghchalak of the RSS, who had called on the bishop, said that the response of the bishop was encouraging. “We had visited on a short notice, and more than the donation we were keen to get the bishop’s support for the project,” said Namboothiri. The bishop donated Rs 2,000 as a token amount since the RSS team visited on a short notice and a bigger amount needed clearance from the finance wing. The Sangh parivar outfits are no more treated as untouchables by church heads in Kerala. In recent times, the church heads have been approaching BJP and the RSS whenever they feel the need for their support. The heads of both Orthodox and Jacobite Churches had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi recently to find a solution to end their dispute. In a political move that could upset both UDF and LDF, BJP state president K Surendran along with Karnataka deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Monday had called on Kerala Catholics Bishop Council (KCBC) president Mar George Cardinal Alencherry at KCBC headquarters in Kochi. The KCBC has been maintaining a strong stand against ‘love jihad’ which they claim to be existing in the state. Mar Alanchery, archbishop of Syro-Malabar Church, alongwith Syro-Malankara Church major archbishop Baselios Cleemis Catholicos and Roman Catholic archdiocese of Mumbai’s cardinal archbishop Oswald Gracias had met the Prime Minister in January to discuss various issues, including the ‘love jihad’ stand of the Kerala Catholic Church.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pala-bishop-donates-for-ram-temple/articleshow/81318785.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
March 4, 2021||Surat||Surat cops lodge FIRs in 32 cybercrime cases in one day||Surat: In a surprising move, the Surat city police registered 32 cybercrime FIR in a single day on Tuesday, of which 27 were pertaining to financial fraud while five were related to online harassment of young women. Interestingly, the complainants in all the cases had submitted their applications to police 2-3 months ago, but the FIRs were registered on a single day on Tuesday in different police stations of the city.When contacted, a senior police official said that the complaints were not registered earlier as a preliminary inquiry on the applications submitted were on.According to police, in a majority of the complaints, the accused had duped the complainant using UPI mobile app like Google Pay. The modus operandi remained the same in most cases. The accused tells the victim that in order to receive payment he or she will have to scan a QR code. However, as soon as the victim scanned the QR code, he or she would lose money from his or her bank account.In some cases, the cyber frauds duped victims by posing as an Army officer. Four offences were registered where the victims were defrauded over telephonic talks. The victim was conned into making online payments to a certain account. The accused would then become unreachable.Another common cheating practice among the freshly registered complaints was where the caller contacted the victim posing as a bank officer. The accused would offer loan or credit card service over the phone and defraud the victim by collecting his debit or credit card details and OTP over the phone. Explaining the delay in filing the cybercrime complaints, additional commissioner of police (traffic & crime) Sharad Singhal said, “We initially try to recover money that was stolen from the victim’s account. If this attempt is not successful, we gather details of the bank accounts into which the money was credited and then register the complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-cops-lodge-firs-in-32-cybercrime-cases-in-one-day/articleshow/81317202.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Govt announces scheme to turn fallow land fertile||Ahmedabad: In a bid to boost horticulture farming in Gujarat, the state government has announced Mukhyamantri Bagayat Vikas Mission (MBVM) to utilise unproductive, fallow government land to grow plants and herbal crops. The government in the budget for 2021-22 stated that under MBVM, 50,000 acres of unproductive fallow land in Kutch, Surendranagar, Patan, Sabarkantha and Banaskantha districts will be identified in the first phase. It will be made available to progressive farmers, organisations, companies, partnership firms on lease so that they can make it productive using modern technology. Apart from employment, the government said, the scheme will yield production of 2 lakh metric tons of horticulture crops and also set up opportunities for its processing. The government has made a provision of Rs 100 crore to promote the scheme. The government has also made a provision of Rs 20 crore under Agriculture Organic Market Scheme to enable farmers to directly sell organically farmed fruits and vegetables in urban areas of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot. Moreover, the government has also made a provision of Rs 32 crore for providing subvention of Rs 10,000 in the first year and Rs 6,000 in the second year to encourage farmers who have opted for organic farming with the objective of making farming in the entire Dang district completely chemical-free. The finance minister said that 737 lakes falling within the limit of two km were provided water through the existing pipeline under Sujalam Sufalam Yojana. However, following representations made by farmers, the government has decided that lakes falling within 3 km of existing pipeline under Sujalam Sufalam Yojana will be considered and a pipeline will be laid to provide water to fill additional 295 lakes. For this, a provision of Rs 10 crore has been set aside in the budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-announces-scheme-to-turn-fallow-land-fertile/articleshow/81318789.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Aurangabad||Bamu struggles to fill PG seats||Aurangabad: Despite multiple rounds of admissions, many postgraduate seats in different departments of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) continue to remain vacant. In a last attempt to fill these seats, the university has extended the admission process till March 8. University public relations officer Sanjay Shinde on Wednesday said barring Science and few other departments offering professional courses, other departments such as Languages and Social Sciences have vacant seats. “Over 500 postgraduate seats are vacant in different departments and these will be filled till March 8. Students are advised to visit the official website to know more details of different courses. The admissions will be done only on the basis of merit and in keeping with the reservation policies of the state,” he said.  Digambar Netke, controller of examinations at Bamu, was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-struggles-to-fill-pg-seats/articleshow/81315632.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Senior PRO working with CMO resigns||Hyderabad: A public relations officer (PRO) working with the Telangana Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) G Vijay Kumar, has resigned. The PRO, who is also discharging duties as general manager (communications) in the Telangana Transco, put in his papers reportedly following the directions of the chief minister. Vijay Kumar informed about his resignation through social media on Wednesday morning.  “I resigned as PRO to CM due to personal reasons. My heartful thanks to CM KCR garu for giving opportunity to work in a great position. Thanks to all who are with me,” he tweeted and posted on Facebook. Though exact reasons for his resignation are not known, sources in the CMO said KCR reportedly asked him to put in his papers following some complaints against him from both official circles and TRS leaders, including some ministers. This is first time in the six years an official working with the CMO was shunted out from the position. Sources in CMO said the PRO was influential not only in the Telangana Transco but in other departments as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/senior-pro-working-with-cmo-resigns/articleshow/81318768.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Kotdwar renamed as Kanva Nagri Kotdwar||Gairsain: Kotdwar town in Pauri district of Uttarakhand has been renamed as Kanva Nagri Kotdwar. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday approved a proposal to declare the area falling under the jurisdiction of Kotdwar Nagar Nigam as Kanva Nagri Kotdwar. It is believed that celebrated saint Kanva resided on the banks of Malan river in Kotdwar and taught and brought up Bharat, who later became a monarch after whom the country was named Bharat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kotdwar-renamed-as-kanva-nagri-kotdwar/articleshow/81317463.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bandra’s Karachi Bakery pulls down shutters, months after MNS threat||MUMBAI: Bandra’s Karachi Bakery, which was besieged by MNS workers objecting to its “Pakistani” name, rolled down shutters recently. The bakery is part of the Hyderabad-based chain run by Sindhi migrants from Karachi, Pakistan. In November 2020, Haji Saif Shaikh, vice-president of MNS, had created a furore outside the premises urging the Sindhi shop owner to change the name, which they felt was “anti-national” and “unpatriotic”. On Wednesday, Shaikh posted a tweet saying, “After massive protest for its name, Karachi Bakery finally closes its only shop in Mumbai.” However, bakery manager, Rameshwar Waghmare, said the closure was not provoked by the renaming controversy. “We shut shop after the old lease agreement lapsed. Our landlord had been demanding a higher sum as rent which was unviable for us. The lockdown had already caused business volumes to drop.” An ice cream parlour has opened in its place. The historic confectionery that has branches nationwide is owned by the Sindhi Hindu Ramnani family, which migrated to India after Partition. Waghmare said it is they who will decide whether to rent a new space or allow the brand to lapse in Mumbai. “There was no reason to capitulate by changing our name. The bakery was a legitimate business with all valid licences and approvals. Our decision is based on business factors. Let others take credit for it if they wish,” said Waghmare, who has been rendered jobless along with a few other employees. Shaikh told TOI, “I did not ask Karachi Bakery to shut business. But our soldiers are being killed on the border. Every day we receive news of skirmishes with Pakistan. So I gave a 15-day ultimatum to either change the name, or the spelling. I said spell it Karachee. They replied saying the name reflects their age-old ties to their native city. Today I am happy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-famous-karachi-bakery-in-the-eye-of-mns-storm-rolled-down-shutters-this-week-/articleshow/81320116.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
March 4, 2021||Salem||Truck owners to announce indefinite strike in May||Salem: The district truck owners’ association on Wednesday made it clear that it would stage an indefinite strike to protest the fuel prices hike and said the date to commence the strike would be announced after May 2. Addressing the media after the association’s 72nd annual general body meeting in the city, its secretary Dhanraj said the fuel price had touched Rs 100-mark in several states in the country. “This is when the crude oil price is very low in international markets. The price hike has badly affected our business. The Union and state governments should take necessary steps to reduce the fuel price.” He said they have postponed the indefinite strike, which was scheduled to start on March 15, in view of the upcoming state assembly election. “We will discuss about the indefinite strike at the South India transport meeting to be held in Bengaluru on March 9 and at meeting of the state truck owners’ association to be held in Vellore on March 21. The date will be announced only after May 2.” Dhanraj also urged the Union government to take steps to curb the waiting time at toll plazas and address some practical difficulties in paying toll using FASTag. He said the district was home to more than 60,000 trucks. “More than 5,000 trucks from outside also enter the district daily. Truck operations are based out of Shevapet, where the road is filled with potholes, causing us huge inconvenience. Both the district administration and municipal corporation haven’t taken any steps to repair the road so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/truck-owners-to-announce-indefinite-strike-in-may/articleshow/81318819.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Kochi||Bishops meet RSS leader to discuss church issues||Kochi: Senior bishops of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church met joint general secretary of the RSS Manmohan Vaidya in Kochi on Wednesday. Bishops Geevarghese Mar Yulios, the metropolitan in charge of Ahmedabad diocese, said after the meeting that the discussions were not about electoral politics but on the feud between the Orthodox and the Jacobite factions of the Malankkara church. Mar Yulios was accompanied by Yakoob Mar Irenaios of the Kochi diocese. The duo had called on Muslim League leaders at Panakkad in January. “The meeting was related to the nation, not politics. A verdict of the apex court of the nation has not yet been executed in Kerala. Not only that, there is a doubt now whether the state government would act against the verdict. Moreover, some people are conducting rallies and meetings to abuse the Orthodox Church. So, we are on a mission to communicate with other organisations about the truth behind the issue. The meetings with RSS as well as the League were held in this context,” said Mar Yulios. He said he was close with Vaidya since they had both worked in Gujrat. “BJP or BJP’s policies were not discussed. The synod has entrusted us to meet with various organisations to convey the truth behind the issue in the Malankara church,” said Mar Yulios. He added that some politicians, including a few MLAs have spoken against the church. “Meetings and rallies against the church have been taking place repeatedly. Speeches were made against the apex court’s ruling. Some of them even targeted our venerated bishops who had passed away decades ago,” said Mar Yulios.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bishops-meet-rss-leader-to-discuss-church-issues/articleshow/81318851.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Doon airport ranks third in customer satisfaction survey||Dehradun: City’s Jolly Grant Airport has secured the third position in the customer satisfaction index (CSI) survey carried out by an independent agency appointed by the Airport Authority of India (AAI). Jolly Grant Airport scored 4.78 out of 5 and stood jointly at third position along with Gaya Airport, officials of the Doon airport said. They added that the first and the second positions were secured by Udaipur and Madurai airports respectively. “The survey was conducted by an independent agency. It’s a remarkable feat in the face of capacity constraints, challenges due to pandemic and on-going construction activities at the airport,” said DK Gautam, director, Jolly Grant Airport. The independent agency judged the domestic airports on 34 standard parameters and passenger feedback was also taken, according to the airport director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-airport-ranks-third-in-customer-satisfaction-survey/articleshow/81317466.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Flash strike by TNSTC bus drivers affects traffic on Ukkadam road||Coimbatore: Traffic was affected for more than 20 minutes after drivers of TNSTC town buses went on a flash strike on the main road at Ukkadam in the city on Wednesday evening, condemning police for allegedly assaulting a bus driver.Police sources said Jerald, deputy superintendent of police, vigilance cell (judicial), Coimbatore, questioned a TNSTC bus driver for parking the town bus on the main road near Ukkadam Lakshmi Narasimar temple. A fierce argument ensued between the police officer and bus driver.Meanwhile, the bus driver informed his colleagues that he was assaulted by the police officer which led to the flash strike. Due to the sudden protest, traffic was affected severely in the area and senior police officials and transport officials rushed to the spot. They held talks with the bus drivers who later agreed to withdraw their protest.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flash-strike-by-tnstc-bus-drivers-affects-traffic-on-ukkadam-road/articleshow/81318838.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||‘Yoga not just physical exercise but a way of life’||Rishikesh: Various yoga experts gave tips about the right yoga techniques on the third day of the International Yog Festival at Ganga Resort in Rishikesh on Wednesday. A virtual session was taken by Brahma Kumari Sister Shivani who explained the importance of yoga during the pandemic. She said that yoga is not just a physical exercise but it is a way of life by which all the problems can be settled. Acharya Mit Prasanna gave tips on 'power yoga' and 'Yog Nidra' while Yogi Gulshan Kumar explained how to improve immunity to be healthy and stress-free by practicing yoga and meditation. Yoga teacher Laxmi Narayan Joshi said, “Diabetic patients can increase the insulin level in the body after doing 'Mandukasana'. Similarly 'Nadi Shodhan Pranayam' is helpful to release mental pressure, but we must learn the right posture of different yoga techniques to get its medical benefits.” Yogini Usha Mata and Yogi Sidharth discussed body science with the yoga learners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yoga-not-just-physical-exercise-but-a-way-of-life/articleshow/81317482.cms||MS Nawaz
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Man jailed, fined under Arms Act||Hyderabad: More than two years after a person threatened a bill collector of electricity department with a knife in Neredmet, he was convicted by a local court and was directed to undergo imprisonment for one year. Police said the accused was convicted under Arms Act and was directed to pay a fine of Rs 3,000. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-jailed-fined-under-arms-act/articleshow/81318824.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Aircraft leasing cos ready to take off at GIFT||Ahmedabad: The state government, in its budget for 2020-21 on Wednesday, announced stamp duty exemption to aircraft leasing companies at Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) in Gandhinagar. The decision is expected to give a major fillip to the aircraft leasing financing activities at the country’s only International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) in GIFT City at Gandhinagar that has is ready to take off. More than half a dozen companies including Ireland-based lessor Acumen Aviation, State Bank of India, Investec, V-Man Aero, JetSetGo Aviation Services, HAL-Alliance, SpiceJet and few others have recently expressed interest to participate in the aviation leasing and financing activities at the GIFT City, said sources close to the development. In the recent Union Budget, announcements on tax breaks on capital gains for aircraft leasing companies for 10 years, waiving off capital gain taxes on aircraft disposal during the tax holiday period, and withholding tax on interest payments on royalty for non-residents along with other incentives were announced. Aircraft leasing activity did not pick up in India all these years because of higher tax rates. With this expected to change in near future, the Centre has set a target to increase number of planes in the country to 1,200 from over 700 at present in the next few years. These will include freighters, whose number has risen to 25. “In order to commensurate with the growth potential of Indian aviation sector, in the next 20 years, India will need 1,750-2,100 aircraft valued at over USD 5 billion, with an estimated 100 deliveries each year, as per predictions of Airbus and Boeing,” said Hardeep S Puri, minister of state for civil aviation. He was speaking at a seminar on February 26 on ‘India Aircraft Leasing Summit- Rupee Raftaar’ at New Delhi. Recognizing civil aviation as a critical driver of economic growth, Puri highlighted that aircraft financing is the most profitable segment of the aviation value chain and currently, foreign financiers and lessors are the biggest beneficiaries of India’s growing opportunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aircraft-leasing-cos-ready-to-take-off-at-gift/articleshow/81318894.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Police chief lauds cops who cracked ATM burglary case||Coimbatore: Inspector general of police R Dhinakaran on Wednesday appreciated the efforts of the police personnel, who arrested the six-member gang that fled with an ATM from Uthukuli on Sunday.“Police teams collected CCTV footage from toll plazas on the Salem -Kochi National Highway and spotted the SUV vehicle used for the heist. A truck was following the SUV and the teams, with the help of Haryana police, collected the mobile number of the truck driver. The miscreants were arrested from Tirupur. They were carrying guns and were planning another burglary,” said Dhinakaran.The officer handed over cash rewards and certificates to the members of the seven teams. The burglars had decamped with the Bank of Baroda ATM that contained Rs 1,00,100 around 4am on Sunday using an SUV. The gang had stolen the SUV owned by R Balamurugan of Perundurai.Police seized two 8mm pistols, nine rounds of bullets, Rs 69,120, a gas cylinder, an oxygen cylinder, five monkey caps, five gloves, an iron rod, two mobile phones, 15 spanners and a screwdriver from the gang members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-chief-lauds-cops-who-cracked-atm-burglary-case/articleshow/81318885.cms||A Subburaj
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Cong, govt lock horns over Feb 7 natural disaster at Chamoli||Gairsain: Congress legislators, during the zero hour, raised the issue of the February 7 disaster in the Joshimath area of Chamoli district and called for more steps to prevent loss of lives and develop an early warning system. The opposition party also demanded better compensation and strengthening of telecom services in the border areas of Uttarakhand. Indira Hridayesh, leader of opposition, said that better planning could have saved the lives of many people. Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said a committee of experts has been formed to make recommendations and telecom companies are being provided with offers to set up mobile towers near the border areas. Indira Hridayesh, leader of Opposition, said that better planning could have saved the lives of many people. She pointed out that Uttarakhand shares international borders with China and Nepal. “It is extremely important for us to ensure that people do not migrate from the border areas. The state government needs to make better plans for a beforehand warning,” she said. Harish Dhami, Congress MLA from Dharchula, said that hill areas were more prone to natural disasters and a number of disasters have been witnessed in Pithoragarh district. “The bridges, which have collapsed, need to build at the earliest as they are lifeline for thousands of people. Also, I would like to request the government to provide compensation on the latest data of population as it is being provided on the basis of Census 2011,” he added. Deputy leader of opposition Karan Mahra said that telecom service needs to be improved so that the communication is quick in case of any emergency. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Raj Kumar asked the government to increase the compensation amount from Rs 8 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. In response, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik, “Prior warning was not available in this case. There are three type of warning - about location, likely level of disaster, and forecast. While a doppler radar has been set up at Mukteshwar, efforts are underway to set up more doppler radars. On February 22, we formed a committee of experts headed by secretary, disaster management, and it will soon hand over its report on the further efforts required. Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology has also given some important inputs. As for the compensation, if required, we will raise the issue with the Centre.” He pointed out that a total of 395 villages, which are located in disaster-prone areas, have been identified and the process to rehabilitate them is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-govt-lock-horns-over-feb-7-natural-disaster-at-chamoli/articleshow/81317527.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat awaits ₹8,400 cr GST compensation from Centre||BLURB: Shortfall on GST compensation is expected to be around Rs 23,200 crore by end of this financial year. This is primarily due to shortfall in GST collection due to lockdown-induced economic slowdown and gradual recovery in economic and commercial activities, said Gupta Ahmedabad: Gujarat is still to receive GST compensation of Rs 8,400 crore from the Centre, according to data provided by state commercial tax department. Estimates by the state government suggest that Gujarat will be eligible for compensation estimated at Rs 23,200 crore by the end of 2020-21. Speaking to the press after the state budget announcement on Wednesday, state commercial tax commissioner J P Gupta said, “The shortfall on GST compensation is expected to be around Rs 23,200 crore on an average by the end of this financial year. This is primarily due to shortfall in GST collection due to slowed economic activity followed by the pandemic-induced lockdown and gradual recovery in economic and commercial activities.” GST compensation is usually cleared by the Centre from its cess fund. “However, due to short-collection in cess, the centre has released only Rs 6,000 crore from the cess fund to Gujarat. Over and above this, a sum of Rs 9,200 crore has been sanctioned for the state through a loan. Of this, we have received Rs 8,800 crore and the remaining Rs 400 crore is pending but will soon be released,” said Gupta. This means, the state has received 14,800 crore through loan and cess fund. As far as the shortfall of Rs 8,000 crore is concerned, Gupta said that the Centre has assured it will be released from the cess funds in the months to come, depending on availability of the funds. Ever since GST rollout, each state is eligible for compensation from the entre in case of a shortfall in tax collection at the rate of 14% year-on-year. This compensation will be available to states for a period of five years since the rollout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-awaits-8400-cr-gst-compensation-from-centre/articleshow/81318883.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||Goa: Private hospitals could not access Co-Win portal for third day||PANAJI: Private hospitals were unable to access the Co-Win portal for a third consecutive day on Wednesday, but they vaccinated senior citizens and people above the age of 45 years having comorbidities offline. An official of the health services, however, said they should be able to register beneficiaries online from Thursday. “The problem will be sorted out on Thursday. Today, private hospitals were permitted to vaccinate people offline since they could not register online,” the health services official said. On Wednesday, 2,171 people were vaccinated with the first dose, including 317 of over 45 years of age having comorbidities. As compared to North Goa, more people stepped out in the South to get the jab. As per the central government directions, the health services official said they were looking at more hospitals empanelled under the Deen Dayal Swashtya Seva Yojna that could be roped in. Chief of clinical staff at Manipal Hospital Dr Shekhar Salkar said with the Co-Win portal not functioning in the morning, they had to turn back around 20 people. “They were however told that they would be called back once the hospital is able to register online,” Salkar said, adding, “We were able to access the portal after 11am and we vaccinated over 80 people by the end of the day.” With a lot of senior citizens incapacitated and unable to move out of their houses, the health official said they have not received any instructions yet from the central government on how to reach them.  Salkar said they have received several calls in the last two days inquiring if their hospital provides home vaccinating service. “Since there were no orders from the health services, we could not grant their requests. But I’m sure in a day or two, there will be some orders and we will be able to cover elderly at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-hospitals-could-not-access-co-win-portal-for-third-day/articleshow/81320131.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 36 phones, diary with bank details found in raid on jails||PATNA: Altogether 36 cellphones, 7 sim cards, 17 cellphone chargers and a diary with 5 bank details and several phone numbers were recovered in simultaneous raids conducted on jails across the state on Wednesday. The operation was conducted on the directive of state home department. When asked by the media after the day’s proceedings in the assembly, CM Nitish Kumar said such raids are necessary to keep a watch on things going on inside the jails. “We review such things in the meetings to know about the activities inside the jails. Action will be taken on the basis of the facts surfaced in the raids,” he said. The raids assume significance in view of the reports that criminals are calling the shots and operating through their henchmen from inside the jails. Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh and SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma led the over 4 hours search operation at Beur jail since 5am. “Two cellphones, one sim card and a diary were seized during the operation. The diary contains details of 5 bank accounts in several parts of the country, including Chitrakoot in UP and Jaipur in Rajasthan. There are 20 cellphone numbers mentioned in the diary. Police are ascertaining the links between the cellphone numbers and the bank account details,” Patna DM said after the raid. The Patna DM also served a show-cause notice on deputy superintendent of Beur central jail, Sanjay Kumar, for arriving half an hour late and keeping him waiting at the jail gate, leading to delayed start of the search operation. DM Singh has sought a clarification from Sanjay within 24 hours that why not disciplinary action be initiated against him for negligence and dereliction in duty. The DM, in his show-cause letter to Kumar, wrote that it seemed he deliberately delayed in reaching the jail, which was hardly five minutes away from his residence and resulted in the defeat of purpose of the surprise raid. The raids were also conducted on Katihar, Buxar, Gopalganj, Nalanda, Hajipur, Ara, Jehanabad and some other jails as a security measure before the upcoming panchayat elections in the state, home department sources said. Sources said only a sim card was recovered from an inmate as the other items were found in the jail saloon. “Two cellphones were recovered from a heap of hair near the jail saloon while two registers in which 20 cellphone numbers and five bank account details were written, had been found in an empty room inside the jail,” a source said. An FIR has been registered with the Beur police station in connection with the recovery of prohibited items from the jail premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/36-phones-diary-with-bank-details-found-in-raid-on-jails/articleshow/81317577.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Vax drive turns smoother as Co-Win trouble eases||Kolkata: After two days of chaos, the third phase of the Covid-19 immunisation drive turned smoother on Wednesday with an increase in the number of vaccination centres and technical glitches on the Co-Win platform easing to an extent. Some hospitals, in fact, inoculated more than they had targetted on Wednesday. Hospitals that were freshly added for the community vaccination were informed late on Tuesday evening to prepare their set-up. Accordingly, most of them started calling up elderly people, who had been enquiring about the availability of vaccines, from Tuesday night. “We had noted down the contact numbers of those who had been enquiring about the vaccine. So it served as a database for us. We called them up saying we were open for community vaccination from Wednesday. We set up a desk for their on-spot registration and 56 of them were inoculated,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Peerless, Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), Desun, BP Poddar, CMRI and Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre & Research Institute were among the 17 private hospitals in the city that were asked to start vaccinating senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities from Wednesday. “On our first day of vaccination for senior citizens at RTIICS, we inoculated 55 people today. Registration was done on the site for all of them. We expect a larger turnout from Thursday, for which we have planned for more than three registration counters to enable a seamless flow of services,” said R Venkatesh, regional head of Narayana Health (East). The health department has asked all the newly added private hospitals to scale up number of beneficiaries from 50 on Wednesday to 100 by Thursday. “The portal issue got resolved to some extent. Around 84,678 people were vaccinated on Wednesday. taking the total count to 12.9 lakh,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services. Even a smaller hospital like the Marwari Relief Society (MRS) had more than 50 senior citizens turning up for the vaccine. “We will be scaling it up to 100 on Thursday,” said Govindram Agarwal, general secretary of MRS. At the two units of AMRI Hospital — Dhakuria and Mukundapur — 447 were vaccinated against a target of 400. Few had to be sent back due to shortage of vaccine. “The overall situation improved significantly on Wednesday. Despite initial glitches on the Co-Win platform, the situation improved by noon. Our teams at both the units are taking all steps to ensure as many people can be vaccinated. Even those who are being asked to return on a later date will be vaccinated,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Public figures like Trinamool Congress leader Subrata Mukherjee and Biman Banerjee took the Covishield jab at state-run IPGMER. The teaching medical colleges also saw a rise in the number of vaccine recipients. “With more awareness, we are getting more people coming in to take the vaccine. Once we finish vaccinating polling officials and frontline workers by Friday, we would be in a better position to vaccinate senior citizens,” said an official at Medical College, Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vax-drive-turns-smoother-as-co-win-trouble-eases/articleshow/81317529.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||56k tourists flew from Mum to Male in six months||Mumbai: In the past six months, over 56,000 passengers have boarded direct flights from Mumbai to Male in Maldives. India signed an air bubble agreement with Maldives last August and since then low-cost carriers IndiGo and GoAir have operated about 410 flights Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) stated in information released on Wednesday. The route is so popular that full-service carrier Vistara launched its thrice weekly Mumbai to Male flights on Wednesday. “Since the resurgence in air travel and ease in travel restrictions, Maldives has emerged as a preferred destination,” an MIAL spokesperson said. Of the 56,000 passengers, IndiGo flew over 32,000 passengers and the rest flew on GoAir, MIAL said. Post lockdown, Maldives reopened its shores to foreign tourists in July last year. One of the reasons for the island’s popularity is because there is no quarantine on arrival. But all tourists are required to fill an online health declaration form within 24 hours prior to departure and submit a negative Covid-19 PCR test result, conducted maximum 96 hours prior to departure to Maldives. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/56k-tourists-flew-from-mum-to-male-in-six-months/articleshow/81321111.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Questions by BJP legislators leave party govt in a piquant situation||GAIRSAIN: Similar to the last few assembly sessions, the ongoing budget session too witnessed the state government getting in an awkward situation when one of the ruling party lawmakers claimed that a minister was providing wrong information in the House on Wednesday. Apart from this, some other BJP legislators questioned another minister over the closure of ITIs in Uttarakhand. In reply to a question, skill development minister Harak Singh Rawat clarified that the state government has no intention of shutting down any ITI in the state. “Only those ITIs have been shut where land/property was unavailable or there was a shortage of students. Besides those institutes, no other ITIs have been closed and the state government has no intention regarding the same,” Rawat told the House. However, Lohaghat MLA Puran Singh Fartyal said that three ITIs in his constituency were closed. He added that there was no issue of land or property in any of the ITIs that were closed. Senior BJP legislator Bishan SIngh Chuphal also targeted the government over the issue. Congress MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal even cited the example of an ITI in his constituency. He said that the institute was abruptly closed after functioning properly for a year. Thereafter, BJP MLA from Raipur Umesh Sharma Kau accused Harak Singh Rawat of providing wrong information to the House. Kau was not convinced with the response given by the urban development minister Madan Kaushik regarding a Asian Development Bank-funded drinking water project in his constituency. The minister told the House that the area would be taken up under another project. To which, Kau said that the minister was giving wrong information to the House. BJP legislator from Vikasnagar Munna Singh Chauhan left Kaushik in a piquant situation by saying that there was no regulator for residential colonies in Dehradun which were earlier under the Uttar Pradesh Housing Development Council. Kaushik, in response to a question by BJP MLA Ganesh Joshi, had said that Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand Housing Development Council had an understanding over the transfer of assets to the state “but not all documents had been transferred to the state yet”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/questions-by-bjp-legislators-leave-party-govt-in-a-piquant-situation/articleshow/81317545.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Police probe Alipore woman’s death, family alleges foul play||KOLKATA: The detective department of Kolkata Police has taken over the investigation into the unnatural death in a business family in Alipore. The incident took place on February 16, when Rasika Jain, a 25-year-old woman, had died after a fall from the third-floor terrace of her in-laws’ house. Her father, who is into real estate business, has lodged a complaint of cruelty against her husband. Alipore police has lodged a case of abetment to suicide and cruelty against the husband. The victim’s in-laws own multiple businesses, including those of cement and hotels. Rasika, who had studied in a Singapore-based university after completing her graduation from a city college, had been critically injured after the fall that took place around 2.30pm on that day and died in a hospital six hours later. “My daughter was married on February 9 last year, just days before the lockdown. It was an arranged marriage. She was subjected to cruelty during the lockdown and used to keep calling for help. We had organized a meeting of the couple with a marriage counsellor. On her marriage anniversary, she went on a trip to Jaipur and she had appeared happy at a family function on February 12,” said Mahendra Kumar Jain, the victim’s father . A police team went to the residence of the accused on Wednesday but no one was present there. “We have not been able to contact the husband or his family. We have spoken to the caretaker after we took over the case on February 27,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Police have seized CCTV footage from the main gate of the Alipore residence close to where the woman was found dead. “We are ascertaining if she was treated by doctors after being hurt on an earlier occasion (in August). We will also speak to the psychiatrist she was reportedly in touch with. We are recording statements of a few relatives and domestic helps from both families. We have not come across any strong evidence of torture so far. However, this is very preliminary stage and we are still to talk to her in-laws,” added Sharma. “We are left with no answers of what has happened with our daughter. We deserve answers and we deserve justice,” stated an open letter by the family. TOI could not get any reaction from the family of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-probe-alipore-womans-death-family-alleges-foul-play/articleshow/81317590.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Passengers oppose railway board’s bid to hike train fare||Coimbatore: Days after the railway board made an announcement regarding operation of a train between Mettupalayam and Coimbatore with express unreserved booking, commuters urged the board not to increase the ticket price.A statement from the Southern Railway said the board has permitted operation of a mainline electric multiple unit (Memu) special train between Mettupalayam and Coimbatore from March 15. The train, which would be operated on all days expect Sundays, will leave Mettupalayam at 8.20am and reach the Coimbatore Railway Junction at 9.05am. It will leave Coimbatore at 5.55pm and reach Mettupalayam at 6.40pm. Before the lockdown, fares were equivalent to a passenger train, a railway official said. “But now there would be a slight increase in fare as the seats would be filled through express/mail unreserved booking system. We are yet to receive information regarding the exact fare structure.” Commuters requested the board to conduct more services between the points and not to increase fare. “Until last March, as many as four train services were operated between Coimbatore and Mettupalayam a day. College students, government and private employees used the services on a regular basis,” said M Jamil Ahmed, chairman of the Coimbatore District Railway Passengers’ Welfare Association. Most of the commuters have been depending on buses or private vehicles for the last one year, Ahmed said. “They are forced to spend at least 30 minutes more than the average time taken by buses to travel between Mettupalayam and Coimbatore due to the ongoing flyover work on the Mettupalayam Road. It is not just time consuming, but also tiring. They are also shelling out more.”“The board should operate at least three services between the points. We made a representation to the officials,” he added.Before lockdown, the fare was Rs 10 and regular travellers would opt for season ticket, which was just Rs 2,000 per year, said K P Rahman, an organizer of Namma Mettupalayam. “Now that the board is planning to collect charges equivalent to the charges of unreserved seats in express trains, there will not be season tickets. Also, the ticket prices are expected to become more than Rs 30 and we will be forced to shell out around Rs 1,500 per month which is quite expensive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/passengers-oppose-railway-boards-bid-to-hike-train-fare/articleshow/81318898.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Wait for ration cards may get longer||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement recently that the state government will start issuing new ration cards has resulted in people flooding MeeSeva centres. Nearly a lakh applications are pending from Hyderabad district alone. In all, over six lakh applications are pending across the state. The state government had frozen the issuance of new ration cards two years ago after the total number of ration cards issued reached 87 lakhs with allegations that a large number of above poverty line families also managed to get ration cards. Officials of the civil supplies department said that though the CM had announced that new ration cards will be issued soon, they have not received orders in this direction. However, a senior civil supplies department official said new ration cards cannot be issued as the poll code is in force for the graduate MLC elections. If the Election Commission of India also issues notification for bypoll to Nagarjunasagar assembly constituency, applicants might have to wait a little longer to get their new ration cards. Officials did not rule out the possibility of the government starting an exercise to weed out bogus ration cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wait-for-ration-cards-may-get-longer/articleshow/81318899.cms||Roushan Ali
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||World Wildlife Day celebrated||Hyderabad: World Wildlife Day was celebrated at Nehru Zoological Park on Wednesday. Drawing and poster making competitions were conducted on the theme ‘Reason for wildlife destruction’ along with a plantation programme. Prizes were awarded to the winners by zoo officials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/world-wildlife-day-celebrated/articleshow/81318895.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||GST fraud: Rs 720 crore input tax credit claimed illegally||AHMEDABAD: The central GST department in Gandhinagar on Wednesday unearthed a GST fraud involving illegal claiming of input tax credit (ITC) worth Rs 720 crore in Ahmedabad. Some 68 units in Ahmedabad are found to be involved in the scam and are directly or indirectly connected to a corporate group in Mumbai. The department officials received the details based on information obtained from Advance Analysis of Indirect Taxes (ADVAIT) along with AIO, E-way bill portal, and detailed analysis of the information available online. It was observed that many units involved in trading of agriculture products and bullion, with an abnormally high turnover, were found inter-connected. Upon conducting searches at some 16 firms located in Kalol, Harji, Manek Chowk, among others, it was found that no activity was carried out from these premises and most of them were found to be closed and only had signboards displaying the name and GSTIN of the units. During the search at premise of Abans Enterprises Limited, a huge number of documents and evidence including sale-purchase agreements, rubber stamps, blank letter pads among others were found. It was later learnt that all these firms were involved in illicitly claiming ITC without physical movement of goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gst-fraud-rs-720-cr-input-tax-credit-claimed-illegally/articleshow/81318890.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Three held for converting calls||Hyderabad: Three persons who illegally converted international VOIP calls into local calls were arrested by Rajendranagar police. Officials said the accused had set up the required gadgets in a flat, were converting VOIP calls to local calls and thereby denting revenue of the government. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-for-converting-calls/articleshow/81318905.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Dip in enrolment with govt employment exchanges||HYDERABAD: Even as political parties have been raising a hue and cry on the issue of recruitment in government departments, enrolment with government employment exchanges has seen a decline in the last six years. While over 10 lakh job aspirants had got themselves enrolled as on January 2015, the numbers have now come down to 6.65 lakh (aged between 14 and 60) in February 2021. According to estimations, unemployed youth could be more than 10 lakh in Hyderabad alone. Filling up of jobs in government sector has become a major campaign issue in the graduates MLC elections and the political parties are vying with one another to hold discussions on the issue. If TRS working president KT Rama Rao released a list of jobs provided by the state government in the last six years, BJP sitting MLC N Ramchander Rao, striving to get elected again from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat, waited at the Arts College for a debate with KTR on the jobs issue. Officials said since major recruitments are being done through recruitment boards or the Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC), many job aspirants are reluctant to register their names with the employment exchanges. “While TSPSC had filled some vacancies in government departments, police department has its own state-level Police Recruitment Board (PRB). Telangana Genco and TSTransco, Singareni Collieries and Telangana Residential Educational Institutions Recruitment Board (TREI-RB) have filled vacancies in their respective departments on their own through agencies,” a senior official of employment and training said Going by the data with 16 employment exchanges run by employment and training department, most aspirants have SSC and Intermediate educational qualifications. Those holding professional qualifications and PG degrees are not coming forward to register their names as they are not sure about the job opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dip-in-enrolment-with-govt-employment-exchanges/articleshow/81318904.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Furry friends battle distemper amid parvovirus infections||Kolkata: As parvovirus infection among dogs continue to haunt pet owners and animal lovers in the city, another viral infection — distemper — has been on the rise. It has proved fatal to scores of street dogs in the city over the last one week. A highly contagious and potentially lethal disease caused by the paramyxovirus virus, it causes severe illness in dogs by attacking multiple body systems, resulting in a widespread infection that is difficult to treat. The canine distemper can occur round the year, but the virus is resistant to cold and so the majority of cases in domestic dogs occur in the late fall and winter. Vets feel the rise in distemper cases during this time of the year is mostly due to the skipping of vaccination (DHLPP) in most dogs owing to the pandemic last year. “Almost every second dog I have been seeing at my clinic is suffering from either distemper or parvo virus. Distemper also has late symptoms that make it even difficult for us to treat. We have been asking pet owners and animal lovers to immediately see a vet the moment they see minor symptoms like fever, diarrhoea and muscle twitching,” said veterinarian Subir Bhattacharya. Dogs get infected from contact with infected urine, blood, saliva, or respiratory droplets. “The transmission usually happens through droplets. It can be spread through coughing and sneezing or contaminated food and water bowls. We have been treating a number of such infected dogs at our clinic in Dhapa. We are keeping them in separate isolation chambers but saving young pups with low immunity is extremely challenging,” said Rajib Ghosh, co-ordinator, public safety of KMC health department. A group of animal activists has also come forward to create awareness on social media and has been treating infected dogs on a regular basis. “Distemper and parvo virus both need extreme level of social distancing between dogs. Due to lack of awareness and lack of treatment, everyday scores of dogs are dying in the city neighbourhoods. Hence, we have formed a shelter at Raja Dinendra Street for 45 dogs where those suffering from distemper and parvo virus can be treated,” said Prantick Chatterjee, who runs an NGO for street animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/furry-friends-battle-distemper-amid-parvovirus-infections/articleshow/81317603.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 4, 2021||Aurangabad||Action sought against cop after videos demanding action against seniors goes viral||Aurangabad: After two videos of a police naik making wild allegations against his senior went viral on social media, Badnapur police inspector Maruti Khedkar proposed disciplinary action against him and shot a report to Jalna superintendent of police Vinayak Deshmukh. Police naik Kamble recorded two videos sometime on Tuesday night and demanded that inspector Khedkar be attached to control room. He even threatened of committing suicide if his demand of initiating action against the officer fell on deaf ears. In the second video, the constable made serious allegations about the integrity of the inspector and went on to appeal to journalists to take cognizance of his plea. The videos went viral on social media, catching attention of senior police officers and commoners alike. The making of such video at a time when assembly session is underway has not gone down well with the police authorities who have sought a detailed report from the area police station chief. When contacted, inspector Khedkar refuted the allegations and said, “The video made by police naik is defamatory in nature and uncalled for. Moreover, his act of releasing such video is unbecoming of policeman. I have sent a report to the superintendent of police proposing disciplinary action against him.” The officer said that the constable was serving with police headquarters before he was transferred to Badnapur about two months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/action-sought-against-cop-after-videos-demanding-action-against-seniors-goes-viral/articleshow/81315721.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 4, 2021||Nashik||6 killed in separate road accidents in Nashik district||Nashik: Six different lives were lost in three separate incidents between Monday evening and Wednesday morning. Three people were killed on the spot in a road accident on the Mumbai-Agra highway near the Wadivarhe police station on Wednesday morning in a collision between two trucks at 5.30 am. The deceased have been identified as Jitendra Kumar Ramsher Yadav (37), Mohanpal Narayan Dhakane (35) and Virendra Singh Parihar (32). They were all from Uttar Pradesh. Parihar was driving a truck — from Nashik moving towards Mumbai — when he lost control of the vehicle and rammed it into the road divider. After breaking the road divider, the truck crashed into the other side of the highway and collided with another truck approaching Nashik. Dhakane was in the truck being driven Parihar. Yadav was the driver of the other truck. One more person suffered injuries in this accident and he has been admitted to the Nashik civil hospital. There was no traffic jam on the highway as the accident took place early in the morning. Meanwhile, three others were reportedly killed in separate road accidents in Nashik city on Monday. While two bikers lost their lives when they collided with one another in the Upnagar area, a third more biker was killed in the Mhasrool area the same day. In the FIR registered by the Upnagar police, the two bikers — Kiran Mali and Amit Wagh — collided near Pimpalgaon Phata on Monday at 11.30 pm. Mali was riding his two-wheeler from Pimpalgaon Khamb to the Pathardi village, while Wagh was riding in the opposite direction. Both the bikers had suffered serious injuries. The Upnagar police registered offences against both the bikers under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for rash driving and causing death by negligence. In the other incident, registered with the Mhasrool police, Gautam Varthe, a 21-year-old from the Igatpuri taluka, was killed in an accident near the old octroi naka in Mhasrool. The youth was riding his bike from near the old octroi naka at 5.30 pm on Monday when he was knocked down by an unidentified motorist. The unidentified motorist fled the scene without informing anyone about the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-nashik-district/articleshow/81315726.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Class X girl fights off bike gang in Gariahat, foils robbery attempt||KOLKATA: A 16-year-old girl was injured after she tried to resist two bike-borne snatchers from robbing her bag. The girl, a Class X student of a reputable south Kolkata school, was returning to her Picnic Garden residence from tuitions in Gariahat when the scooterette they were riding on broke down at the Mandevilla Gardens Road-Swinhoe Street crossing. The two men, who posed as good Samaritans, first offered help in pushing the two-wheeler. However, when the victim’s mother realized that these men had other plans and asked them to leave, they committed the crime. “Initially, the victims decided to push the vehicle. A few steps ahead, the accused duo came in a bike and offered help. Even as the girl’s mother showed little interest, the accused began pushing the two-wheeler. A little ahead, at a darker corner of the road, the elderly woman felt uneasy after she heard the accused whispering and asked them to leave. The two youths, however, kept following the mother-daughter and suddenly pulled at the girl’s bag,” said a cop. The bag had three mobile phones, among other things. TimesViewThis is a one-off incident but it would help if we learn from this. Cops, with school managements' help, can think of programmes on campuses to make students aware of the perils they face off campus. It would also help if security can be stepped up unobtrusively in some of the major school hubs.Police said though initially taken aback, the girl refused to let go of the bag. “She later told us that she had some registrations completed through the mobile phones and had stored certain passwords in two phones that were in the bag. This was critical for her board exam preparations. As the two men tried snatching the bag with all force, the girl fell on the road and hurt herself. Hearing her cries, locals rushed to the spot,” said an officer. “While snatching the bag, the accused duo dragged the girl who was holding on to her bag for a few metres. The girl has received cuts on her legs and hands. She was released from a nearby medical facility after preliminary treatment. She is still in a state of shock,” said a family member. The incident took place around 11.30 pm on Sunday. A complaint was filed on Monday. Gariahat police used CCTV footage to get details of the bike that the accused used to commit the crime. “We used our local sources and nabbed the accused in less than 48 hours from their residences. The accused have been identified as Shaikh Fardeen Ali (20), a resident of Kushtia Road, and Tiljala Road resident Sk Imran Ali (22). The two have been sent to judicial custody till March 8 so that we can carry out their test identification parade at the jail,” said DC (southeast) Sudip Sarkar. All the mobile phones snatched from the victims and the bike used to commit the crime have been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/class-x-girl-fights-off-bike-gang-in-gariahat-foils-robbery-attempt/articleshow/81317597.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Mahout, aide who thrashed temple elephant get bail||Coimbatore: The Mettupalayam judicial magistrate court has granted conditional bail to mahout Vinil Kumar, 46, and his assistant Sivaprasath, 32, in the case of thrashing Srivilliputhur Andal temple elephant ‘Jayamalyatha’ at the rejuvenation camp at Thekkampatti on February 20. They were granted the bail on Tuesday night and released from Avinashi sub-jail on Wednesday. The issue came to light after a member of a non-governmental organization took video of the two beating up the 18-year-old female elephant, which was chained to a tree, with canes and circulated the same on social media. After the video went viral, Mettupalayam forest range officer Palaniraja and team had arrested the mahout and his assistant on February 21. They were subsequently remanded in judicial custody and lodged in Avinashi sub-jail. The two had moved the Mettupalayam judicial magistrate court seeking bail a few days ago. The court granted them bail on Tuesday night and directed them to appear before the office of Mettupalayam ranger to put their signature every day morning for 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mahout-aide-who-thrashed-temple-elephant-get-bail/articleshow/81318906.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||SCR may save Rs 33 cr on fuel bills with new tech||Hyderabad: To help make huge savings in diesel consumption, the South Central Railway (SCR) has adopted an energy-efficient power supply system for its Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches across the zone. First introduced on Hyderabad–New Delhi Telangana Express, the technology known as ‘head-on generation’ (HOG) system is expected to save Rs 33 crore per annum on fuel bills once the express train services resume in full-fledged manner. With this technology, power for the coaches will be supplied from overhead lines, which will then be distributed to the coaches for train lighting, air-conditioning, lighting, fans and other equipment that run on electrical power supply. “Across the country, there is huge saving in diesel fuel consumption of power cars with introduction of HOG system. So far, over 500 trains have been converted to HOG system resulting in approximately savings to the tune of Rs 1,182.22 crore per annum,” a senior SCR official said. In SCR, so far around 30 trains have already been converted to HOG technology, which according to officials, is considered to provide a cost-effective, reliable and energy-efficient supply system for coaches. The trains that are currently running on HOG technology include all the Telangana express trains which are saving approximately Rs 1.22 lakh for each trip and Rs 1.35 crore approximately every year..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-may-save-rs-33-cr-on-fuel-bills-with-new-tech/articleshow/81318907.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Kangana plea: Akhtar files caveat in SC||Mumbai: Writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar has filed a caveat in the Supreme Court saying that he be heard in connection with actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel’s plea seeking transfer of cases pending against them in Mumbai to a court in Shimla. A caveat is filed to ensure that no order is passed without the party being heard. Alleging a threat to their lives if the trial proceeds in Mumbai, Ranaut and her sister had claimed that the Sena-led state government was “harassing” them. Akhtar had filed a criminal complaint against Ranaut before a magistrate for allegedly making defamatory comments against him in TV interviews damaging his reputation. agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kangana-plea-akhtar-files-caveat-in-sc/articleshow/81318917.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Gujarat woman suicide: Asaduddin Owaisi slams dowry system in India||HYDERABAD: Two days after police arrested Aarif Khan for abetting the suicide of his wife, Ayesha Banu Makrani, 23, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi slammed the dowry system in the country and said harassing women over the social evil was not a sign of manhood. “No matter which religion you belong to, end this greed for dowry. Harassing your wife, beating her up for dowry or any financial transaction is not manhood. The family should be ashamed for forcing the girl to take an extreme step,” said Owaisi, while addressing the AIMIM cadre here on Wednesday. Owaisi spoke in detail about Ayesha, who committed suicide in Ahmedabad allegedly due to harassment by her husband and in-laws for dowry. On February 25, Ayesha recorded a video message and then jumped into the Sabarmati river. The video went viral on social media triggering anguish among people across the country. The MP expressed grief over the suicide of the girl. “How many more women have to suffer? What kind of men are these that kill women? Is humanity dead among people? There are so many men who torture women, physically assault them, seek dowry and yet pretend to be an angel in the outside world,” said Owaisi, adding that one may fool the world but cannot fool Allah. He appealed all the Muslim men to be good to the women and the family. “It is sinful to seek dowry in Islam. Women of the country should not fear these men and not take any extreme step. Your lives are valued. Rather leave such men and live a life of dignity,” said Owaisi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guj-woman-suicide-owaisi-slams-dowry-system-in-india/articleshow/81318909.cms||Preeti Biswas
March 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Guest worker held for bid to steal money from ATM||Coimbatore: A 19-year-old guest worker was arrested on Wednesday for attempting to steal money from an automated teller machine (ATM) of a public-sector bank by breaking it open at Nehru Nagar on Kalapatti Road here in the early hours of Monday.The Peelamedu (crime) police identified the accused as M Mohammad Sahjad, a native of Saharsa district in Bihar. A construction worker, he had been staying at a work site on Tex Park Road at Nehru Nagar for the past two years.An investigation officer said the guest worker had visited the ATM of the State Bank of India (SBI) at Nehru Nagar around 1.50am on Monday and attempted to steal money by breaking the machine’s digital lock with a hammer. “While he damaged the digital lock, he failed to open the same and had to leave the place empty-handed.” The SBI officials lodged a complaint with the Peelamedu police, who registered a case under Section 380 read with 511 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act. They later zeroed in on the accused based on the CCTV footage from the ATM centre.Peelamedu police inspector Sabarinathan, sub-inspector Sumithra and team arrested Mohammad Sahjad on Wednesday and produced him before a judicial magistrate court, which remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-worker-held-for-bid-to-steal-money-from-atm/articleshow/81318910.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||64 countries, including India, cut CO2 emissions in 2016-19||Nagpur: Some 64 countries cut their toxic carbon dioxide emissions during 2016-2019. However, the rate of reduction needs to be ten times greater than current global efforts to meet the Paris Agreement and tackle climate change. India is among the 64 countries and has been placed in the category of lower-middle and low-income economies. This was revealed in the latest scientific analysis published in international scientific journal ‘Nature Climate Change’. The study, which has been conducted as part of the Global Carbon Project, is the first global stock taken by researchers that examines progress in cutting CO2 emissions since the Paris Agreement was adopted in 2015. Researchers Glen Peters and Robbie Andrew at Center for International Climate Research (CICERO) are among the authors of the study. According to the study, 64 of the world’s countries cut their CO2 emissions in the period 2016-2019 compared to 2011-2015, while 150 countries saw their emissions increase. On the other hand, global CO2 emissions grew by an average of 0.21 billion tonnes per year from the 2011-2015 period to the 2016- 2019 period. “Global emissions declined sharply in 2020, but with a rebound expected in 2021, efforts must be intensified if the world is to reach the targets of the Paris Climate Agreement and keep global warming well below 2°C,” the study stated. It further highlights that while wealthier countries have managed to cut emissions, in the middle-income countries the growth in emissions has started slowing down. “In lower income countries, emissions showed no notable slowdown in 2016-2019 compared with the previous two five-year periods. These countries are greatly expanding their energy use as they develop their economies, with fossil fuels driving much of that expansion,” the study stated. The scientists are clear that a green, post-pandemic recovery is critical if we hope to tackle climate change. Lead author Corinne Le Quéré, a royal society professor at UEA’s School of Environmental Sciences, said, “Countries’ efforts to cut CO2 emissions since the Paris Agreement are starting to pay off, but actions are not large scale enough yet. While the Covid-19 pandemic will reduce emissions by about 7% in 2020, they will not cause lasting decreases in emissions unless we move away from a fossil fuel-based economy.” Glen Peters, research director at CICERO, said, “The Covid-19 pandemic came as global CO2 emissions were showing signs of a slowdown. The post- Covid era is a unique opportunity to lock in these earlier gains and use recovery funds to accelerate change.” WHAT STUDY SAYS * 64 countries cut toxic CO2 emissions during 2016-2019 * Rate of reduction needs to be 10 times greater to meet Paris goals * Global CO2 emissions grew by an average of 0.21 billion tonnes per year from the 2011-2015 period to 2016- 2019 * Scientists say post-pandemic recovery critical to tackle climate change||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/64-countries-including-india-cut-co2-emissions-in-2016-19/articleshow/81335506.cms||Manka Behl
March 4, 2021||Pune||Rural police peg fake toll receipts fraud at Rs 2.3 crore||Pune: The rural police on Wednesday claimed that the seven men arrested from Khed Shivapur toll plaza on the Pune-Bengaluru highway misappropriated Rs2.28 crore by issuing 3.8 lakh fake toll receipts since the last week of December 2020 to motorists without FASTag facility.Pune rural superintendent of police (SP) Abhinav Deshmukh said, “Each fake receipt was worth Rs190. We studied the detailed audit transaction report at the toll plaza. The report revealed that six of the arrested men had committed a fraud worth Rs2.28cr. To assess the average number of motorists passing through the toll plaza, we conducted a 24-hour study of CCTV footage on February 25. The study found that 2,000 motorists were passing through the toll plaza each day.”“Apart from the six men, we also arrested the toll plaza contractor Amol Kondhe of Khed Shivapur, who was part of the racket. The total amount involved in the fraud is likely to increase further as we continue with our study of all transactions. The suspects had procured a printer and were printing fake receipts on their own. We have seized the printer as well as the laptop,” Deshmukh said.An officer of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said, “We are keeping an eye on the situation and we will take action against the contractor after studying the case.” Amit Bhatia, regional director of Pune Satara Toll Road Limited that runs the toll plaza for NHAI, did not respond to calls made by TOI on Wednesday, neither did he reply to text messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-police-peg-fake-toll-receipts-fraud-at-rs-2-3-crore/articleshow/81317628.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nashik||2 file nominations for NMC education panel chairperson election||Nashik: A total of two candidates — BJP’s Sangita Gaikwad and Shiv Sena’s Jyoti Khole — filed their nominations on Wednesday for the election to pick the chairperson of the Nashik Municipal Corporation’s education committee slated to be held at 11 am on Friday. Raju Kute, town secretary of the civic body, said that the process for scrutiny and withdrawal of nominations are to be held before the election on the same day. District collector Suraj Mandhare will be the presiding officer for the elections. In January, the general body of the NMC revamped the education panel that deals with the civic-run schools. Mayor Satish Kulkarni declared the names of the new nine education committee members during the general body meeting of the NMC. The town secretary of the NMC had thereafter sent a letter to the divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game to conduct the elections to the post of the chairperson of the education committee. Accordingly, Game declared the date as March 5. In the nine-member committee, BJP has a majority with five members, while Shiv Sena has three. The remaining member belongs to the NCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-file-nominations-for-nmc-education-panel-chairperson-election/articleshow/81315733.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 4, 2021||Kolhapur||Shetti warns of statewide stir over fuel price rise||CLEARED SKHER Kolhapur: Former MP and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti on Wednesday announced a state-level agitation over the issue of price fuel rise, while also demanding fee waiver for the current academic year. Addressing a press conference, Shetti blamed the Modi government for continuous hike in the prices of petrol, diesel and domestic gas cylinder. “The manufacturing cost of petroleum products is Rs 32 per litre. Where does the remaining Rs 62 go,” Shetti asked. He added that an increase in gas price cannot be understood as it is a byproduct of petroleum production. Shetti also said that the Union government has increased the rates of chemical fertilizers rates by 17%, which common farmers could never afford. Shetti, whose party had contested Assembly election with Congress and NCP, did not spare Thackeray government. “The government has funds for renovation of offices and houses of ministers but not for the common man.” He also said that the government must take a decision on waiving fees of students of the current academic year. “Educational institutions are not giving results till the fees are paid,” Shetti alleged. Shetti reiterated his demand for waiving of power bills during the lockdown period saying that people were forced to sit at home, affecting their income. He also said that concessions given to agriculture power connection were not sufficient. The SSS leader said that his party would soon be relaunched as a forum for the common man and they would hold a statewide agitation against the fuel price hike. He also said that Thackeray government cannot expect farmers to support it as it had not taken decision to protect their interests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shetti-warns-of-statewide-stir-over-fuel-price-rise/articleshow/81315730.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai CA held for Rs 20cr GST fraud||Mumbai: Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) department on Tuesday arrested chartered accountant Mukesh Ahuja for fraudulently availing input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 20 crore. Ahuja was produced before a Raigad court and remanded to 14 days’ judicial custody. Ahuja is the fourth person to be arrested in the investigation against E Shoppe for fraudulent availment of ITC. Ahuja's father is director of the firm but it is found that the former played a key role, an official said. Commissioner Manpreet Arora said fake invoices were issued for sale and purchase without actual sale and movement of goods to defraud the exchequer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ca-held-for-rs-20cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/81317813.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Patna||Rs 16.24 Lakh looted in Motihari, Samastipur||PATNA: Unidentified bike-borne criminals looted more than Rs16.24 lakh at gunpoint in two separate incidents in the state on Wednesday. Over Rs10.95 lakh was looted from a microfinance firm at Motihari in East Champaran and Rs5.29 lakh from the State Bank of India’s Jitwarpur Chauth branch in Samastipur district. No arrests were made in either of the two cases. This was the second bank loot within 24 hours in the state. On Tuesday, criminals had looted Rs5.85 from the UCO Bank branch at Akopur in Begusarai. Altogether six banks have been looted in Bihar since January 8 this year. Madhuban police station SHO Rajesh Kumar said four armed criminals with faces covered with masks and clothes barged into the Bharat Finance Limited branch on Tetaria Road of Motihari town around 8.30am and asked branch manager Kamlesh Kumar at gunpoint to open the iron chest in which the cash was kept. “Kamlesh was alone at the branch. The criminals hardly stayed there for four minutes and escaped with the booty toward Rajepur,” he said. The SHO said the branch should generally open after 10am as per the RBI guidelines, but it started functioning from early morning. “On several occasions, police have provided security to the firm employees for remitting cash. However, on Tuesday night, they didn’t inform the police about heavy cash collection and storage at the branch,” he said. The SHO said that such firms are not allowed to hold above Rs5 lakh at branches as per the RBI guidelines, but they flout the rules. In the second incident, three armed criminals barged into the SBI’s Jitwarpur Chauth branch under Mufassil police station area in Samastipur and decamped with Rs5.29 lakh at gunpoint around 10.45am. Samastipur SP (in charge) Vijay Kumar Singh said the criminals took all bank staff and customers hostage at gunpoint. “They forced the bank staff to open the chest, collected cash and fled from the spot,” he said. “Police are scanning the CCTV camera footage to identify the criminals,” he said. Singh said they are coordinating with Begusarai police to know if the same gang which targeted UCO Bank on Tuesday was involved in the SBI loot as well. “Raids are on to nab the criminals,” he added. (With inputs from Chandra Bhushan Pandey in Motihari and S K Jain in Samastipur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs16-24l-looted-in-motihari-samastipur/articleshow/81317631.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s CSMT strikes gold with green initiatives||MUMBAI: Eco-friendly initiatives, including e-charging points, solar power generation, water conservation and use of energy-efficient appliances has helped Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) earn a gold certification from Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). CSMT is the first station in Maharashtra to be awarded the certification as per Confederation of Indian Industry’s IGBC rating. Central Railway (CR) chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said, “The rating system gives an impetus to national priorities like energy efficiency, water conservation, handling of waste measures and motivates adoption of green standards for buildings and their environment.” CSMT has installed electric charging points at some parking lots for two- and four-wheelers. It also installed 245 kilowatts peak (kWp) solar power capacity. Lamps have been fixed with energy-efficient LED fixtures too. Sutar said, “Occupancy sensors have been installed in offices and waiting rooms so that appliances are switched off when empty.” He said more than 15% of the station area is covered with trees and small parks; landscape area and lawns are maintained with organic manure. The contractor has been instructed to use bio-degradable and eco-friendly chemicals for mechanized cleaning of platforms, concourse, circulating areas, parking places, tracks, rooftops, shutters and waiting halls. Sutar said the station has signage on avoiding usage of plastic bags and digital display boards to create awareness on their adverse impact on environment. To make use of track-side land and other vacant areas, CR has identified stretches for solar power plants aggregating a capacity of 109MWp for traction purposes. The plants will generate 143 million units of energy a year and will save Rs 43 crore. Similarly, for non-traction purposes, vacant land parcels have been identified on which solar power plants of aggregate 71MWp capacity have been planned to generate 93 million units a year, saving Rs 64 crore. Thus, the total saving in energy bills a year will be Rs 107 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-csmt-strikes-gold-with-green-initiatives/articleshow/81317804.cms||Manthank Mehta
March 4, 2021||Coimbatore||2 held with idols, spl team formed to nab gang leader||Coimbatore: Two men were arrested with as many idols near the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Tuesday night. The Race Course (crime) police said the two, identified as G Murugan alias Gundu Murugan, 36, of Erimedu at Puliyakulam, and K Mahesh, 33, of Peraiyur in Madurai district, were seen roaming around Balaji Nagar near Avarampalayam in a suspicious manner on Tuesday night. “Local residents followed the duo, who dug out two amman idols, which were made of metals, from a vacant land, kept them in a gunny bag and headed towards the CMCH on a motorcycle. The residents stopped them, beat them up severely and recovered the idols from them,” a police officer said. The residents informed the Race Course police and a team headed by inspector Sujatha took the duo, along with the idols, to police station. During interrogation, the two told police that their gang leader had asked them to secure the idols from the vacant land and hand them over to him. “They didn’t know much about the idols and they were hidden by the gang leader. We have booked them under sections 41 (1) (d), 102 of the Criminal Procedure Code and Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code and arrested them,” the officer said. The two were produced before a judicial magistrate-III on Wednesday evening and lodged in jail under judicial custody. A police team has been formed to nab the mastermind behind the idol theft case. “We could get details about the idols only after nabbing the gang leader,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-held-with-idols-spl-team-formed-to-nab-gang-leader/articleshow/81318922.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Khapri-Mihan Metro feeder service starts||Nagpur: In a major relief for over 50,000 people working in Mihan, MahaMetro has started an on-call feeder service between Khapri metro station and the industrial estate. The service will be operational from today. On Wednesday, MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit along with other senior officials inaugurated the service. The feeder service has been started to ensure end-to-end connectivity for employees of various companies and residents living in the vicinity. According to officials, a cab and a bus will be available daily between 8am and 8pm. “Charges will depend on the distance that will be covered. Facilities like monthly subscription and passes will also be available. The feeder service will just be a call away. It will ensure that employees are dropped and picked up from their respective offices,” said officials. MahaMetro is hopeful that the connectivity will help thousands of employees working in the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), IT companies, Lupin, Tech Mahindra and other companies. “Many residential townships are also coming up and this service will prove to be beneficial to residents too,” officials added. MahaMetro has procured feeder vehicles from a private contractor. Under a similar feeder service, an electric bus is operating between the Nagpur airport and airport metro station. MahaMetro plans to increase the number of vehicles in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/khapri-mihan-metro-feeder-service-starts/articleshow/81318971.cms||Manka Behl
March 4, 2021||Pune||Pune: Cops rescue two women forced into prostitution||PUNE: The crime branch on Tuesday evening rescued two women, induced into prostitution, from a hotel at Sakorenagar in Vimannagar. The women’s questioning led to the arrest of a 29-year-old man from Wadgaonsheri. The man’s custody was later transferred to the Yerawada police for taking action. A constable from the crime branch’s social security cell, stated in her FIR that the cell in-charge had received reliable information that the man was into supplying women to prospective customers in Yerawada and Vimannagar. The police, after verifying the information, contacted the man through a decoy over call and collected information about the number of women involved and other details. The police said the decoy struck a deal with the man, who, in turn, instructed him to book two rooms at a Sakorenagar hotel for sending two women for a particular amount. The FIR read, the decoy booked the room and alerted the police after the women (aged 22 and 23 years), who are originally from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, walked into the hotel rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-rescue-two-women-forced-into-prostitution/articleshow/81317632.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Over 70,000 netizens register support for campaign to save 10k trees which are slated to be cut for expansion of Dehradun airport||Dehradun: An online petition — Save Thano Forest — to safeguard over 10,000 trees that are slated to be cut for Doon airport expansion has garnered over 70,000 online supporters since December 2020 when it was launched. The petition by Save Thano Campaign (STC) members is addressed to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat through which the signatories are demanding reinstating the 2002 notification of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve which is still not quashed but put on hold, and to move the expansion plans of Dehradun airport away from the lush Thano forest (which is a part of the Shivalik reserve). “We will not let these trees be chopped for an airport which can be built elsewhere. As a young climate activist, I can clearly say that these 10,000 trees are crucial to securing the present and future of our generation. Trees will provide us oxygen, not the airport,” said teenage activist Ridhima Pandey. To recall, TOI had on October 1, 2020, published a report highlighting the plans of the state government to fell trees for the airport expansion. Later on November 24, the state government denotified its lone elephant reserve — Shivalik. The move, say activists, made all the 2,026 jumbos in the state virtually homeless and vulnerable to poachers. Thereafter, organisations like Jhatkaa.org and Save Thano Campaign (STC) had initiated the online petition in December. The petition reads, “There are several illegalities related to the proposed move such as violation of the RTI Act of 2005 as none of the minutes of the Uttarakhand Wildlife Board is in the public domain. The move is also a violation of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification of 2006. The de-notification is to facilitate the expansion of the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun which requires 87.08 hectares of forest land from the Shivalik Elephant Reserve and yet the state government, while applying for forest clearance, submitted that no EIA is required for the expansion of the airport.” Pushpam Singhal, core team member of STC, said, “Thano is not just 10,000 trees. It is a self-sustaining ecosystem which has been the habitat for thousands of animal, plant and trees species for nearly 200 years. It is a one-of-a-kind forest and the government has a moral and ethical responsibility of protecting it. Forests should not bleed in the name of blind development.” The petition was preceded by a Chipko Movement-like stir held on October 18, 2020. Besides, the activists also ensured a ‘tweet storm’ (series of posts on Twitter) on December 13, 2020, to draw global attention to the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-70000-netizens-register-support-for-campaign-to-save-10k-trees-which-are-slated-to-be-cut-for-expansion-of-dehradun-airport/articleshow/81316518.cms||Shivani Azad
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Grenade found was made in ’87||Hyderabad: A grenade found in the rocks on the outskirts of village near Mahbubnagar was manufactured in 1987. Police believe it was issued to security personnel involved in anti-Maoist operations. A villager, Sayamma, found the grenade on Sunday while she was looking for firewood in the land near her agricultural fields between Zamistanpur and Dharmapur villages. “Our teams have scoured the entire area and no other explosives were found,” Mahbubnagar SP Rema Rajeshwari said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/grenade-found-was-made-in-87/articleshow/81318921.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||Went to prison, not afraid of jab, says 95-yr-old Goa artist||PANAJI: With the help of a wheelchair, 95-year-old Padma Bhushan awardee and renowned artist Laxman Pai made his way into Manipal Hospital to receive his first dose of the Covid vaccine dose on Wednesday. “I’m not afraid of injections. I didn’t feel a thing. I did it and forgot about it,” he told TOI after the jab. “If I can do it easily, then you all can also do it. Viva!” he added. The nonagenarian who was advised a paracetemol after the shot, felt sleepy, but didn’t skip his regular pint of “chilled beer” in the evening. He is now set to inaugurate an art store in Panaji on Sunday. Pai who served as principal of the Goa College of Art from 1977 to 1987 paints everyday. He recently completed a 100-foot acrylic on linen painting in five parts, taking on 20 feet at a time. He was done in four months with a little assistance with mixing paints. “I help him with mixing the shade of paint he desires, making it lighter or darker. I also show him different sizes of brushes for him to choose. His helper hands him the brush loaded with paint while I take a tripod and record his work on my mobile,” art collector and family friend Shaistah Thapar said. Pai’s energy levels were high during the lockdown and he would paint for even three hours a day, she said. “He is a COPD (Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) patient and smoked a pipe for 30 years. He has a hole in his lung yet he’s surviving and thriving,” she told TOI. “He didn’t make a fuss to take the vaccine at all. He was a fighter who took part in the freedom movement in Goa. He offered Satyagraha and was thrown in jail and tortured twice. The prick of a needle is nothing for him,” she said. Pai who was born in 1926 in Margao, celebrated his 95th birthday on January 21. Dr Shekhar Salkar put him on the priority list at Manipal Hospital and Dr Prasanna Malik vaccinated him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/went-to-prison-not-afraid-of-jab-says-95-yr-old-artist/articleshow/81320152.cms||Lisa Monteiro
March 4, 2021||World||New Zealand eyes Australia-style media deals with tech firms||WELLINGTON: New Zealand called on Google and Facebook on Wednesday to strike deals with Kiwi media similar to those reached in Australia, which require the tech giants to pay for using news. Broadcast minister Kris Faafoi said he was considering rules implementing the same type of arrangements for New Zealand’s struggling media sector but hoped the deals could be reached through negotiations. “I’m confident that commercial discussions will also begin in New Zealand and I encourage that,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/new-zealand-eyes-australia-style-media-deals-with-tech-firms/articleshow/81321669.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra has the highest daily caseload in 4.5 months||MUMBAI: In a throwback to October 2020 when daily Covid-19 cases in the state often breached the 10,000 mark, the state-wide caseload registered on Wednesday stood close -- at 9,855. Maharashtra reported the highest daily detections in 137 days, since October 17, when the state had reported 10,259 cases. With this, the state’s tally rose to 21,79,185, but fatalities dipped to 42 from Tuesday’s 54, taking the toll to 52,280. In Mumbai, cases crossed the 1,000-mark (1,121) after two days of hovering around 800. Deaths rose from two on Tuesday to six. Cases in the satellite cities too continued to rise. At the state level, the Mumbai region reported the highest cases (2,209), and Akola circle with districts like Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola adding the highest deaths (16). As a preventive measure, BMC has asked its hospitals to increase bed capacity to last year’s strength. In the BMC-run Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar, the current bed strength of 65 is being raised to back to 100. “Patients admitted with us have mild Covid,” said Rajawadi’s medical superintendent Dr Vidya Thakur. Experts say that though cases are rising, the virulence is not high. This is reflected in the fact that BMC's super specialty hospitals earmarked for severely ill Covid patients have fewer patients than its suburban hospitals meant for mild to moderate patients. In Sion Hospital, which used to have 700 inpatients at the height of the pandemic last year, there are around 30 patients. “We are not seeing many patients needing ICU,” said Sion Hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi. Active cases in the state and the city have increased. Maharashtra has a total of 82,343 active cases, of which 8,594 are in Mumbai. The rate of recovery has dropped to 93.7% from 95% during the start of February. PCMC reported 97 cases on Tuesday, the highest in three months, taking its tally to 30,259; with no Covid deaths on Wednesday, its toll remained 646. In Thane, the daily number of cases crossed the 200 mark after a span of three days. TMC officials said 235 cases and one death were registered on Wednesday, taking the toll to 1,334. In Navi Mumbai, 153 cases were reported, taking the tally to 55,818; two deaths took the toll to 1,123.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-state-has-the-highest-daily-caseload-in-4-5-months/articleshow/81321761.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||At 37.3°C, Wed was the hottest day of season, in Mumbai||Mumbai: Wednesday was another hot day for Mumbaikars, with maximum temperature soaring to 37.3 degrees Celsius. This was around a two-degree rise, compared to a day back, when Mumbai recorded a maximum of 35.3 degrees. Weathermen at India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the hot and sultryweather is expected to continue till the weekend. Dr Jayanta Sarkar, scientist and head (IMD, Mumbai) said dry and relatively warm wind coming from anti-cyclone over central India, was making us feel warm. IMD Santacruz observatory on Wednesday reported a maximum temperature of 37.3 degrees, which was 4.4 degrees above normal. At 37.3 degrees, it was also the highest maximum the city has reported this year. The summer heat started to be felt from February itself, as the maximum on February 28 touched 36.3 degrees. In March last year, the highest maximum for the entire month was 37.5 degrees. Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD Mumbai, said the rise in temperature was due to dry and hot air from mid-level atmosphere. “Such conditions will stay till March 5,” she said. The all-time highest maximum for March has been 41.7 degrees. IMD Colaba on Wednesday recorded maximum of 34.5 degrees, which was 3.2 degrees above normal. Minimum at both observatories was also above normal: Colaba (32.4) and Santacruz (35.3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-37-3c-wed-was-the-hottest-day-of-season-in-mumbai/articleshow/81317809.cms||Richa Pinto
March 4, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Woman shot in Fatuha for opposing daughter’s molestation||PATNA: A 40-year-old woman was shot dead for opposing her minor daughter’s molestation by a village youth belonging to a ‘dabang’ family at Jaggubigha under Fatuha police station area in rural Patna on Wednesday morning. Police, quoting the villagers, said more than 30 rounds were fired by the accused side, but no one else was injured. Three suspects have been detained, police said. Fatuha SDPO Rajesh Kumar Manjhi said one Chandan Yadav, 25, had allegedly molested the deceased Neelam Devi’s 15-year-old daughter in the village at least ten days back. Neelam had a fight with the youth and his family over the issue. “They fired several rounds, killing the woman who was returning from the field at that time,” he told TOI. “The previous incidents were not reported to the police. Tension kept brewing between the two sides belonging to the same caste,” he said. Manjhi said more than 80% of the villagers, who are Chandan’s supporters, have fled after the incident. SHO Manoj Kumar said Chandan and Neelam’s husband Lallan Yadav had heated arguments over the issue on Tuesday night. “Chandan had threatened that worse will happen to the minor girl. On Wednesday morning, both sides again had heated arguments, leading to indiscriminate firing from Chandan’s side. The house of one Ram Bhajan was used for firing on Lallan’s family and his supporters,” he said. The SHO said several empty cartridges of different bores, including .303 and .315, were recovered from the spot. He said raids were on to nab those involved in the violence. He said the dominant Chandan group attacked those who supporters of the girl’s family after the molestation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-shot-for-opposing-daughters-molestation/articleshow/81317692.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Residents in Hyderabad rue power cuts, officials deny outages||HYDERABAD: With the onset of summer, several residents in the city have started facing the heat of power cuts for varied durations. As the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) saw an 8% rise in power consumption in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits over the last one month, power cuts in few areas have left residents sweating. With mercury levels inching closer to the 40 degree Celsius mark, residents are sweating it out with power cuts becoming a regular affair in areas such as Old City, Alkapur Township, Somajiguda and Manikonda, to name a few. Residents rue that frequent power cuts in the name of maintenance work, tree trimming and repair work have started to affect both work from home and online classes for children. “Even today, the power supply was disconnected at 9 am and was restored only by 3 pm. I am working from home and I have children who take online classes. Long power cuts have become a frequent affair and affect our daily routine severely,” said Vijay S, resident of Nagaram. Many residents also complained of voltage issues. “In a week, there is a power cut of two to four hours on almost two to three days, especially during the weekends, from 11 am to 2 pm. No one from any of the concerned departments has responded to multiple complaints,” said Numan Hashmi, resident of Aliabad in Old City, adding that high voltage has damaged home appliances of people in the vicinity. The social media account of TSSPDCL is flooded with complaints of power disruptions from residents across the city. “In the last one week, the demand in the city has jumped from 42 million units to 50 million units per day. Increase in the ambient temperature has led to the increase in power consumption. We expect the demand to rise up to 75-80 million units by April-May. This will be almost two million units higher than last summer,” said Srinivas Reddy, director (operations), TSSPDCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-rue-power-cuts-officials-deny-outages/articleshow/81318935.cms||Preeti Biswas
March 4, 2021||Nashik||Nashik division registers land records in record time||Nashik: All the five districts of Nashik division occupy top positions across the state in e-mutation entries for land records, said divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Wednesday. “Nandurbar tops the chart of e-mutation entries among the districts across Maharashtra and Nashik division tops the chart division-wise,” he said. Game had reviewed the progress of each district, as a result of which the work was speedily done. Any change in the Record of Rights (RoR) of a property after transaction is registered through the mutation entry, which is carried out by the revenue officer — talathi. In a bid to save time, the state government has digitised the RoR and brought the process of registration of mutations online, which is called e-mutation. “During follow-up with the district administrations, the issues faced by people were noted and the officials concerned were asked to address them at the earliest and ensure minimal or zero pendency in online mutation entries against the property where transaction has been carried out,” deputy commissioner Gorakshnath Gadilkar, said. Nandurbar district topped the chart in the state, followed by Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nashik districts. “We conducted meetings regularly and analysed the progress report, which further helped us get rid of anomalies and improve the performance,” Nandurbar district collector Rajendra Bharud said. Additional collector Mahesh Patil and deputy collector Baban Kakde took the help of National Informatics Centre, Pune, to resolve the issues. It may be noted that the average performance of completing mutation entries stood at 97.7% across Nashik division. Nandurbar district has achieved registration and certification to the extent of 97.97%, Ahmednagar 97.81%, Jalgaon 97.79%, Dhule 97.76% and Nashik 97.59%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-division-registers-land-records-in-record-time/articleshow/81315761.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra has the highest daily caseload in 4.5 months||MUMBAI: In a throwback to October 2020 when daily Covid-19 cases in the state often breached the 10,000 mark, the state-wide caseload registered on Wednesday stood close -- at 9,855. Maharashtra reported the highest daily detections in 137 days, since October 17, when the state had reported 10,259 cases. With this, the state’s tally rose to 21,79,185, but fatalities dipped to 42 from Tuesday’s 54, taking the toll to 52,280. In Mumbai, cases crossed the 1,000-mark (1,121) after two days of hovering around 800. Deaths rose from two on Tuesday to six. Cases in the satellite cities too continued to rise. At the state level, the Mumbai region reported the highest cases (2,209), and Akola circle with districts like Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola adding the highest deaths (16). As a preventive measure, BMC has asked its hospitals to increase bed capacity to last year’s strength. In the BMC-run Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar, the current bed strength of 65 is being raised to back to 100. “Patients admitted with us have mild Covid,” said Rajawadi’s medical superintendent Dr Vidya Thakur. Experts say that though cases are rising, the virulence is not high. This is reflected in the fact that BMC's super specialty hospitals earmarked for severely ill Covid patients have fewer patients than its suburban hospitals meant for mild to moderate patients. In Sion Hospital, which used to have 700 inpatients at the height of the pandemic last year, there are around 30 patients. “We are not seeing many patients needing ICU,” said Sion Hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi. Active cases in the state and the city have increased. Maharashtra has a total of 82,343 active cases, of which 8,594 are in Mumbai. The rate of recovery has dropped to 93.7% from 95% during the start of February. PCMC reported 97 cases on Tuesday, the highest in three months, taking its tally to 30,259; with no Covid deaths on Wednesday, its toll remained 646. In Thane, the daily number of cases crossed the 200 mark after a span of three days. TMC officials said 235 cases and one death were registered on Wednesday, taking the toll to 1,334. In Navi Mumbai, 153 cases were reported, taking the tally to 55,818; two deaths took the toll to 1,123.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-state-has-the-highest-daily-caseload-in-4-5-months/articleshow/81321762.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra has the highest daily caseload in 4.5 months||MUMBAI: In a throwback to October 2020 when daily Covid-19 cases in the state often breached the 10,000 mark, the state-wide caseload registered on Wednesday stood close -- at 9,855. Maharashtra reported the highest daily detections in 137 days, since October 17, when the state had reported 10,259 cases. With this, the state’s tally rose to 21,79,185, but fatalities dipped to 42 from Tuesday’s 54, taking the toll to 52,280. In Mumbai, cases crossed the 1,000-mark (1,121) after two days of hovering around 800. Deaths rose from two on Tuesday to six. Cases in the satellite cities too continued to rise. At the state level, the Mumbai region reported the highest cases (2,209), and Akola circle with districts like Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola adding the highest deaths (16). As a preventive measure, BMC has asked its hospitals to increase bed capacity to last year’s strength. In the BMC-run Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar, the current bed strength of 65 is being raised to back to 100. “Patients admitted with us have mild Covid,” said Rajawadi’s medical superintendent Dr Vidya Thakur. Experts say that though cases are rising, the virulence is not high. This is reflected in the fact that BMC's super specialty hospitals earmarked for severely ill Covid patients have fewer patients than its suburban hospitals meant for mild to moderate patients. In Sion Hospital, which used to have 700 inpatients at the height of the pandemic last year, there are around 30 patients. “We are not seeing many patients needing ICU,” said Sion Hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi. Active cases in the state and the city have increased. Maharashtra has a total of 82,343 active cases, of which 8,594 are in Mumbai. The rate of recovery has dropped to 93.7% from 95% during the start of February. PCMC reported 97 cases on Tuesday, the highest in three months, taking its tally to 30,259; with no Covid deaths on Wednesday, its toll remained 646. In Thane, the daily number of cases crossed the 200 mark after a span of three days. TMC officials said 235 cases and one death were registered on Wednesday, taking the toll to 1,334. In Navi Mumbai, 153 cases were reported, taking the tally to 55,818; two deaths took the toll to 1,123.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-state-has-the-highest-daily-caseload-in-4-5-months/articleshow/81318959.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 4, 2021||Pune||Gangster Andekar, kin held in murder attempt case||Pune: A team of the Khadak police on Tuesday night arrested gangster Suryakant alias Banduanna Ranoji Andekar (60) and one of his relatives in connection with an attempt to murder case from Nana Peth amid beefed up security in the area. The team headed by deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Priyanka Narnaware, assistant commissioner of police Satish Govekar and senior inspector Shrihari Bahirat went to the Nana Peth area after cordoning off all the entry and exit points. The quick response team and additional personnel were deployed to avert any untoward incidents. Banduanna Ranoji Andekar and his relative, Rishab Devdutta Andekar (24), were then arrested in connection with the attempt to murder and rioting case registered with the Khadak police. Their five accomplices are on the run. Omkar Kudale (21) of Dhankawdi had registered a complaint with the Khadak police against the Andekars. According to it, the Andekars attacked him with sharp weapons on the night of February 21 at Ganesh Peth owing to their rivalry. Narnaware told TOI, “On the night of February 21, the members of the Andekar gang and the Kudale gang, headed by Omkar, clashed at two different spots in the old parts of the city. Two separate cases of attempt to murder and rioting were registered against the two gangs’ members with the Samarth and Khadak police stations. Both the gangs’ members have been fighting with each other for some time now. We have obtained CCTV footage from both the spots where the clashes occurred. We took utmost precautions while arresting the Andekars.” She said, “The investigations revealed that the Andekars were taking violent stances in the recent past thinking that the gang’s clout in Nana Peth and Rasta Peth was declining and they wanted to regain its ‘old glory’.” Recently, the Kondhwa police had arrested another member of the gang, Krisnakant Andekar, in a separate firing-cum-attempt to murder case. On the other hand, the Samarth police arrested three members of the Kudale gang — Kudale, Rajan Mangesh Kalbhor (22) of Dhankawdi, and Kanifnath Vinod Mahapure (23) of Nana Peth. A complaint against them was registered by a 16-year-old boy from Nana Peth, close to the Andekars and a witness to the clashes. Narnaware said Kudale was involved in cases of body offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gangster-andekar-kin-held-in-murder-attempt-case/articleshow/81317678.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai:PIL against FASTag fine, HC seeks Centre’s reply||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday sought the Centre and National Highway Authority of India’s response to a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the charging of double toll for non-use of FASTag at toll plazas. The direction by a bench of Chief Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni came on a PIL by Pune resident Arjun Khanapure to continue cash facility for ordinary people at toll plazas in Maharashtra. The petition said the respondents were “arbitrarily” collecting double the toll fee as fine for not using FASTag. His advocate Uday Warunjikar argued although there is no provision in the law, the NHAI is still illegally fining people. His petition said though FASTag was introduced in 2016, “a lot of people are still not friendly with the said technology” and prefer to pay toll fee by cash. Also, since February 21, 2021 all cash lanes are converted to FASTtag lanes and commuters are facing huge difficulty. On February 16, 2021 Khanapure was on his way to Mumbai and while he was ready to pay regular toll fee of Rs 40 in cash for single journey, he was instead “forced” to pay Rs 80 at a toll plaza. Khanapure said that many citizens are illiterate and unable to open bank accounts and link it to FASTag account or recharge it. Khanapure has sought stay on two circulars of February that mandate collection of double toll fees as fine for payment in cash. The judges directed Centre to reply and posted hearing on March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaipil-against-fastag-fine-hc-seeks-centres-reply/articleshow/81321117.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai:Panel to verify affordable flats by Hiranandani||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Wednesday directed a committee to find out how many flats were constructed by Hiranandani group in the Powai Area Development Scheme after its 2017 order allowing it time to complete the constructions. The order by a bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was passed on Hiranandani’s application to extend timelines given to it in October 2017 to complete construction of four wings of Castle Rock, five wings of Regent Hill, three wings of Atlantis and two buildings —Sorrento and Maple. In February 2012, on a PIL, the high court had directed Hiranandani to construct 1,511 flats of 40 sq mts (430 sq ft) and 1,593 flats of 80 sq mts (861) sq ft before undertaking any other construction. The PIL by activists Kamlakar Satve, Rajendra Thacker and Medha Patkar said Hiranandani had signed a lease for 230 acres of land in 1986 in a tripartite agreement with the state and MMRDA to build affordable housing. The petitioners, however, alleged that the flats were merged into sprawling 4,000-5,000 sq ft apartments and sold at premium rates. On the developer’s application, the HC in October 2017 had granted time till June 2021 to complete the construction. It had also set up a committee to verify the developer’s claim. The builder has sought that the delay be condoned and further extension of timelines ranging from January 2022 till June 2023 be granted. It cited Covid-19 for the delay. Senior advocate Milind Sathe for Hiranandani said majority of the flats were ready, but the balance could not be constructed due to the pandemic. He said in October 2017, 887 flats of 80 sq mt were left to be constructed. Of these, 844 flats were constructed and 43 were remaining. Out of 1,511 flats of 40 sq mt, 403 were constructed. But the petitioners’ advocates —Gayatri Singh, Sumedha Rao and Mihir Desai —disputed the figures. They alleged that commercial constructions had been made in breach of the 2012 order and even after October 2017, flats were amalgamated and sold for which BMC had issued notices in 2020. The judges then reconstituted the earlier committee and directed it to visit the site and submit a report after two weeks. “Find out if all the figures are correct,” said the chief justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaipanel-to-verify-affordable-flats-by-hiranandani/articleshow/81320173.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Schools prepare for shorter session in Class XI after delayed exams in Cov yr||Kolkata: After appearing for their Class X board exams, both ICSE and CBSE students will get less time than usual to complete their Class XI syllabuses in 2021-2022. Owing to the pandemic, the Class X board exams, which are usually held between mid-February and March, will start in May this time; Class XI usually began after April 10 but the delayed boards will be mean new a new academic session in June-end. Presuming that the Class XI annual examinations will be held in March next year, many schools are drawing up a road map to ensure a smooth teaching-learning process in the shortened time. As the Class XI students will get two months less than their predecessors, some schools plan to hold classes on Saturdays, while some look to teach Class X students some topics that are common with Class XI. Julien Day School Ganganagar is one such institute. “Around 10% of the subject matters in classes X and XI are similar. Now, we are revising the syllabus. But from April, the kids will start studying the chapters that will help them prepare for the board exams as well as keep them ahead in the next class, as the topics are same in Class XI,” said principal Bobby Baxter. Pointing out that students will lose around two months in the new session if the council keep the annual exams dates in 2022 unchanged, Baxter said, “Our new session begins in mid-April. This year, it will start in June.” The same plan has been devised for the other branches of Julien Day School. “The common topics have been identified in subjects, like history, English and Hindi Language,” Baxter said. The Heritage School plans to hold lessons for classes X and XII even on Saturdays. “In our school, Class XI students begin to attend the new session after ICSE from April. Thereafter, the school closes for summer vacation and reopens in mid-June. This year, we have calculated there will be a loss of 30 days. We plan to make up by adding extra classes on Saturdays,” said principal Seema Sapru. Richard Gasper, principal of St Augustine’s Day School, is expecting the CISCE to reduce the curriculum for the 2021-22 academic session. “Like this year, we are expecting the council to curtail the syllabus. Otherwise, students will have to depend on selective studies. We will hold classes on Saturdays,” Gasper said. “Since the syllabus may not be reduced for the 2021-22 academic session and we may have to hold Class XI annual exams on time in 2022, the school is planning to arrange for shorter vacations, extra classes on Saturdays and make up for the lost time,” said South Point High School spokesperson Krishna Damani. In another CBSE institution, Birla Bharati School, the new session for Class XI begins in July. “We have estimated that students are likely to lose 15 days of classes. We will arrange for online teaching on Saturdays,” said principal Apala Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-prepare-for-shorter-session-in-class-xi-after-delayed-exams-in-cov-yr/articleshow/81318952.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Prisons medieval in their functioning; high time they are brought to modern age, says U’khand HC||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday broadened the scope of a PIL demanding framing of a policy for release of convicted prisoners who have served 14 years in jail. Noting that prisons across the country continue to be ‘medieval in their functioning’ and that it is time they are brought to modern age, the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma, while widening the scope of the PIL, said that there is a need to ‘reform and resurrect’ the prison system in the state. The bench noted that “it is imperative that undertrials are weaned away from the criminal way of life and the convicted prisoners are reformed to the extent that they can be brought safely back into the society as contributory members.” Further, it asked for a report from the inspector general (IG) of prisons on reformative techniques employed by the jail authorities as well as the physical condition of jails, including the sanctioned strength of staff, vacancies and budgetary allocation for the jail department. The court has given the IG time till March 23 to submit the detailed report and has listed the case for further hearing on March 24. While the detailed court order was yet to be made available till the time of filing of this report, an advocate present in the hearing, told TOI, “The court said that the condition of jails in the state is a cause for concern as there are probably lakhs of undertrials and convicted prisoners under judicial custody. That’s why, the bench decided to widen the scope of the PIL. Further, the court noted that the Supreme Court, too, has prescribed guidelines and made recommendations for the improvement of the prison system which needs to be reformed and resurrected on priority. The PILwas filed in the HC by an inmate Ramchandra alias Raju Verma who wrote to the court seeking his release as he was given life sentence but continued to be in prison even after serving over 14 years in jail. The inmate had given examples of states like Punjab where prisoners are released after 14 years unless the court orders otherwise. The division bench of the HC had while hearing the same petition earlier, directed the state to present a list of all the inmates who have served 14 years in jail and to decide on their release. The state had produced a list of 274 such prisoners and said that a committee headed by the home secretary will decide on their release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/prisons-medieval-in-their-functioning-high-time-they-are-brought-to-modern-age-says-ukhand-hc/articleshow/81316555.cms||Prashant Jha
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC directs state to present its afforestation & reforestation policies||Nainital: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the Advocate General (AG) of the state to explain Uttarakhand’s afforestation as well as reforestation policies before the court. “To maintain the fragile ecology of the state, the conflicting interests of sustaining the environment and the state’s development need to be balanced,” the court observed. The bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma was hearing a bunch of Public Interest Litigations (PIL) challenging the state government’s definition of deemed forests. “The bench asked the state government to place on record its policies on how and where it plants trees to compensate for those cut down for infrastructure projects. The court has given the state government time till March 23 to furnish details,” said an advocate present at the hearing. As reported by TOI, in December 2019, the court had put a stay on the state government order defining forests as a patch of land of at least 10 hectares with at least 60% canopy cover. In February 2020, the government amended the order and changed the definition of forest to a patch of land of at least five hectares and having 40% canopy cover. The HC had put a stay on the amended definition as well. Both orders were challenged before the HC by environmentalists on the grounds of the new definition being in complete violation of a Supreme Court order as well as the Forest Conservation Act. They said the amended definition was nothing but a ploy to skirt the previous stay and any patch of land with 10% forest cover should be considered a forest. The petitioners had argued that these orders would “let 9,000 square kilometers of forested land be up for grabs by timber and mining mafia”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-directs-state-to-present-its-afforestation-reforestation-policies/articleshow/81316546.cms||Prashant Jha
March 4, 2021||Coimbatore||An oasis in middle of bustling city||Coimbatore: The botanical garden on the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) campus, which was closed for renovation work two years ago, is now open to the public. The 113-year-old garden, on Maruthamalai Road, is a popular tourist attraction. Renovation work was carried out to give the garden a contemporary touch, while retaining its heritage, educational, scientific and recreational values, a statement from the university said. “We have increased plant diversity. There are rare species and a garden maze.” The garden now has as many as 80 species of flowering and foliage trees, climbers and creepers, shrubs, flowering annuals, cut flowers, cacti and succulents, ferns, palms and lawn grasses and over 400 species of ornamental plants. All plants have been labelled using QR code to educate the public. A bambusetum, a garden having a collection of bamboo plants, has been established in the garden. It has over 15 species of bamboo. There is also a palmatum with a diverse collection of palm trees. “A bamboo tunnel is being set up to demonstrate the potential of the species to absorb carbon dioxide and release over 30% more oxygen compared to an equivalent mass of trees,” an official told TOI. “The formal garden in the front area, popularly known as two-level garden, has been also given a facelift. Lawns have been replanted. Symmetrical flower beds have been planted along the main drive. We have set up an herbal garden and an aroma garden. The children’s park has been upgraded.” The garden now has two gazebos and ponds that have indigenous aquatic plants. “We have also set up an island park, fountains and pergolas,” the official added. Visitors seem to be happy. Mohammed Siddique, who was with his family, said the garden looks greener and neater. “This is the only green space located in the city. Otherwise, we will have to travel over 30 kilometre to city outskirts. This is an ideal space for the public to spend some quality time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/an-oasis-in-middle-of-bustling-city/articleshow/81318936.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 4, 2021||Pune||Gaywal detained under MPDA Act, sent to prison||Pune: The rural police on Wednesday detained gangster Nilesh Gaywal under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act. Gaywal (44) was taken into custody from Jamkhed in Ahmednagar district and sent to the Yerawada central prison for a year. Earlier, he was released from jail in 2020 after being booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act in 2017. He was immediately externed from Pune district for two years. He was in Jamkhed since then. “During his externment period, Bhigwan police had registered an offence against him for abducting a railway contractor for extortion,” Abhinav Deshmukh, the superintendent of Pune rural police, said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gaywal-detained-under-mpda-act-sent-to-prison/articleshow/81317693.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||Goa: Stage set for Kala Academy’s first play since lockdown||PANAJI: Nearly a year since the lockdown, theatre students from the second year of the Kala Academy college of theatre, Goa, have put together a Hindi play in what could be considered the first theatre performance at Kala Academy post-lockdown. Titled ‘Tabut Zindagi’, the play will be presented on March 6 at the Dinanath Mangeshkar Kala Mandir auditorium. “It is a very challenging play, which is why we have selected it for the students. They are very enthusiastic to perform after a year,” principal of the college, Ramrao Wagh said. Presentation of a play is a part of the students’ curriculum wherein their marks are tabulated according to the performance put up and the backstage production. The Hindi play scheduled for this weekend was initially scheduled for performance last year. It didn’t see light of day owing to the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown restrictions. This academic year, the students are finally getting the opportunity to complete their ‘exam’ and present it before the audience. The play is originally written by Kavindra Phaldesai and it is translated in Hindi by Vijaykumar Naik. Naik is also directing the play for the students. The Hauns Theater Training Center (HTTC) from Ponda had earlier presented ‘Tabut Zindagi’ at the Bikaner Theater Festival in Rajasthan. Spaced-out seating for the audience will be kept ready on the day of the performance. Attendees have been requested to maintain social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stage-set-for-kala-academys-first-play-since-lockdown/articleshow/81320165.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Priority is to create single authority for Mumbai: Aaditya||Mumbai: Shiv Sena leader and minister Aaditya Thackeray said on Wednesday that the state government’s top priority was to create a single authority for Mumbai. He said there were 16 agencies working in the city, including BMC and those working under the state government, including MMRDA, Mhada for housing, and some central government agencies like Airports Authority of India and ports. Sena is the ruling party in BMC for more than two decades. Thackeray was speaking at a session with industry body, CII. He said he hoped that a single authority will help set better accountability, by fixing responsibility on a single entity for all the city’s requirements as a single parent body to run the city. He added that in the last one year the state had received investments of more than Rs 1 lakh crore, and several memoranda of understanding, with almost 80% work being executed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/priority-is-to-create-single-authority-for-mumbai-aaditya/articleshow/81317810.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||Churchill look to derail Real Kashmir||Churchill Brothers FC enjoy a four-point lead at the top of the I-League table, but head coach Fernando Varela has warned his players not to drop their guard as they face Real Kashmir FC in the first of the five final phase games on Friday. The Spanish coach wants his team to start positively, particularly on the Salt Lake stadium turf that favours free-flowing football. “The best way is we create chances more in the third half. We changed some tactical points. I think next game could be different. Pitch is bigger, grass is different and can help us to create better action. I think from the last game against Kashmir, the players performance is better,” Varela told TOI in an online interaction on Thursday. Churchill have 22 points from 10 games and are the only unbeaten side in the league. Kashmir are third after losing their last game against Mohammedan SC 2-0 but remain in contention. “I think Real Kashmir try to counter-attack. They try to be a compact team defensively and try to do a faster counter-attack. We will try to find more space for our players and find better action,” said Varela. When the teams last met, Churchill struggled as star forward Clayvin Zuniga was making a return from injury and was introduced only in the 70th minute. Since then, Clayvin and league’s top scorer Luka Majcen have combined well and made the difference. The duo has scored 13 of Churchill’s 15 goals. “It is important they are free of injury. They are good foreign players and help the Indian players. Their attitude is amazing. But also, we have many players that are increasing their level. “We always think of the next game, next step. Focus is on Real Kashmir. That’s it. We are not thinking more than this.,” said Varela. Kashmir will have to regroup after suffering their first defeat of the season which kept them on 17 points. A win will help them leapfrog second-placed Punjab FC, who have 18 points. Kashmir have relied heavily on Mason Robertson and Lukman Abegunrin to get them the goals. They have scored five each. Coach David Robertson already knows how difficult the task is ahead of him. “We have a lot to play for, still five games to go, so we know against Churchill will be a crucial game. A lot will be decided, but we have to make sure we give our best. Everyone is focussed,” said Robertson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-look-to-derail-real-kashmir/articleshow/81336711.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nashik||NMC’s amnesty scheme gets poor response||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has received poor response to its amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters that was in force from February 16 to 28. According to an NMC official, as many as 4,831 defaulters have cleared their dues amounting to Rs 2.66 crore in the third phase of the amnesty scheme. As per the scheme, the civic body had waived 25% of the penalty amount on tax dues which is around Rs 5.75 lakh. While the NMC has set the property tax collection target for the current financial year at Rs 150 crore, it has managed to collect only Rs 103 crore by February 28. The civic body has to collect another Rs 47 crore by March 31 to achieve the target. During the same period last year, the NMC had collected a property tax amounting to Rs 135 crore. The NMC introduced amnesty scheme in three phases between November 1, 2020 and February 28, 2021 in a bid to increase the property tax collection. A total of Rs 33.42 crore was collected from 55,209 defaulters in all the three phases with the maximum Rs 23.34 crore being collected in the first phase. Last year too the NMC had implemented an amnesty scheme and had collected Rs 45 crore from the property tax defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmcs-amnesty-scheme-gets-poor-response/articleshow/81315783.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 4, 2021||Rajkot||Ten booked for murder of Dalit RTI activist||Rajkot: The murder of Dalit RTI activist in Sanodar village of Bhavnagar on Tuesday night was a bitter fallout out of a seven-year-old dispute over settling a complaint of atrocity registered by him against some persons of the upper caste. On Wednesday, police arrested 10 persons who had allegedly assaulted the victim Amra Boricha and with sharp weapons and sticks inside his house. In the FIR lodged with Ghogha police station, Borcha’s daughter Nirmala alleged that they were being pressurized to settle the case registered against some of the accused in 2013. Those booked were Bhailubha Gohil, Shaktisinh Gohil, Jayrajsinh Gohil, Kanaksinh Gohil, Padubha Gohil, Munnabhai Gohil, Manharsinh Gohil, Harpalsinh Gohil, Viramdevsinh Jadeja and Manharsinh Gohil. All were booked for murder and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code besides Prevention of Atrocities Act. Nirmala said she and her father were standing outside their house to see the victory procession organized after the local body election results. One of the accused, Kanaksinh Gohil, came out of the procession and allegedly hurled casteist slurs at Boricha and pelted stones at him. She and her father immediately returned home looking at his aggression. In a few minutes, all the 10 accused barged into their house and Bhailubha hit Boricha on the head with a sword. Even as he fainted, other assailants continued attacking Boricha with weapons, which left severe injuries on his shoulder, stomach, legs, hands and waist, she alleged in the FIR. Nirmala also suffered injuries in the head and fingers in the attack. They vandalized my house, hurled casteist slurs and told me that they had killed my father. They even told me that I could lodge a complaint with the police,” she told the police. Boricha succumbed before reaching Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital. Her complaint also stated that Bhailubha, Shaktisinh, Jayrajsinh, Padubha and others had attacked her father in 2013, which left permanent injuries to his legs. The next hearing in the 2013 case is slated for March 8. Mavji Sarvaiya, a local Dalit leader claimed, “Amrabhai had also contested gram panchayat election which did not go down well with the accused. This is the only Dalit family living here while others have migrated because of harassment by the upper caste members.” GRD jawans hapless The two Gram Rakshak Dal (GRD) jwanas deployed for his protection failed to counter the attack, but they started recording the video of the assault. Ashok Yadav, Bhavnagar range IG told TOI: “The assailants also deleted the video from the phones of GRD jawans. They were helpless because the attackers were in big numbers and armed.” However, they immediately informed the control room. “We will soon arrest the accused and request for a special prosecutor to see that they get maximum punishment,” Yadav said. Ghogha sub-inspector suspended The Ghogha police station police sub inspector P R Solanki was suspended and booked under IPC 166(public knowingly disobeying directions of law) and section 504 (causing intentional insult) after the victim’s daughter Nirmala made allegations against him. She alleged that Solanki did not register a complaint though their neighbour Bhupat Rajput had thrashed her father in September last year. “My father had requested protection from armed police but Solanki did not heed. So, my father had filed a complaint against him in Ghogha court,” she stated in FIR. Rajput again picked up a fight with her father on February 28 and Solanki had also visited their house. “When we asked for adequate police protection apprehending a threat to our lives, Sonaki said nobody will kill us and we won’t get protection,” she alleged. Next day Solanki took her father’s application for complaint, but did not file an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ten-booked-for-murder-of-dalit-rti-activist/articleshow/81316560.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Salem||Fire destroys tea shop||Salem: Tension prevailed at Ammapet in Salem city after a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder exploded in a tea shop on Wednesday morning. The shop, owned by N Balan of Narasimhan Street, was close to the Ammapet police station. “Balan had closed the shop on Tuesday night before leaving for his house. Residents were awoken by an explosion around 3am and rushed out to find the shop engulfed in flames,” said a police officer. Fire and rescue services personnel from the Shevapet fire station extinguished the fire after an hour. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Balan had kept four LPG cylinders in the shop. “One of them exploded due to leak. Fire and rescue services personnel removed the other three cylinders from the spot. Nearly Rs 2lakh worth materials kept in the shop were gutted,” the officer added.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/fire-destroys-tea-shop/articleshow/81318963.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||RTE seats in city down to 6,400 this yr in Mumbai||Mumbai: For the upcoming academic year, seats under the RTE Act at city’s private schools is down to 6,463 from last year’s 7,202. BMC began accepting online applications on Wednesday. Schools in the state must reserve 25% seats at entry-level for kids of economically and socially weaker classes. Admissions are done via a centralised process. Of total seats in 352 city schools, 5981 are for class I and 482 in pre-primary. Applications will be accepted on the portal till March 21. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rte-seats-in-city-down-to-6400-this-yr-in-mumbai/articleshow/81321119.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nashik||Collector suspends stamp dept employee||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare suspended an employee from the department of stamps for alleged dereliction in duty after the file being carried by the latter was lost in transit. According to the collector, who is also the appointing authorityof the certain classes of the employees of various government offices, the step was taken based on the complaint and recommendations of the employee’s immediate officer. “The office files are important and when it comes to property and stamps they are invaluable. There can be cascading effect if files start to go missing. Hence, strict action was recommended against the employee,” Mandhare said. It should be noted that a matter of use of fake stamp paper recently came to light in which one of the many documents required for processing of transfer was registered on a fake stamp paper. On Tuesday, a file related to the property transactions from the SRO-1 Nashik city (situated on the campus of Nashik district collectorate)allegedly went missing. The employee was given the task of carrying the papers from Nashik office to the office of Inspector General of Registration and Stamps, Departmentof Registration and Stamps. “In transit, the employee claimed that the papers were stolen by somebody by breaking the window of his car. Since this is a serious matter, the authorities proposed for his suspension,” the collector pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-suspends-stamp-dept-employee/articleshow/81315790.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Salem||Co-op bank manager suspended||Salem: An assistant manager of a cooperative bank was placed under suspension on Wednesday for issuing jewel loans with predated receipts even after working hours. Joint registrar of the cooperative associations for Salem district K Rajendra Prasath issued the suspension order after a video of the assistant manager of Udayapatti primary agriculture cooperative bank, P Kesavan, 39, of Ayothiyapattinam, issuing loans went viral on social media. “Kesavan had issued jewel loans to a few people after chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that he would waive all the jewel loans mortgaged with less than six sovereigns,” a bank officer, who did not want to be named, said. Kesavan had opened the bank during night time and issued loans to a few people with predated receipts. More people gathered at the bank on the next day to get loans after hearing about the incident.  “One of them took the video of the crowd and posted it on social media,” the officer added. The joint registrar also ordered departmental inquiry into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/co-op-bank-manager-suspended/articleshow/81318994.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dungarpur youths lure, dupe over 300 online faking escort service||JAIPUR: The Udaipur police have busted an online escort service and arrested four persons, who allegedly duped over 300 persons based in Chennai and Chandigarh, from the district’s Salumbar tehsil. The arrested youths are originally natives of Dungarpur district. Police said they were surprised to find out that the accused, who were school dropouts, had learnt how to defraud people in this fashion from Hyderabad. They targeted people in Chennai and Chandigarh using the city/region-based advertisement listing and received payments on their e-wallet accounts. The accused — Manilal Velgi, Manilal Manji, Jitendra and Harish — were nabbed by the police following a tip-off that some youths living in the Salumbar area were spending money extravagantly and might be involved in illegal activities. The cops were unaware about the interstate escort racket being run from the small town when they raided the place. “Police raided the rented accommodation and found several mobile phones, fake SIM cards, laptops and Rs 5 lakh in cash,” said SP Rajiv Pachar of Udaipur police. ‘Were running racket for the last 15 days’“Initially, we thought it was some betting racket, but a probe revealed that they were running an escort racket for the last 15 days,” said Pachar. During interrogation, the accused revealed the modus operandi of how they were duping people. “They started uploading advertisements on Locanto mobile application for providing escort service. Those who clicked on the advertisement were directed to a page with blurred pictures of women. A pop-up would appear asking the customer if he was interested in the women to pay Rs 500. A picture gallery would then open and the customer would be given the option of selecting the desired women. They were again asked to pay Rs 5,000 as advance to confirm the interest in the service,” said the police. At every stage, the application blocked the customer from calling the culprits. The pictures that the customers were shown were taken from social media. Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime expert assisting the Udaipur police, said Locanto is a classified advertisement portal that is being used to dupe people. “We are confirming how many incoming transactions have been made on their e-wallets to find the exact number of persons duped by them. Also, their WhatsApp chats are being checked to find out whether the racket has spread to more cities,” said Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dungarpur-youths-lure-dupe-over-300-onlinefaking-escort-service/articleshow/81318990.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Parents protest as schools make offline exams must||HYDERABAD: After the schools have reopened for physical classes, school management said to have made offline exams mandatory for students of class 6 to class 9. Parents and students alleged that despite making repeated requests, management are not giving them an option to appear for exams in online mode. They further claimed that many even discontinued online classes for upper primary and high school students. “My daughter’s school has made it mandatory for students to attend offline exams. For 90 minute examinations, they are asking us to send children to school for four hours. Parents have no say in this and are helpless,” said a parent, whose daughter is studying in class 9 in a well-known school in Secunderabad. Another parent, whose children are studying in class 5 and class 7 said, “While my younger son has been allowed to appear for online examinations, for my elder one, school made it mandatory to appear for offline exams. They event discontinued online classes.” Parents said the state should initiate action against managements that are forcing parents to send their children to schools for physical classes and offline exams. They said schools are either openly saying that they would not promote a student if he/she failed to appear for exams or are informing parents that a decision would be taken at a later stage on the fate of absentees. “Dear parents, the decision regarding the absentees for the offline examination will be taken after the completion of the examinations ie March 17, 2021,” said a message from a school in Sainikpuri. Few even took to social media to raise the issue. “We want online exams as you know the Corona cases are rising and already in Delhi, many children are found Corona positive. I’m from Hyderabad and the cases are rising here day by day. My school is in Tirumalagiri and I’m in class 11,” read a tweet from @bibha_pothal. The Telangana Recognized Schools Managements, meanwhile, said that they won’t promoting students who failed to clear fee dues and write examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-protest-as-schools-make-offline-exams-must/articleshow/81325945.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 4, 2021||Kolkata||Only love, no jihad, say Kolkata’s interfaith couples||KOLKATA: Bengal has deep respect for all unions of love even when they transcend religious borders: this was the refrain from interfaith couples in the city and their families, who took exception to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath raising the issue of “love jihad” at his Malda rally to target chief minister Mamata Banerjee. In his speech, Adityanath claimed that “love jihad was being executed in Bengal”. “We made a law in UP. But there is appeasement politics here. So, state government is unable to stop cow smuggling and love jihad—dangerous activities that will show results in time to come,” he said. Social worker Shaona Khan, who recently joined Trinamool, is the daughter of Ustad Rashid Khan and Joyeeta Basu Khan. At 21, she can’t recall a single instance of love jihad being executed here. Instead, she said, this city was all about sharing love. “My mother is a Hindu from Guwahati, while my father is a Muslim from Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun. They have been married for 30 years and settled in Kolkata. My two siblings and I have been born and brought up in Kolkata. Though we have strong roots in UP because of my father’s family and a lovely home there, which we visit every year, I wouldn’t trade my city of birth, Kolkata, for any other place,” Khan said. According to her, the reason for this is Kolkata’s “ecosystem” that allows breathing space to everyone. “My father is known to be a son of Bengal. I can’t thank Bengal enough for providing us with so much love, security and treating us like family. I would love to be in UP and teach Yogi Adityanath a lot about love and equality towards all religions, because India means secularism,” Khan added. Sarod player Shiraj Ali Khan married Atrayee Sengupta in January 2020. The grandson of Ustad Ali Akbar Khan was strictly against the conversion of his wife to Islam. “We have been together for five years. There was no objection from the families when we tied the knot. My wife practises her own faith. When our son, Rayan, was born, we didn’t choose an Islamic name for him either,” he said. Sengupta regularly applies sindoor, a practice among married Hindu women. “I even have a thakurer ashon at home. There is no force on following any ritual. We do whatever we feel like,” Sengupta said. It’s been 14 years since Rupsha Dasgupta married Fossils frontman Rupam Islam. Dasgupta can’t connect with this extreme “Islamophobic conspiracy theory” about “love jihad”. Fifty years ago, her in-laws also had an interfaith marriage. “Even Rupam’s maternal grandparents had an interfaith marriage in pre-Independent India. His father was a Muslim, while his mother was a Christian. She never converted to Islam and Rupam has practised both faiths while growing up. When we got married, the question of my conversion didn’t arise either,” Dasgupta said. Her 88-year-old grandmother had no problems with their marriage. When their son was born, the couple named him Rup Aarohan Prometheus.  “Rupam is now an atheist. Rup says his religion is ‘humanism’. Till date, Rup has had no problems. Even his school has never asked any question about his surname. Yogi Adityanath’s allegations about ‘love jihad’ are crazy. Kolkata’s culture doesn’t single out people belonging to interfaith families,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/only-love-no-jihad-say-citys-interfaith-couples/articleshow/81319034.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
March 4, 2021||Dehradun||Maha Kumbh: Helicopter, paragliders and over 100-member musical bands at first royal procession of akhadas||Haridwar: Setting the tone for the Maha Kumbh, which is due to officially begin on April 1, the first royal procession (peshwai) of the mega festival took place on Wednesday. Seers of the Niranjani akhada, one of the 13 major akhadas (sects of seers in the country) took out a massive procession through Haridwar during the day. Union minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, who is also mahamandaleshwar of the akhada, took part in the procession, which had a helicopter as well as two paragliders showering rose petals on the seers. A special musical band from Mumbai, elephants, camels and lavishly decorated chariots were the other highlights of the procession. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat who had reached Haridwar on Wednesday to review the progress of Kumbh works, also participated in the procession along with Mahant Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, who comes from Niranjani Akhada. Elaborating on the importance of peshwai for the akhadas, Narendra Giri told TOI, “Peshwai is an essential and ancient ritual of the akhadas during the Kumbh Mela and all the saints, including acharya mahamandleshwar, participate in it. The peshwai for Niranjani akhada commenced from SMJN Degree College and covered nearly a five-km-long route to reach the akhada premises, where Naga seers have installed their camps for the entire Kumbh period.” On Thursday, Juna Akhada, the largest of the 13 akhadas, will take out its procession from Jwalapur to Maya Devi temple in Haridwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/maha-kumbh-helicopter-paragliders-and-over-100-member-musical-bands-at-first-royal-procession-of-akhadas/articleshow/81316593.cms||MS Nawaz
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Film exhibitors seek help from government||Hyderabad: Film exhibitors held placards on Wednesday to draw the attention of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to the issues theatre owners were facing. Holding placards which read ‘Save theatres’, film industry representatives said if the government does not heed to their pleas, there were chances of many theatres closing down. Addressing a press conference, representatives of the Telugu film industry said one of the main issues was of parking fee. They pointed out that nowhere in the country were theatres prevented from collecting parking fee, a reasonable source of income for theatres. “At least some nominal charges should be allowed to be collected,” they said. The film industry representatives, especially film theatre owners including Bala Govind Raju, Vijendar Reddy and Sunil Narang said theatres were first to shut due to lockdown in March last year and the last to open after lockdown was lifted. They explained that for nearly a year, theatres had suffered losses as no films were released. Though the state government assured that power bills would be waived for the months that theatres were closed, this has not happened so far. “We want the government to understand our agony,” the film industry representatives said. They pointed out that though the government had made favourable statements that theatres could exhibit extra shows and also have flexible rates, the orders were yet to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/film-exhibitors-seek-help-from-government/articleshow/81319031.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Leopard scare in Alakkarai area||Udhagamandalam: A day after a dog was killed by a black leopard in Emagundu Colony near Alakkarai village in Kattabettu range of forest, a team comprising of forest field staff was formed on Wednesday to monitor the animal. CCTV footage showed the dog attacked by the black leopard in the early hours of Tuesday. The big cat was hiding in the bushes in a private estate located close to the colony. Several leopards were spotted in the colony in the last six months, said Shivakumar, a resident. “Six goats were killed by leopards. A month ago, CCTV caught two leopards, including a black one, in the area. The forest department is not taking proper action to capture the animals and leave them inside deep forest,” he said. Alakkarai is surrounded by reserve forest falling under the Kattabettu range and private tea estates. A team has been formed to monitor the movement of wild animals in Alakkarai, said forest range officer Sasikumar. “Residents should be careful as they are staying close to reserve forest. Wild animals are attracted to the overgrown plants in a private tea estate. We have instructed the estate management to remove the bushes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-scare-in-alakkarai-area/articleshow/81319022.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Nashik||Latur: Pvt contractor dropped for supply of expired tablets||Aurangabad: The Latur district administration on Wednesday removed a private contractor from its services. The contractor’s negligence had allegedly led to the supply of expired medicine to some patients. The incident had taken place on March 1 at the district Covid care centre in the MIDC area. Some patients had received vitamin-B tablets with lapsed expiry dates.“Some Covid-19 positive patients and those who were discharged at home had received the tablets. After the incident came to light, we contacted all the patients and replaced the medicines. All these patients are stable,” Latur district health officer Gangadhar Parge said.He said the private contractor who supplied the medicines was expected to supervise the stock. “We have terminated the services of the contractor and have asked all suppliers to keep a tight watch on the expiry of different drugs. The district administration has a zero-tolerance policy towards such lapses, which are directly linked to people’s lives,” Parge said.Traders in Hingoli allowed to visit banksThe Hingoli district administration, which had declared a curfew till March 7, has now allowed the traders’ community to visit banks to carry out banking transactions. The relaxation was given after the traders pointed to their pending banking work in the last month of the current fiscal. “It is a welcome move. We have also requested the administration to not impose any stern measures — such as a lockdown — in future once the existing curbs are lifted on March 7,” said Gajanan Ghuge, the president of the traders’ body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/latur-pvt-contractor-dropped-for-supply-of-expired-tablets/articleshow/81315804.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: She survived suicide to become chef; another found place in a male world||If there’s something M Kalaiyarasi knows about her sour lemon ice cream, it is that it has a tang that hits you where you can’t miss it. Much like her own tasteful riposte to 13 years of injury and isolation from those she held dear. Because as of this day, the tables have turned. Her husband — whose unending infidelity incited her to set herself on fire and end up with a disfigured face as a girl of 17 — has been striving to get back into her life, “with no luck, of course”. And the mother who refused to take her in as she fled her abusive home, is now a rock solid support system and loving grandparent who gets her three hearty meals a day from the money this 29-year-old dessert chef brings home. Then there is Nandini, a postwoman spurring others to take up work in a male-dominated space. Kalaiyarasi, Nandini and six other women from the slums of Teynampet will be felicitated by city NGO Sethu Foundation on International Women’s Day on March 8 for transforming their lives. A free counselling service and a drop-in centre to help women cope with family disharmony, child-related issues, alcoholic spouses and domestic violence, will also be unveiled as part of the event. “I had been declined work at least 20 times, at shops, homes and factories, because they didn’t like my face. I felt like I was going to be paying a lifelong price for something I did out of hurt and impulse as a teenager,” says Kalai. “In all those places, I was trying to get a job as a housekeeper or cheap labourer, but then, I connected with the International Foundation for Crime Prevention and Victim Care (PCVC), who put me at work at a café where I learned how to make desserts. Today, I’ve moved to a restobar and train a young team on everything I learnt on that job.” Another woman the neighbourhood gleams for Malathi. Until Covid struck, the 45-year-old was working at a leather factory making shoes, when they shut down abruptly, leaving numerous women jobless. But with three mouths to feed and an ailing daughter, Malathi had no scope to stop and immediately started work as a Corporation sweeper – a job that has her wake up at 3am every day. “The schedule has changed, the challenges have grown, but the money is flowing back in, and that’s all that matters,” she says. “Now, I just want to make enough to send my daughter to college. She must grow up differently,” she says. And then there’s Nandini, a postwoman spurring others like her to take up work in this male-dominated space, Maha Devi, a Dunzo delivery woman and her family’s sole breadwinner, and countless others who represent the slim, but powerful spirit of resilience and refusal to settle that every slum nurtures beyond the surface stories of abuse and poverty. “It is what drove us to recognise women from these spaces,” says Sethulakshmi, managing director of the NGO. “Janaki Kannan who heads our children’s programme, came up with this idea, and we’d like to take it to more such communities. When women achievers from extremely diverse backgrounds are celebrated among their own neighbourhood, they spur many others to create a different lives for themselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/she-survived-suicide-to-become-chef-another-found-place-in-a-male-world/articleshow/81319027.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nashik||Online fraud: Man cheated of Rs 5.1 lakh||Nashik: A 21-year-old man, who runs a cottage industry of camphor cubes, was duped of Rs 5.1 lakh by a conman who posed as a wholesale supplier of camphor powder. Sripad Paropkari, senior police inspector of cybercrime police station, said the complainant — Krushnam Lohe, a resident of Panchavati — wanted to buy camphor powder at the lowest possible price for which he was looking for a supplier on the internet. Owing to the claims that camphor can prevent the Covid-19 infection, Lohe wanted to use make the most of this opportunity. The conman had promised him the lowest possible price, but demanded the payment in advance. Lohe made the payment, but the powder was never delivered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/online-fraud-man-cheated-of-rs-5-1-lakh/articleshow/81315805.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Caste gambit: Masterstroke or misstep?||Coimbatore: By announcing a 10.5% quota within a quota for vanniyars, and getting the Centre to club together seven scheduled castes into one and calling them devendrakula vellalar, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami did what his predecessors didn’t. Though the two demands were decades old, they were never considered by J Jayalalithaa or by M Karunanidhi because they would unsettle the caste dynamics electorally. EPS has now changed the caste dynamics and could reap the benefits in the poll. Some in the AIADMK term it a masterstroke by EPS to consolidate certain caste groups. But giving in to the demands of devendrakula vellalars and vanniyars comes with the risk of antagonizing the AIADMK’s traditional vote banks. Kongu vellalars, the community to which EPS belongs to and which is considered to solidly back the AIADMK, are upset since the title ‘vellalar’ was given to a scheduled caste. If kongu vellalars are upset in west Tamil Nadu, the saiva vellalars in south TN are also upset for the same reason. “The Centre and the state government have to reconsider the decision to grant the title of vellalar used by muthaliyar, pillamar, chettiar communities for ages to other communities. We support the demand of a few communities to be clubbed together under a common title. But the historic vellalar title should not be given to anyone else,” said film producer Ishari K Ganesh, who presided over a protest against the Centre’s move. The carving out of a quota exclusively for vanniyars, meanwhile, has sparked outrage among other most backward classes who were demanding similar reservation. EPS has not only failed to fulfil their demands but has given a sizable chunk of existing quota to vanniyars, leaving the other MBCs to make do with whatever is left. The outrage has started spilling over to the streets. Students of a college in Kamuthi boycotted classes on Wednesday demanding a separate quota for about 60 denotified communities (DNC). Mukkulathor Pulipadai founder Karunas has demanded a similar quota within a quota for thevars. Mutharayars, who form a sizable vote bank in central Tamil Nadu, have demanded denotified tribe staus. “Because of the quota for vanniyars, the AIADMK has helped PMK to increase its vote bank at the cost of its own. Other castes who are offended by a separate quota for vanniyars might take a stand against the AIADMK,” former party MP K C Palaniswamy said. Similarly, in the devendrakula vellalar issue, the AIADMK has helped the BJP since it was Modi who made the announcement, he felt. Political commentator Tharasu Shyam said the AIADMK’s calculation was that the announcements would help the party offset the loss of thevar votes. “But that is a miscalculation. To accede to the demand of only two castes during an election year is a misstep,” he said. Sources in the AIADMK, however, maintain that the decisions would certainly help them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/caste-gambit-masterstroke-or-misstep/articleshow/81319033.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai :Take down film for defaming actor, HC tells Amazon Prime||Mumbai: Observing that consent is at the heart of the matter, the Bombay high court has directed streaming platform Amazon Prime to immediately take down the Telugu film ‘V’ until the producers delete the scene in which model-actress Sakshi Malik’s photograph had been used without her prior permission. “Simply using another’s image, and most especially a private image, without consent is prima facie impermissible, unlawful and entirely illegal. In a given case, it may also be defamatory, depending on the type of use,” said Justice Gautam Patel on Tuesday. The order came on a defamation suit filed by Malik against the “utterly illicit use” of her photograph by Venkateshwara Creations Pvt Ltd and V Venkata Ramana Reddy aka Dil Raju in the film ‘V’ that was released on September 4, 2020, and since then was available on Amazon Prime. In August 2017, Malik had uploaded photographs on her Instagram account and one of these pictures was used in the film in a reference to a “female escort or a commercial sex worker” and it was defamatory, argued her advocate Alankar Kirpekar. The producers’ advocate, Akash Menon, said they had contracted an agency which had assured them they could legitimately use the image. But Justice Patel said her consent was necessary. “This is actually at the heart of the matter: Question of consent, or, more accurately, the damage done from the failure to obtain the plaintiff’s consent and permission to use her photograph and image in any manner at all. The fact that the image has been illicitly used is bad enough. It only makes matters worse when used in a plain derogatory and demeaning vein,” the judge said. Noting that the matter will need to be examined more closely, the judge directed that Amazon Prime take down the film in all versions, irrespective of language and subtitles until the producers delete all images of Malik. “It is not acceptable for them to merely pixelate or blur the images. The entire sequence which has the image of the plaintiff is to be removed immediately,” said Justice Patel, granting 24 hours to do so. He also restrained the release of the film on any media platform until the deletions are affected. Amazon Prime will not release any re-edited version of the film without HC order and the film will have to be shown to Malik before the judge permits its re-release, the court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-take-down-film-for-defaming-actor-hc-tells-amazon-prime/articleshow/81320183.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Couple arrested for murder and jewellery theft||HYDERABAD: Shadnagar police arrested two persons for killing a housewife and stealing her jewellery in November 2020. The accused are, G Venkateshwar Rao, 33, a mason from Sattenapalli and S Nagalakshmi, 30, of Ropmpicherla in Guntur. Rao and Nagalakshmi deserted their families to live together and came to Shadnagar in November 2020. Posing as a married couple, they moved into the house of Avvari alias M Suvarna, 45, in Chattanpally. Rao has a criminal history and observed that Suvarna stays alone at home during the day. Rao, along with Nagalakshmi, hatched a plan to murder Suvarna and steal her gold ornaments, Shadnagar ACP Kushalkar said. Rao befriended a medical store worker from Chattanpalli railway gate area and bought 10 sleeping pills by convincing him that he was unable to sleep properly due to stomach pain. On November 22, 2020, when Suvarna’s husband Balaram went out for work, Rao purchased two packets of toddy from Chattanpally and mixed sleeping pills in one of them. Subsequently, Rao and Nagalakshmi invited Suvarna to their house to have toddy along with food.  “The duo made Suvarna consume toddy laced with sedative and after she fell unconscious, they throttled her. After killing Suvarna, the duo stole her mangalsutra, ear studs and nose stud. Rao sprinkled chilli powder near the body and the couple fled from the scene with their personal belongings,” ACP Kushalkar said. The accused went to Suryapet and mortgaged the gold in a private finance company for Rs 1 lakh. They later moved into a rented house in Ghatkesar. “In Ghatkesar also, they mixed sleeping pills in the curry of their landlord and after she fell asleep, stole her 10 tola gold and 20 tola silver jewellery,” the ACP said. On Wednesday, police caught the accused when they were in Shadnagar to get Nagalakshmi’s mortgaged gold released from a pawn broker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-arrested-for-murder-and-jewellery-theft/articleshow/81319036.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Anil Vij-Manohar Lal Khattar dispute over DGP escalates||CHANDIGARH/GURUGRAM: The controversy over extension of Haryana director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava’s tenure has deepened further, with state home minister Anil Vij writing to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday for the appointment of a new DGP without any delay. The letter was sent on the same day the home ministry issued a memorandum related to the extension of Yadava’s term as Haryana DGP for the next one year. In his letter to Khattar on Tuesday, Vij said Yadava should be given extension only till the time next arrangement is finalised because he is an “incompetent officer.” Vij wrote that the law and order situation of the state cannot be kept under control as long as Yadava is head of the police force because he has no control over officers of his department. “Moreover, the way he has managed the farmers’ protest, it is not in the interest of the state to continue with him as DGP,” said Vij. Speaking to TOI, Vij said, “I have discharged my duties as head of the department and conveyed what I feel is right. Now it is up to the CM to believe his minister or not.” He said while the Centre has given a one-year extension to Yadava, the move is being projected as if he has been appointed DGP till his retirement. It is the state government that can give extension as DGP, not the Centre, added the home minister. For the past one week, a war of words has been going on between Vij and CMO over the issue. It is alleged that the lack of coordination between the two has upset Vij.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vij-khattar-dispute-over-dgp-escalates/articleshow/81321671.cms||Manvir Saini
March 4, 2021||Ranchi||Tata Sons chairman thanks staff & their families for standing by co during Covid||Jamshedpur: Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran on Wednesday said social welfare, community and infrastructure developmental work in Jamshedpur will continue to remain central to Tata Steel, along with production activities at the plant. He praised the employees and their families for standing by the company during tough times. “The year 2020 was a challenging one for the company but the employees and their families demonstrated impeccable resilience and overcame the challenges of the global pandemic,” he said. Chandrasekaran was addressing a gathering at Postal Park in Bistupur here after paying floral tributes to Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata’s bust on the occasion of the Tata Group founder’s 182nd birth anniversary celebrations. He said that the pandemic is likely to be over within the next few months and things would streamline gradually. He added that Tata Steel’s production recorded a jump during lockdown. “Even during the time when the pandemic was at its peak, our corporate social responsibility work did not stop. We built a hospital (Manipal Medical College and Hospital), parks in the city. During lockdown, we made sure that food was available to the needy,” he said. He further said that Tata Sons’ chairman emeritus Ratan N Tata, who was seated nearby, flew into Steel City to especially to know about the CSR activities being pursued by the company. Chandrasekaran added that improving people’s lives and making the city a model place to live in will remain as the guiding principles behind the policies and programmes of the company. Earlier, Ratan Tata and Chandrasekaran joined the employees and the top executives of different Tata Group units to pay floral tributes at the J N Tata statue. Tata Steel’s CEO and managing director T V Narendran and Tata Steel’s ED and CFO Koushik Chatterjee, among other top executives of the company, attended the Founder’s Day function. State health minister Banna Gupta was also present at the occasion. Upon their arrival to the city on Tuesday, Ratan Tata and Chandrasekaran jointly inaugurated the Graphene Initiative of Tata Steel Limited and The Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd at Ramdin Bagan, ISWP. The unit will produce and supply the graphene powder for doping in various applications, prominently for coatings and as adhesives to rubber, polymers and fabrics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tata-sons-chairman-thanks-staff-their-families-for-standing-by-co-during-covid/articleshow/81317143.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Ranchi||Lobin accuses Hemant of ‘no steps’ to stop illegal mining||Dumka: JMM Borio MLA Lobin Hembrom on Wednesday said he would launch a movement against illegal mining in Sahibganj district if the state government failed to take steps to control the menace. He even accused party colleague and JMM central committee member Sanjay Mishra of being involved in the illegal activities. Speaking to TOI, he said, “Under no circumstances shall I withdraw the movement against the offenders for they are causing irreparable damage to the flora and fauna of my constituency. After all, we claim to be the saviours of jal, jungle and jameen.” Notably, Lobin had led a tribal agitation against rampant violation of mining norms a month ago. But on Wednesday, he claimed that the state government has not taken any positive step regarding the issue since then. He said that his move to call on the chief minister to apprise the latter of the wrongdoings also did not yield any result. Sounding a note of caution to CM Hemant Soren, he said: “It is now up to the chief minister to take corrective steps to save JMM’s image from being tarnished due to the involvement of senior party functionaries and his close aides in illegal activities. I will not sit idle for too long.” JMM Maheshpur (Pakur) MLA Stephen Marandi and Jama MLA Sita Soren have come out in support of Hembrom. “The practice (illegal mining) continues since the days of the BJP. It has to stop but it will be inappropriate to say that illegal mining has risen under the current dispensation,” Marandi said. “The way JMM veterans are protesting against illegal mining in Sahibganj district and elsewhere in the state, it proves that our accusations against the ruling dispensation are true,” BJP Rajmahal (Sahibganj) MLA Anant Ojha said. Meanwhile, tribal students in Sahibganj staged a demonstration and burnt the effigy of Mishra and sought action against him for his alleged involvement in illegal mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lobin-accuses-hemant-of-no-steps-to-stop-illegal-mining/articleshow/81317865.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
March 4, 2021||Ranchi||Lack of focus on MSME, power sector irks FJCCI||Ranchi: The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) termed the state Budget of 2021-22 FY as ‘balanced’ but said it was disappointed with the government’s silence on reviving industries and the MSME sector. FJCCI had met chief minister Hemant Soren and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon before the commencement of the Budget session and had demanded a revival pack of 600 ailing MSME units, commercialisation of power supply in Jharkhand and measures to strengthen the single window clearance system of the state industries department. However, FJCCI’s key demands were overlooked in the budget document, which was tabled in Jharkhand Assembly on Wednesday. “We were hoping that there will be financial relief for MSMEs, which are the backbone of the state’s economy. We were also hoping that the government will hand over the power supply in Jharkhand to private players in order to end the problem of power cuts once and for all. Neither of the two happened, which is a matter of concern,” FJCCI president Pravin Jain Chabra said. Chabra, however, praised the budgetary announcement of establishing an electronic manufacturing cluster in Adityapur and setting up a mining corridor. Former FJCCI president and city-based businessman Deepak Kumar Maroo said, “Only 20% of the textile units across Jharkhand are functional currently, mainly due to the flaws in policy drafted by the previous government. The fraternity had hoped for reforms in policies in the sector, but that was missing.” The trade body in a statement said, “The announcements made in the previous budget (of 2020-21 FY) were not completed. There was no roadmap on how the pending announcements will be fructified.” FJCCI however, welcomed the announcements to bolster the tourism sector and commissioning home-stay facilities in popular tourist destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lack-of-focus-on-msme-power-sector-irks-fjcci/articleshow/81317825.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 4, 2021||Ranchi||Inoculation centres doubled to stop overcrowding, ensure better facilities||Ranchi: The health department of the state capital on Wednesday decided to double the number of vaccination centres set up to administer doses to senior citizens in order to decongest the existing and ensure proper facilities. The decision comes a day after the Union government allowed all private hospitals to give Covid-19 vaccines in compliance with the norms laid down by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The Centre had also directed the states and union territories to utilise the optimum capacity of private medical facilities empaneled under three categories. Talking to TOI, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said, “We have decided to increase the number of vaccination centres to 60 in Ranchi, including 20 at state-run healthcare facilities, 30 at private hospitals and 10 centres to cater to specific sections of people.” As on Tuesday, 30 vaccination sites were functional at Ranchi sadar hospital, community health centres and other health sub-centres. There were only two private hospitals which had started vaccination until Tuesday. “All major city-based private hospitals, including Medanta, Orchid Medical Centre, Devkamal, Santavita, Pulse and Rampyari will start inoculating patients from Thursday. We have held a meeting with them and have briefed them on the process and have allocated vaccine vials to them. Medica and Raj are already running the vaccination drive and the total number of private facilities will go up to 30 in next few days,” said Prasad. Meanwhile, while senior citizens are thronging to vaccination centres in large numbers, numbers of beneficiaries above 45 years with co-morbidities continues to remain slim. A health department official said that on a daily basis, they are vaccinating more than 300 senior citizens at Ranchi district hospital while only 15 people with co-morbidities are turning up for the vaccine shots. “The reason behind the low footfall of people above 45 years of age with co-morbidities is because in order to get inoculated, one has to present a medical certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner. However, many do not have them yet, but the numbers will soon pick up,” said Ranchi district health consultant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/inoculation-centres-doubled-to-stop-overcrowding-ensure-better-facilities/articleshow/81317886.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 4, 2021||Ranchi||Buoyed by Modi, Bokaro seniors queue up for shots||Bokaro: Senior citizens in Bokaro are showing great enthusiasm and coming forward in large numbers to for take Covid-19 vaccine since the second phase of the inoculation drive began on March 1. On Monday, about 900 persons were vaccinated while the number of beneficiaries increased to 1260 on Tuesday. Of them, 550 were senior citizens above 60 years of age. The 45-plus category saw fewer numbers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi taking the vaccine on Monday has reduced hesitancy among the elderly and many began queuing up at the vaccination centers, some people said. The Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery (ANM) Centre, which was empty in the morning, saw a significant rise in footfall after the PM took his first shot at AIIMS, New Delhi. A health department staff said, “We did not expect such a rush of 60-plus category residents so early in the drive.” Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “In the past two days, 2,100 people took the vaccine in the district. Senior citizens are motivated and coming forward in good numbers. We augmented the seating arrangements seeing a rise in the number of elderly people at the ANM vaccination centre.” Bibhuti Bhusan (62), a resident of Sector 4, got vaccinated with his wife in the first lot. He said “Earlier, we were indecisive whether to wait for some time before taking the vaccine. But when I saw our Prime Minister take the jab, it gave us the confidence to go for it immediately.” There are 11 vaccination centres in the district, including two in private hospitals and in Bokaro General Hospital (BGH). Of these, the ANM Centre near sadar hospital in the town saw the highest number of senior citizens getting inoculated. Pathak said that the picture was different at centres in rural areas and not many seniors have turned up there. “We have formed a strategy to invite senior citizens in rural areas for vaccination. There are 32,000 beneficiaries of old-age pensions and most of them reside in rural areas. We have sent the list to health centres in eight blocks to inspire the elderly to take the vaccine,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/buoyed-by-modi-bokaro-seniors-queue-up-for-shots/articleshow/81317139.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Vadodara||nCov vaccination picks up in Vadodara||Vadodara: After initial hesitancy about taking the Covid-19 vaccine and technical glitches that were experienced in the platform to register for the jab, the phase III rollout of vaccination drive is gathering pace in Vadodara. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) had witnessed a very slow start on Monday, which was the first day of phase III covering persons between the ages of 45 years and 60 years having comorbidities and senior citizens. Same was the case with health centres in Vadodara rural. But within three days, more than 16,582 persons have been vaccinated by the VMC and district health officials. “Our daily average is in the range of 70 to 85 % which is a healthy trend. At majority of our session sites, on the spot registration, is carried out for senior citizens who are coming forward to take the doses voluntarily as the word about safety of vaccines is spreading,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, district immunization officer and additional district health officer. By Wednesday, 8,160 individuals above 60 years and 1,350 individuals above 45 years having comorbidities had taken the shots in Vadodara rural. VMC, on the other hand, achieved over 95.15 % target which was 64.60% on the first day and 52.80% on the second day of the drive. “The target percentage may vary. But it is encouraging to see more people coming forward to take the vaccine dose,” said Dr Devesh Patel, VMC medical officer for health. There are still payment gateway issues that private hospitals are facing. “But there is an account and the payment can be done through NEFT/ RTGS mode,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ncov-vaccination-picks-up-in-vadodara/articleshow/81316633.cms||Prashant Rupera
March 4, 2021||Ranchi||31 new Cov cases, 56 recoveries in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded 31 new cases of Covid-19 and 56 recoveries on Wednesday. The number of active cases was 473 while no fatalities were recorded. The state capital reported 22 cases, followed by East Singhbhum (5). Bokaro, Deoghar, Lohardaga and Ramgarh reported one case each. The state’s cumulative caseload was 1,20,068 while the number of recoveries was 1,18,505. The death toll was 1,090. As many as 3,711 health workers and 8,145 frontline workers received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday while 6,201 health workers received their second doses. As many as 429 people with comorbidities between 45 and 59 years took their first dose on Wednesday while 4,958 people above 60 years took their first jabs. The highest turnout was reported from Pakur (864) followed by Bokaro (648). According to health department figures, 918 people between 45 and 59 years and 9,356 senior citizens have taken their first shots of vaccine since March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/31-new-cov-cases-56-recoveries-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81317176.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Ranchi||Training on new disease monitoring system ends||Ranchi: The state health department on Wednesday concluded a two-day training-cum-orientation programme for the proposed Integrated Health Information Platform (IHIP) — an integrated surveillance platform by the Government of India (GOI) which will use latest technologies and digital health initiatives to track any upcoming outbreak in the near future. The training programme comes ahead of the platform’s national launch on April 1. A team of two specialists from GOI conducted the two-day session on Tuesday and on Wednesday to train the state officials on the functioning of the surveillance tool so that Jharkhand can start monitoring diseases as soon as the platform is launched. The state surveillance officer of Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP), Dr Rakesh Dayal, said, “IHIP will monitor diseases listed under IDSP as well as a few more which have been recently added to the list. The new platform is a first-of-its-kind and it will help not only in routine reporting but will also in detecting any kind of possible outbreak, even at the rural level.” He added, “We have been conducting surveillance on the basis of three forms — syndromic, presumtive and laboratory — which are submitted on a weekly basis and are based on reports from sub-centre levels to OPDs and laboratory tests. But now with the new technology-driven platform, we will be able to monitor surveillance on a real-time basis.” He further said, “For example, if a person in a village has got himself tested for any kind of flu and his reports turn out to be positive, we will get to know in no time as it will be punched into the platform by the respective ANM of that village and it will be visible on the dashboard. Similarly, if there is any incidence of diseases like malaria, kalazar, chikungunya from any place, be it urban or rural, we will get real-time report of the same and we can make an intervention at the right time.” The platform will not only assist in real-time monitoring of indicator-based surveillance but will also help in event-based surveillance as there are provisions of same in IHIP. “Besides syndromic, presumptive and laboratory surveillance, this portal will also provide us with provisions to report event-based surveillance. If people in a specific area suffered from food poisoning and experienced diarrhoea, it will be reported on the dashboard and we can make proper interventions before the diseases spread among others,” state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Karn said. Asked about the endemic diseases under surveillance in Jharkhand, Dr Karn said, “Chikungunya, dengue, malaria and kalazar are on routine surveillance. Besides, we had also detected anthrax in Simdega a few years ago. Even the frequency of Covid-19 will be monitored and if the prevalence rate increases, we will get the alerts on IHIP.” Asked how many officials were trained during the two-day session, Dr Karn said, “Three officials each from 24 districts, which include a surveillance officer, an epidemiologist and data managers, were part of the training session and they will now be conducting similar sessions for their workforce in their respective districts.” According to health department sources, a similar training will be conducted for district-level officials between March 15 and 20 so that the manpower involved in surveillance is well-trained at all levels and they are familiar with the portal before the platform goes live next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/training-on-new-disease-monitoring-system-ends/articleshow/81317929.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Over 100 gravel bits pierce boy’s eyes||Ahmedabad: His eyes resembled grapes crushed in a hand. Nearly 100 minute pieces of stones and gravel along with some chemical had pierced through the eyes of Mahendra Chaudhary, a class VII student, in an accidental equipment blast on November 23. His parents were heartbroken when local doctors told them removing the eyes was the only option as they were badly mashed. But three months after the accident that nearly left him blind, Mahendra has regained vision like any other normal person. A four-hour 3D surgery performed by Ahmedabad-based retina and ocular trauma surgeon Dr Parth Rana has ensured that Mahendra can attend school, read and write like any other child; his father Bhurabhai never went to school, so he wanted him to achieve academic excellence. “I own just about two bigha land. I wanted my son to study and do something big. But we were heartbroken when doctors initially told us that both his eyes would have to be removed,” Bhurabhai, a marginal farmer in Vachdal village in Banaskantha, told TOI. On November 23, Mahendra and his friends were playing outside their house when a digging equipment accidentally went off and resulted in a blast. “We had to take 20 stitches in both eyes together with utmost care as a large number of solid particles had got lodged. We removed over 100 microscopic particles of stone and gravel from the conjunctiva (white exposed portion of the eye) and some gravel pieces from other parts of the eye,” Dr Rana told TOI. Moreover, doctors had to simultaneously operate both his eyes, something that’s not done in case of eyes. “Normally, only one eye is operated at a time. But considering the severity of injuries and his tender age, we decided to perform the surgery on both eyes. Using 3D technology, we were successful in saving his vision,” he said. Doctors also found a haemorrhage in one eye, forcing them to remove the natural gel that fills the eye cavity using vitrectomy. “We prepared a specialized paediatric anesthesia workstation which automatically controls the amount of anaesthesia as it is risky to keep the patient sedated in such surgeries for long hours due to risks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-100-gravel-bits-pierce-boys-eyes/articleshow/81317449.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi admin holds meet with Pahari Mandir ahead of Mahashivratri||Ranchi: The district administration is gearing up to ensure law and order during the Mahashivratri, scheduled on March 11, and held a meeting with the temple committee members of Ranchi Pahari Mandir to discuss the nuances. Around one lakh to 1.25 lakh devotees are expected to offer prayers at the temple. Ranchi sub-divisional officer Sameera S said, “As per government directives, no processions will be allowed during the festival this year in view of the ongoing pandemic. Police personnel, including women cops, will be deployed to manage the crowd. A joint order will be issued on the security arrangement soon.” The administration also informed that the barricades at several locations will be of steel this year instead of wood to avoid collapse of the demarcation. The administration said it will try its best to ensure people wear masks and observe social distancing. Spokesperson of the Ranchi Pahari Mandir Vikas Samiti Mukesh Agrawal said his committee will also deploy around 100 volunteers apart from involving its committee members in ensuring smooth conduct of the rituals. He said, “The committee will provide lemon water and utensils for offering prayers to the devotees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-holds-meet-with-pahari-mandir-ahead-of-mahashivratri/articleshow/81317091.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Surat||Tribal rights body goes to UN seeking justice for Delkar||Surat: The Adivasi Ekta Parishad, which fights for tribals’ rights said it would take tribal leader Mohan Delkar’s suicide issue to the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues (UNPFII), a high- level advisory body to the Economic and Social Council (UN), seeking justice for the dead leader. UNPFII was set up to give justice to indigenous people from around the world. “AEP has sent relevant documents and videos about Delkar’s suicide case to Phoolman Chaudhary (Nepal), one of the members of UNPFII in this regard. We are also in touch with other members of this global forum on the isue as well as requesting them to raise the issue at UNPFII,” Prabhu Tokiya, former AEP president said in a statement issued on Wednesday. Mohan Delkar (58), an independent member of Parliament from union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, was found hanging from the ceiling fan in a hotel room in Marine Drive area of Mumbai on February 22. A suicide note was also recovered from the room and Mumbai police are probing the case. Earlier, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had assured that the Mumbai police will thoroughly probe the case while the deceased’s son, Abhinav Delkar, had demanded removal of UT administrator Praful Patel, a former minister of state for home in Gujarat, with immediate effect. Mohan Delkar had contested as an independent in the 2019 Lok Sabha election and won for the seventh time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tribal-rights-body-goes-to-un-seeking-justice-for-delkar/articleshow/81317134.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Rajkot||E-buses to ply on Rajkot city roads by March end||Rajkot: The first batch of electric buses (e-buses) is likely to ply the BRTS corridors of Rajkot city by end of March. The central government had approved 50 e-buses for Rajkot under Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric (& Hybrid) Vehicles (Fame-India) scheme phase 2 in August 2019.Under the scheme, a civic body procures the buses on a gross cost basis from the agency and makes payments per km besides providing electricity charging facilities and bearing the electricity cost. The cost of one e-bus ranges from Rs 1.20 crore to Rs 1.35 crore. Senior officials of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) along with a team of technical staff will go to Delhi on Thursday to examine the buses. C K Nandani, deputy commissioner, RMC, said, “The first lot is expected to arrive by the end of March and the rest of the buses will come in June. About 18 buses will run on the BRTS route, while the rest will join the fleet of city buses.”The civic body is constructing a depot for e-buses near Amul circle with charging points. According to RMC officials, the e-bus service was to begin in 2020, but because of the coronavirus induced lockdown the project got delayed.Rajkot is among the 64 cities chosen by the department of heavy industries to provide a grant to procure the electric buses. RMC is planning to acquire more such buses after the finalization of the second phase of BRTS which is planned under the smart city project. RMC will be procuring 100 more buses under the same scheme in the next phase. The tenders for the procurement have been issued and will be finalized by March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/e-buses-to-ply-on-rajkot-city-roads-by-march-end/articleshow/81316721.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||TTAG delegation meets CM, seeks waiver of various fees||Panaji: The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) once again submitted a representation to the government seeking waiver in various fees payable by the industry. A TTAG delegation led by president Nilesh Shah met chief minister Pramod Sawant for pre-budget discussions on Tuesday. Since the pandemic, the tourism trade body has been urging the government to help the hospitality industry. It has sought 50% reduction in the excise licence renewal fees and a waiver in the fees for the period when bars and liquor shops remained shut. It asked the government to adjust the fees paid for the said period towards licence renewal. The TTAG also sought a waiver in late fees. Similarly, it wants a waiver towards regular fees paid during lockdown to either a panchayat or municipal body, as garbage was not collected during that period. The TTAG sought a 50% reduction in fees charged by municipalities and panchayats towards various services. The tourism trade body reiterated its demand for allowing charter flights to land in Goa from safe destinations and called for a bubble arrangement with those destinations. In the representation, TTAG sought incentives to foreign airlines and charter operators by waiving landing charges and a 100% reduction in visa fees. It also stated that the government must go after irregular operators. As per the tourism trade body’s estimate, the number of illegal apartments in operation could be as high as 7,000. The trade body also asked the government to make a budgetary provision to implement taxi meters in the state. TTAG has stated that the power tariff should be as per actual power consumed by the entities during lockdown and sought a reduction in the tariff till April 2021. It has asked the government to keep the electricity department’s one-time settlement scheme open for a minimum of six months or at least till March 31. It has also asked the government to start certified courses in languages of foreign countries from where Goa receives tourists. Such programmes will help generate employment, the representation read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ttag-delegation-meets-cm-seeks-waiver-of-various-fees/articleshow/81319069.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||Goa||Appoint new, full-time SEC, says Sardesai||Margao: Taking potshots at chief minister Pramod Sawant over his statement that the government has challenged the high court verdict on reservation in civic polls to “save democracy”, GFP president Vijai Sardesai on Wednesday accused Sawant of committing “pre-meditated murder of democracy”. Stating that the needle of suspicion in the “reservation fiasco” pointed to the state election commissioner, Sardesai demanded appointment of a proper SEC before the commencement of the fresh election process. He said out that the incumbenthas being holding charge as SEC for the last several months. He accused the SEC of having compromised the neutrality of the post and of abdicating his duty. “The SEC allowed the electoral process to be remote-controlled by the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/appoint-new-full-time-sec-says-sardesai/articleshow/81319140.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 4, 2021||India||Haryana to table ‘love jihad’ bill in budget session||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government is planning to table a bill to check incidents of ‘love jihad’ in the upcoming budget session of the state assembly. However, RTI-sourced information has revealed that only four cases of ‘love jihad’ were reported in six districts of the state in the past three years. The information was procured by Panipat-based RTI activist PP Kapoor from the offices of superintendents of police of six districts — Hisar, Nuh, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Panipat and Faridabad. He had chosen the six districts as they reportedly had the highest number of ‘love jihad’ cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/haryana-to-table-love-jihad-bill-in-budget-session/articleshow/81321677.cms||Ajay Sura
March 4, 2021||Goa||Inductions beyond cadre help party grow: Tanavade||Margao: State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Wednesday defended the party’s move of inducting 10 turncoat MLAs into the party fold in 2019 stating that it was necessary for the party’s growth. “A party grows in strength only when persons from beyond its cadre start joining it. The party then assimilates them into its fold, and this is the way a party grows,” Tanavade said, while replying to a query at a press conference held at BJP’s South Goa office. “The party will remain as it is and its growth hindered if the membership is restricted to its cadre. If the party has to gain power, penetrate into the society and make wider inroads, induction of persons from outside its cadre is imperative, else the party’s growth is impossible.” He said that such phenomenon was being witnessed in the party across the country. Tanavade was replying to a question as to whether the induction of the 10 Congress defectors had led to party indiscipline as hardcore party workers were openly airing their differences over various issues, including over the issue of delimitation and reservation for civic polls. Significantly, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar and Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias, both defectors from Congress, were present on the occasion. “When a party grows, such petty issues do crop up on and off, but they don’t last long and soon settle down,” Tanavade said. He said all those party workers and leaders who have spoken against the party’s stand have been counselled. “If such instances of indiscipline continue, whatever action that needs to take taken against them will be taken, but I am sure we will not have to come to that,” Tanavade said. He, however, attributed the initial outbursts by party workers over selection of candidates for civic polls as “instantaneous” reactions and that the bitterness wouldn’t last for long. “Finally, all the party workers will work unitedly for the victory of the candidates supported by the party,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/inductions-beyond-cadre-help-party-grow-tanavade/articleshow/81319194.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Goa||‘Present white paper on urban water transport’||Margao: South Goa MP Fransisco Sardinha on Wednesday demanded a white paper on the Centre’s proposal to develop urban water transport in Goa. “We need not accept anything that comes from the Centre. Let’s not play hide and seek. Have a white paper and put it in public domain so that the government can be properly guided to take steps in the interest of the state,” Sardinha said, reacting to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement that the central government would develop a maritime cluster and introduce urban water transport system in the state. Reacting to the HC order on reservation of seats, Sardinha said that it was a vindication of his stand that the exercise was a move aimed to “misrepresent” the sections of the society meant to be represented by the reservation exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/present-white-paper-on-urban-water-transport/articleshow/81319229.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Cops forced us to strip, dance, alleges women’s hostel inmate||NASHIK: Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut has set up an all-women four-member team to probe into the allegations levelled by an inmate of a women’s hostel in Jalgaon city that a few policemen visited the hostel and forced her and a few other inmates to strip and dance before them. Raut said, “The probe team has already visited the hostel twice on Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning. They interacted with the inmates and the woman. The team will submit its probe report soon. But it is yet to come across any evidence to suggest that such an incident took place.” The probe team is headed by Trupti Dhodmise, a probationary IAS officer. The other team members are a psychiatrist from the Jalgaon general hospital, a gynecologist from a government hospital and a woman police sub inspector. Raut said he would examine all aspects of the probe, including whether the incident really took place and the security at the hostel. The matter was brought to Raut’s notice on Tuesday afternoon by some activists, who shot and shared the video of the woman levelling the allegations against the police. Raut and Jalgaon superintendent of police Pravin Munde immediately decided to form a team to probe the allegations. The government women’s hostel has 18 inmates aged between 17 and 60. The inmates are mostly women rescued in cases of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, domestic violence or victimized girls in cases of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The video of the woman levelling the allegations sent ripples in Jalgaon on Tuesday. The video shows the social activists not being allowed into the hostel. It then focuses on the woman alleging that policemen and other people came to the hostel on March 1 and told the inmates to strip and dance in front of them. The woman further alleges that the policemen and the hostel staff were hand-in-glove. Speaking to the media in Jalgaon, Jalgaon women and child welfare officer Vijaysinh Pardeshi denied the woman’s allegations but said the probe would bare the facts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-forced-women-at-shelter-to-strip-dance/articleshow/81321697.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 4, 2021||India||Aisha suicide: Owaisi slams dowry system||HYDERABAD: A day after Aarif Khan was arrested for abetting the suicide of his wife Aisha Banu Makrani in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday slammed the dowry system in the country and said harassing women over the social evil was not a sign of manhood. “No matter which religion you belong to, end this greed for dowry. Harassing your wife, beating her up for dowry or any financial transaction is not manhood. The family should be ashamed for forcing the girl to take the extreme step,” he said while addressing AIMIM cadre here. He spoke in detail about Aisha, 23, who committed suicide allegedly due to harassment by her husband and in-laws for dowry. Owaisi expressed grief over the girl’s suicide. “How many more women have to suffer? What kind of men are these that kill women? Is humanity dead among people? There are so many men who torture women, physically assault them, seek dowry and yet pretend to be an angel in the outside world,” he said, adding that one may fool the world but can’t fool Allah. He appealed to all Muslim men to be good to women and their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aisha-suicide-owaisi-slams-dowry-system/articleshow/81321705.cms||Preeti Biswas
March 4, 2021||India||Special DGP, 3 DIGs among 9 senior Assam cops shunted by EC||GUWAHATI: The Election Commission has ordered the Assam government to transfer nine senior police officers in the state where the first phase of polling will take place on March 27. The officers include one special director general of police, three deputy inspector generals (DIG), one assistant inspector general of police (AIGP), one SP, two ASPs and one DSP. Accordingly, the state home department on Wednesday transferred special DG (training and armed police) Dr LR Bishnoi as IGP (BTAD) with immediate effect in place of incumbent Anurag Agarwal. Similarly, the department also notified immediate transfer of DIG (SR), Silchar, Cachar Dilip Kumar Dey as DIG (WR), Bongaigaon in place of Devojyoti Mukherjhee, who has been transferred as DIG (SR), Silchar, Cachar. Another officer DIG (CID) Lachit Baruah has been transfererd and posted as DIG (Border II).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/special-dgp-3-digs-among-9-senior-assam-cops-shunted-by-ec/articleshow/81321708.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Anxious HIV patients have many queries over getting Covid jab||Nagpur: Doctors in both private and government set ups are getting inquiries from HIV patients whether they can take the Covid vaccine. There are queries if HIV is in the list of comorbidities and would doctors issue a certificate for those in the age of 45 years and above, said sources.“The format for issuing certificates has a list of 20 diseases. This includes HIV infection too,” said Dr Milind Bhrushundi, a private practitioner and governing council member of AIDS Society of India.“It’s just the beginning and I have issued 12 certificates so far. There have been dozens of calls each day seeking advice,” he said. HIV patients do take vaccines and they can go for the Covid jab too, said Bhrushundi.“Any HIV infected patient can have a vaccine if the is immunologically fit. The certificates are being issued considering the case. In any case, I am flooded with calls and so are other doctors,” he said.CD-4 count, which is the body’s ability to generate antibodies, is one of the factors considered to evaluate patient’s immunological status, he said.Dr Megha Nawade, also a private practitioner, said even she had received a number of calls for the patients. “Any HIV patient with a CD-4 count of 200 and above can go for the vaccine. The patients are calling up asking the formalities for getting the jab. They are also asking whether it would be advisable to get vaccinated if they are already on medicines for HIV,” she said. Vaccine with dead virus can be safe for a HIV patient, said the doctor.A source in a government counseling centre also confirmed getting the calls. “We have advised them to get themselves registered. So far most of the calls have been from frontline workers who are already eligible for the vaccine. They are being advised to get the vaccine and they need not disclose their HIV status,” he said. “The patients are worried about disclosing their HIV status,” the source said.“Proper counseling can help them get over it. That’s the reason we are getting calls directly asking for a certificate,” said Bhrushundi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/anxious-hiv-patients-have-many-queries-over-getting-covid-jab/articleshow/81318308.cms||Shishir Arya
March 4, 2021||Delhi||AAP wins 4 of 5 wards, loses one to Congress, BJP draws a blank in Delhi civic bypolls||NEW DELHI: Just over a year before the corporation elections in Delhi, Aam Aadmi Party has won four out of the five seats in byelections. But the party had a setback in Muslim-dominated Chauhan Banger ward in east Delhi which was wrested from it by Congress. BJP drew a blank, losing its stronghold of Shalimar Bagh (North) in the process. The bypolls for two wards under the north and three under the east corporation were held on Sunday with over 1.2 lakh people exercising their franchise with a voter turnout of 50.8%. The results were declared on Wednesday. The AAP candidates retained Kalyanpuri and Trilokpuri seats in east Delhi with comfortable margins. The party also won Rohini-C ward where BSP councillor, Jai Bhagwan, switched to AAP and got elected as an MLA in 2020 assembly polls. The AAP candidate in Rohini-C, Ram Chander, managed to defeat his BJP rival, Rakesh, by 2,985 votes as the former councillor was able to claim BSP votes. Preview to the big fight: AAP sees its vote share go up in four of five wardsThe results in Shalimar Bagh (North) and Chauhan Banger were complete reversals in comparison to the 2017 municipal elections. The AAP candidate, Sunita Mishra, won the Shalimar Bagh (North) ward with a lead of 2,705 votes over the BJP candidate, Surbhi Jaju. Traditionally considered to be a safe seat for BJP, with three successive wins, the seat had fallen vacant when BJP councillor Renu Jaju passed away. In the 2017 municipal elections, Jaju had defeated Mishra by 3,367 votes. BJP decided to field her daughter-in-law, Surbhi Jaju, on this seat which is reserved for women but the party failed to repeat its performance. The ward is dominated by Punjabi and Vaishya communities which seem to have opted for AAP in this election with the AAP vote share going up from 31.1% in 2017 to 50.3% now. In east Delhi, the Chauhan Banger seat, earlier held by AAP, has been won by Congress candidate Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad. Ahmad received over 73.8% of the 21,968 votes cast in the ward while the vote share of AAP dropped by more than 20% when compared to the last elections. BJP received just 105 out of 21,968 valid votes. A Muslim-dominated ward, the Chauhan Banger seat had been won by AAP’s Abdul Rehman by a margin of 2,342 votes over his rival Congress candidate in 2017. The seat fell vacant when Rehman successfully contested the 2020 assembly election and got elected as a member of the legislative assembly. Dhirender Kumar of AAP won the Kalyanpuri ward by a margin of 7,043 votes while party nominee Vijay Kumar won from Trilokpuri, defeating BJP’s Om Prakash by a margin of 4,986 votes. Both seats were won by AAP in 2017 and the councillors — Kuldeep Kumar and Rohit Kumar, respectively — were later elected as MLAs. While BJP has lost the Trilokpuri ward, its vote share has gone up by 10% in the reserved seat which is dominated by resettlement colonies and JJ clusters with a large chunk of population from the scheduled castes and of Rajasthani and Garhwali origins. Analysis of the vote percentages across the five wards shows AAP’s vote share has gone up in each of the wards except in Chauhan Banger while in case of Congress, the reverse holds true. BJP, which will be facing anti-incumbency in next year’s municipal elections, has increased its vote share by 10% in two wards — Rohini-C and Trilokpuri. Besides the three key parties, smaller parties and independents have found it tougher to garner votes. Their share of votes is significantly down with BSP getting only 3,083 votes and all independents getting just 2,017 votes across all five wards. As a result, the overall shares of each of the three major parties have risen, hugely in AAP’s case. Seven-hundredand-seventy-six (0.63%) voters pressed the NOTA button, rejecting all the candidates. Notwithstanding the small scale of the municipal byelections, the poll pitch was set very high. Politicians described it as a semi-final before the main civic polls. It was the first election after communal riots tore through northeast Delhi early last year. AAP pitched the byelection as a referendum on the performance of BJP in the corporations. None of the three main political parties spared any effort in preparing for the polls and carrying out campaigning. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal campaigned for his party while BJP fielded some of its senior leaders like Bhupendra Yadav, Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta and MP Manoj Tiwari. Congress also put its weight behind the party candidates with its senior functionaries undertaking canvassing. In the Chauhan Banger ward, Congress had fielded its leader and former MLA Mateen Ahmad’s son, Zubair Ahmad. AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak said Ahmad got sympathy votes because his father was losing the election for the past two times and there were some local ward level issues. BJP Delhi chief Adesh Gupta said the party will introspect on the losses. Congress is likely to contest the 2022 civic polls with renewed vigour, hoping to capitalise on this victory. (With input from Alok Mishra)Watch Delhi municipal bypolls: AAP wins 4 wards, Congress one||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-wins-4-of-5-wards-loses-one-to-congress-bjp-draws-a-blank-in-delhi-civic-bypolls/articleshow/81321712.cms||---
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Amt divn’s tally crosses 1L mark, now has bulk of active patients||Nagpur: Amravati division comprising five districts surpassed 1-lakh cases nearly a year after Covid entered Yavatmal on March 14 with two positive persons who had returned from Dubai. Buldhana, Washim, Akola and Amravati districts too were gradually engulfed by the pandemic and are now reporting a surge higher than even six districts of Nagpur division. On Wednesday, Amravati division’s total cases stood at 1.01 lakh of the total 3.33 lakh of Vidarbha. The division has seen 83,471 recovered patients of the total 2.94 lakh and 1,740 deaths of the 7,469. The division also now has bulk of the active cases in the region at 16,245 of the 27,599. The division also reported more number of day’s caseload, around 1,600, of the total 3,138 than the Nagpur division. Amravati district continued to report 7 deaths leading the chart in the region. The 22 deaths were from Nagpur (6), Wardha (4), Akola (2), Yavatmal (2), Buldhana (1) beside Amravati. No death was recorded at Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, and Washim The day’s cases were from Nagpur (1,152), Bhandara (25), Wardha (174), Gondia (24), Chandrapur (43), Gadchiroli (18), Akola (431), Amaravati (671), Yavatmal (155), Buldhana (321) and Washim (124). The 1,943 recovered patients were from Nagpur (695), Bhandara (21), Wardha (117), Gondia (6), Chandrapur (29), Gadchiroli (9), Akola (276), Amaravati (219), Yavatmal (215), Buldhana (294) and Washim (62). Amravati: Seven deaths and a spike of 671 took the toll to 540 and caseload to 37,123. Meanwhile, the district got a fresh supply of 20,000 Covishield and 10,000 Covaxin for senior citizens above 60 and those beyond 45 with co-morbidities. Yavatmal: Two deaths have taken the toll to 472. Out of the 942 tests, 155 were detected positive. Currently, there are 1,741 active positive patients. Wardha: While four deaths took the toll to 351, there were 174 who tested positive. The caseload has gone up to 12,756 with 117 discharged and recoveries 11,296. The active caseload is 1,109. Chandrapur: In all, 43 tested positive while 29 were discharged. The district is now left with 378 active cases. No deaths were reported. The Covid caseload has risen to 28,803. Gadchiroli: No death was reported as the toll remained at 108. The new casecount increased by 18, the lowest among all Vidarbha districts. At the same time, 9 recoveries were reported. The district now has 140 active cases, while total cases are 9,611. So far, 9,363 have defeated Covid in the district. Washim: The district report a death and cases increased by 124. The district reported 62 recoveries. Death toll is 161. The new cases took the tally to 9,360. Discharged count rose to 7,747 while 1451 are active. Buldhana: One death took place while 321 new cases were reported. According to official data, the district now has 19,534 cases, 16,712 recoveries, including 294 of Wednesday, 195 deaths and 2,627 active cases. Bhandara: The district didn’t report any death. Day’s cases were at 25, and recoveries 21. The district has 273 active cases. Total caseload is 13,771, and 13,170 discharged patients. Death toll is 328. Gondia: The district didn’t report any death. It saw 6 recoveries and 24 new cases. Number of patients under treatment is 159. The new positive patients took the tally to 14,480. So far, 186 have succumbed, while 14,135 have recovered. Akola: The district reported 431 cases and two deaths on Wednesday. Also, 276 recoveries were reported. The case tally climbed to 17,446. So far, 374 people have died here. With new recoveries, the tally touched 13,162. The active cases are 3,910.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amt-divns-tally-crosses-1l-mark-now-has-bulk-of-active-patients/articleshow/81318339.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 4, 2021||India||Earliest cotton in Arabia came from India: Study||NEW DELHI: For about 600 years, Mleiha was the political centre of southeast Arabia before it was abandoned in the 3rd century CE. And for decades, the emergence of the tropical cotton plant in the arid Arabian peninsula has been a question archaeologists have tried to answer. Oman, they had concluded, was the source of the ancient Arab cotton trade. But now, scientists from the Museum of Natural History in Paris have found evidence in Mleiha that the earliest cotton in the Arab region came from northwest India. “This, along with archaeological and textual evidence of developed cotton production centres in Indo-Pakistani regions show that long-distance sea-borne trade between the Oman Peninsula and western India was well-established by early 1st millennium CE,” lead scientist Dr Saskia Ryan told TOI. While their findings do not push back dates for the earliest known Indo-Arabian trade, which goes back to the 3rd millennium BCE, it shows that the exchange was much wider than earlier thought and how a plant of tropical origin appeared in the arid Arabian peninsula. The latter was the question with which they had started out. The paper, published in Nature journal ‘Scientific Reports’, said a Greek handbook for merchants compiled by an Alexandrian sailor in the 1st century CE identified Ozênê (Madhya Pradesh), Masalia (Andhra Pradesh) and Abêria (Between Barygaza and Ozênê) as places where cotton was produced. Just around that time, there was a proliferation of cotton in the Middle East. But while archaeological evidence like peppercorns from Kerala and Asian rice from western India at the burnt down building indicated trade with India, the fortress also had Egyptian amphorae, glass vessels and Nubian lamps. So, the cotton remains could have been from other places like Mesopotamia or Egypt. The “Old World”, a pre-American conception of Africa, Asia and Europe, cultivated two kinds of cotton — a variety from the Indian subcontinent and another from the African continent. The Indian variety, Gossypium arboreum, was domesticated in northwest India between the 6th and 4th millennium BCE and then spread south from the 3rd millennium BCE onwards. That is where the new analysis comes in. “Plants and crops have strontium isotope values (ratio of strontium isotopes, or variants of the element) that reflect the region in which they grew. These values are recorded in plant tissues and can be preserved over millennia under the right conditions,” Ryan said. “If a plant (such as cotton seeds) or its products (such as cotton fabrics) were traded in the ancient past from their original place of origin to an isotopically distinct location, measurement of their strontium isotope values can reveal that the material was not grown in the local area where they have been uncovered.” The irony, however, is that a fire which ravaged one of its most important buildings of Mleiha is also what preserved it for posterity. Within this Unesco World Heritage Site in the United Arab Emirates lies a tableaux frozen in fire. It’s a mud brick building with 15 rooms around a central courtyard with signs of a life hastily abandoned in forgotten objects and prized possessions carelessly thrown around, and, the evidence of an ancient Indian trade route, cotton — specifically, 31 whole seeds, 79 fragments and 7 raw fibre clusters. “Cotton seeds and, to a lesser extent, cotton fibres are generally only found in charred form in archaeological contexts. They withstand burial for thousands of years because exposure to heat results in a chemical reaction that transforms the material into a more robust structure that is resistant to biological breakdown over time,” Ryan said. When they analysed the cotton at Mleiha, they found that it matched the range in mainland Gujarat and Kachchh. And so, the authors of the paper concluded, unlike wheat, barley and other modern plants, cotton was not from anywhere close but “most likely came from vast distances away, likely in the western Indian provinces.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/earliest-cotton-in-arabia-came-from-india-study/articleshow/81321711.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
March 4, 2021||Nagpur||Hooch dens, not Covid or jab, a worry for Naik Taloa||Nagpur: The dingy Naik Talao locality had garnered much notoriety as the corona hotspot during the initial phase of the lockdown last year, especially after a media report had allegedly exposed how a Biryani party had turned into a super-spreader event. Though it was expected that the Naik talao residents, around 70% of who were quarantined at different centres last year after the super-spreader event had triggered havoc with a staggering viral spread, would be more concerned with the availability of the vaccine at the nearest government centres to protect themselves from the probable second wave, an opposite scenario was observed here. Residents, mostly from low socio-economic strata, sounded more tormented by the numerous hooch dens in the locality which can be spotted at every nook and corner of the slum with the role of Pachpaoli police being questioned by one and all. Locals also allegedly pointed out that a few bootleggers, Burde, Mohadikar and Shiv Bairagi, are operating dens behind Naik talao police chowki. Hukum, Dhanwati, Anil, Chandu, Ranibai and few others too are allegedly among the top bootleggers here. “These hooch dens attract substantial crowds from other areas. These visitors may again bring Corona from outside to our slum. Also, there is poor enforcement of mask and social distancing norms here. The authorities must first address these ills before talking about the vaccine,” said a senior citizen. Apart from the bootleggers, widespread rumours about corona among slum-dwellers have given way to those related to the vaccines. “Many feel it would bring about fresh health issues like fever or even Corona which would lead to further loss in their already depleted income,” said Harishchandra Naik, a locals, adding, most of the residents are daily wagers. “People are confused and reluctant to go for the vaccine. We had convinced people to get quarantined but with their livelihood in disarray and rumours of insecurity going around, there are less chances people would go for the vaccine even if the second wave has arrived,” he said. Tarachand Barapatre, a grocer, said people are unsure whether the vaccine would augur well or bring fresh trauma like they suffered last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hooch-dens-not-covid-or-jab-a-worry-for-naik-taloa/articleshow/81318379.cms||Soumitra Bose
