March 5, 2021||India||EC starts Covid-19 vaccination drive for officers, staff||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission of India on Thursday began Covid-19 vaccination drive for its officers and staff working at Nirvachan Sadan, Delhi. Former chief election commissioner M S Gill took the first shot of vaccine to mark the beginning of the drive. As CEC Sunil Arora had stated at the press conference on February 26 to announce polls in 4 states and one UT, he and election commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar will get vaccinated only after all the officials and staff at Election Commission have benefitted from the vaccination programme. All staff on poll duty for the upcoming assembly elections have been declared as ‘frontline workers’ and therefore will be vaccinated before assuming their election duties. The CEC had on Friday stated that the vaccination would encourage the poll duty officers to perform their duty without any fear of Covid. A special camp has been set up at ECI with provision of doctors, ambulance etc. Under the special vaccination drive, lakhs of polling officials across five states and UT will take the vaccination shots before proceeding on election duty for the upcoming assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-starts-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-officers-staff/articleshow/81336769.cms||Bharti Jain
March 5, 2021||World||Imran Khan to seek trust vote in National Assembly tomorrow||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s prime minister Imran Khan on Thursday said that he will seek a vote of confidence in the National Assembly on Saturday following the defeat of finance minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh against former PM Yousaf Raza Gilani in a hotly contested Senate polls on Islamabad seat for which the National Assembly was the electoral college. In a televised address to the nation, Khan claimed that money was used in the election and some lawmakers of his Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) had sold their votes. “I am now going to parliament for vote of confidence,” he said. In Pakistan, Khan said, the one who wants to become senator uses money. “And who do they buy? Members of parliament,” he said. “So I was surprised when I came to know this and since then I started a campaign that what a joke is happening with our democracy? What kind of democracy is this?” he said. Since then, Khan said he had started a campaign for open ballot for Senate polls. In the 2018 Senate elections, Imran said he came to know that 20 PTI lawmakers had sold their votes. “We expelled them from party but then I saw that it wasn’t just me saying this, but the two main parties that signed the Charter of Democracy — the PML-N and PPP — had agreed that there should be open ballot because money is exchanged in the Senate elections,” he said. To end corruption in Senate polls, Imran said his party presented a bill in the parliament seeking open ballot. “Then we saw it wasn’t happening and the parties which had said that there should be open ballot didn’t support us. We then went to the Supreme Court and a whole case was heard in the SC,” the PM said. During the hearings, a video of lawmakers taking money in 2018 Senate polls had surfaced, he said. Last week, the SC ruled that it was the Election Commission of Pakistan’s (ECP) responsibility to conduct honest and transparent elections. Khan said that that by holding Senate elections through secret ballot, the ECP had failed to ensure transparency. The PM said the opposition had planned to “use money” to “break our party apart” and bring PTI lawmakers over to their side. “The real objective was to hang the sword of a vote of confidence over my head and blackmail me, so I give them an NRO, which I will never give to ones who have looted this country,” he said. The acronym NRO refers to the National Reconciliation Order under which the late Benazir Bhutto (and many others) were able to return to Pakistan from exile as cases against them were dropped. The term is now commonly used to describe an attempt to use an ordinance to allow someone to escape the legal process. After staging an upset in the Senate elections, the opposition parties have managed to retain their majority in the upper house of parliament and are now hopeful of getting the top offices of chairman and deputy chairman for which elections through secret ballot will be held on March 12. As expected, a hung Senate emerged after the Wednesday’s polls as the opposition and the ruling alliances now have 53 and 47 members, respectively, in the Senate which now has a strength of 100 members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/imran-khan-to-seek-trust-vote-in-national-assembly-tomorrow/articleshow/81336949.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 5, 2021||World||Pakistan court orders removal of ex-ISI chief from no-fly list||ISLAMABAD: The Islamabad High Court (HC) on Thursday ordered the removal of ex-Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief Lt Gen (retired) Asad Durrani’s name from the no-fly list, saying there was no reason to prevent him from leaving Pakistan. Chief justice Athar Minallah said that the court has examined all records and found that there was no inquiry underway against Durrani when his name was put on the Exit Control List (ECL) in 2018. “Like all citizens, the retired general also has rights to move freely,” the judge remarked. The court then ordered that Durrani’s name be removed from the list. Last month, another high court judge, Justice Mohsin Akhtar Kayani had recused himself from hearing the petition, saying he had taken the decision owing to reasons he did not want to share. Durrani had put himself into trouble after co-authoring a book, The Spy Chronicles: RAW, ISI and the Illusion of Peace, with ex-RAW chief Amarjit Singh Dulat, in 2018. Following the book’s publication, the interior ministry had placed Durrani’s name on the ECL after being asked by the Military Intelligence (MI) to prevent him from leaving Pakistan. It had prompted Durrani to challenge the move in the Islamabad HC in 2019. The federation of Pakistan and ministries of defence and interior were made respondents in the case. In a written reply submitted to the Islamabad HC last month in response to Durrani’s petition, the defence ministry had said the former ISI chief’s name was placed on the no-fly list for “his involvement in anti-state activities”. The book, according to the ministry’s statement, contained “certain contents concerning the national security of Pakistan, being in contravention of the provisions of the Official Secrets Acts, 1923”. Last year, the Pakistan Army announced that Durrani had been found guilty of violating the military’s code of conduct and a court of inquiry was ordered against him for writing the book. A military court subsequently stripped him of his pension and other post-retirement benefits. In October 2020, according to Durrani, the government had restored his pension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-court-orders-removal-of-ex-isi-chief-from-no-fly-list/articleshow/81336965.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 5, 2021||World||Indian students can now work in UK after graduation without sponsor||LONDON: Indian students who have graduated from a UK university will now be able to apply for a post-work study visa – now known as the Graduate Route – allowing them to work in the UK for two years after they graduate without any need for a sponsor. The new route?will open for applications on July 1, to international students who successfully complete a degree at undergraduate level or above in the UK. Those who graduate and whose Tier 4 or student visa leave expires before the route is introduced will not be eligible. International students must have completed an eligible course at a UK higher education provider, with a track record of compliance with the government’s immigration requirements, to apply to the Graduate Route. Students on the Graduate Route will be able to work or look for work after their studies for a maximum period of two years, or three years for PhD students. The Graduate Route will be ‘unsponsored’, meaning applicants will not need a job offer to apply for the route. There will be no minimum salary requirements nor caps on numbers – they will be able to work flexibly and switch jobs. Stavan Desai, 43, from Vadodara in Gujarat, who is reading a one-year MSc in international social and public policy at LSE, arrived in the UK in the midst of the pandemic in August. Desai said it offered Indian students like him “light at the end of the tunnel” as Indian students had faced huge disruption to their courses, with all lessons going online and being confined to their hostel rooms. “It is great to know that after a few months you would have an opportunity to stay back and possibly land up with employment that makes you earn some money.” He mortgaged his house with the bank to secure a loan to fund his studies. The tuition fees cost him £22,000 and the hall of residence fees cost £8,300 for 40 weeks. “Last year there was talk of this Graduate Route being reopened by government and that was one of the biggest drivers for me to take this opportunity to come to UK to study. Now that it is confirmed, it is exciting and great news for people like me who are looking to settle in the UK after graduation Being able to work in the UK will help me pay off the loan and create a base for my family to eventually move here,” said Desai. “Most Indian students are in financial debt to meet their expense over here. Many students have not been able to get part-time jobs because of the prolonged lockdown as there no jobs as businesses are shut,” he added. It is anticipated the move will help the UK government meet its goal of increasing the number of international students in higher education in the UK to 600,000 by 2030. The number of student visas issued to students from India increased by 42% in 2020 compared to the previous year – to 53,263. Alex Ellis, British High Commissioner to India, said: “The flow of students between India and the UK makes the human connection between our countries - the “living bridge” - ever stronger.” The Graduate route will require a new visa application, which will only be possible from inside the UK. It will include the payment of a visa fee of £700 and the Immigration Health Surcharge at £624 per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/indian-students-can-now-work-in-uk-after-graduation-without-sponsor/articleshow/81336974.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 5, 2021||India||Army man commits suicide at Srinagar military HQ||SRINAGAR: A day after a lieutenant colonel shot himself dead with his service weapon at the Khonmoh depot on the outskirts of Srinagar, an Army jawan allegedly committed suicide by hanging at the military headquarters in the city on Thursday. Official sources said Anoop Kumar of 105 BN (TA) Raj Riffle committed suicide near the JCO Point in Badamibagh Cantonment. A probe has been launched to ascertain the reason behind the jawan taking his own life. On Wednesday, Col Sudeep Bhagat had shot himself and was declared dead in the army hospital. The reason behind his suicide is also being ascertained. Hours before Col Bhagat killed himself, a sepoy was found dead with gunshot wounds in a camp of army’s Ace of Spades division in Chawa area of J&K’s Rajouri district on Wednesday morning. Official sources said an investigation into the matter was on to find out if the sepoy had shot himself or there was more to his death. Last week, an SSB jawan had attempted suicide by shooting himself in Bemina locality of Srinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-man-commits-suicide-at-srinagar-military-hq/articleshow/81336995.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 5, 2021||Business||Fuel prices set to shoot up as OPEC+ extends output cut||NEW DELHI: The OPEC+ grouping of major oil-producing countries on Thursday extended the current production cuts to April, a move that is likely to send fuel prices hurtling towards new records, with petrol hitting Rs 100 per litre-mark in large parts of the country, unless taxes are reduced. The decision dashed the government’s hope of higher production from next month, which would have eased upward pressure on pump prices and the need to cut taxes. Hours before Thursday’s meeting of OPEC+ ministers, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan had called upon OPEC to “fulfil its promise of price stability” by raising output. Last month, addressing the 11th IEA, IEF, OPEC symposium attended by Saudi oil minister Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud and OPEC secretary-general Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo, he had said artificial cuts to keep prices high would hurt demand recovery. But agency reports suggest OPEC lynchpin Saudi Arabia and Russia, the other heavyweight in the expanded grouping, supported rolling over the production as members called for “cautious optimism”. The general view was that recovery in demand remained fragile as Covid-19 still cast a long shadow over demand. Oil prices have risen to their highest in nearly a year to rule just below $65/barrel. In tandem, petrol price has topped Rs 100 per litre in several cities and hurtling towards this mark in others, including Mumbai where it cost Rs 97.57 on Thursday. Diesel was at Rs 88.60. The high pump prices have stoked public anger and calls for tax cut by the Centre. Rajasthan, Assam, Meghalaya and West Bengal last month reduced state VAT between Rs 1 and Rs 7 per litre. But the Centre and other states have remained unmoved. Taxes currently account for over 60% of pump prices. Instead, the Centre has shifted the blame on previous governments and OPEC+ production cuts. The Centre had raised excise duty on petrol cumulatively by Rs 13 per litre and diesel by Rs 16 in two tranches on March 16 and May 5 when crude prices collapsed as demand evaporated after Covid-19 shut down economies. Fuel retailers adjusted the increased excise against higher margins resulting from cheaper crude and did not revise pump prices. But as states followed with higher VAT, retailers raised prices. Yet, consumers largely remained unaffected since only essential service vehicles were out on roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fuel-prices-set-to-shoot-up-as-opec-extends-output-cut/articleshow/81337136.cms||Sanjay Dutta
March 5, 2021||Business||10 power assets, Mumbai, Tamil Nadu ports came under RedEcho cyberattack||NEW DELHI: Cyber attacks by RedEcho, the actor group with China links, on India’s power infrastructure have been more widespread than previously known and the intrusive infrastructure remains active even after military de-escalation in Ladakh’s Pangong area. According to Christopher Ahlberg, CEO of Recorded Future, the Massachusetts-based enterprise security outfit that detected the intrusions, 10 Indian power sector assets and the Mumbai and Tamil Nadu’s VO Chidmabaranar ports came under attack. The power assets that came under attack were Delhi state load despatch centre, DTL Tikri Kalan substation in Delhi; Mumbai Port Trust, western regional load despatch centre In Maharashtra, NTPC's Kudgi power plant and southern regional load despatch centre in Karnataka, VO Chidambarnar port in Tamil Nadu, Telengana load despatch centre, eastern regional load despatch centre in West Bengal load despatch centre and northeastern regional load despatch centre in Assam. "Recorded Future observed through its network intelligence significant, high-volume, network traffic from Indian power sector assets to servers used by China-linked group RedEcho… The adversary infrastructure is still active and activity continues (even after Pangong pull-back announcement)," Ahlberg said in a presentation on the group’s findings on Thursday. Charity Wright of Insikt, Recorded Future’s threat research group, said the location of targeted infrastructure covered the length and breadth of India’s geography as well as the demography. A New York Times report had last Sunday blown the lid off on these intrusions, citing findings by Recorded Future. It raised doubt Chinese hackers may have caused the October 12 power outage in Mumbai as a warning against strong Indian pushback to PLA’s border transgressions in Ladakh. On the power ministry’s statement that no installation was affected as safeguards were already in place, Wright said it showed the government responded to alerts. On power minister RK Singh blaming the Mumbai blackout on human error, Ahlberg said there was insufficient data to prove cyberattack caused the Mumbai blackout. Targeting the Indian energy sector offers limited economic espionage opportunities. But the group believed “gathering future operational activity, pre-positioning destructive malware, as a warning/show of force during heightened bilateral tensions; and potential information operation to disturb Indian population” could be the possible objectives. Ahlberg said RedEcho “has overlapping modus-operandi with several Chinese groups, including APT41 and Tonto Team,” the known cyber threat groups that take directions from established nation-states to carry out cyberattacks. Wright said her group detected the intrusions using large-scale automated analytics and analysis. These included a combination of proactively identifying adversary infrastructure through server fingerprinting; identifying established sessions between the victim and adversary infrastructure through network traffic analysis; and enriching traffic analysis with proprietary data sources for victim identification. This was the same methodology used to detect power sector intrusions in the European transmission control system, ENTSO-E.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/10-power-assets-mumbai-tamil-nadu-ports-came-under-redecho-cyberattack/articleshow/81337328.cms||Sanjay Dutta
March 5, 2021||World||Pakistani Hindu’s extend ultimatum to police to arrest killer of a Hindu boy||AMRITSAR: Jacobabad’s (Pakistan) Hindu community has given an ultimatum to the police to find and arrest the assassin of a Hindu youth who was mercilessly killed and his mutilated body was found in a street. "The ultimatum ended today but at the police’s request we have extended our ultimatum till Saturday", said Mukhi Lal Chand Sitlani, president, Hindu Panchayat, Jacobabad, while talking to TOI over the phone on Thursday.  He said if police didn’t arrest the accused till Saturday the Hindu community would stage a protest which would be followed by a shutter down strike. Hindus comprise nearly ten per cent of the population in Jacobabad in the Sindh province of Pakistan. "The Hindu population is around 35,000 out of the total population of around 3 lakh" Sitlani said. He said not only the Hindu’s of Jacobabd were upset with the killing of Mahesh but the Muslim community leaders including Mir Ahmed Ali, president Chamber of Commerce, Jacobabad, Pak Sarzameen Party (PSP) and others were with them in demanding the arrest of the killer of Mahesh. Sources informed that the body of Mahesh, was found last Thursday and it was believed that he was killed by Islamist fundamentalists since there had been a lot of cases of killings of Hindu boys and conversion of Hindu girls in Sindh province of Pakistan. Sources also informed that Mahesh was involved in some illegal activities and was in a relationship with a girl. "Police are investigating the case from different angles and we hope that we will get to know by Saturday," said the president of Hindu Panchayat Sukkur, Ishwar Lal who is also president of the district unit of Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), minority wing, Sukkur . Sources however informed that truth may never be revealed since the Pakistan government wouldn’t let the truth of persecution of minorities by Islamist fundamentalists be exposed to the international community. However, Pakistan’s prominent Hindu leader and Member National Assembly (MNA), Lal Chand Malhi alleged that crimes in Sindh were increasing under the PPP government and necessitated the need of restoring the confidence of the people of Sindh by taking sufficient measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistani-hindus-extend-ultimatum-to-police-to-arrest-killer-of-a-hindu-boy/articleshow/81337664.cms||Yudhvir Rana
March 5, 2021||India||Big jump in vaccination drive, nearly 11 lakh doses given Thursday||NEW DELHI: Vaccinations have increased significantly over the last two days after the government allowed all private hospitals with the necessary facilities to join the nationwide drive. India administered nearly 11 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Thursday, while close to 10 lakh shots were given on Wednesday. The numbers are a big leap from the recent average of around five lakh doses per day. Over 50% of total vaccinations on Wednesday and Thursday were given to those aged 60 and above and those between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities. On Thursday, over 10.9 lakh people received vaccines across the country till 7pm. Of this, around 4.9 lakh were those aged 60 and above, whereas 75,147 were those between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities. Overall, 1.7 crore vaccine doses were administered till Thursday evening, which included 68.4 lakh health and 60.2 lakh frontline workers getting their first doses. Over 30.8 lakh health and 54,177 frontline workers have also taken their second dose. Besides, 14.9 lakh senior citizen and 2.2 lakh people with specific co-morbidities have also received the first dose. The increasing number of vaccinations is crucial also because many states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka, continue to report a high number of daily new coronavirus cases. While 17,407 new cases were registered on Wednesday, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka together accounted for 85.5% of the new infections. Maharashtra reported the highest daily tally at 9,855.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/big-jump-in-vaccination-drive-nearly-11-lakh-doses-given-thursday/articleshow/81339180.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 5, 2021||World||Legal immigrants’ kids get shot at US citizenship||MUMBAI: A pleasant surprise for the Indian diaspora is contained in the “American Dream and Promise Act” — the reintroduction of which was announced by US Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard on Wednesday. The reason: It promises a pathway to citizenship, not just for “dreamers” but also for “legal or documented dreamers” — aka children whose parents immigrated legally to the US, say under the popular H-1B visa program. Earlier legislative bills had ignored the legal dreamers. David J Bier, immigration policy analyst at Cato Institute, a Washington-based think-tank, has tweeted, “The Dream and Promise Act has been introduced and it ‘includes’ most legal dreamers in the US right now. This is a tremendous improvement to the bill that will help nearly 200,000 immigrants who grew up in temporary statuses in the US achieve US citizenship.” Read AlsoUS President Joe Biden reverses green card banWASHINGTON: US President Joe Biden on Wednesday formally reversed executive orders taken by his predecessor Donald Trump to freeze green card applications and certain types of visas, saying the action did not advance US interests and hurt industries and individuals alike. "It harms the UnitedHe points out that the bill will help everyone in the EB green card backlog, and many L (intra-company) and H-1B visa holders, because as soon as these kids get citizenship and are over 21 they can petition for their parents. “It will have a very large positive economic effect,” he emphasises. According to an earlier study done by Bier, the employment-based green card backlog (EB2 and EB3 skilled category) for those from India had reached 7.41 lakh in April 2020, with an expected wait time of 84 years. Around 1.36 lakh children from Indian families were caught up within this backlog and it was estimated that 84,675 of them (or 62%) would age out without getting a green card. Improve The Dream, an organisation led by young immigrants who have grown up in the US, was one of the many voices advocating for a change which would permanently end ageing out and provide a path to citizenship for every child who grew up in the US regardless of status (whether undocumented or documented). Its website points out: “Our parents brought us here at an average age of 5 and we have been living here for an average time of over 12 years. But due to various issues in the immigration system, we don’t have a clear path to citizenship.” This organisation has tweeted: “Exciting News: Dream and Promise Act of 2021 includes Documented Dreamers! This is a major step forward in ensuring all children who grew up here receive a clear path to citizenship.” Dreamers are currently protected from deportation and are also eligible for work authorisation, but legal dreamers do not enjoy this leeway. TOI has on several occasions covered the plight of children of Indian families. The spouse and dependent children of an H-1B worker hold an H-4 or dependent visa. When these children turn 21 (age out), they can no longer continue with this visa. Either they have to transit to an F-1 visa meant for international students — which has its own challenges such as higher fees and restricted work eligibility; or they have to self deport to India. The huge employment-based green card backlog for those from India, compounds the problem, as a large majority age out before the green card can be obtained. This bill and the earlier introduced comprehensive immigration bill, which seeks to prevent the child from aging out of eligibility for a green card, if he or she was under 21 years when the parent filed the green card application or applied for certification have been welcomed by the Indian diaspora. Watch Dream and Promise Act: Legal immigrants’ kids get shot at US citizenship||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/legal-immigrants-kids-get-shot-at-us-citizenship/articleshow/81339515.cms||Lubna Kably
March 5, 2021||Business||EPFO liquidates equity outlay, retains 8.5% payout for FY21||NEW DELHI: Amid falling interest rate, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has managed to hold on to 8.5% rate for the current financial year, providing relief to its nearly five crore active subscribers. Many will be hit hard by the government’s move to tax returns if contributions top Rs 2.5 lakh annually. The decision was taken at a meeting of the EPFO’s central board of trustees headed by labour minister Santosh Gangwar. It will need to be endorsed by the finance ministry, which is known to raise the red flag almost every year before holding itself back. EPFO to be left with Rs 300 crore surplus after equity liquidationThe retirement savings agency has relied on the stock market to offer higher returns. “For FY 2021 (2020-21), EPFO decided to liquidate investment and the interest rate recommended is a result of combined income from interest received from debt investment as well as income realised from equity investment. This has enabled EPFO to provide higher return to its subscribers and still allowing EPFO with healthy surplus to act as cushion for providing higher return in future also. There is no over-drawl on EPFO corpus due to this income distribution,” an official statement said, pointing to its equity investments over the years. EPFO will be left with a surplus of around Rs 300 crore. At the current level, someone in the 30% income tax slab will earn annual returns of over 11% given the tax-free status enjoyed by it currently. In contrast, other investments, such as fixed deposits with banks don’t only offer such high rate but face tax if over Rs 1.5 lakh is parked even in maturity basket of over five years. Currently, SBI is offering 5.4% on fixed deposits with maturity of five to 10 years, and post-tax it will translate into an annual return of around 3.8% for someone in the 30% tax slab. Similarly, public provident funds deposits currently fetch 7.1% but the investment is capped at Rs 1.5 lakh annually. Apart from returns, provident fund also comes with the power of compounding, which means if you stay long enough, based on compound interest on the corpus, your returns actually grow significantly with your annual contribution adding to the benefit. Even the government did not fail to point it out. “A high EPF interest rate, along with compounding, makes a significant difference to gains of subscribers. This is despite the fact that EPFO has consistently followed a conservative approach towards investment, putting highest emphasis on the safety and preservation of principal first approach. Risk appetite of EPFO is very low, since it involves investing poor man’s retirement savings also,” the labour ministry said in a statement. The government on Thursday said that EPFO has extended its coverage to establishments in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh after the implementation of EPF & MP Act to the two Union Territories from the end of October 2019. During this period, the coverage has extended to 4,754 establishments compared to 3,458 at the end of October 2019, while the number of subscribers has shot up 63% to 2.1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/epfo-liquidates-equity-outlay-retains-8-5-payout-for-fy21/articleshow/81340061.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Guwahati||‘19 Myanmar cops take shelter in Mizoram’||GUWAHATI/AIZAWL: In the first incident of crossing over of Myanmarese nationals to the northeast after the recent coup, at least three persons fled the neighbouring country and have taken shelter in Mizoram’s Serchhip district. However, a Reuters report, quoting a senior police official, gave a higher number, claiming that at least 19 Myanmar police officers have crossed over into India and are seeking refuge there. The government is yet to confirm the identity of the three persons who crossed over to India. Locals said the trio claimed that they fled Myanmar after disobeying the orders of their superior officers to shoot at their own people in the Chin state where they were stationed. Officials said they stepped into the Indian territory on Wednesday. While there were speculations that the three are policemen belonging to a Mizo tribe in Myanmar, Serchhip DC Kumar Abhishek told TOI on Thursday: “Three people have come to one of the border villages in the Serchhip district. We are probing the incident but not in a position to confirm whether they are policemen.” Local organisations have demanded proper facilities for the refugees who may start arriving in the frontier state after the latest crackdown on pro-democracy activists in Myanmar. Mizoram shares a 404-km-long porous international border with Myanmar. The three Myanmarese nationals reportedly arrived at Lungkawlh village, about 9km from the Mizoram-Myanmar border river Tiau, in Serchhip district. Block development officer of East Lungdar, accompanied by police, visited Lungkawlh to conduct an inquiry. The three refugees were tested and all of them are Covid-negative. They spent the night on Wednesday at a community hall of the village waiting for a decision from the district administration and arrangements for their future stay in Mizoram. Police and security forces guarded the three refugees. He, however, refused to comment on the materials recovered from their possession. “We are waiting for the police report,” he said. Mizoram CM Zoramthanga has already announced that the government and people of Mizoram would welcome any ethnic Mizo or persecuted people for taking part in the pro-democracy movement in Myanmar with open arms. The Central Young Mizo Association (CYMA), which has been creating awareness to ensure safe stay of the Myanmarese refugees in Mizoram, said three districts of the Champhai, Siaha and Lawngtlai remain the most vulnerable as far as possible intrusion of the refugees is concerned. Sources said several other Myanmarese nationals have fled their country following the military coup and took shelter in two districts of Mizoram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/19-myanmar-cops-take-shelter-in-mizoram/articleshow/81341472.cms||Kangkan Kalita
March 5, 2021||World||‘19 Myanmar cops take shelter in Mizoram’||GUWAHATI/AIZAWL: In the first incident of crossing over of Myanmarese nationals to the northeast after the recent coup, at least three persons fled the neighbouring country and have taken shelter in Mizoram’s Serchhip district. However, a Reuters report, quoting a senior police official, gave a higher number, claiming that at least 19 Myanmar police officers have crossed over into India and are seeking refuge there. The government is yet to confirm the identity of the three persons who crossed over to India. Locals said the trio claimed that they fled Myanmar after disobeying the orders of their superior officers to shoot at their own people in the Chin state where they were stationed. Officials said they stepped into the Indian territory on Wednesday. While there were speculations that the three are policemen belonging to a Mizo tribe in Myanmar, Serchhip DC Kumar Abhishek told TOI on Thursday: “Three people have come to one of the border villages in the Serchhip district. We are probing the incident but not in a position to confirm whether they are policemen.” Local organisations have demanded proper facilities for the refugees who may start arriving in the frontier state after the latest crackdown on pro-democracy activists in Myanmar. Mizoram shares a 404-km-long porous international border with Myanmar. The three Myanmarese nationals reportedly arrived at Lungkawlh village, about 9km from the Mizoram-Myanmar border river Tiau, in Serchhip district. Block development officer of East Lungdar, accompanied by police, visited Lungkawlh to conduct an inquiry. The three refugees were tested and all of them are Covid-negative. They spent the night on Wednesday at a community hall of the village waiting for a decision from the district administration and arrangements for their future stay in Mizoram. Police and security forces guarded the three refugees. He, however, refused to comment on the materials recovered from their possession. “We are waiting for the police report,” he said. Mizoram CM Zoramthanga has already announced that the government and people of Mizoram would welcome any ethnic Mizo or persecuted people for taking part in the pro-democracy movement in Myanmar with open arms. The Central Young Mizo Association (CYMA), which has been creating awareness to ensure safe stay of the Myanmarese refugees in Mizoram, said three districts of the Champhai, Siaha and Lawngtlai remain the most vulnerable as far as possible intrusion of the refugees is concerned. Sources said several other Myanmarese nationals have fled their country following the military coup and took shelter in two districts of Mizoram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/19-myanmar-cops-take-shelter-in-mizoram/articleshow/81340117.cms||Kangkan Kalita
March 5, 2021||Business||PropShare floats Rs 700 crore fund to buy office spaces||MUMBAI: PropShare Capital, a tech-enabled investment manager, is raising Rs 700 crore through Propshare Real Estate Fund I — an alternate investment fund (AIF). The fund will focus on completed income-generating commercial real estate leased to multinational and bluechip tenants in Indian tech hubs with 7-9% annual rental yields and with a projected 17-20% internal rate of return over a 4–5-year holding period. Speaking to TOI, Kunal Moktan, co-founder & CEO, PropShare Capital, said the fund has the lowest charges with a 0.5-0.7% annual management fee and 10-15% performance fee depending on the quantum of investment. “We are evaluating a few large grade-A properties in Bengaluru and Hyderabad. While opportunistic investments are still available, the discounts that were available 6-9 months ago have significantly reduced. As optimism returns to the market and large multinationals revive leasing plans, a small window of opportunity continues to exist to invest in high quality assets,” said Moktan. The fund is targeted at institutional investors, HNIs, family offices, and select sophisticated domestic and NRI investors. The minimum investment of Rs 1 crore is in line with AIF regulations. PropShare Capital’s current investor base includes institutional investors, family offices, HNIs and ultra HNIs and senior and middle management of large tech, financial services and consultancy companies as well as founders of startups. According to Moktan, there has been no rent loss in its properties let out to multinationals. “Our office portfolio did not see any reduction in rents or even escalations, which we believe is a result of focusing on grade-A properties with multinational tenants — a thesis we plan to continue in the fund,” he said. Last year, the firm advised on two separate transactions in the last quarter of 2020 totaling around Rs 180 crore in securities backed by Mindspace Business Park (tenanted to Qualcomm) in Hyderabad and The Pavilion (tenanted to Aurbis) providing investors with yields exceeding 8.5%. Moktan sees opportunity in office space as cash flow requirements are now putting pressure on developers and asset owners to raise funds by monetising the highest quality assets in their portfolio leased to bluechip multinational tenants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/propshare-floats-rs-700cr-fund-to-buy-office-spaces/articleshow/81337826.cms||Mayur Shetty
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||5,991 schools sans fire NOC, HC flays state govt||Ahmedabad: Shocked that 5,911 schools in Gujarat function without fire NOC, the Gujarat high court has issued a warning to such schools that it would order their derecognition if they fail to install fire-fighting equipment and obtain fire NOCs. The high court said that it was “extremely sad and shocking to know that there are 5,911 schools in the state of Gujarat not possessing a valid and subsisting no objection certificate”. It questioned, “How is this permissible? How can one play with the innocent lives of the students studying in such schools? If no steps are taken in this direction at the earliest, then this court may be compelled to ask the state government to cancel the recognition of such schools,” the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5991-schools-sans-fire-noc-hc-flays-state-govt/articleshow/81337730.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar govt likely to make Maoists’ rehab policy more rewarding||PATNA: Several major proposals are being considered to boost the existing surrender-cum-rehabilitation policy for Maoists in the state in a bid to encourage more rebels to shun the path of violence and join the mainstream of society. Home department sources said there are plans that children of surrendered Maoists would be provided free education and their families free treatment at government hospitals. Sources added there are also plans to increase the amount which a surrendered Maoist gets as per his rank. “All these plans are in pipeline. Once approved by the state government, the new policy will encourage more Maoists to surrender,” a senior home department official said, adding the reward amount might also see an increase. “The reason for increasing the amount being paid to a Maoist as per his rank is that hardly any high-rank Maoist surrenders in state. Those who surrender are of lower rank. Other states like Jharkhand and Chhattishgarh offers higher money to surrendered Maoists,” he said. It was on April 1, 2013 when the Bihar government had announced a new surrender-cum-rehabilitation policy for Maoists last time. As per the present policy, a Maoist (state, regional and central committees) or a politburo member is eligible for Rs 5 lakh as immediate assistance after surrender. Middle and lower-rank Maoists like area or regional commanders are eligible to get Rs 2.5 lakh as financial assistance. They are also eligible for Rs 6,000 monthly financial assistance for a maximum of 36 months in case they opt for employment-oriented training skills. A Maoist surrendering with LMG, sniper rifle, rocket launcher gets Rs 35,000 for each of the weapons. He/she gets Rs 25,000 against every assault rifle like AK-47 and AK-56 surrendered. A sum of Rs 10,000 is given against each pistol, revolver, self-loading rifle and carbine to the surrendered Maoist. State police headquarters sources said more than 90 Maoists have surrendered in the state till now since 2013, including the one who surrendered in Gaya last Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-likely-to-make-maoistsrehab-policy-more-rewarding/articleshow/81336897.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Hosps beat app glitches with walk-in, walk-out vaccinations||Kolkata: Walk-in vaccinations are being carried out in several state-run and private hospitals across Kolkata to help the recipients. For people who are stepping into Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) with their identity documents, if spot registrations are delayed due Co-Win glitches, they are being vaccinated immediately, subject to manual verification of documents. This is helping cut down on their waiting time. At helpdesks across Kolkata hospitals, such vaccination data is being uploaded on Co-Win later, whenever the system is picking up. These recipients are eventually getting their Co-Win confirmatory SMSes either immediately or several hours later at night. In some hospitals, these helpdesks are running 24x7. This has come as a huge relief to many. Nila Bhattacharjee, 73, a resident of Tollygunge, said she came to know from a neighbour that MR Bangur Hospital had the walk-in vaccination facility. She had originally registered on Co-Win and had received a slot on March 29. She went down to the hospital on Thursday to check whether she could be accommodated and was pleasantly surprised. “Not only did they give me a shot on the spot, the entire process was completely hassle-free,” she told TOI.  “I just had to provide my Aadhaar card. It only took a little more than an hour, including the mandatory 30-minute waiting period,” she said. Her 53-year-old daughter Sampita Das, a schoolteacher who suffers from hypertension, also received a shot at the same venue. “They just checked my blood pressure, and, since it was high, gave me the vaccine. I was hearing stories that we would have to wait for hours on end in crowded areas, but it was nothing like that. The hospital staff were very helpful,” Das said. Her husband Shyamal, who is also in the 60+ age group, also got the vaccine after walking into the hospital. “The response from senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities is quite encouraging. Those who turn up without registration are helped to get it done at our centre. Of the 465 people who were given the vaccine on Thursday, a good number was from the age-specific category,” said Sisir Naskar, superintendent at MR Bangur Hospital. Salt Lake residents Jayant Kumar, 80, and Suchitra Sanyal, 72, went to AMRI, Salt Lake, on Tuesday after calling up the hospital and finding out about the walk-in vaccination. Both received their shots within a little more than an hour. “It was well organized and took little time with minimal waiting,” said Suchitra. “We will go there to receive our second shots in 28 days,” she said. “At Rabindranath Tagore International Institute for Cardiac Sciences, we have set up a separate registration counter for citizens and a dedicated vaccination site for senior citizens. All 136 senior citizens inoculated at our centre on Thursday had their registration done on the spot. The portal glitches have been eased out and it functioned better today with minor issues once in a while,” said R Venkatesh, regional head, east, Narayana Health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-beat-app-glitches-with-walk-in-walk-out-vaccinations/articleshow/81336675.cms||Subhayu Mazumder
March 5, 2021||Patna||Patna ranks 33rd in livability index||PATNA: The state capital has improved its 'liveability' ranking among cities with a population of above 10 lakh bagging the 33rd spot in the Ease of Living Index 2020 released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday. In the 2019 index, Patna had scored a dismal 109 out of 111 cities surveyed on livability parameters. Patna scored 53.26 out of 100 in overall ease of living, 47.02 in terms of quality of life, 49.32 in sustainability, 24.61 in economic ability and 77.50 in citizen perception survey (CPS). The overall ranking of Patna is 33 out of 49 cities, 14 in economic ability, 22 in citizen perception, 42 in quality of life and 44 in sustainability. Patna also ranked 16th in the Municipal Performance Index (MPI), which examined the sectoral performance of civic bodies across five verticals- services, finance, policy, technology and governance. Bhagalpur ranked sixth in CPS, which contributes 30% to the Ease of Living Index (EoLI) assessment of each city. The overall EoLI rank of Bhagalpur among 62 cities with less than 10 lakh population stood at 30, while Biharshariff ranked twenty-eighth and Muzaffarpur stood at 62, which was the last rank in the category. The EoLI evaluated the quality of life and the impact of various initiatives for urban development. The assessment incorporated the residents’ view on the services provided by city administration through CPS. The rankings were released by Hardeep Singh Puri, Union minister of state (independent charge), housing and urban affairs, in an online event on Thursday. The first-ever EoLI covering 111 Indian cities was released on August 13, 2018. The index evaluation assessed the quality of life, economic ability, sustainability, spanning across 13 categories -education, health, housing and shelter, solid waste management, mobility, safety and security, recreation, level of economic development, environment and buildings among others, which account for 70% of the overall outcome. The CPS, which accounted for the remaining 30% of the assessment, was conducted from January 16, 2020, till March 20, 2020. Bhubaneshwar got the highest CPS score, followed by Silvassa, Davangere, Kakinada, Bilaspurand Bhagalpur. Patna was at twenty-second rank in CPS. Elated over the improved ranking of Patna in EoLI and MPI, Patna municipal commissioner Anand Sharma told TOI on Thursday evening that it was a proud movement for the entire citizenry of Patna and a boost for PMC. “It is the result of a team effort of PMC and the residents of the city and we will continue to do better in future, including the ongoing Swachch Sarvekshan. PMC is doing a lot of work in terms of resources strengthening as well as mechanisation in different sectors, such as solid waste management. We are also undertaking various initiatives for increased citizen awareness and involvement,” said Sharma, with an appeal to residents to use Swachchta mobile application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-ranks-33rd-in-livability-index/articleshow/81336305.cms||Piyush Tripathi
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Schools ask teachers to get the jab before boards||Kolkata: With board examinations beginning on May 4, several city schools have suggested that teachers eligible for vaccination, who will be invigilators for assessments of classes X and XII, consider getting the jab before they report for duty. India has started the vaccination drive with healthcare workers, frontline workers and, now, those above 60 and those above 45 with co-morbidities. Heritage School principal Seema Sapru said, “It will be a wise decision to register for the vaccine since the teachers have to invigilate during the board examinations and it will be a precaution against an outbreak on campus .” South Point School spokesperson Krishna Damani said the school will suggest that the teachers get inoculated, but added that it would not be mandatory. The school administrators pointed out that though classes between IX and XII have resumed with several safety measures in place, some students may be asymptomatic spreaders who are unlikely to be identified without tests. John Bagul, principal of South City International School, has shared the data and information about vaccination sites. “We have advised the teachers — those who meet the criteria — to register for the vaccine. During the board practicals, the teachers have to face different students. It is for their benefit that we have put forward the suggestion,” said Bagul. Ram Mohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas plans to get the vaccine before the board exams begin. “I will soon request teachers who are eligible to receive the vaccine to register. They can consult their physicians and take the necessary measures. It will cut the risk. During the boards, several duties are undertaken. The vaccine will protect the teachers and solve our staffing problem,” he said. Birla Bharati School principal Apala Datta plans to issue an advisory to the teachers on invigilation and other duties. “The teachers will be inside a room with several students and may not be able to maintain adequate distancing. They will have to distribute question papers, interact with the examinees, collect the answer scripts and sign them. So, after consulting doctors, it is being suggested that the teachers book their vaccination slots,” Datta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-ask-teachers-to-get-the-jab-before-boards/articleshow/81336754.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 5, 2021||Patna||11k more vaccinated across Bihar on Day 4||PATNA: Another 11,297 senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities took Covid-19 vaccine shots on Thursday. Of the 11,297 beneficiaries, 10,309 were senior citizens and 988 above 45 years of age with comorbidities. Vaccination of priority group had started on Monday. The number of beneficiaries has been witnessing rise in the state with each passing day. For instance, 5,123 people had taken the vaccine shots on Wednesday, 2,375 on Tuesday and 653 on Monday. However, the number jumped to 11,297 on Thursday. Some beneficiaries, though, complained of delay at the session sites. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said all the health centres have been asked to vaccinate senior citizens who come to the site. “Seeing increase in number of beneficiaries, we have decided to deploy two additional ANMs at each session site. There are instances of some glitches on the portal, especially when people try to upload information. In such cases, a xerox copy of Aadhaar card and contact number can be collected from senior citizens if they turn up at the session sites. These people should not be returned for want of documents,” she added. She urged the NGOs running old-age homes to get in touch with the administration so that elderly people could be vaccinated. “We can even arrange for ambulances for them,” she added. As per the State Health Society, 28,770 healthcare workers took their second dose of the vaccine on Thursday. So far, 1,37,973 healthcare workers have taken their second jab. However, some doctors alleged they did not receive any call from the health centre for their second jab after completion of 28 days. “Doctors and health workers of The Polyclinic, Patna, got their first dose on February 2 at Arvind Hospital. We went for the second dose on March 2, but the hospital informed us that they have not received any message regarding second dose,” said Dr Shakeel. However, the civil surgeon said healthcare workers can directly go to their respective session sites and take the second dose of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/11k-more-vaccinated-across-bihar-on-day-4/articleshow/81336510.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 5, 2021||Varanasi||Skill devpt centres to be setup at fertiliser factory: Yogi||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Thursday that skill development centres will be opened in the HURL fertiliser factory in Gorakhpur to train youth for employment. Talking to reporters after factory inspection, the CM said a huge investment of Rs 8,000 crore in the modern plant shows PM Modi’s vision of a self-reliant India. “No one expected a new plant in place of the compost factory that was closed for 26 years, but this has been made possible by the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The supply of fertilisers was not interrupted during the pandemic, which is a huge achievement,” Yogi added. “In 1967-68, the Toyo Company of Japan had set up a plant here for Fertilizer Corporation of India. The same Toyo Company has set up a plant for Hindustan Fertilizer and Chemicals Limited,” Yogi added. CM Yogi also announced that after using water from Chiluatal reservoir in the factory and township, the remaining will be cleaned and supplied to the city under “Har Ghar Nal’ scheme of Jal Jeevan Mission. The Chiluatal water body will become a source of supply of surface water, he added. The availability of potable water and checking open defecation by providing toilets to each house, we have controlled encephalitis by 75% and deaths by 95%, the CM said after inspecting the fertilizer factory, computerized control room and dam made of special rubber at a cost of Rs 30 crore, with Union chemicals and fertilisers minister D V Sadanand Gowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/skill-devpt-centres-to-be-setup-at-fertiliser-factory-yogi/articleshow/81336017.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Patna||Governor and CM pay tributes to Renu||PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan and chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar paid tributes to noted littérateur Phanishwar Nath Renu on the occasion of his birth centenary on Thursday. While garlanding a portrait of Renu at a function organized at the Raj Bhavan, Chauhan recalled his valuable literary contributions and observed that the writer put Bihar on the global literary map. He also eulogized Renu’s contributions in the national freedom struggle and Jayaprakash Narayan’s Total Revolution. Several literary functions were also organized at different places in the state capital to celebrate Renu’s birth centenary. Meanwhile, some academics urged the state government to initiate concrete measures for perpetuating the memory of one of the greatest literary giants. Sahitya Akademi winner Arun Kamal said, “The Hindi Bhawan named after Renu should be developed into a full-fledged centre of art and literary activities if we really want to remember him forever. A memorial should also be established at his Rajendra Nagar residence so that people can pay tributes to him.” Kamal also suggested that Patna University should establish a Renu chair in his memory and promote literary activities on the campus. Former head of the Hindi department in Patna University, Balram Tiwary, pleaded for creation of a well-developed centre of folk art in the state in memory of Renu. “Regional languages, most of which are virtually on deathbed, also need to be protected and preserved,” he said. Meanwhile, state legislative council acting chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh also paid tributes to Renu on the occasion. Soon after the Upper House resumed, Awadhesh recalled the exemplary work done by Renu in the field of literature. “On behalf of the entire House, I pay tribute to this great person,” Awadhesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/governor-and-cm-pay-tributes-to-renu/articleshow/81336078.cms||B K Mishra
March 5, 2021||Patna||Passengers hit as Army aspirants detain train||KATIHAR: Around 300 Army aspirants, who had come to the town to take the physical test at Garhwal ground of the Army Recruiting Office (ARO), detained the 2424 Dibrugarh Town-New Delhi Rajdhani Express for more than 45 minutes at Katihar Junction on Thursday. A large contingent of police force arrived on the platform number 1 to clear the tracks for the resumption of rail traffic. A section of students had squatted on the rail tracks, while majority of them were seen moving on the platforms. Senior officials from the police and rail administration, including Katihar SDPO and assistant commandant, persuaded students to vacate the railway premises. Vijay Kumar Choudhary, ADRM of North Frontier Railway, Katihar division, said the detention of train was unlawful. “The Army personnel had informed us about the military recruitment process and requested for train services. The special train services will be started in a day or two to cater to the needs of Army aspirants,” he added. Meanwhile, the Army aspirants who were making rounds of the Collectorate for the past 3-4 days for redressal of their grievances pertaining to shortage of Rs 10 denomination stamp paper (non-judicial) which is required while filling up the form, heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday when the administration assured them of looking into the matter. “The DM has resolved the crisis of stamp paper. Today, we conducted stock verification and found that vendors have sufficient stamps,” Katihar ADM Vijay Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/passengers-hit-as-army-aspirants-detain-train/articleshow/81336132.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||Jailed ex-MP booked for sim card recovery||PATNA: Police are gathering details of a sim card and two cellphones which were recovered from Beur central jail in Patna during a raid on Wednesday. SHO of Beur police station Manish Kumar on Thursday said police were trying to find out which sim cards were used in the two cellphones. “The IMEI numbers of the two cellphones have been provided to telecom operators to get details,” he said. The sim card was recovered from a bag in the ward of former MP Vijay Krishna. The SHO said police have also contacted bank authorities to gather details about the five bank accounts which were found written in one of the two registers recovered from an empty room on the jail premises. “Only account numbers and IFSC details were written. One bank account seems to be of Jaipur,” SHO said. He added an FIR was registered against Krishna for recovery of a sim card from his ward. Meanwhile, Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh, who had served a show-cause notice on deputy superintendent of Beur central jail, Sanjay Kumar, for arriving half-an-hour late and making him wait at the jail gate, said the latter’s reply was still awaited. Altogether 36 cellphones, sevn sim cards, 17 cellphone chargers, a diary containing details of five bank accounts and several phone numbers were recovered in simultaneous raids conducted on jails across the state on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jailed-ex-mp-booked-for-sim-card-recovery/articleshow/81336482.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata ranks high on e-vehicle adoption list||KOLKATA: The city has featured among six global megacities for its faster adoption of electric vehicles in mass transportation. The EV City Casebook 2021, which will be released on March 11, will have Kolkata as a case study along with Shenzhen (China), Santiago (Chile), Izmir (Turkey), London (UK) and Vancouver (Canada). In fact, Kolkata stands third — ahead of London — in terms of ‘percentage penetration of e-buses’. Significantly, Shenzhen is way ahead, with 99% of the world’s electric buses being in China. Kolkata, with its largest fleet of electric buses among Indian cities, along with the oldest surviving tram network of Asia, makes a good case study of electric mass transit. The ‘Third EV City Casebook’ presents informative case studies on city and regional EV deployment efforts around the world. These case studies are illustrative examples of how pioneering cities are preparing the ground for mass market EV deployment. The only other Indian city that features in this casebook is Ahmedabad. But that is for the electric taxi segment.  The purpose of the EV City Casebook is to share experiences on EV demonstration and deployment, identify challenges and opportunities, and highlight best practices for creating thriving EV ecosystems. These studies seek to enhance understanding of the most effective policy measures to foster the uptake of electric vehicles in urban areas, said a transport department officer. To produce the Casebook, Urban Foresight worked in collaboration with The Electric Vehicles Initiative (EVI) and the International Energy Agency (IEA) under their ‘Implementing Agreement’ for Cooperation on Hybrid & Electric Vehicle (HEV) Technologies and Programmes. “This casebook is a showcase of cities building better, cleaner mobility through EVs – designed to inspire others to move towards mass electric mobility. Kolkata has run an electric tramway for more than a century. The city is now also taking a leading role to introduce electric buses for public transport with an aim to reduce vehicular pollution within the city,” said Alekhya Datta, Fellow and area convenor, electricity and fuels division, TERI, who has been roped in by West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) as an advisor for its EV expansion. However, experts are anxious the way Asia’s oldest surviving tram network is shrinking. The complete tram network must be revived to bring back its glory, said city’s tram lovers. “It is highly possible. It requires only innovative thinking and love for its immense heritage value,” said a WBTC officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-ranks-high-on-e-vehicle-adoption-list/articleshow/81336765.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
March 5, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara station challenge solved||Vadodara: The National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL) will be saving at least Rs 2,000 crore with re-alignment in Vadodara alignment of the high-speed rail corridor. Instead of the original plan of constructing the HSR station by dismantling the existing platform 6 of Vadodara railway station, the station will now come up at platform 7. Vadodara posed the project’s biggest engineering challenge for NHSRCL. “Apart from construction challenges, the overall cost has also gone down conservatively by Rs 2,000 crore. The earlier estimate was in the range of Rs 4,000 crore to Rs 4,500 crore,” said Achal Khare, managing director of NHSRCL. He said that after re-alignment, the location of HSR is right in front of the central and local bus depot, offering better connectivity with other modes of transport. “Also, all major platforms are planned to be connected with HSR station,” he said. “The work will be completed within 48 months as against earlier estimate of 66.6 months,” said Pradeep Ahirkar, chief project manager, Vadodara. The initial survey for HSR alignment in early 2017 was designed to cross the yard from east to west near the platform area where almost 13 railway lines were to be crossed. But the site was coming in the path of flights at the Vadodara airport. For the launch of the girders, all the flight movements would have to be cancelled. Finally, the scheme was not approved by AAI. Also, as per an estimate, a total of 25,000 metric tonnes of steel was expected to be consumed in this bridge construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-station-challenge-solved/articleshow/81335766.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar: One arrested for woman’s murder at Jaggubigha||PATNA: Police on Thursday arrested one Raj Ballabh Yadav (60) in connection with the killing of a woman, Neelam Devi (40), at Jaggubigha village under the Fatuha police station area in rural Patna on Wednesday. The woman was allegedly killed for resisting molestation of her minor daughter. At least 15 more accused in the case are still evading arrest. SHO of Fatuha police station Manoj Kumar Singh said Yadav was arrested from the same village. “It was Yadav whose house was used by a group of youths in the village to open fire on the minor girl’s family members,” he said. He added, “Yadav told police that a group of youths led by Chandan was responsible for the firing in which Neelam was killed. The same youths had molested Neelam’s daughter 10 days back.” The SHO added 16 people, including Chandan, Kundan, Vinay and Yadav, have been made prime accused by Neelam’s husband Lallan Singh in the FIR lodged with Fatuha police station. “Raids are on to nab all the accused,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-arrested-for-womans-murder/articleshow/81336966.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Airline to start city ops with eye on Cooch Behar market||Kolkata: A new airline is set to fly into Kolkata next month. After lockdown, FlyBig will be the second airline to start operations in the city. International airline Fly Dubai had started services between Dubai and Kolkata in November 2020. FlyBig, a regional airline with its hub in Indore, plans to connect Kolkata with Rupsi in Assam’s Kokrajhar and Guwahati from April 1. The airline will also connect Dibrugarh and Tezpur in Guwahati, Pasighat and Tezu in Arunachal Pradesh, Aizawl in Mizoram, Shillong in Meghalaya and Agartala in Tripura. Sources in the airline said the flight to Rupsi will tap into the Cooch Behar market. Residents of Cooch Behar town now have to travel five-six hours to take a flight to Kolkata from Bagdogra. The travel time will reduce substantially as Rupsi is an hour-and-a-half’s drive from Cooch Behar town. Though Cooch Behar has an airport, the runway isn’t long enough to allow operation of regional airlines. Only small planes with capacity of less than 20 passengers can operate from there, something that some non-scheduled operators, like North-East Airlines, had proposed. But commercial flights were never operated as the sector was unviable. Promoted by Gurugram-based Big Charter Pvt Ltd, FlyBig, which began operations in December 2020, focuses on connecting tier-2 cities within India. It is a full-service carrier and serves meals on board and allows 15kg luggage per passenger. Travel Agents Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni welcomed the new airline. “This is a positive development. Since tourism will now be inland instead of overseas, the airline will open up vacation places in the northeast,” said Soni. The airline currently has two aircraft in its fleet — an ATR 72 and a Dash-8 Q400 taken on wet lease from SpiceJet. The former has a capacity of 72 passengers and the latter 78 passengers. The airline plans to expand its fleet to 20 aircraft. At present, the airline flies to Raipur, New Delhi, Ahmedabad, Bhopal and New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airline-to-start-city-ops-with-eye-on-cooch-behar-market/articleshow/81336757.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||How big a stock portfolio to cut market risk? Over 40, says study||Ahmedabad: What’s a good number of stocks in the portfolio to assure investors a better cover against the proverbial ‘market risks’? A study carried out by an IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) professor and a Singapore-based investment firm director assessed more than 50 Nifty stocks over six years and deduced a safe number would be between 40 and 50. Prof Sobhesh Kumar Agarwalla from IIM-A and Rajan Raju, director of Invespar Pte Ltd recently put up their working paper titled ‘Equity portfolio diversification: How many stocks are enough? Evidence from India’ on the institute’s website. “We show that a 15-20 stock portfolio, the traditional market rule-of-thumb for a diversified portfolio, is likely inadequate to minimize unsystematic risk. We show that an investor could target to reduce diversifiable risk by 90% with 90% confidence with a portfolio of 40-50 stocks,” stated the duo in the paper. The findings are important in the light of the fact that the number of demat accounts in India recorded manifold rise during and after the lockdown period as more people turned to investing in stock markets eyeing better returns. The duo analyzed performance of a total of 760 stocks between December 2014 and December 2020 – given some joiners and leavers from the index. They simulated about 50,000 portfolios with different permutations and combinations using two durations – one year and three years. “It would take around 40-50 stocks in an equal-weighted portfolio to give the same investor 90% confidence to diversify away 90% of diversifiable risk. As the confidence level required or the amount of diversifiable risk to be reduced increases, the investor would need to hold a larger number of stocks in their portfolio (compared to 15-20),” said the paper. Market experts said that the idea of a wider portfolios in sync with the ground reality. “Over the past decade, industrial segments have expanded, and specializations increased across sectors. For example, the IT sector – which was previously limited to software, BPO and KPO – now has segments such as cloud, data centers, gaming, etc. Thus, one may not be able to cover the market with 20 stocks,” said Vaibhav Shah, managing director of Monarch Networth Capital, an Ahmedabad-based financial services company. “Wider portfolio with 40-50 stocks can provide a cushion against the market volatility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/how-big-a-stock-portfolio-to-cut-market-risk-over-40-says-study/articleshow/81337667.cms||Parth Shastri
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: 100-bed multi-speciality unit at maternity home||KOLKATA: A old and decaying maternity home on Christopher Road is slated for a makeover. If everything goes according to plan, the 20-bed Champamani Maternity Home will turn into a 100-bed multispeciality hospital in two years. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has agreed to be a part of a public-private-partnership (PPP) to develop the 50-year-old facility into a full-fledged hospital to cater to the medical needs of middle-class families of the city, especially those staying in the south-eastern parts. A KMC health department senior official said the civic body had in December 2019 taken up an initiative to build a specialized hospital on the Champamani Maternity Home complex. However, progress could not be made after the outbreak of the pandemic. According to a source in the KMC health department, the civic body will invite a tender for the PPP project after state polls. According to plans, the KMC will hand over the building and around 2 bigha of land on which the maternity home stands to a private healthcare group. The latter will take up construction of a new building adjacent to the old one after making necessary repairs or will demolish the entire existing structure to make way for a new hospital building. Sources in the KMC health department said that apart from accommodating gynaecology and neonatal departments, the new hospital will offer many specialized treatment facilities for both outdoor and indoor patients. A KMC health department senior official said that though the private healthcare group will be asked to invest towards building the hospital and the group will be given the right to run it, the rates for consultation and admission will be determined in consultation with the civic body’s expert panel. “We won’t allow any private partner to levy exorbitant charges — either for doctors’ consultation or admission. It may so happen that we will reserve a certain number of beds for citizens who belong to the below poverty level groups,” the official said. Residents of large areas of south-east Kolkata, which include Park Circus, Tangra, Tiljala and Topsia, had been demanding revival of the maternity home that had almost stopped functioning for want of infrastructure and staff, doctors and paramedics. “Added to that, the pandemic spelt the death knell for the maternity home, which now stands almost as an abandoned building with only an outdoor clinic running somehow,” said a KMC health department senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/100-bed-multi-speciality-unit-at-maternity-home/articleshow/81336723.cms||Saikat Ray
March 5, 2021||Business||Cognizant to hike bonus, offer more promotions||CHENNAI: At a time when its voluntary attrition rate is the highest in the sector at 16% for the December-ended quarter, IT major Cognizant is rewarding top performers over and above the bonus amount. The company will shell out up to 125% of the target bonuses — a significant increase from the comparable performance-linked bonus paid at around 95% in the previous year. Cognizant is also offering performance-based salary hikes to around 160,000 employees globally this year. The quantum of salary hikes was not disclosed. Cognizant also said it has promoted more than 24,000 employees across every level — a number it says is higher than last year’s promotions. It is also moving to a quarterly promotion cycle for employees at the senior associate level and below from the second quarter of 2021 in a bid to recognise high performers in a more timely manner. “In recognition of the professionalism, client-centricity, work ethic and perseverance of our employees globally in serving our clients during this protracted pandemic, we are rewarding bonuses above the level of company performance and substantially higher than 2019, despite 2020 being an extraordinarily challenging year,” Cognizant India CMD Rajesh Nambiar said. “We continue to remain heavily focused on maintaining a competitive and appealing employee environment where every individual is inspired to achieve, driven to perform, and rewarded for their contributions. We aim for our employees to feel motivated, engaged, and empowered to do their best work through careers they find meaningful,” he added. Cognizant’s higher bonus payouts and promotions follows its voluntary attrition — signifying employees leaving the organisation voluntarily — recorded at 16% for the quarter ended December 2020, compared to 10% in the quarter ended September. In comparison, attrition for most IT majors was in low double digits for the same period, owing to the pandemic and resulting insecurity in the jobs market. TCS, Infosys, Wipro and HCL reported annualised voluntary attrition rates at 7.6%, 10%, 11% and 10.2% respectively. In a bid to retain high performers and critical digital talent, Cognizant also recently set up a $30-million retention fund to make them counter offers and prevent them from leaving the company. Nambiar also told TOI earlier that Cognizant plans to hire more than 23,000 candidates from campus recruitments in 2021 — an increase of around 35% from the number of freshers it hired in 2020. Industry analysts attributed the human resources churn at Cognizant to a major restructuring exercise that’s been on since its CEO Brian Humphries took over in 2019. Titled ‘fit for growth’, Humphries’s revival programme focused on going after new-age digital deals, reinventing the delivery model, and also making the organisation more lean and nimble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-to-hike-bonus-offer-more-promotions/articleshow/81337393.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
March 5, 2021||Patna||Sensitive, Maoist-hit booths being identified in Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: Officials of the panchayati raj department in the district have geared up for the panchayat elections likely to be held in April-May this year. Identification of election booths in the Maoist-hit and other sensitive areas is one of the major challenges for the district officials. “The exercise to identify polling booths situated in extra-sensitive, sensitive and Maoist-hit areas is underway for deployment of additional security forces,” district panchayati raj officer Tirlokinath Singh said. He added the block development officers (BDOs) have been asked to make a survey and send the list at the earliest so that the same is forwarded to the state election commission office for necessary action. “The state election commission office will also be informed about some election booths situated in dilapidated buildings and on embankments of the Ganga, which are badly affected by soil erosion. Specific steps like moving polling booths will be taken in such areas,” he added. According to sources, nearly 17.45 lakh voters in 3,120 wards, including 242 panchayats, will exercise their franchise in the district in the panchayat elections. The district panchayat election office has sent the list of 3,290 voting booths to the state election office for approval. Altogether 9,22,529 men, 8,22,811 women and 71 transgender voters are expected to exercise their franchise in the panchayat elections in the district this year. Of the 3,290 voting booths, 139 are in Narayanpur, 172 in Bihapur, 172 in Kharik, 70 in Ismailpur, 125 in Gopalpur, 122 in Rangra, 143 in Naugachia, 392 in Pirpainty, 414 in Kahalgaon, 180 in Goradih, 179 in Sabour, 225 in Jagdishpur, 203 in Nathnagar, 246 in Shahkund and 272 in Sultanganj blocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sensitive-maoist-hit-booths-being-identified-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/81336950.cms||Kumar Rajesh
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||Chennai shock Chandigarh with 12-0 drubbing||Fazal Khan Lucknow: In a high voltage performance, Chennai trounced Chandigarh by a whopping 12-0 in one of the matches played during the ongoing All-India SBI Inter-Circle Hockey tournament at Mohammed Shahid hockey stadium on Thursday. Hosts Lucknow also maintained their dominance by defeating Ahmedabad 1-0. Bhopal and Delhi also emerged victorious in their respective matches. The match between Chennai and Chandigarh, however, remained the high point of the day. Chennai’s Cedric D’Cruz, who remained on fire throughout the match, led Chennai attack by hitting six goals in all (5th, 26th, 42nd, 51st, 55th, 56th minutes). Suresh also scored three goals (30th, 36th and 44th minutes). Vimal (21st minute), Kamala Kanan (40th minute) and Arvinath Harikesha (48th minute) scored one goal each. Lucknow defeated Ahmedabad 1-0 in another match of the day. The lone goal was scored by international player Shailendra Singh (7th minute). In another interesting encounter of the day, Delhi defeated Kolkata 7-1. The first goal was scored by Naveen Malik in the 6th minute of the match. Bhopal also defeated Patna 2-0 with the help of two goals scored by Rafiq-ur-Rehman in the 15th and 23rd minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chennai-shock-chandigarh-with-12-0-drubbing/articleshow/81339519.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||BJP MLA’s ‘UP model for Bihar criminals’ remark sparks row||PATNA: The BJP MLA from Dhaka assembly constituency in Bihar, Pawan Kumar Jaiswal, on Thursday sparked a row saying that an Uttar Pradesh (UP)-like "overturning of vehicles" method (a reference to UP gangster Vikas Dubey's death last year)’ is required in Bihar to tighten the noose on criminals. “Overturning of vehicles has become necessary for history-sheeter criminals…Like UP; vehicles should start overturning in Bihar as well. The inference of ‘overturning of vehicles’ can be drawn by you (reporters). The actions being taken by the government here is encouraging and to make it more encouraging, vehicles need to turn turtle,” Jaiswal said. He made the startling comment about the UP "model" before a section of media persons outside the portico of the state assembly after the pre-lunch Budget discussion session of the House. Vikas Dubey “died” on July 10, 2020, due to the overturning of an SUV on which he was being brought from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh under police protection. However, by evening, the MLA made a U-turn. “What I said was that Bihar is having good governance and developed infrastructure. Road accidents have also increased. If the vehicles are at high speed, they are overturning, and even an SI lost his life due to the overturning of the vehicle. Also, if the criminals are in high speed and refusing to slow down, then their vehicles will also overturn,” Jaiswal told TOI in the evening. Curiously, on Thursday, the state BJP distanced itself from what Jaiswal, known as a Hindutva hardliner in his Dhaka assembly constituency from East Champaran district, claimed in the campus of the state assembly during his interaction with media persons. “I will not comment on what Jaiswal has said. But will say that neither the BJP nor the NDA government led by Nitish Kumar, will make any compromise on the issue of crime in Bihar,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said. “Like in 2005-06, when the Nitish-led NDA government came to power, there should be a regular crackdown on the criminals as it used to be done through state auxiliary force (SAF) jawans consisting of ex-servicemen. Besides, the speedy trial of the criminals nabbed should also be done, like it was done in 2006-07,” Patel also said. “There is an urgent need to strike terror among criminals. They should either lie low and quit crime or even leave the state,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-mlas-up-model-for-bihar-criminals-remark-sparks-row/articleshow/81336044.cms||Abhay Singh
March 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar to add over 6,500 revenue staff in 6 months: Minister||PATNA: Bihar’s revenue and land reforms department will shore up its staff strength by over 6,500 in the next six months. This was announced by minister Ram Surat Kumar on the floor of the state assembly on Thursday as the government’s reply to the House debate on the Rs 1,261.73 crore budgetary demand by the department. The minister also gave a breakup of the figure: 1,760 ‘ameens’ will be appointed by June, while 4,350 ‘karmacharis’ and 400 revenue officers will be recruited in the next six months. Ameens measure land while karmacharis perform the basic steps for mutation, sale and purchase of land. Due to this, there is a huge demand for such people but not many are available. Opposition members have routinely pointed out in the assembly that the shortage of such staff has resulted in corruption. But the minister said that departmental action has been initiated against errant personnel at the circle and block levels. He also said that a large number of applications have been received at the circle offices for mutation of land, and over 70% of them have been disposed of. Similarly, errors in lakhs of ‘jamabandis’ (accounts of land holders) have been rectified already as part of the drive to update and clean up land records. This, the minister said, was facilitated by the digitisation of land records. Giving an example of how far-reaching the benefits have been, the minister said that if a person purchases land and the ‘kewala’ (agreement deed) of it is done, then the mutation\transfer of the land in the name of the purchaser is automatically achieved. Kumar then pointed out other benefits that have come with the digitisation of land records and also lauded his government’s performance in it. He said that now it is possible for landowners to check the status of their property from anywhere in the world. This has also made it impossible for any fraudulent transfer of land, the minister said. He then went on to claim that Bihar has become the number one state in digitising land records — an achievement that has been acknowledged even by the central government — and has surpassed even developed states like Telangana and Gujarat in this. The Opposition wasn’t convinced by Kumar’s reply. Even though Congress legislator Vijay Shankar Dubey had moved the cut motion, the Opposition staged a walkout after hearing the government’s justification for its demand. Nevertheless, the House passed the budget by voice vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-to-add-over-6500-revenue-staff-in-6-months-minister/articleshow/81335907.cms||Abhay Singh
March 5, 2021||Patna||Setting up port in Odisha Nitish’s topmost priority||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar has shown keen interest in pursuing the popular desire in business and commerce circles for establishment of a seaport for Bihar in Odisha. If the venture succeeds, it will be considered one of the biggest achievements of Nitish. “Bihar is a landlocked state. The need for its seaport has long been felt to promote export activities. Things have now started moving in the right direction, even though they are at the initial stage,” said an official. At present, only three landlocked states in the country – Tripura, Assam and Meghalaya – have a joint seaport in Bangladesh. It was facilitated in October 2019 when India and Bangladesh entered into an agreement. As far as Bihar’s bid for seaport is concerned, additional chief secretary in industries department Brijesh Mehrotra had “preliminary discussions” on the matter with Odisha officials in Bhubaneswar recently. The bid for a seaport took in Odisha took a concrete form with the enactment of Odisha Maritime Board Bill, 2020, to develop seaports along its 480km coast. Odisha has identified 14 points where a seaport could be developed. At the meeting Mehrotra had with his Odisha counterpart, it was decided that a high-level technical team from Bihar would visit Odisha to study the feasibility of having a seaport there for its use. Nitish has pointed out on several occasions that Bihar is a landlocked state. He had pressed before the 14 and 15th Finance Commissions for greater financial allocation for the state as the lack of coastline had arrested its growth. Last week also, he had raised the issue at the NITI Aayog meeting in which PM Narendra Modi was the key speaker. Odisha CM Navin Patnaik had also attended the meeting. Reports said Nitish had also talked to Patnaik to explore the possibility of having a seaport for Bihar. If Bihar finally has a seaport in Odisha, it will boost the state’s export potential. At present, while maize has emerged as a big item for export in the crop category, the emerging export potential of makhana could be equally tapped. There are a host of other items also for export.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/setting-up-port-in-odisha-nitishs-topmost-priority/articleshow/81336146.cms||Abhay Singh
March 5, 2021||Kanpur||City ranks 28th in Ease of Living Index||Times News Network Kanpur: Kanpur ranked 28th in the Ease of Living Index (EoLI) ranking-2020 released by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on Thursday. The ministry had picked as many as 111 cities for this ranking and issued rankings upto 49. The ranking is based on the ease of living based on quality life, abilities, citizens perception and sustainability of services. Municipal performance was assessed on the basis of finances, planning, services, government and technology used by a municipal corporation. According to the ranking list released by the ministry, total citizen feedback was 3.2 million, while social media hits were just 1.3 million. On the basis of the performance the average city score was 53.51. As per the list released, as many as eight cities of UP got a place in the ranking. Except, Bareilly all remaining 7 cities have scored more than 50% points while Bareilly managed to collect in between 30 and 50 points slab. This shows that municipal corporations showed an improvement in the performance in comparison to previous years. In-charge of smart city projects RK Singh commented that the city has showed an improvement in many areas but more reforms are needed. “Our several projects such as water supply, sewer line, road transport, city bus service, fleet of 300 electric buses, integrated command centre are in progress,” he said. The smart city in charge said that once these projects are completed then ease of living index of the city would improve further. With an improvement in the ease of life index it is expected that Kanpur may rank among the top ten cities of the country. Last year, Agra topped in the Smart Cities chart with two other UP cities. Kanpur and Varanasi too had made it to the top 10 list. Lucknow has improved its position even if it did not figure among the elites. The pan India ranking for 100 cities was based on the progress/completion rate of smart city projects. Kanpur had ranked third, and Varanasi seventh, Prayagraj 12th, Lucknow 24th, Aligarh 55th, Saharanpur 68th, Jhansi 83rd, Bareilly 89th and Moradabad 97th.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-ranks-28th-in-ease-of-living-index/articleshow/81335924.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||‘Community radio to be launched for farmers soon’||GAYA: The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Gaya, will soon launch community radio in a bid to provide technical support and guidance to the farmers. The Union ministry of information and broadcasting has approved the proposal in principle. Rajiv Singh, head agriculture scientist at KVK, said, “Programmes related to farming, such as suitable crop according to season, how to care the crops, alternate crop, publicity of technology and more would be broadcast through community radio.” KVK is already extending support to more than 25,000 farmers through different methods, including training, demonstration and research. WhatsApp groups of around 3,500 farmers have been created, where the agriculture scientists post suggestions about farming and the farmers exchange ideas for better crop management and profitability. Under the climate resilient agriculture programme of the state government, KVK has selected five villages. Under this programme, rotation testing of eight crops is underway to determine the most suitable crop in view of climate, irrigation availability and soil condition for farming. Under seed production programme, seeds of wheat, chick-pea and masur (small grained pulse) are being prepared in an area of five hectares of land on the campus. KVK provides support to farmers for bee-keeping, poultry, layer farming, dairy, vegetable, mushroom and conventional crops like paddy, wheat, pulse seeds and maize. There is a scheme where small agriculture tools would be distributed among the farmers from SC/ST category. Skill development training in Vermi compost, proven technology demonstration and frontline demonstration for different crops are other activities going on at KVK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/community-radio-to-be-launched-for-farmers-soon/articleshow/81336431.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kanpur||Cops praised for reuniting girl with family||Kanpur: A seven-year-old girl, mistakenly left behind at a busy thoroughfare allegedly by her parents, was rescued and handed over to them by the police in Kanpur Dehat district on Wednesday. The people and netizens on social media praised the gesture of policemen, who once again acted as good Samaritan. On Wednesday, one Rajkumar of Khamhaila village along with his seven-year-old daughter Aarti had gone to Akbarpur area for shopping. “Rajkumar thereafter asked his daughter to wait near Akbarpur under-pass and himself went to a nearby shop to bring change. He, however, in hurry forgot to pick up his daughter and reached home,” said police. A few passersby on seeing the girl crying informed the police following which she was taken to Akbarpur police station. SSI Akbarpur Kotwali Manjeet Dayal said, “Later, her parents reached the police station and tried to lodge a complaint with regard to their missing seven-year-old daughter. When they say the recovered girl, they identified her as their daughter. After completing formalities, the cops handed the girl to them.” The police team received love and appreciation from people on social media after they helped the minor girl in reuniting with her parents. The commendable act came to light after the Kanpur Dehat police tweeted about the incident, and praised their counterparts for swift action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-praised-for-reuniting-girl-with-family/articleshow/81335933.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||200 IIT-Kgp alumni thank PM for re-think on hosp name change||Kolkata: More than 200 alumni of IIT-Kharagpur across multiple batches and departments have sent a letter to PM Narendra Modi, thanking him for not inaugurating the super speciality hospital that has come up on campus. The alumni feel that by not inaugurating the hospital, the PM has “honoured” the sentiments of thousands of alumni who did not want the name of the hospital changed. The letter was sent last evening, but alumni from across the world continue to add their support to it by sending their signatures. The super speciality hospital was named after BC Roy, one of the founding fathers of the institute, when the foundation stone was laid by the then President, APJ Abdul Kalam, in 2007. It was planned as an extension to the Dr BC Roy Technology Hospital, an old set-up that takes care of the health problems of students and employees. However, a board of governors meeting last December changed the name to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research and it has been floated as a non-profit company. PM Modi was supposed to inaugurate the super speciality hospital on February 23 at the 66th convocation. Enraged at this change of name, a group of 53 alumni wrote to the PM how sentiments would be hurt if the name of the hospital was changed. Finally, the institute changed its invitation card and the cards announcing the flow of programme for the convocation kept the inauguration out of the convocation. The PM gave the convocation address and there was no rhetoric on the inauguration at all. The alumni called this a “great victory” and, “in the rightness of things” wrote back to the PM thanking him for, “considering their appeal”. The letter says that the alumni is looking forward to an announcement regarding the retention of the original name and an early inauguration of the hospital. “We are thankful to the PM that he paid heed to our sentiments. By not inaugurating the hospital in its changed avatar, he has given an indication that there is a re-think,” said Indrajit Dutt, an alumnus of the 1979 batch, and one of the signatories. Former director of IIEST, Ajoy Roy, who was the head of the super speciality hospital when it was in its formative stage from 2007-09, led the writing of the first letter and is a signatory in the “thank you” note. “I had written to the director on his Facebook Page about how inappropriate the decision was,” said Umesh Dubey, another alumnus of the 1975 batch. The plaque announcing the name of the new super speciality hospital has been wrapped up since. However, by an internal communication, the administrative head of the BC Roy Hospital has been asked to look after the “Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/200-iit-kgp-alumni-thank-pm-for-re-think-on-hosp-name-change/articleshow/81336771.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||If Maha delays, bullet train Gujarat leg may start first||Vadodara: If land acquisition for the ambitious Ahmedabad-Mumbai Bullet Train is inordinately delayed, chances are that the high-speed train will run on 352 km between Ahmedabad and Vapi. Achal Khare, managing director of National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL), which is implementing the project, said on Thursday that this possibility cannot be ruled out. “We are also exploring this option,” Khare said in a virtual interaction with reporters Even as 95% land acquisition work for the 352 km stretch in Gujarat has been completed, the same in Maharashtra for 156 km is just around 23%. The NHSRCL has acquired 95 per cent of the land for the 352 km stretch of the project in Gujarat, but has been able to acquire only 23 per cent of land for the 156 km stretch in Maharashtra. The remaining 5% in Gujarat will be acquired by mid-June. "If we are able to acquire about 70% to 80 % land in the next three months, we can start the entire project together," he said. The project is, however, set to miss the 2023 deadline as the Covid-19 pandemic had stopped all the work. “Last one year has practically gone (without work) due to Covid-19 pandemic. Certain issues related to land acquisition in Maharashtra have also affected the timeline of the project,” said Khare. The civil works for the project in the state will take four years to complete after issuing tenders. “The time duration of the biggest tender is four years. All civil works should be over by the third quarter of 2024. We will also try to complete other works related to electrification soon after that,” he said. Out of eight high-speed rail (HSR) stations to be constructed in Gujarat, work for five stations have already been awarded while that of Ahmedabad, Sabarmati and Vadodara HSR along with one stretch of the viaduct is yet to be awarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/if-maha-delays-bullet-train-gujarat-leg-may-start-first/articleshow/81337852.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Business||Dunzo active user numbers double in 2020||Chennai: As Covid-19 makes app-based concierge services a part of our daily lives, Dunzo, the largest player in the segment, achieved gross margin profitability for the first time in 2020, and also doubled its annual active user base from 2.7 to 5.1 million from 2019 to 2020.As people spent more time indoors, services such as Dunzo -that help buy products from any store of one’s choice and picks up and drops parcels from one point to another- came in handy. Dunzo not just gained users briskly in 2020, but order values grew, and retention also improved. The gross transaction values for the app more than doubled from 2019 to 2020 growing 105%, and there was a 14 percentage points increase in quarterly user retention in Oct-Dec 2020 compared to the same quarter in 2019, Dunzo said. As users spent more time on the platform, they also increased their spends on the app, data showed. For instance, users who had started using the app in 2016, spent almost 2.82X more in 2020, than what they spent in year 1. Kabeer Biswas, co-founder of Dunzo, believes 2020 was the year the product went from being niche to mass. He anticipates that company-wide profitability is just around two years away for the startup. “Our biggest cities are already profitable; we have already broken even there. For this year, we want to drive operating leverage in our top cities,” he told TOI. Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai are Dunzo’s biggest markets currently. The service is currently present in eight cities and is working to increase its coverage in these markets and also aiming to enter two new cities in 2021. “We want to capture a $100 million market in each of our city, and for this we need to scale our biggest cities to 3x- 4x,” Biswas said.In 2020, Dunzo also entered a new B2B business line wherein the company now offers its delivery capabilities and resources to local merchants for their logistics needs. Biswas said this delivery-as-a-service business is now almost 10% of the company’s overall business now, and they aim to accelerate this segment to achieve overall profitability in a more frugal way compared to its B2C vertical. The company is also getting ready for a new category launch in the next month that can attract mass and regular usage by customers. “We will go through a massive shift at Dunzo this year, that makes us an everyday essential for a much larger audience than before; more about that [later] in March,” Biswas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dunzo-active-user-numbers-double-in-2020/articleshow/81337475.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||New bride dies of Covid 3 days after marriage||Vadodara: A new bride’s excitement to visit her parental home for the first time as per tradition after her wedding which took place three days ago on March 1 however came to a shocking end after she collapsed at her husband’s place moments before leaving. Later, it came to light that the woman was Covid-19 positive. The incident took place in the Gotri area of the city on Friday morning when Sanyukta (name changed) was preparing to leave for her parents’ home in the neighbourhood but collapsed suddenly. Relatives called an ambulance and she was rushed to the SSG Hospital (SSGH), where she died during treatment. Samples of the newly married woman were collected for Covid-19 test, which was found to be positive. Her husband, which was in a state of shock, could not talk much and said, “We are now planning funeral rituals.” The emergency police report at the SSG Hospital mentions that the woman was suffering from fever since the past two days. In wake of her death, the officials at SSGH also informed the Laxmipura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-bride-dies-of-covid-3-days-after-marriage/articleshow/81337771.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||Govt to crack down on vehicle lifter gangs: Minister||PATNA: State energy minister Bijendra Yadav said in the legislative council on Thursday that he would ask DGP and home secretary to review increase in vehicle theft cases in the state. A question regarding rampant bike theft was raised by RJD MLC Ram Chandra Purbey, who said 18,000 such cases were recorded in Patna district alone from 2015 to 2020. Purbey said police have failed to take action against the gangs involved in bike theft. He asked the minister concerned to take steps to recover stolen bikes and bust gangs involved in such cases. Several other MLCs too raised the issue. Congress MLC Madan Mohan Jha said two bikes were stolen from the campus of MLC quarters recently. In his reply, Yadav said 21,264 vehicle theft cases were registered in Patna district in five years – 18,000 bikes and 3,264 other vehicles. “Altogether 961 stolen bikes have been recovered so far. In 2021, 17 stolen cases have so far been recovered and 20 thieves arrested,” the minister added. Yadav further said in order to curb the incidents of vehicle theft, standard operating procedures (SOPs) have been sent to all the districts. “Patrolling is being done by all the police stations in Patna to reduce such cases,” he added. RJD MLC Rajneesh Kumar raised the issue to destruction of crops by ‘nilgai’ and said the government should give compensation at the rate of Rs 25,000 per hectare to farmers like the way there is provision of compensation when crops are destroyed by elephants. State environment, forest and climate change department minister Neeraj Kumar Singh said the department was working on a plan to conduct vasectomy of ‘nilgai’ and leave them in the forest. However, he said there was no provision of compensation for the crops destroyed by nilgai. Another legislator, Birendra Narayan Yadav, raised the issue of noise pollution on major roads by all kinds of vehicles and use of multi-tone horns in spite of ban on them. The environment minister said the government would soon release a letter seeking strict implementation of ban on multi-tone horns. CPI MLC Kedarnath Pandey, through a short-notice question, said of the 70 parks in Patna, most, except Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, lacked toilet facilities. Replying to Pandey, Neeraj said 42 parks have toilet facilities and the department has released Rs 14.58 crore for construction of toilets and urinals in rest of the parks. In another short-notice question, MLC Suman Kumar raised the issue of poor condition of Kameshwari Priya Poor Home, which was started by Maharaja Kameshwar Singh in 1941 for orphan, poor and helpless. He urged the government to form a new committee for maintenance of the home. MLC Sanjay Kumar Singh said health facilities at New Gardiner Road Hospital are very poor. “Hardly 60 OPD services are provided at the hospital,” he added. However, health minister Mangal Pandey said it’s a superspecialty hospital and provides free treatment for diabetes, thyroid hemophilia and nephrology only. Pandey said of 14 sanctioned posts of doctors at the hospital, nine are posted and five others are on deputation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-crack-down-on-vehicle-lifter-gangs-minister/articleshow/81335937.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 5, 2021||Patna||Panchayat elections: 25 lakh to cast votes in Patna district||PATNA: Preparations for the upcoming panchayat elections in 322 panchayats in Patna district are in full swing, district panchayati raj officer Shushma Kumari said on Thursday. He said the elections to the 322 panchayats would be held in the eighth phase. Around 25 lakh electors would exercise their franchise. “In all, 4,705 polling booths will be set up for the purpose. There will 4,354 main polling booths and 351 auxiliary polling booths. Altogether 5,411 EVM sets will be required for the polling. Each EVM will comprise six ballot units,” she added. Bakhtiyarpur, Naubatpur and Masaurhi have been earmarked as collection centres of the multipurpose EVMs. The EVMs will be brought from Siwan and Vaishali districts, the panchayati raj officer added. According to the estimates, 18,420 polling personnel will be pressed into service to conduct free, fair and peaceful election in the district. There are 4,354 wards in the 322 panchayats, Sushma said. Sources said of the 322 panchayats, 14 were upgraded to nagar panchayats recently. The remaining panchayats would be included in the nearby panchayats. The urban development department will issue a notification after reorganisation of the newly upgraded nagar panchayats. The electors will cast their votes for six posts – panch, sarpanch, mukhiya, panchayat samiti member, ward member and district board member. “There are 4,354 wards in Patna districi,” Sushma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/panchayat-polls-25l-to-cast-votes-in-patna-district/articleshow/81336909.cms||Ramashankar
March 5, 2021||Patna||Assistant professors’ appointment in Bihar universities: Interviews likely to start in April||PATNA: The interview for the appointment of assistant professors in the universities of Bihar is likely to start soon. Scrutiny of all the applications received by the Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) is almost complete and a tentative list of subjects to be taken up in the first phase has been finalized. According to BSUSC sources, the authentication of information furnished by the applicants is taking a lot of time. It is easy to verify the papers published in the UGC Care approved journals, but difficult to verify the ones published in peer-reviewed journals. Now, the BSUSC has called subject experts to verify the authenticity of the papers published in peer-reviewed journals. In all probability, the interview will start in April with the subjects having lowest number of applicants. The selection list will be finalized immediately after the interview of the subject concerned. BSUSC chairman Rajvardhan Azad told this newspaper, “Despite acute shortage of staff, the commission is trying to complete the scrutiny of applications and select the eligible candidates. All efforts are being made to expedite the process of interviewing candidates for appointment against the vacant posts in different subjects as early as possible.” As many as 65,930 candidates have applied for appointment of 4,638 assistant professors in 52 subjects in 13 universities of the state. The university-wise vacancies are Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University (2), Veer Kunwar Singh University (428), Magadh University (381), Purnea University (213), Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University (377), Patna University (273), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (276), Lalit Narayan Mithila University (856), Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (192), Patliputra University (462), Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University (603), Munger University (245) and Jai Prakash University (319). The maximum number of applications have been received from Bihar (31,922) followed by Uttar Pradesh (18,554), West Bengal (4,786), Jharkhand (2,186), Rajasthan (1,508) and Madhya Pradesh (1,328). Applications have also been received from Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, and Goa. The interview of 15 candidates each will be conducted by six boards in two shifts. The BSUSC has six members at present. This will be the first appointment made by the new commission after its constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/assistant-professors-appointment-interviews-likely-to-start-in-april/articleshow/81336624.cms||B K Mishra
March 5, 2021||Patna||Number of active Covid cases falls to 346 in Bihar||PATNA: The number of active cases in the state fell to 346 on Thursday. The day also saw 40 more people testing positive for Covid and same number of people recovering from it. The state’s Covid tally has now touched 2,62,668. Four districts – Arwal, Buxar, Kaimur and Sheohar – had no active cases on Thursday. Twenty-six other districts had single-digit active cases. In fact, Banka, Saharsa, Jehanabad, Sheikhpura and Madhepura had just one active case on Thursday. Seven districts had active cases in two digits and only Patna had active cases in three digits. In Patna, 129 people are still battling Covid. New cases registered in Bihar are much less when compared to some other states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat which are witnessing surge in cases and infection rate. Meanwhile, The first-year students of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Thursday said their examinations should be postponed as a final-year student of the college, Shubhendu, had died due to Covid recently. However, Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said no decision regarding cancellation or postponement of examinations has been taken. Health department has asked the college administration to conduct rapid antigen test of all the students who will be taking their examination at Aryabhatta Knowledge University. “The health department has said if anyone tests positive for Covid, he/she will have to write papers in a separate room. It is not possible for students to take exams in such a scenario,” said NMCH Junior Doctors’ Association president Dr Ramchandra. He said the family of Shubhendu should be given compensation. VIRUS UPDATE Cases today: 40 Total cases: 2,62,668 Recoveries: 2,60,777 Deaths: 1,543 Suicides: 2 Active cases: 346||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/number-of-active-covid-cases-falls-to-346-in-bihar/articleshow/81336570.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Rajkot||10 MBBS students test Covid positive in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Ten first-year MBBS students of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay (PDU) Medical College, Rajkot, have tested positive for coronavirus infection on Tuesday and Wednesday. The college dean called an urgent meeting and suspended offline education for a week for the rest of 190 students. The nine male students and one female found infected have been shifted to the Covid care hospital and are being treated by the senior doctors. Hospital sources claimed that they have mild symptoms. Contact tracing has been done all other students who came in their contact have tested negative. The college administration also initiated the process to administer vaccines to the students. The students were staying at the college hostel after the offline education started from February 1. Meanwhile, 45 more people tested positive in Rajkot city on Thursday In all, 107 people have tested positive in the city on Wednesday and Thursday. In Jamnagar, former minister and MLA Vasuben Trivedi and her family members also tested positive on Thursday. According to Jamnagar district administration, Trivedi, her husband Narendra, son and daughter-in law-tested positive. The number of cases are also spiralling in Jamnagar with 14 testing positive on Thursday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/10-mbbs-students-test-ve-in-rajkot/articleshow/81336467.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Fill 200 PP posts by April 1st week: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Making it clear to the government that a weak public prosecutors network is a liability to the criminal justice system in the state, the Telangana high court on Thursday questioned the state as to why it has failed to appoint a full-fledged chief to the directorate of prosecutions in the last several years. The court directed the government to fill up the post immediately and not run the directorate with an in-charge director. The court said that the government had filled 212 public prosecutor posts ever since the court took up the matter two years ago. Out of the total 414 public prosecutor posts sanctioned to various criminal courts in the state, as many as 202 PP posts are still lying vacant. The bench gave time to the government till April first week to fill the posts and also to appoint a director to the department. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while cautioning Srikanth Reddy, counsel for the home department, that he will be held responsible for any delay in the matter. “The delay being made in this regard would amount to hindering justice,” the bench warned him. The bench noted with concern that one PP acting as in-charge PP in several other courts will not augur well for the justice system. “We have to recruit new PPs and impart adequate training to them because they are the backbone of the criminal justice system,” the bench said. Following a letter written by the registrar general of the high court narrating how the criminal justice system is suffering on account of lack of public prosecutors all over the state, the bench took up the cause as a PIL and sought replies from the government and those who are heading the home department. The court earlier directed the state to earmark sufficient space for public prosecutors in each criminal courts complex and also to equip their chambers with computers, laptops, court software, etc., apart from filling all the vacant posts of PPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fill-200-pp-posts-by-april-1st-week-hc/articleshow/81338347.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Juhapura builder urges DCP to punish moneylenders, dies by suicide||AHMEDABAD: Video of a 51-year-old builder from the Juhapura area of the city, who committed suicide on February 27, went viral on Wednesday. In the video, he addressed to DCP, zone-7, Premsukh Delu while alleging that five persons, including three moneylenders and two others who did not pay him dues of his work, forced him to end his life. The deceased Shafiq Bhati, a resident of Khedal Mansuri society in Juhapura, was into building construction. He had committed suicide by jumping into Narimanpura canal after alleging that the accused identified as Shabana Shaikh, Rashidabano Gandhi, Saif Ali Khan Pathan, Sarfaraz Shaikh and Ejaz Syed – all residents of Juhapura, and Hiren Shah from Satellite abetted him to commit suicide. Sarkhej police filed a complaint on Tuesday for abetment to suicide against five persons and arrested them on Thursday. In the viral video, Shafiq has been pleading Delu to take strict actions against the accused persons. Shafiq had in 2017 and 2018 taken amounts ranging from Rs 30,000 to Rs 3 lakh from the moneylenders – Shabana, Rashidabano and Saifalikhan on 10% monthly interest. Even as he had paid them their money, they kept asking for more amount and interest from Shafiq. Apart from that, three other accused — Sarfaraz, Ejaz and Shah had taken his service of building construction at different places in Sarkhej, Juhapura and Satellite but did not pay him his due of around Rs 24 lakh. Due to this situation, he continued to suffer under financial crisis and stress as the three moneylenders were threatening him with dire consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/viral-video-builder-urges-dcp-to-punish-moneylenders-ends-life/articleshow/81337764.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||Academics attribute high school dropout rate to lack of teachers||PATNA: The recent increase in the number of dropouts in government and government-aided schools of the state has set alarm bells ringing among the powers that be. The government has reportedly taken cognisance of the disturbing phenomenon and is trying to improve the scenario. According to a report of the Project Approval Board (PAB) under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan released in August 2020, only 40.1% of the students pursue secondary education in schools in Bihar. Former dean of Patna University’s education faculty, Khagendra Kumar, told this newspaper that Khagaria district showed the lowest retention of students in upper primary classes. “Only 57.98% of them are able to attend upper primary classes as the remaining drop out of schools. Jamui is a little better, retaining 63.2% of the children,” he added. Attributing the rising incidence of dropouts to the lack of teachers in elementary schools, Khagendra pointed out, “There are a number of schools that are being managed by just one teacher. That is why more than 20% of them have less than 50% students today.” Treasurer of the Bihar State Non-gazetted Elementary Teachers’ Association, Ashutosh Kumar Rakesh, said several teachers were engaged in non-academic works like paper evaluation and election duty. “The ever-changing decision of the education department with regard to disbursement of freebies on the basis of factors like attendance also proves to be a deterrent for students, especially in rural areas,” he claimed. Kumar Sanjeev, state president of the Indian Association of Teacher Educators, observed that closure of schools for a long period due to Covid-19 badly affected the students’ enrolment ratio. While the students of private schools were imparted online education, those of government schools had limited access to virtual classes. Sanjeev added, “The unavailability of midday meals and non-provision of free textbooks to the students of classes I to VIII due to the apathy of the local authorities made many students lose interest in studies and leave school before completing their education.” However, Ram Chandra Ray, general secretary of the Bihar Panchayat Nagar Elementary Teachers’ Association, asserted that majority of the children were still enrolled in government schools and hardly 20% of them had opted for private institutes. He added, “Although the dropout ratio has increased in recent times due to various factors, teachers are trying their best to retain the maximum number of students by improving the quality of education in government schools. They will also work hard for bringing children back to schools with the help of a door-to-door campaign to be launched as part of an admission festival from March 8.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/academics-attribute-high-school-dropout-rate-to-lack-of-teachers/articleshow/81336284.cms||B K Mishra
March 5, 2021||Kanpur||Company backed by IIT-K wins award for bio-alternative to animal leather||Kanpur: PHOOL.co, backed by IIT-Kanpur, was awarded the BIRAC Innovator Award 2021 for ‘Fleather’ by Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Union minister of science and technology Dr Harsh Vardhan in the presence of Uday Kotak, president CII and Dr Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, chairperson and managing director, Biocon Ltd and secretary, department of biotechnology, government of India, Dr Renu Swarup. Fleather is a cruelty-free bio-alternative to animal leather made from temple flowers and farm waste. Incubated at SIIC, IIT-Kanpur, Phool developed a biomaterial that performs almost like leather. Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) is a non-profit set up by the department of Biotechnology (DBT), government of India that aims to empower the emerging biotech enterprises to undertake strategic research and innovation, addressing nationally-relevant product development needs. The selection for BIRAC Innovation Award was made by an eminent jury to offer recognition to the most significant contributors to research-based scientific innovations. The award was conferred on Phool for their innovation Fleather, during Global Bio – India 2021, a mega international congregation of biotechnology stakeholders by the department of biotechnology, ministry of science & technology and BIRAC. SIIC, the sectoragnostic incubator of IIT-Kanpur, is a leading TBI of India which supports 75cutting edge innovation driven enterprises. SIIC incubatees such as Endure Air, CD Space Robotics, NOCCARC Robotics, Kritsnam Technologies were recently in the national news for rising to the occasion to help the nation in its hours of crisis. Fleather is built on the principles of biomimicry and can be customized for aesthetic expression, flexibility, density, and strength. The process of making Fleather is ultra-sustainable, not only cutting down several traditional downstream leather tanning processes but also helping provide better job opportunities to women from the marginalized sections of society. While congratulating PHOOL, director, IIT Kanpur Professor Abhay Karandikar said, “I am happy that PHOOL has been recognized for its work. It is not only a great business but also a great workplace providing livelihood to more than 100 women from the marginalized section of the society.” “We humans love leather. It delivers status, luxury and comfort. But leather is a co-product of the livestock industry that produces around 18% of the total earth’s greenhouse emission. Fleather can perform like leather while significantly cutting-down the emission and reusing temple & farm waste,” said Ankit Agarwal, founder, Phool.co||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/company-backed-by-iit-k-wins-award-for-bio-alternative-to-animal-leather/articleshow/81335909.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||Woman gang-raped in front of minor son in Jamui||PATNA: A 30-year-old widow was allegedly gang-raped in front of her minor son at a village under Chakai police station area in Jamui around midnight on Monday. However, the crime came to light only on Wednesday evening when she recorded her statement before a female police officer at the Sadar hospital where she is undergoing. In her statement, she alleged that her cousin sister’s husband Sukhdev Yadav and his brother-in-law Mahendra Yadav gang-raped her in front of her son after barging into her home. Jamui SP Pramod Kumar Mandal said, “Both accused are evading arrest. The woman had approached the police on Monday. However at that time, she had only complained about being thrashed by Sukhdev and Mahendra,” SP said. The SP further said the alleged rape came to light only when a woman police officer went to record her statement at the hospital on Wednesday. “Her statement would be merged with the original FIR registered with Chakai police station for thrashing. Her medical examination has been conducted and a report is awaited," Mandal added. The SP further said police have come to know that the widow is locked in a land dispute with the main accused Sukhdev. “Police are also probing if this dispute has any role in the rape allegations,” he added. Jamui Women’s police station SHO Gyan Bharti said that the minor son of the widow is aged around 13 years. “He was the one who had taken her to Chakai police station on Monday midnight,” she said. Bharti said that the woman’s 16-year-old son works in a factory in Surat. “She lives only with her younger son in Jamui,” Bharti said. Minor gang-raped in Sitamarhi: In Sitamarhi, four youths are evading arrest after allegedly gang-raping a 16-year-old minor girl at a village under the Parihar police station area. Parihar police station SHO Ashok Singh on Thursday said that raids were going on to nab accused Raja Kumar, Gunjesh Kumar, Mishri Lal and Nandan Kumar. “All are aged around 20 years. Victim’s medical examination has been conducted and some of her clothes have been seized for forensic analysis,” he said. Singh said the incident took place on Monday midnight but the girl along with her parents and few other relatives approached the police on Wednesday evening. “She has alleged that the four youths kidnapped her from a cattle shed and then took her to a secluded place and gang-raped her. She had initially kept everything hidden from parents too out of fear,” SHO Singh said. He said a village level meeting was held on Tuesday on the incident in which the youths as well as their parents brushed off rape allegation and fled from the spot. “It was after this failed meeting that the victim and her family approached police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-gang-raped-in-front-of-minor-son-in-jamui/articleshow/81336394.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||PWC students take up noble initiative, teach poor kids||PATNA: As part of the ‘Each One, Teach One’ programme of the Inter College Women’s Association (ICWA), students of Patna Women’s College (PWC) have started imparting basic education to the inmates of the Gaighat remand home and numerous underprivileged children. Apart from teaching maths, science, English, Hindi and history, they also provide computer, dance, singing, tailoring, painting, yoga and skill development lessons. According to ICWA head Sister Celine Crasta AC, the ‘Each One, Teach One’ programme aims to reach out to all sections of society. “We want the remand home inmates to know how to sign or introduce themselves to others. Our main focus is on skill and personality development,” Sister Celine told this newspaper. ICWA members and PWC girls teach nearly 100 remand home inmates and slum children from 10am to 2pm every day. Students of mass communication department (Semester VI), who have been giving computer lessons since February, are divided into two batches. Department head Minati Chaklanwis said, “I am happy that my students are imparting valuable lessons to underprivileged children who usually do not have access to computers.” History (Part II) student, Harshita Kumari, who teaches the slum children, exclaimed, “They are always curious as they want to learn and explore something new every day. They are also quite sincere.” Shushwi Shekhar, a sixth semester student of the mass communication department, has put her heart and soul into the ‘Each One, Teach One’ programme. “Being able to share my knowledge with the slum children is no less than a privilege,” she claimed. Shushwi’s classmate Smriti Raj said the kids were inquisitive and asked bright questions “if a concept is not clear to them”. One of the beneficiaries of the programme, Rishu Kumar, pointed out, “The quality of education I receive here is far better that what I am taught in school. I have, therefore, never missed a single class.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pwc-students-take-up-noble-initiative-teach-poor-kids/articleshow/81336258.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Patna||UTS app reactivated to keep Covid at bay: Railways||PATNA: In a bid to decongest the unreserved ticketing system (UTS) counters at different stations falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR), the ‘UTS on Mobile’ app has been reactivated. Several pairs of local trains have resumed their operations on the demand of regular commuters in the state. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the ‘UTS’ app helps passengers with smartphones book short-distance tickets. Hence, it has been reactivated in both suburban and non-suburban areas so that people travelling by local passenger trains do not have to stand in queues at crowded ticket counters. “We want to ensure that social distancing norms are followed at railway stations at all times,” the CPRO told this newspaper. Senior PRO of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), A K Jha, claimed that the ‘UTS’ app had evoked a positive response from passengers. “We have witnessed a sudden rise in the number of passengers booking tickets through the app in Bihar,” Jha said, adding that passengers could cancel confirmed tickets by sending an SMS on 139 to avoid unnecessary rush at the counters amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Retiring rooms reopen: The retiring rooms at railway stations, which were not to be used by passengers during the Covid-induced lockdown across the country, have now been reopened. The ECR has directed all its divisions to maintain cleanliness and follow all the safety protocols inside the rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/uts-app-reactivated-to-keep-covid-at-bay-railways/articleshow/81336474.cms||Kumod Verma
March 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 2 cousins shot at in Ara, accused held||ARA: One Shama Pravin (17) and her cousin Alisha Naz (16) were injured after a man allegedly fired at them from his illegal weapon at a reception party near Dharhara locality under the Town police station area in Ara on Wednesday night. He was later arrested by police. While Shama, a resident of Rauza locality, received the gunshot injury below her left elbow, Alisha, a native of Khetari Mohalla, was shot at near her right shoulder. Bhojpur SP Har Kishore Rai told this newspaper on Thursday that both the girls were out of danger. “The reason behind the incident is yet to be known, but it does not seem to be a case of old enmity. Hence, we are investigating the case from all angles,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-cousins-shot-at-in-ara-accused-held/articleshow/81336977.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Business||Banks may seek extension of freeze on NCLT proceedings||MUMBAI: Bankers are worried that there will be a flood of applications at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) after the government suspension of insolvency proceedings ends on March 25 this year. Some resolution cases like Future Retail could get derailed if operational creditors initiate insolvency proceedings. A section of bankers feels that the government can use the leeway under the amendment and extend the suspension up to June 2021. As part of its Covid relief measures, the government had issued on June 25 a notification to suspend insolvency proceedings by six months. In December, the centre extended the suspension by another three months. The original ordinance allows the government to extend the suspension for up to one year. The ordinance states that no application for initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process of a corporate debtor shall be filed for any default arising on or after March 25, 2020. The reason behind the ordinance was that the lockdown was a force majeure situation beyond the control of debtors and, even if insolvency were to be initiated, there would not be many buyers. According to bankers, since lenders cannot initiate insolvency proceedings against those who defaulted during the Covid lockdown, they have no choice but to offer them a one-time restructuring under the pandemic relief scheme. This window for the restructuring of small business loans is available until March 31 this year. While many borrowers have sought restructuring, banks are yet to finalise the scheme for large borrowers. The challenge for banks is that the Supreme Court is yet to rule on a petition by borrowers against classifying loans as non-performing assets (NPA). The government scheme rules out relief to borrowers who were stressed before the pandemic. This exclusion makes it difficult for any revival scheme. At the same time, insolvency is also not an option. Bankers feel that if the suspension is lifted and operational creditors start proceedings against defaulting companies, some of the restructuring plans might get derailed. According to a report by ICICI Securities, the restructured portfolio of banks is likely to be less than 1%. Rating agency Moody’s said in a report last month that, as of the end of December 2020, the five banks it rated had restructured 0.7-2.6% of their gross loans — lower than the agency’s expectation. “Given that banks can restructure loans to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) until the end of March 2021, restructured loans could increase in the next few quarters,” said Moody’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-may-seek-extension-of-freeze-on-nclt-proceedings/articleshow/81338008.cms||Mayur Shetty
March 5, 2021||Delhi||NE Delhi riots: Bail to duo who lived close to crime spot||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to two persons in a northeast Delhi violence case observing their presence was natural at the crime scene for they resided in the same area. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat ordered the release stating, “The accused/applicant resides in the vicinity of the scene of crime and therefore him being present near the scene of crime is but natural. The investigation against the accused is complete and the chargesheet has been filed in the court.” Mohd Shariq and Mohd Shahzad were accordingly directed to furnish a bail bond of Rs 15,000 with one surety of like amount each. The case pertained to the alleged murder of Prem Singh during the violence in Welcome area. Appearing for both the accused, advocate Pritish Sabharwal argued that his clients had been falsely implicated in the case. He added that no recovery was made from the accused. The court also pointed out that though there were witnesses no judicial test identification parade was conducted and the alleged identification of the accused took place on the basis of their black and white photographs. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-delhi-riots-bail-to-duo-who-lived-close-to-crime-spot/articleshow/81338403.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||UoH figures in QS world subject rankings||Hyderabad: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) figured in the QS world subject rankings 2021 by finding spots in English, chemistry and life sciences. The rankings were released by the Union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal in New Delhi on Thursday. This year’s ranking analysed nearly 14,000 individual university programmes from 1,440 universities across 85 locations around the world. While the UoH’s department of English was ranked among the top 250-300, chemistry is in the 351-400 ranks. Closely following them are the life sciences at 501-550 and physics at 551-600. It has also featured in 29 subjects out of 51 narrow subjects under five broad subject areas viz. arts & humanities, engineering and technology, life sciences & medicine, natural sciences and social sciences and management in the ranking. As an institution of eminence (IoE), the university is mandated to move into the world top 500 of the world university rankings. “It is delightful to see two of our disciplines in the top 500 of subject rankings and two others right behind. As an IoE, we are closing in towards the overall university mandate, but two disciplines, English and chemistry, have already fulfilled the IoE requirement by moving into the top 500,” said Prof Appa Rao Podile, vice-chancellor, UoH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-figures-in-qs-world-subject-rankings/articleshow/81338398.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Goa||Largest NIO expedition to Indian Ocean next week||PANAJI: The vast expanse of the entire Indian Ocean will be explored by the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) in an expedition spanning 11,000 nautical miles within 90 days. Beginning this month, this is the largest expedition by the institute to map the marine biology of the Indian Ocean. “We don’t even know 5% of the organisms in the oceans. Through this expedition we can hope to cover a major part of the ocean world and study the organisms as well as the sediments,” NIO director Sunil Kumar Singh told TOI. There are large parts of the ocean that have nitrates, but don’t have iron while others may have iron but may lack in zinc or other metals. To understand the biology, NIO scientists will collect the samples and measure the protein to determine which element is thriving or lacking in a particular part of the ocean. Like this, the presence of iron, zinc, magnesium will be determined in addition to that of trace metals like cadmium and copper. During the 90-day journey, 30 scientists will be working in the laboratory aboard the NIO research vessel Sindhu Sadhana. They will also observe how the DNA and RNA of the organisms respond by studying every single cell. “By studying from the cell level, we can tell the story of the entire ecosystem,” he said. Once that is determined, the process of extraction of materials from selective areas becomes easier. In addition to this, the NIO will also study the possibility of extracting food colour from ocean life to generate natural and non-toxic colour. Singh said that the microbes produced in the ocean can also prove to be effective in treating diseases. “This expedition will therefore help us in understanding basic oceanography and applied applications like medicine, cosmetics etc that can be beneficial to humankind. It will also open a huge opportunity to understand the genomic sequence, proteomics sequence and the impact of climate change, pollutants and different stresses in the ocean on the ecosystem dynamics of the ocean,” Singh said. The Indian Ocean also collects water that travels all the way from Greenland over a period of 1,000 years. NIO will sample these waters as well to study the microorganisms that have been transported in the process and its effect on the RNA/DNA of the marine life in the Indian Ocean. The equipment being used to collect the particles matters and sediment samples is coated with Teflon and non-metallic frames to ensure that the NIO research vessel doesn’t inadvertently leave metallic particles from the research vessel into the pristine ocean. An 8km Kevlar cable will descend the equipment into the ocean depths. Sensors on the equipment will measure the conductivity, temperature and density of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/largest-nio-expedition-to-indian-ocean-next-week/articleshow/81339373.cms||Nida Sayed
March 5, 2021||Goa||Voting for 5 urban civic bodies on March 21: SEC||Panaji: Within hours after the Supreme Court stayed the high court order cancelling elections to five municipalities over reservation of wards, the Goa state election commission (SEC) on Thursday rescheduled polling to the Margao, Mapusa, Mormugao, Sanguem and Quepem civic councils on March 21, instead of March 20. As per the new schedule, the last day of filing nominations is March 6, scrutiny of nominations will be held on March 8, while withdrawal of candidature is fixed on March 9 and on the same day the list of contesting candidates will be declared. tnn Counting of votes will be held on March 22, along with seven other municipalities, including the Corporation of the City of Panaji, for which elections will be held on March 20. On Monday, following the hight court order, the SEC had kept the election process in abeyance and lifted the model code of conduct with immediate effect. “The SEC in exercise of the power conferred upon it under Article 243ZA of the Constitution of India, read with Section 10 A of the Goa Municipalities Act, 1968, do hereby direct that the entire election process for Mormugao, Margao, Mapusa, Quepem and Sanguemmunicipal councils shall be kept in abeyance till further orders,” SEC commissioner Chokha Ram Garg had said. On February 22, the SEC had stated that elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) and 11 municipal councils would take place on March 20. March 20 will also see the byelection to ward IX of the Sakhali Municipal Council, 22 wards of various village panchayats, and another byelection to the Navelim ZP seat. While over 2.5 lakh voters will help political parties gauge the ground situation ahead of next year’s assembly polls, the last local election — to the zilla panchayat —showed that rural Goa overwhelmingly supports BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/voting-for-5-urban-civic-bodies-on-march-21-sec/articleshow/81339478.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||68 AMC staffers contracted Covid this year||Amravati: Sixty-eight employees of Amravati Municipal Corporation, including two assistant commissioners and 18 contractual staffers, contracted novel coronavirus infection in January and February this year, according to an official list made available to TOI by the civic body.The first two months of 2021 witnessed regular uptick in Covid-19 cases in the city as well the district, forcing the administration to impose lockdown in Amravati and Achalpur cities from February 22 to March 1 and then extend it to March 8. Anjangaon Surji town too was put under lockdown from March 1 to 8.Assistant commissioners Yogesh Pithe and Narendra Wankhade were among the 68 AMC employees who tested positive in either Rapid Antigen test or RT-PCR, says the AMC report.While no employee died of Covid-19 in the last two months, five did fall prey to it last year, said Bhushan Pusatkar, PRO of AMC.The highest number of staffers — 15 — from education department tested positive while 12 and 11 from public health and other departments, respectively. Five patients each came from sanitation department and Badnera zone no. 4, while three each from fire brigade and Dasturnagar zone no.3. Two each from Rajapeth zone no. 2 and North zone no.1 tested positive. One employee each from city secretary, commissioner’s office, electrification, law, construction, executive engineer-1 and animal husbandry departments contracted the virus, said Pusatkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/68-amc-staffers-contracted-covid-this-year/articleshow/81336758.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Man remanded for attacking woman techie||Hyderabad: A hair saloon worker who tried to kill a 29-year-old techie was remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday. The accused was an employee of a saloon at Sun City in Rajendranagar. On Tuesday night, he went to the house of a techie at Hydershakote and attacked her with a knife, causing multiple injuries on her hands, back and face. “She is out of danger and recuperating in the hospital,” Narsingi inspector Gangadhar said. Police registered a case against the accused under IPC sections of attempt to murder, stalking, house trespass and criminal intimidation. “The woman met the accused at the saloon and they became close. Recently, she started avoiding him,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-remanded-for-attacking-woman-techie/articleshow/81338382.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||SC lists quota conditions, orders fresh ZP polls for seats in 5 districts in Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld the validity of the Maharashtra law to reserve seats for backward classes in zilla parishad elections but said it cannot be implemented till the government meets the triple conditions fixed by its Constitution bench and directed that fresh elections be held for all the seats where polling was held for the reserved category under the amended law. Fresh elections have to be conducted in five districts — Nagpur, Washim, Akola, Dhule and Nandurbar — where the policy was implemented during pendency of the case. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi said that as per the Constitution bench verdict, the government had to fulfil three conditions before framing a law for reservation for backward classes. These conditions are: (1) to set up a dedicated commission to conduct contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of the backwardness qua local bodies, (2) to specify proportion of reservation required to be provisioned local body-wise in light of recommendations of the commission, and (3) in any case such reservation shall not exceed aggregate of 50% of total seats reserved in favour of SCs/STs/OBCs taken together. The court passed the order on a batch of petition filed through lawyer Somanath Padhan challenging validity of the state law to provide OBC reservation. Noting that even the first step of setting up of a commission remains a “mirage” with the state itself conceding that in case of some local bodies, the reservation has far exceeded 50%, the bench quashed all notifications issued by the state for OBC reservation in elections. “In conclusion, we hold that Section 12(2)(c) of the 1961 Act is an enabling provision and needs to be read down to mean that it may be invoked only upon complying with the triple conditions as specified by the Constitution Bench of this court, before notifying the seats as reserved for OBC category in the local bodies concerned. Further, we quash and set aside the impugned notifications to the extent they provide for reservation of seats for OBCs being void and non est in law including the follow-up actions taken,” it said. “In other words, election results of OBC candidates which had been made subject to the outcome of these writ petitions including so notified in the concerned election programme issued by the State Election Commission, are declared as non est in law and the vacancy of seat(s) caused on account of this declaration be forthwith filled up by the State Election Commission with general/open candidate(s) for the remainder term of the local bodies concerned, by issuing notification,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-lists-quota-conditions-orders-fresh-zp-polls-for-seats-in-5-dists/articleshow/81339489.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Allow Covid-19 vaccination at dialysis centres, Fadnavis urges Central govt||Mumbai: BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis has urged the Centre to allow vaccination at dialysis centres. In a letter to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Fadnavis said there are more than 10,000 dialysis patients in Mumbai alone. “As the vaccination centres are relatively crowded, walk-ins are not advisable for dialysis patients, as they have low immunity and limited energy to stand in a queue for long. These patients can be vaccinated only on non-dialysis days. If allowed, they can be vaccinated at their dialysis centres. It will reduce the burden on vaccination centres and they can get vaccinated in their own safe bio-bubble,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-allow-covid-19-vaccination-at-dialysis-centres-fadnavis-urges-central-govt/articleshow/81338455.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Trichy||BJP starts poll work on health min’s turf||Trichy: Even as seat sharing talks with the AIADMK are going on, the BJP has started election work in some constituencies and has been reaching out to voters. However, the AIADMK is not amused, especially after BJP functionaries formally inaugurated the party’s election office in Viralimalai constituency on Wednesday and started meeting voters. Sources said health minister C Vijaya Baskar, who is the sitting MLA of Viralimalai, called an emergency meeting of his party functionaries to discuss election work. The minister is learnt to have expressed his displeasure at the tardy manner in which work has been carried out in the district and instructed them to speed up things. There has been a slew of activities across Pudukottai district in the last one month as Vijaya Baskar was busy inaugurating several government welfare schemes and meeting people. Asked why the party had opened its election office even before announcement of candidates, BJP Pudukottai district secretary P Shanmugasundaram said election work had started a year ago and inaugurating an office was part of the activity. “The party headquarters issues instructions on the activities to be undertaken on a daily basis and we execute them,” he said without divulging further. Asked if they would seek Viralimalai seat in the election, Shanmugasundaram said BJP doesn’t have the practice of inviting applications and the party high command will select a suitable candidate.  “We are working hard and had informed the party about our prospects in the constituency. We have better chances if offered the Viralimalai seat considering the good work done by the local minister,” he said. “Now we are focusing on reaching out to voters and explaining the schemes implemented by the Centre in Tamil Nadu, and consolidate the prospects of the alliance in the constituency,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-starts-poll-work-on-health-mins-turf/articleshow/81338444.cms||Sampath Kumar
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: RMP, 3 others held for conning victims with ‘cheap gold’||HYDERABAD: A registered medical practitioner (RMP) and three others, who have been conning people on the pretext of providing gold at cheaper price, have been arrested at Rajendranagar on Thursday. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said RMP Syed Dasthagiri Ahmed, Shaik Hafeez, Ali Akber Tayyabi and Mirza Abbas were arrested at Rajendranagar while their accomplice Abdul Faheem is absconding. Police seized 5.85 kg of fake gold biscuits and Rs 8 lakh cash. Sajjanar said a few days ago they received a complaint at the Rajendranagar PS informing that Mirza Abbas Ali Sajjad and Ali Akber Tayyabi had approached the complainant, through one Mubeen, claiming they would sell gold biscuits at cheaper price. They offered to sell a tola of gold at Rs 40,000 by showing a 20-tola biscuit. Believing them, the victim gave Rs 50,000 as advance. The victim, on suspicion, verified the authenticity of the gold and found it was gold-coated brass. When police took Sajjad and Tayyabi into custody and questioned them, the officials came to know that Sajjad himself was previously a victim of similar gold fraud. Later, he in association with Tayyabi, started conning others. According to Sajjad, it all started when his mother claimed she was getting dreams that she would die if some hidden gold was not recovered from their house. Sajjad informed the same to his friend, Tayyabi, who in turn informed Faheem and Hafeez, as they know alleged black magic practitioner, Dasthagiri Ahmed. Officials said Dasthagiri visited the house of Sajjad and confirmed there was some hidden wealth in the latter’s house and it could be retrieved by performing some puja. “Dasthagiri claimed that puja is an expensive affair and it will cost between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 4 lakh. Sajjad agreed to pay Rs 3 lakh as first installment and the remaining money after the puja,’’ Sajjanar said. Officials said Dasthagiri brought gold coated brass biscuits through Faheem. After performing the puja, Dasthagiri claimed he recovered the hidden metals. Sajjad and his family checked the hidden metal, got it tested and discovered it was brass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rmp-3-others-held-for-conning-victims-with-cheap-gold/articleshow/81338427.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Change of Sathyamangalam STP venue invites court ire||Chennai: Censuring Sathyamangalam municipality for making a volte-face and shifting the site for construction of a sewerage treatment plant, near Bhavani river which was approved not once but four times by the court, Madras high court has directed the municipal secretary to communicate the ‘extreme displeasure’ of the court to the highest levels of executive functioning.The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy also ordered an inquiry by municipal commissioner to ascertain whether the site for construction has been changed for extraneous considerations.Asserting that there must be more to it than meets the eye and there is no doubt that extraneous considerations have impelled the municipality to shift its stand, literally, and discover that its original site was a bare 100 meters away from the Bhavani river where neither the site nor the river change their position or course in the interregnum, the court ordered an inquiry by the municipal commissioner. The court also prohibited construction activity in the alternative site without prior leave of the court.“There is no dispute that the two sewerage treatment plants were proposed to be set up, one at Kottuveerampalayam and the other at RMP Nagar. There were four sets of PILs carried over the proposed sites. The Sathyamangalam municipality was steadfast in its stand in the course of all four previous proceedings that the proposed sites were the best and the plants ought to come up at such sites and no other,” the bench said.The grievances against the chosen sites were dismissed by this court and the combined effect of the four orders is that the court considered the matter each time and found the proposed sites to be appropriate, the court added.“However, before even the ink had dried on the last of the orders passed by this court, the municipality had done a volte-face,” the bench said.The court said when the municipality had chosen the sites which were approved by the court despite objections, the matter ought to have been allowed to rest there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/change-of-sathyamangalam-stp-venue-invites-court-ire/articleshow/81338433.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Very few vaccine centres in city’s western suburbs, elderly complain||Chennai: Senior citizens in the city’s western suburbs complained that they had to travel long distances to get their Covid-19 vaccine shots. Avadi assembly constituency is home to 30,000 people aged above 60, as per official data. With no major private hospitals in the area authorised to administer the vaccine, the elderly are forced to travel at least 15km to either Anna Nagar or Thiruvallur to get their doses. On an average, senior citizens would have to cough up Rs 2,000 to reach these healthcare centres twice, said T Sadagopan, a consumer rights’ activist. However, a senior public health department rejected this claim and said the local Primary Health Centre (PHC) or Avadi Government Hospital is equipped to vaccinate people. “There was no such confusion anywhere in the state as every person can reach a government vaccine centre within one hour,” he said, requesting anonymity. In response, Sadagopan said there was no such information available at the State Taluk Hospital in Avadi and none was aware that the local PHC was administering vaccines. “Even empanelled private hospitals are not accepting our requests to get vaccinated. Either there is no response to calls made to contact numbers mentioned in the list released by the government or the person picking up the call claims that the centre hasn’t received its vaccine doses yet,” said K T Rajan, 76, a retired state government employee from Bharathi Nagar in Pattabiram. In case people skip online registration, they are made to wait in longer queues for their turn. The government should take efforts to ensure that that the contact numbers of empanelled private hospitals (mentioned in the official PDF) are responsive and new centres are established in Avadi, Rajan said. Of the 50,000 Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) beneficiaries in the state, around 16,000 reside in Avadi defence quarters and surrounding areas. A majority are pensioners. But the CGHS dispensary in Avadi is not approved by the state government for Covid vaccination drive, said B Gajapathi, general secretary of Ordnance Factories and Allied Establishments Pensioners Association. “We have requested state government to empanel them and awaiting a positive response,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/very-few-vaccine-centres-in-citys-western-suburbs-elderly-complain/articleshow/81336768.cms||Ram Sundaram
March 5, 2021||Nashik||YCMOU and NGO launch course on road safety||Nashik: The Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) and an NGO, Advantage Nashik Foundation’s Nashik First, jointly launched the six-month online certificate course ‘Road Transport and Safety’ for motorists on Thursday. “Since education is a powerful tool to change the behaviour of a person, we are happy to launch the initiative with Nashik First and take the project across the state to ensure a change in people’s approach towards road transport and safety,” said YCMOU vice-chancellor E Vayunandan. Civic chief Kailas Jadhav said the drivers from the corporation will undergo the course as it will increase their awareness about road safety. Regional transport officer Bharat Kalaskar said the support of Nashik First in the field of road safety in the district is commendable. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ycmou-and-ngo-launch-course-on-road-safety/articleshow/81334711.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Share autopsy report of tractor driver, UP cops told||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Thursday ordered UP Police to share with Delhi Police the X-ray plate and video CD of the autopsy conducted on a 25-year-old youth who died after his speeding tractor crashed into police barricades during the protest on Republic Day. The court also allowed the plea of deceased Navreet Singh’s grandfather Hardeep Singh to get copies of the inquest and postmortem report of the victim, while also permitting him or his lawyer Vrinda Grover to view the preserved footage from nearly 12 CCTV cameras that covered the incident spot at ITO. Justice Yogesh Khanna directed that both the documents be handed over to the investigating officer of Delhi Police on March 5 at 2pm and retained in safe custody. Hardeep’s plea claimed that the victim suffered gunshot injuries to his head even as both Delhi and UP Police denied the allegation. His autopsy was conducted at Rampur district hospital. The petition sought a court-monitored SIT probe into the death. Standing counsel Rahul Mehra, representing Delhi Police, questioned the refusal of UP Police and Rampur hospital officials to deny X-ray records and postmortem video despite Delhi Police asking for them. However, advocate Garima Prashad, appearing for UP Police and the CMO of the hospital, clarified that there was no X-ray report and they only had the X-ray plate and postmortem report, which they were willing to hand over to Delhi Police. She said the original postmortem and inquest reports had already been handed over to Delhi Police. Delhi Police had stated that the postmortem report showed that Navreet had died due to a head injury as a result of the accident. It also relied on footage of CCTV cameras located at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg and told the court that since Navreet was driving the tractor at high speed, his vehicle overturned after hitting the barricades. It added that the footage also showed that police personnel ran for safety from the speeding tractor and none of them fired upon the vehicle or the driver. Submissions by police mentioned that CCTV footage further indicated that the protesters didn’t take the injured Navreet to any hospital immediately and, instead, attacked the ambulances that reached the site. The protesters kept his body on the road for five hours and then spread rumours that he was killed in police firing. UP Police stated that no FIR was registered by it for the death, as claimed by the petitioner. The petitioner’s counsel had earlier contended that the way Delhi Police had conducted itself in the matter, it “didn’t inspire a shred of confidence”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/share-autopsy-report-of-tractor-driver-up-cops-told/articleshow/81338458.cms||Abhinav Garg
March 5, 2021||Goa||Panaji has best quality of life, but ranks 16 in ease of living||PANAJI: In news that is unlikely to surprise anyone, Panaji has the best quality of life among cities with a population of less than 10 lakh, notching up a top score of 62.42. Tumakuru and Vellore came a distant second and third with scores of 56.52 and 56.49, respectively in the assessment of quality of life. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs released the final rankings for Ease of Living Index – 2020 and Municipal Performance Index (MPI) 2020 on Thursday where Panaji ranked 16 on the ease of living scale and 28 in terms of municipal performance among cities with a population of less than 1 million. The ease of living index focuses on quality of life, economic ability, sustainability and citizen perception. Panaji topped the scores in the quality of life criteria but fared badly in terms of economic ability, sustainability and citizen perception. However, the state capital has improved significantly after being relegated to the 90th position amongst 111 cities across the country in the first ease of living index. In the 2020 edition, 111 cities, including those part of the Smart City mission, participated in the assessment exercise. The cities have been categorized based on their population. Bengaluru emerged as the best city to live in the million+ category, followed by Pune, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Surat, Navi Mumbai, Coimbatore, Vadodara, Indore, and Greater Mumbai. In the less than million category, Shimla was ranked the highest in ease of living, followed by Bhubaneshwar, Silvassa, Kakinada, Salem, Vellore, Gandhinagar, Gurugram, Davangere and Tiruchirappalli. In the million+ category, Indore has emerged as the highest ranked municipality, followed by Surat and Bhopal. In the less than million category, New Delhi Municipal Council has emerged as the leader, followed by Tirupati and Gandhinagar. The Corporation of the City of Panaji’s performance in the Municipal Performance Index was average, with the state capital ranked 28 among 62 cities with less than a million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-has-best-quality-of-life-but-ranks-16-in-ease-of-living/articleshow/81339334.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Trichy||Traffic changes ahead of Poochoridhal fest||Trichy: As part of Samayapuram Marimamman Poochoridhal festival (sprinkling of flowers) which will be held from March 7-8, the following traffic diversions will be implemented for heavy vehicles on the two days to avoid any traffic bottlenecks in the city. All heavy vehicles and mofussil buses heading to Salem from Trichy will be redirected through checkpost 7 (Kudamurutti), Jeeyapuram, Pettavaithalai, Kulithalai, Musiri, Thottiyam and Namakkal. The same is applicable in the reverse direction. All heavy vehicles from Dindigul NH45 to Chennai via Trichy will be routed through Manapparai Andavarkovil checkpost to pass through Kulithalai, Musiri Periyar Bridge, Thuraiyur and Perambalur Bypass. All heavy vehicles from Madurai NH45 to Chennai via Trichy will take a diversion at Lanjamedu Kaikatti and move through Manapparai, Andavarkovil checkpost, Kulithalai, Musiri Periyar Bridge, Thuraiyur and Perambalur Bypass. All heavy vehicles from Trichy, Thanjavur and Pudukkottai towards Chennai will touch Kollidam Y junction and go through Kollidam roundabout, Nachiyam, Mannachanallur, Ayyampalayam, Edumalai junction, Tirupattur cut road, Siruganur junction and Chennai trunk road All heavy vehicles from Chennai towards Trichy will be diverted at Perambalur and routed through Ariyalur, Pullambadi , Lagudi, Kollidam roundabout, Kollidam new bridge and Trichy. All heavy vehicles from Chennai road towards Trichy will be diverted at Thatchankuruchi, Kumulur, Poovalur Junction, Lalgudi junction, Kollidam roundabout and Kollidam new bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traffic-changes-ahead-of-poochoridhal-fest/articleshow/81338457.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Gram panchayat member dead, seven hurt in NCP-BJP poll clash||Kolhapur: A 57-year-old gram panchayat member was killed and seven persons injured, one of them seriously, when BJP and NCP workers clashed at Borgaon village in Kavthe Mahankal taluka of Sangli district on Thursday noon. Police detained seven people and deployed heavy security in the village, where election to the post of deputy sarpanch was in progress when clashes broke out. The deceased was identified as Janardan Kale and the seriously injured as Ganesh Patil, also a gram panchayat member. According to police, a special meeting was scheduled for voting. The deputy sarpanch seat fell vacant following the resignation of Namdeo Patil. Sangli district superintendent of police Dikshit Gedam said, “Janardan Kale, a member of the gram panchayat, died in the incident. Legal action is in progress and offences are yet to be registered.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gram-panchayat-member-dead-seven-hurt-in-ncp-bjp-poll-clash/articleshow/81339525.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Trichy||School warned for asking class VIII students to come||Trichy: About 40 students of Class VIII from Syed Murthuza government higher secondary school turned up for classes on Thursday following direction from the school to attend physical classes. They were however sent back within a few hours following intervention from the district chief education officer. District chief education officer R Arivazhagan said that he was informed about the incident by noon on Thursday. “A section of students from Class VIII had come to school. However, they were asked to return home. The headmistress has been instructed avoid calling students to school as it would be against the direction of the state government,” he said. However, M Mercy, headmistress, said the students who were willing to enrol for NCC for Class XI were asked to come for registration and they had no intention to take classes. She said there was repeated requests from parents to conduct classes for students. But we were refusing as there was no direction from the state government.Some of the parents who had accompanied the students to Syed Murthuza school said they were asked by the school to bring their students to attend classes. While schools reopened for classes 9-12 from February 8, no decision has been taken for lower classes. Schools were asked to keep in touch with students over phone and asked to revise their subjects using textbooks and audio-visual classes through Kalvi Tholaikatchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-warned-for-asking-class-viii-students-to-come/articleshow/81338452.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Stalemate continues in DMK, AIADMK camps||Chennai: After a lull on Wednesday, action picked up in the DMK camp on Thursday with the party signing a seat-sharing agreement with Thol Thirumavalavan’s VCK and holding the second round of talks with the CPI. VCK accepted the DMK’s offer of six seats though it was seeking seats in double digit in the alliance. The VCK chief signed the seat sharing agreement in the presence of DMK president M K Stalin at his party HQ Anna Arivalayam in Chennai. “There was lot of opposition from leaders in the party for the low number of seats being offered to us by the DMK. Despite that, I came here to sign the agreement because I want this alliance that we forged in 2019 to remain intact,” Thirumavalavan told reporters. In the AIADMK camp, stalemate over seat sharing talks with the BJP and DMDK continued with no visible progress on Thursday. But the AIADMK held seat sharing talks with smaller allies. There was stalemate in the DMK camp too in finalising seats with the Congress and CPM. While the Congress has convened a meeting of its state committee to discuss the state of alliance with the DMK, the CPM too has convened a meeting of its state executive council on March 6. At the DMK HQ, the pact signing with Thirumavalavan was marred by sloganeering by agitated VCK cadres protesting “the low number of seats” offered to the party. Thirumavalavan pacified and urged them to disperse without creating further ruckus in the larger interest of the alliance. Later, a delegation from CPI came to the DMK office and held its second round of seat sharing talks with the Dravidian major. “We had a good discussion and we explained the need for the DMK to offer more seats. We hope to sign the agreement on Friday,” R Mutharasan, CPI state secretary, told reporters. The DMK had offered four seats earlier and is likely to increase it by one or two seats. “We will sign the agreement with CPI around noon on Friday,” senior DMK leader R S Bharathi told TOI, while declining to reveal the numbers. The DMK has convened a virtual meeting of its general council on Friday morning. On the AIADMK side, the Tamilaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader John Pandian submitted a wish list of five constituencies to the AIADMK panel. TMMK is eyeing seats in the southern districts, where devendrakula vellalars are predominant. G K Vasan’s TMC held the second round of talks with the AIADMK team, reiterating its demand for 12 seats, including Erode West, Pattukkottai, Ariyalur, Valparai and Omalur. (With inputs from Julie Mariappan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalemate-continues-in-dmk-aiadmk-camps/articleshow/81338453.cms||D Govardan
March 5, 2021||Trichy||Cops appreciate Trichy’s cyclist boy wearing headgear||Trichy: A boy studying in class VI got a surprise birthday gift from Trichy city police on Thursday when they celebrated his birthday by presenting him a brand new bicycle and a headgear to appreciate his act of wearing a headgear while riding his bicycle. The boy, Samiyappan of Malliagaipuram, was elated while celebrating his birthday by cutting a cake presented by city police commissioner J Loganathan in the evening. His parents, Yelappan and Kalaiarasi, were also present. What prompted the city police chief to arrange the birthday celebration was his sense of discipline in wearing a headgear while riding his bicycle near Puthur four road junction when paramilitary forces carried out a flag march ahead of the assembly election. As the police personnel on duty stopped him and asked why he was wearing the headgear, the boy spoke casually about the necessity of sporting headgear as a safety measure. The scene captured on mobile phone was circulated on social media. On watching the video, the commissioner was impressed and arranged to celebrate his birthday at his office. Besides getting a new bicycle and headgear, the boy also got a certificate of appreciation from the police chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-appreciate-trichys-cyclist-boy-wearing-headgear/articleshow/81338461.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Clean antecedents, served the country: Court grants bail to retd Army officer||A retired Army officer was on Thursday granted bail in a rioting case stemming from the violence during the farmers’ tractor march. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat also granted bail to a farmer Baljeet Singh observing that the two men were not at the wheel of a tractor and didn’t attempt to hurt or kill any police personnel. “The accused is in custody since January 26, 2021 and no purpose will be served by keeping him in custody any further. Moreover apart from clean antecedents that the accused has, he has also served the country and is a retired army officer,” the court said in the bail order of ex-Army officer Harjinder Singh. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/clean-antecedents-served-the-country-court-grants-bail-to-retd-army-officer/articleshow/81338468.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Varanasi||We’ll make UP $1 trn economy: CM||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said One District One Product (ODOP) scheme is the basis of self-sufficiency and the traditional enterprises associated with it contributed most to the state economy, after agriculture, during pandemic. “Government is making efforts for making the poor, farmers, women and youth self-reliant. PM Modi wants India to become $5 trillion economy for which we will have to make Uttar Pradesh $1 trillion economy,” CM Yogi said while addressing people during a mega loan distribution camp at Mahant Digvijaynath park in Taramandal area on Thursday evening. There is full guarantee of employment in low capital MSMEs through ODOP in the state, he added. “In the last four years, bank loans were given to 50 lakh MSME units and a huge number of people got employment. The state economy which used to be at fifth-sixth ranks in the country now stands on second position. Our per capita income has increased from Rs 45,000 to Rs 95,000 and soon we’ll touch the national average” CM Yogi said those who returned during Covid era are getting associated with traditional business. The government is making MSME clusters that will create employment opportunities. CM Yogi distributed loan certificates to beneficiaries and inspected the stalls with products manufactured by them. As many as 5,895 beneficiaries from Gorakhpur, Siddharthnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Balia, Mau got loan of Rs 3.75 crore in the Bank of Baroda loan fair. “The beneficiaries will give employment to others. Banks have to take the responsibility of providing training,” he said. More than 7 crore Jandhan accounts were opened in UP, including 17.5 lakh in Gorakhpur, Yogi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/well-make-up-1-trn-economy-cm/articleshow/81336038.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Allahabad||Alumni group donates Rs 50 lakh to MNNIT||Prayagraj: The alumni batch (1996) of the Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad, has donated an amount of Rs 50 lakh to their alma mater. The donation has been made as a precursor to the silver jubilee celebrations of the batch. Director of MNNIT Allahabad, Prof Rajeev Tripathi, informed that the batch of 1996 has started a new era of giving back to their alma mater on the lines of all premier institutions. With these funds, a new canteen will be constructed with an air-conditioned hall, various student clubs, such as Robotics and AI will be refurbished with state-of-the-art equipment, and the girls’ hostel will get its own open-air gym besides a media room and other recreational facilities, added Prof Tripathi. The batch also aims to support and promote various innovation activities of the current and future batches of students through sponsorship and mentorship, added the director. Prof Rajeev Tripathi thanked all students of the 1996 Batch of the Institute for their wholehearted support and active participation in the overall growth of the Institute. He said that the alumni are the flag bearers of the glory of the Institute and they play a crucial role in the development of creative and innovative ambience at the Institute. Prof Rajeev Tripathi added that the alumni of the Institute hold high positions in the country and abroad and from time to time share their experiences with the students and extend their possible support. He further highlighted the contributions of alumni through the Alumni Association towards various infrastructural and welfare activities being implemented in the Institute viz., refurbishment of the tennis court, laptop distribution, scholarships etc. He expressed hope that other batches will also come forward with similar valuable support towards achieving new milestones in the coming future and will help the Institute to reach the zenith of success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/alumni-group-donates-rs-50-lakh-to-mnnit/articleshow/81335347.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||EC to provide PPE kits for Covid infected in poll booths||Chennai: Chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo on Thursday announced that the  commission will provide PPE kits for Covid-19 patients if they opt to cast vote at the designated polling station. The ECI has permitted postal ballot facility for Covid-19 patients, people with disabilities and those above 80 years of age. Sahoo said the postal ballot facility was optional and form 12D to opt for it will be available for five days from March 12, the date of notification of polls. Polling officials will collect the forms at the doorstep. “If the Covid-19 patients wish to cast vote in the polling booth, they will have to get a certificate from doctors. More information will be announced by the state health department shortly. All due precautions will have to be followed as per the state's Covid protocol. PPE kits will be kept in polling booths and the patients can also arrive in PPE kits from home,” the CEO said. The elections department is in coordination with the health department on the certification by health professionals. The CEO said the Centre had, on request from the commission, given permission to prioritise the staff, both civil and police personnel, on election duty for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ec-to-provide-ppe-kits-for-covid-infected-in-poll-booths/articleshow/81338462.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Land sale freeze sparks unrest in 14 villages near Kalpakkam||Chennai: They can only own the land, but can’t sell them – this has become the predicament of residents of at least 14 villages in the vicinity of Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research (IGCAR) at Kalpakkam. The registration freeze on all kinds of properties located within a radius of 7km around the IGCAR in Kalpakkam, about 70km south of Chennai, was made public last week when the local registration office began implementing the move on directions from the Kalpakkam Nuclear Installation Local Authority (NILA). As a result, land registration has been frozen completely in five villages, and partially in another nine villages in the region. The abrupt freeze has triggered a civic storm, with people resorting to a poster war against NILA and a few local leaders mulling even the boycott of the upcoming assembly elections, if the decision is not rolled back. Chengalpet collector A John Louis’ assertion to TOI that there is no restriction on land registrations notwithstanding, there has been a simmering tension between IGCAR administration and the locals. While the nuclear installation local authority established under the Tamil Nadu Nuclear Installations (Regulation of Buildings and Use of Land) Rules, 1990, does not grant licence for organised housing development within the sterilised area of 5km, activists say several layouts have sprung up around Kalpakkam over the years. During a field visit on Thursday, TOI noticed that housing plots had mushroomed within just a 2km radius of the atomic research station. M P Veerasamy, former president of Manamai village, said only the Buckingham Canal lay between the layouts and the atomic power station. “The layouts were formed during the past 10 years at Nathamedu. Did the NILA committee not notice this? Was it blind,” he wondered. The layout falls well within the exclusion area, where only construction of school buildings, stores, irrigation and drinking wells, channels and culverts with the approval by the nuclear installation local authority are allowed. Villagers said they were never consulted before the ban was imposed though NILA committee has representatives from various departments of Tamil Nadu government and is chaired by the director-general of services organisation of the Department of Atomic Energy, Kalpakkam. They added that the freeze on registration will deprive the properties of their utility value as they cannot sell them even for medical emergencies or marriages or education. Dr V Pugazhendhi, a physician and activist on nuclear safety, said it is necessary to ensure that areas next to the atomic power station are not densely populated as it would make emergency evacuation difficult. “But the current discontent is because locals feel they are being neglected in employment and education at IGCAR facilities. They are anguished that they do not even get power supply from the atomic power station,” he said. “About 60,000 people are adversely affected by the sudden ban on land registrations,” MMK general secretary P Abdul Samad said. When contacted, IGCAR sources said locals could compete with other applicants for jobs and facilities. “Spirit of the mandate as laid down in the Tamil Nadu notification is being followed by (NILA) committee. It is the state government that looks into the issue regarding freezing of registrations,” a IGCAR source responded to a query on the land registration ban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/land-sale-freeze-sparks-unrest-in-14-villages-near-kalpakkam/articleshow/81336781.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
March 5, 2021||Kanpur||SP will tie up with small partiesfor 2022 state election: Akhilesh||Jhansi: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Thursday that he will join hands with smaller parties for the state Vidhan Sabha elections next year and will not have an alliance with bigger parties. He also claimed that SP will win over 350 seats in 2022 polls and will return to power. Akhilesh said the government has no development works to show and is busy in re-inaugurating the projects that were initiated during SP regime and have already been inaugurated. “When a person starts losing, he starts behaving in irrational manner. The CM is going through same condition as people will vote his party out,” Yadav said in a press conference here on Thursday. People of UP, especially the women, are unsafe under the present government. On the other hand, police is becoming more and more corrupt and is only busy framing people in false political cases, he added. “This government has lodged over 10,000 false cases against our party workers and is withdrawing cases against BJP men,” Yadav added. The government has gifted two years of extension to the DM who lodged false cases against Azam Khan, but has not been able to arrest former SP of Mahoba who is on the run, he said. “The language of ‘Thok Do’ used by the CM is not used in democracy. This government is ruining institutions like never before and is trying to finish democracy,” said Yadav, adding anyone who speaks against the government is labelled terrorist by the IT cell of BJP. Referring to the three new farm laws, Yadav asked why the government is clinging to a law which is not being liked by farmers. “The farmers will lose their lands to corporate houses because of this law and end up working as labourer in their own land,” said Akhilesh. “They are selling everything in the name of monetization. They have not created anything and are busy in selling everything,” he added. “We have vision while chief minister Yogi Adityanath is visionless. I advise him to first change the person he sees in in the mirror after waking up in the morning,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sp-will-tie-up-with-small-partiesfor-2022-state-election-akhilesh/articleshow/81336005.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kanpur||Jhansi Nagar Nigam ranks among top 10 in country||Jhansi: It was a moment of joy for the people of Jhansi with the announcement on Thursday that the Jhansi Nagar Nigam was 9th among 60 municipal bodies across the country in the category of less than a million plus population with an overall score of 47.04. On the other hand, Jhansi got 34th ranking countrywide in the ease of living section with a score of 51.71. In both the sections the city has topped in the state. While the top three Nagar Nigams are of New Delhi, Tirupati and Gandhinagar, Jhansi comes after Udaipur but is quite ahead of cities such as Gurugram, Shimla and Dehradun. The rankings have been done on the basis of detailed surveys of various parameters, including services, finance, technology, planning and governance. Jhansi is the only city in the state featuring among the top 10 cities while Saharanpur, Moradabad, Aligarh, Rampur and Rae Bareli are also featured in the list on various lesser ranks. On the other hand, in the ease of living category Jhansi topped in the state while Moradabad, Rae Bareli, Saharanpur, Aligarh, Rampur and Muzaffarpur are also on the list on various ranks. Talking to TOI, Jhansi DM said, “The news is indeed good and motivating. Our motto is to continuously improve the quality of municipal services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jhansi-nagar-nigam-ranks-among-top-10-in-country/articleshow/81335977.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Trichy||Trichy city ranks 10/62, Madurai 22/49 in ‘ease of living’ stakes||Trichy: Trichy has ranked 10 in the Ease of Living Index 2020 (EoLI) survey result released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), which saw two more cities from the state in the top 10 spots. The survey validates the quality of life, economic ability and sustainability involving multiple stakeholders across 111 cities in the country under two separate categories. Salem (rank 5) and Vellore (rank 6) were other cities that figured in the top 10 among the 62 cities classified under the less than million population category. As many as 49 indicators under 13 categories were considered in ranking the cities. Trichy Corporation compiled a list of statistics sought by the MoHUA a few months ago and uploaded the data such as crime rate, fire accidents and health indicators. Drinking water supply, education indicators such as availability of schools and teachers, employment opportunities, green space and public transportation infrastructure were other indicators that decide a city’s liveability. The Union ministry validated the statistics by cross-checking with competent authorities without field inspection. The survey result was disclosed on Thursday in New Delhi, in which Trichy city scored 55.24 out of 100 marks, securing the 10th spot. “We consider the development as an achievement. We have been ensuring potable water supply and a sizable amount was spent on developing infrastructure in the education sector. Several departments and district administration helped us to submit the data,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI. In the previous exercise held in 2018, Trichy was ranked 12th among the 111 cities clubbed under a single category. In EoLI 2020, as the ranking was conducted in separate categories based on population, Trichy was placed in the category that had 62 cities. Securing rank 10 among 62 cities is considered as a slump as the city previously secured rank 12 among 111 cities. In this survey, Salem and Vellore have surpassed Trichy that remained the ranked top from the state in previous ease of living ranking. Salem and Vellore scored more than Trichy in the citizen feedback category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-ranks-10/62-madurai-22/49-in-ease-of-living-stakes/articleshow/81338469.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 5, 2021||Varanasi||In ease of living, Kashi rankssecond in state, 27th in nation||Varanasi: The parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi — Varanasi — has ranked 27th in the Ease of Living Index (EoLI) with a score of 54.67, among 49 cities across the country, and second in the state in a close finish with Lucknow. The city has bagged 13th rank among 10 million plus population cities in Municipal Performance Index (MPI) with a score of 50.14. The EoLI 2020 and MPI 2020 rankings were released by Union minister of state (independent charge) for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri in an online event on Thursday. Total 111 cities had participated in the assessment that was conducted in 2020. According to the list, Varanasi emerged the second-best city in EoLI in Uttar Pradesh after Lucknow, which ranks 26th with a score of 55.15. Varanasi is ahead of Kanpur (28), Ghaziabad (30), Prayagraj (32), Agra (35), Meerut (36) and Bareilly (47) in the list. However, Varanasi tops in MPI ranking in UP and is followed by Bareilly (14), Ghaziabad (20), Agra (24), Meerut (29), Lucknow (33), Kanpur (36) and Prayagraj (37). “This is the first time Varanasi has secured a rank in EoLI and MPI. We are studying it, and will chalk out plans accordingly for making further focused improvements,” municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi told TOI. “In the technology category, Varanasi stands at 10th position among cities with over one million population, and in digital literacy it stands on No 2 rank across nation and at top in the state,” Rathi added. EoLI is an assessment tool that evaluates quality of life and impact of various initiatives for urban development. It provides a comprehensive understanding of participating cities on quality of life, economic-ability, sustainability and resilience. The assessment also incorporates residents’ view on the services provided by city administration through a Citizen Perception Survey. MPI launched as an accompaniment to EoLI examines local government practice in municipalities in services, finance, policy, technology and governance. It seeks to simplify and evaluate the complexities in local governance practice and promotes the ethos of transparency and accountability. Both the indices represent an attempt to gauge the performance of cities on various parameters of urban living. The EoLI encapsulates the outcome indicators while the MPI captures the enabling input parameters. These indices provide a holistic assessment of cities based on their efforts to cultivate better quality of life, create infrastructure, and address challenges of urbanization. The indices can help the government identify gaps, tap into potential opportunities, and increase efficiency in local governance to improve the lives of citizens and fulfil broader development outcomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/in-ease-of-living-kashi-rankssecond-in-state-27th-in-nation/articleshow/81336047.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Trichy||Trichy residents pitch for local candidates in election||Trichy: Residents of Trichy have urged political parties to field candidates native to the assembly segments as locals connect with the voters, are more accessible than someone from other parts, and are also aware of the pending projects and needs of the constituency.The city’s jurisdiction is spread across four assembly segments - Trichy East, Trichy West, Thiruverumbur and Srirangam. With a list of pending projects like road overbridges, new bus stand complex and new infrastructure proposals, residents anticipate a solution in the ensuing poll. “Fielding someone outside the constituency or district will make him or her to camp at his native most of the time. Voters will have a tough time locating the MLA. If a local candidate was elected, we can approach them at ease, they know the city better,” H Ghouse Baig, secretary, consumer protection council Ponmalai branch said. The residents also insisted the AIAMDK and DMK to contest the four assembly segments and not allot them to coalition parties. “If there is any rift within their alliances, the coalition party here will be left helpless. In most elections, Trichy was allotted to coalition parties, the reason why issues remain unaddressed,” K Shyam Sundar, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES) claimed. Stating that the city was ignored in recent years ever since late AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa in 2015 shifted from Srirangam constituency to R K Nagar, residents said that the ensuing assembly elections is crucial for the city’s growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-residents-pitch-for-local-candidates-in-election/articleshow/81338471.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 5, 2021||Bareilly||Eye on panchayat polls, drive against illicit liquor stepped up in UP||Pilibhit: Apprehending a surge in illicit liquor distillation, sale and the smuggling in UP in view of the forthcoming panchayat elections, additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, has directed police and excise officials across the state to step up vigil. The notification for the elections is expected in the second week of this month. “The excise and the police officials have been ordered to coordinate with each other and also to keep in touch with the village chowkidaars (village guard liable to report crime to police) for any information about, the distillation and the sale of illicit liquor in rural areas,” said Bhoosreddy. As a result of the stepped up enforcement of anti-liquor drive, excise teams have recovered over 1.52 lakh litres of illicit liquor and registered a record of 4,926 cases within a month till February 28, he said The enforcement teams have also arrested 1,449 accused for distillation, sale and the trading of illicit liquor and sent them to jail during this period. In addition to the illicit liquor, two persons were arrested with 10 cases of illegal foreign liquor which they were carrying by a car in Baghpat. During a raid in Ghaziabad, 10 cases of liquor permitted for sale only in Haryana were recovered from a Mahindra Bolero vehicle, Bhoosreddy said. Moreover, 1,100 boxes of illegal foreign liquor meant for sale in Arunachal Pradesh were recovered from a container in Bulandshahr district while 700 other cases of illegal foreign liquor was seized from three vehicles from Etah district, he said. In Fatehpur district, 300 liters of adulterated spirit, large quantity of fake lids and QR (quick response) codes were recovered from a car while 23 cases of Tohfa brand liquor was recovered from a car in Muzaffarnagar district. During a checking drive at toll plaza in Agra district, 192 quarters of country liquor were recovered from a car, Bhoosreddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eye-on-panchayat-polls-drive-against-illicit-liquor-stepped-up-in-up/articleshow/81335773.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops submit report on Kangana probe||The police on Thursday submitted before a magistrate’s court a report of their inquiry in the private complaint by advocate Ali Kaashif Deshmukh against actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel for allegedly posting defamatory and hateful statements against a community on social media. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cops-submit-report-on-kangana-probe/articleshow/81339542.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Let’s win, prove none can compete with us: EPS, OPS||Chennai: A day after V K Sasikala, the close-aide of former CM J Jayalalithaa announced her decision to step aside from politics, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam said the AIADMK was providing good governance under chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and the situation was favourable (to win). Chief minister and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami said the party’s victory would prove that none can compete against it. The leaders were addressing poll aspirants at the AIADMK HQ during an interview to pick candidates for the assembly election. The party had received 8,200 applications from the cadres and functionaries of all constituencies. “Amma (Jayalalithaa) gave an excellent rule and after her passing away, we continue to provide the best governance under ‘Annan Edappadi Palaniswami’ without making any changes to her successful schemes. A favourable situation has arisen (now to win),” OPS said, amid loud applause from the ticket seekers. There was a huge rush to attend interviews at the party headquarters as the leaders had decided to hold it district-wise and wind up within a day. The poll aspirants were called by party districts. After a brief one-on-one with the individuals, the leaders gave a pep up talk to boost the morale of the participants. “It is an opportunity for us to prove that none can compete against us. We have earned goodwill of the people by our schemes,” EPS said, ruling out anti-incumbency factor. The leaders urged the functionaries to work for the party nominees in case they didn’t get tickets and assured them an opportunity during local body polls. “It is a day to rejoice since the leaders spoke to us, unlike earlier where Amma (Jayalalithaa) would interview only three shortlisted people,” said E A Selvakumar, an area secretary from Coimbatore. Several MLAs and ministers took part in the interview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lets-win-prove-none-can-compete-with-us-eps-ops/articleshow/81338472.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 5, 2021||Trichy||Election: Farmers’ outfit relies on crowdfunding||Trichy: Ariyalur-based federation of farmers’ welfare organisations on Thursday launched a crowdfunding drive in Perambalur to mobilise money for paying the security deposit to contest in the assembly election. The federation plans to field candidates in all 234 assembly segments under the banner of Tamilaga Makkal Nallatchi Kootamaippu. “We are collecting one rupee each from the people. As we are carrying forward progressive plans to revive the farming sector, there was ample support from the public,” federation convener Thanga Shanmugasundaram said. Their candidates, being from humble background, don’t have adequate fund to pay the Rs 10,000 security deposit as well as to conduct election campaigning. “We have been reaching out to the public at bus stands and people gathering at other places,” Shanmugasundaram added. The federation earlier released a preliminary list of 131 assurances concerning agriculture, employment, water management sectors and women self-help groups. Having released the list of candidates representing the federation for 18 assembly segments including Ariyalur, Perambalur and Kunnam, the federation said they are in talks with other like-minded pro-agriculture associations to face the election together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/election-farmers-outfit-relies-on-crowdfunding/articleshow/81338473.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||13 private hospitals join drive in Mumbai, can vaccinate 8,000 a day at the most||MUMBAI: At its maximum capacity, the city’s major private hospitals will manage to vaccinate between 7,000 and 8,000 people in a day, which means public centres will have to shoulder most of the vaccination burden. On Thursday, 13 private hospitals joined the programme out of 29 that have been granted permission by the Centre. The number is expected to rise to 35. While Mumbai’s daily vaccination turnout has been rising steadily, it needs to increase manifold, BMC officials said. The city was vaccinating 11,000-12,000 every day till Phase II began on Monday for senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities. The numbers have since jumped to 18,566 on Wednesday and 22,975 on Thursday. On Thursday, apart from 13 private hospitals, six Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS)-empanelled hospitals joined the drive. Together, the 19 hospitals vaccinated over 4,000 and BMC centres over 18,000. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the plan is to push daily coverage to 50,000 in a day. “We have a lot of population to cover and we want to do that swiftly,” he said, adding dispensaries and more local centres could be started in due course. The corporation is flooded with applications from private hospitals. Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said the state has given its nod to rope in more private players. “We will inspect and fast-track permissions. The drive has to pick up pace,” she added. On Thursday, most private hospitals crossed their target of 100 vaccinations. Many have planned to double the numbers in a few days. Joy Chakraborty, COO of Hinduja Hospital, said private hospitals would boost the speed of vaccination. As per his calculation, most private hospitals will manage to vaccinate 300 at best. “The highest private hospitals could vaccinate is probably around 7,000-8,000,” he said, adding some of the stringent criteria could pose a hurdle for space-strapped Mumbai hospitals to scale up. “There have to be separate entry, exits, waiting area and adequate space for social distancing. Considering all this, most can’t exceed 300 vaccination,” said Chakraborty. Jaslok Hospital CEO Jitendra Haryan concurred open spaces are a luxury. “We have started with 120 today and are targeting 300 on Friday,” he said. Dr S Narayani, zonal director of Fortis Hospitals in Mumbai, said, “We vaccinated about 190 senior citizens and those in the age group of 45-59 years on Thursday.” Breach Candy, H N Reliance and Masina hospitals will start vaccinating from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/13-pvt-hospitals-join-drive-in-mumbai-can-vaccinate-8000-a-day-at-the-most/articleshow/81338482.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Delays in pact normal, alliance with AINRC intact, says Pondy BJP||Puducherry: A day after alliance talks between leaders of All India NR Congress (AINRC) and the BJP ended without a consensus, Puducherry BJP unit on Thursday maintained that the alliance with the Congress splinter group was intact. On Wednesday, AINRC hinted at breaking away from the AIADMK-BJP alliance after most of its MLAs and party functionaries were against joining hands with the saffron party. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Puducherry BJP president V Saminathan admitted that there were a few issues but quickly added that the issues will be sorted out amicably. “There will be a few issues and glitches when different parties come together to forge an alliance to contest polls. These issues will be sorted out through dialogue. The BJP-led NDA includes AINRC, the AIADMK, PMK and other parties. We have commenced seat-sharing talks with each party and delay is inevitable. An announcement will be made within two days after consultations with the leaders of all alliance partners,” said Saminathan. Former Congress minister A Namassivayam, who was made the chairman of the committee drafting the party’s manifesto for the polls, said it will be out in three or four days. He joined the BJP in January this year. “The committee will elicit the views of all sections of people including farmers, dalit, fishermen and minorities,” Namassivayam said. He maintained that the pattern of alliance talks varies from state to state and that the strategy also differs from party to party. “Even yesterday, our party’s in-charge for Puducherry held discussions with AINRC president (N Rangasamy) and AIADMK leaders,” he said. On the other hand, the Congress is yet to commence talks with its allies. The party will commence talks only after the alliance combinations settle in Tamil Nadu. The party has extended the last date to receive applications from candidates aspiring to contest the forthcoming assembly polls until March 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/delays-in-pact-normal-alliance-with-ainrc-intact-says-pondy-bjp/articleshow/81338489.cms||Bosco Dominique
March 5, 2021||Goa||13-yr-old boy among two Covid deaths||Panaji: A 13-year-old boy from Candolim with cerebral palsy died of Covid-19 after he tested positive fortnight ago. A 38-year-old from Old Goa who was detected having sepsis and acute respiratory distress symptoms (ARDS) at the time of admission to hospital ten days ago, succumbed to the virus. With two casualties reported from Goa Medical College on Thursday, the mortality count rose to 799. The active cases shot up to 638 with 69 new cases and 38 recoveries reported during the day. The case positivity rate was at 4% and recovery rate at 97%. There were seven hospital admissions during the day and 47 patients isolated at home. Caseload of Panaji urban health centre rose to 67, while that of Chimbel primary health centre rose to 58. Urban health centre Margao also witnessed a marginal rise and its tally increased to 89. The case count of primary health centre Ponda also went up to 37 and that of community health centre of Canacona to 33.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/13-yr-old-boy-among-two-covid-deaths/articleshow/81338479.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Goa||Govt may rope in more pvt hosps to boost vax drive||Panaji: Besides the 15 private hospitals which have been enrolled as vaccination sites, the health services is looking at 22 other private hospitals that are empanelled under the Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY), cashless insurance scheme of the government, to include them in the vaccination drive. More private hospitals are likely to join the vaccination drive next week. “As of Thursday, we have managed to get all 15 private hospitals on board, their beneficiaries are registered on the portal and certificates issued. Since private hospitals charge for their services, it is important that everything is done in an orderly manner,” a health official said. The health department is exploring the possibility of roping in more private hospitals following the direction of the central government. “The implementation becomes difficult as it has to be ensured that hospitals engaged for vaccination are able to register on the portal and upload beneficiary names,” the official said. He said that before giving permission for starting vaccination, private hospitals need to have certain infrastructure, such as three rooms — one for vaccination, one for keeping people under observation after the vaccine is administered and a waiting area so that social distancing norms are followed. The availability of the vaccine stock also needs to be factored in when more hospitals are brought on board, and also if there are enough vaccinators, the health official said. “A unit of ten doses once opened has to be exhausted within four hours. If not used within that period, it is useless and has to be discarded. A pack needs to be opened only if there are ten people in line to be vaccinated or there is a certainty of beneficiaries lining up for vaccinating within that period. The unit can’t be opened in the morning and used in the evening,” he said. He said that they have not received any instructions from the government if private hospitals are to be allowed to conduct vaccination 24x7. There has been no deadline fixed for vaccinating the target population — senior citizens and those above 45 years having comorbidities. However, the government wants them to complete the task as early as possible, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-may-rope-in-more-pvt-hosps-to-boost-vax-drive/articleshow/81338491.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 5, 2021||Nashik||Nashik civic body picks 21 pvt hosps for vax drive||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has identified 21 private hospitals in the city that will be vaccinating senior citizens and those above 45 years who have comorbid conditions. To start with, six private hospitals will start the exercise on Friday. The civic officials said the move will help more people in Nashik get the vital Covid-19 vaccine. “We have streamlined the process at private hospitals. Of the 21 private hospitals identified, vaccination will begin in six from Friday. The vaccines have been distributed to the hospitals,” said Ajita Salunke, NMC’s assistant medical superintending officer. NMC officials said four more private hospitals will start giving the vaccine doses in the next couple of days. Thereafter, all other selected hospitals will join the drive. The NMC has also started four more vaccination centres in the city. “We have started four more vaccine centres at urban primary healthcare centres in Cidco, Hirawadi, Wadalagaon and Pimpalgaon Khamb. The number of NMC sites has increased from three to seven,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the NMC medical superintending officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civic-body-picks-21-pvt-hosps-for-vax-drive/articleshow/81338487.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 5, 2021||Trichy||Safety Day observed at Bhel Trichy||Trichy: On the occasion of National Safety Day, T S Murali general manager and head, Bhel Trichy complex, administered the safety and health pledge to members of the central safety committee of the unit and to the heads of all product and functional groups. He unfurled the safety flag on the premises of the high-pressure boiler plant on Thursday. “Eliminating accidents in an industrial environment require more than compliance with mandatory safety regulations and integrating safety measures in all business operations. Make safety a way of life at the workplace and outside,” Murali said. Highlighting the emergency preparedness systems and procedures put in place at Bhel Trichy and the mock drills conducted regularly to assess their effectiveness, he called upon the employees to re-dedicate themselves to adopting and strictly adhering to safe work practices .TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/safety-day-observed-at-bhel-trichy/articleshow/81338476.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Bareilly||Gang-rape survivor ends life after being ‘forced for compromise’ by accused’s family in UP’s Sambhal||Bareilly: After being repeatedly “forced by accused’s family to reach a compromise”, a 22-year-old gang-rape survivor allegedly ended her life by hanging at her house in a village under the Bahjoi police jurisdiction in UP’s Sambhal district on Thursday. Kin spotted the body hanging from the ceiling of her room and informed police. The victim’s mother alleged that she was under excessive mental stress ever since the crime was perpetrated in August last, and despite that, the accused’s family had been forcing her to reach a compromise in the case while threatening her to frame in another case if she refused. “She was already disturbed and depressed. Unable to bear the repeated threats by the accused’s family, she finally ended her life,” said the mother. Chandausi circle officer AK Singh, who visited the family, said, “The preliminary investigation suggests that the victim was under stress and that was the reason why she took the extreme step. Her family alleged that she was being repeatedly threatened and forced by the accused’s family to reach a compromise. The body was sent for a post-mortem examination and a probe was ordered.”Gangraped in August last, the woman — a BA student and a private schoolteacher in Sambhal — had not disclosed the crime to her family for around five months fearing that the accused, who had filmed the act, would make the video public, said police. In January, she had lodged a complaint with Sambhal police, following which the accused was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/gang-rape-survivor-ends-life-after-being-forced-for-compromise-by-accuseds-family-in-ups-sambhal/articleshow/81335780.cms||Maria Khan
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Veteran editor, eminent epigraphist R Krishnamurthy passes away at 88||Chennai: R Krishnamurthy, a former editor of Tamil daily Dinamalar and a renowned epigraphist, died in the city on Thursday following a heart attack. He was 88. Krishnamurthy was instrumental in making Dinamalar, which his father founded, one of the popular dailies in the state. He was behind simplifying the Tamil script and introduced the Periyar script with fewer alphabets. Though there was opposition from scholars, other newspapers picked up the script after Dinamalar made it popular. The government introduced the script in textbooks in 1979. His interests in Tamil script reform led him to trace its origin which, in turn, kindled an interest in numismatics making him tour the world scouring museums and private collections for coins relating to ancient rulers of south India. He studied inscriptions in Vatteluttu in different parts of the state, discovered a coin with the name Peruvaluthi, a Sangam-age Pandya king, engraved in Tamil-Brahmi script in Madurai that changed the perception about trade in the ancient times which was considered to be barter system. This also helped in changing the perception that Pandya kings were chieftains who did not mint coins and used Mauryan coins. Krishnamurthy published many papers and books on Tamil script, epigraphy and numismatics and has won many accolades for his research. The government of India gave him the Tolkappiar award. The Royal Numismatic Society elected him as a fellow and the Numismatic Society of India presented him the C H Biddulup Medal and T Desikachari Medal, named after two renowned numismatists of India. Madurai Kamaraj University conferred doctorate on him. He was the general secretary of All India Newspaper Editors Conference from 1991 to 1996. Krishnamurthy was born at Vadiveeswaram near Nagercoil on January 13, 1933 as the second son of T V Ramasubba Iyer and L Krishnammal. After completing his schooling in Sethu Lakshmi Bayi School, he joined Scot Christian College in Nagercoil. Later, he completed his graduation in geology from Karaikudi and joined a postgraduate course in geology in Presidency College in Madras and secured a first class. He joined Dinamalar in 1956 and became its editor in 1977. He had served as its editor for almost 40 years. Leaders from many political parties, including DMK, AIADMK, AMMK, PMK and MDMK expressed condolences. AIADMK leader O Panneerselvam and chief minister Edapadi K Pazhaniswami in a statement on behalf of the party said the demise of R Krishnamurthy is a loss to Indian journalism and Tamil research. DMK leader M K Stalin visited Krishnamurthy's house and paid his respects. In a statement, he said that Dinamalar and Murasoli newspapers were among the pioneers in the use of computers in the mid-80s. "He stood in support of the efforts taken by Kalaignar M Karunanidhi to get classical language status for Tamil." MDMK leader Vaiko said, “Though he has got top awards from the government of India, the state government should honour him.” AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran has expressed his condolences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/veteran-editor-eminent-epigraphist-r-krishnamurthy-passes-away-at-88/articleshow/81336796.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Trichy||No ‘Moi Virundhu’ to collect funds: Officials||Trichy: Election officials in Peravurani, Orathanadu and Pattukottai in Thanjavur have asked the public not to organize ‘Moi Virundhu’ - a traditional way of mobilizing funds - or any social gatherings including weddings as the model code of conduct is in effect. “People should not conduct Moi Virundhu as long as MCC is in effect. If anyone has already fixed the date, it should be postponed. If anyone is found conducting events in the name of Moi Virundu to give cash for votes, stringent action would be initiated against the violators. In case of marriage or other social gatherings already fixed, the event should be conducted after getting permission from the concerned revenue officials,” said Peravurani electoral officer Ivannan. Moi Virundhu is organised mostly in villages in Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts. If someone is in debt, they organize a feast and invite friends and relatives in and around their locality. After the feast, everyone would offer some amount based on their capacity and will - ranging from Rs 10 to lakhs. In recent years, Moi Virudhu has fetched up to crores. As the model code of conduct has come into effect in the state, election officers are taking steps to curtail cash transactions as it may be used for bribing voters. Since most of the Moi Virundhu is organised in Orathanadu, Peravurani and Pattukottai in Thanjavur district and most parts of Pudukottai district, election officials conducted a meeting in Peravurani taluk where Peravurani electoral officer Ivannan address the meeting attended by wedding hall owners and those running printing press. “Marriage hall owners and managers were asked not to rent their facilities for any social gatherings such as Moi Virundhu as MCC is in effect across the state. Event organisers were not allowed to put up banners in front of the marriage halls. Severe action would be initiated against violation of norms,”Ivannan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-moi-virundhu-to-collect-funds-officials/articleshow/81338494.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
March 5, 2021||Goa||SC stays HC order cancelling elections to 5 municipalities||PANAJI: In a major relief to the state government, the Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the high court order cancelling elections in five municipalities over reservation of wards, thus paving the way for polls to be conducted to the five civic councils on March 21. The Supreme Court will hear the case on Tuesday. “We stay the impugned direction of the high court as well as the election commission notification which is in pursuance of the high court judgment. Pleadings to be completed before the next date of hearing. List on Tuesday, March 9, 2021. Liberty is granted to counsel to file written arguments in the meantime,” a division bench of the Supreme Court comprising justices Rohinton Fali Narimanand and Hrishikesh Roy said. Advocate general Devidas Pangam said that the Supreme Court “suo motu” stayed the notification of the Goa state election commission (SEC), keeping the election in five municipalities in abeyance. The matter is kept for final disposal on Tuesday. On Tuesday, the state government moved the Supreme Court challenging Monday’s high court order that set aside the recent order on elections to five municipal councils. Speaking to TOI, Pangam had said that one of the grounds of appeal is that “the courts cannot stall the democratic process like this”. He also said that as per Article 243 ZG of the Constitution, there is a complete bar on courts interfering in the election process. The high court had set aside a recent order on elections to five municipal councils, as it was done in ‘breach of constitutional and statutory mandate’. Within hours after the high court order, the SEC had kept the election process to Margao, Sanguem, Quepem, Mormugao and Mapusa municipalities in abeyance, and lifted the model code of conduct with immediate effect. Refuting the government’s stance that the court cannot interfere when elections are declared, the high court stated, “We have ensured that the election programme which would be notified after rectifying the order issued by the director, thereby prescribing the reservation in different wards of themunicipal councils, is done with utmost promptitude, so that the entire election process is completed on or before April 15, 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-stays-hc-order-cancelling-elections-to-5-municipalities/articleshow/81339454.cms||Murari Shetye
March 5, 2021||Goa||Rlys wrecked church property: Chandor locals in complaint||Margao: Irked over the destruction of water bodies on account of the South Western Railways’ (SWR) track-doubling work in the village, Chandor villagers on Thursday attempted to stop the work demanding the presence of Railways officials at the site. However, as the Railways officials failed to turn up, the Fabrica of Our Lady of Bethlehem Church, Chandor, and the parishioners of Chandor, filed separate complaints with the Maina Curtorim police against the Railway authorities for trespassing into Church property and causing damage to it. The Fabrica de Igreja de Chandor, in its police complaint, accused Railway officials of trespassing into its property and filling it with mud and carrying out other construction-related activities, and thereby causing destruction of trees, a cross, and a sluice gate built across a water body. The parishioners of Chandor, in a separate complaint, accused SWR of illegal trespass and encroachment into the Church property by carrying out construction within it. “The contractors have done landfilling, construction work like piling, footing, as well as have cut matured trees. The existing sluice gate as well as a cross which was there since centuries have been destroyed thereby hurting religious sentiments of the villagers, which could lead to law and order (situation) in the village,” the police complaint by Chandor parishioners reads. The water resources department (WRD) has, in its recent site inspection report, confirmed the damage caused to water bodies owing to the ongoing track-doubling work of the South Western Railway (SWR), as earlier pointed out by TOI. In a letter addressed to the South Goa collector, executive engineer of WRD, Ankush Gaonker, said that following the site inspection with Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), it was observed that “due to the construction of double tracking of SWR, some of the water bodies are already damaged, and some are anticipated to be affected, directly or indirectly, on account of the proposed construction (work).” Railways officials have, however, said that the damage was “unintentional”. They had also told TOI that all the measures proposed by WRD will be implemented. WRD has recommended several restoration works, besides protective measures, to be undertaken by RVNL, with respect to the water bodies in the vicinity of the double-tracking project in the village. For water bodies that are likely to be affected owing to double-tracking, the department has recommended several measures. Desilting of the tributary of the Zuari river and stabilisation of its bank, improvement and desilting of the Macasana tank and improvement to the flow of the Macasana tank are among these.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rlys-wrecked-church-property-chandor-locals-in-complaint/articleshow/81338501.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Nashik||Private lab in Nashik allowed to resume Covid swab testing||Nashik: The district administration allowed the Nashik-based private laboratory to restart Covid-19 swab sample testing from Thursday.District collector Suraj Mandhare said he had visited the laboratory on Tuesday along with a team of experts and had learnt about the processes being carried out there.“There were some issues related to the tests. The laboratory has responded to the concerns raised by the district administration. We have now asked the laboratory to carry out certain measures and have allowed it to function,” Mandhare said.Given that the positivity rate of the swab samples tested at the laboratory was significantly high, the administration had earlier retested some of the samples. The administration had found certain things at the laboratory that did not adhere to the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Therefore, the administration had called for a temporary closure of the lab till the rectification of the issues.“On the laboratory’s invitation, I visited the spot with an expert and technical committee. The laboratory also presented statistics that were analysed by the team. Advising certain rectifications, the laboratory has been allowed to function normally,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/private-lab-in-nashik-allowed-to-resume-covid-swab-testing/articleshow/81338497.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Trichy||Officials seize 31k school bags with photos of Jaya, EPS||Thanjavur: More than 31,000 school bags embossed with the photographs of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami were seized from a container by the election officials in Thanjavur on Thursday. Officials found the container truck bearing the registration number of Rajasthan being parked near the old collector office in Thanjavur. On information, a team of flying squad headed by Lourd Prakash arrived there. During the check, they found that the truck was full of school bags with the photographs of both the late and present chief ministers. Election officials contacted authorities from the education department and made inquiries. Meanwhile, a group of cadre and functionaries from the DMK arrived there and raised suspicion. It came to light that the bags numbering 31,083 and worth Rs 47.64 lakh were meant for distribution to students of government schools in nine blocks including Thanjavur, Thiruvaiyaru, Kumbakonam and Papanasam. Further inquiries were on, officials said. Meanwhile, the static surveillance and a flying squad teams on duty ay Aanaikaaran Chathiram in Sirkazhi in Nagapattinam district intercepted a car coming from Coimbatore and found that one of the occupants, T Murugesan was in possession of Rs 7.92 lakh. As he had no valid document in support of carrying the cash, election officials recovered the cash and handed it over to authorities of the sub-treasury. Likewise, a team of flying squad recovered Rs 6.10 lakh from a person who drove the car at Thillaisthanam in Thiruvaiyaru in Thanjavur district on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/officials-seize-31k-school-bags-with-photos-of-jaya-eps/articleshow/81338498.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Uber free rides for elderly in second phase||MUMBAI: Uber said from Monday it will ferry senior citizens (aged above 60) and those with co-morbidities and above 45 to vaccination centres free of cost. It is offering free rides worth Rs 10 crore across the country for assisting the second phase of the vaccination drive. A senior Uber official told TOI the free rides will continue “till funds get exhausted”. “The management will see its next offering depending on the situation,” the official said, adding that the free rides were part of the aggregator firm’s support to the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), state governments and local NGOs. Riders can avail of it through redeemable promo codes on the mobile app. Prabhjeet Singh, president, Uber India and South Asia, said, “We are providing safe and timely transport options for the most vulnerable sections of our population during Covid-19.” Uber will spread awareness on the vaccine through its app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-uber-free-rides-for-elderly-in-second-phase/articleshow/81338521.cms||Somit Sen
March 5, 2021||Chennai||BJP moves EC against Rahul campaign in TN||Chennai: The BJP’s TN unit on Thursday petitioned the Election Commission of India urging that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi be restrained from campaigning in Tamil Nadu for the assembly polls. The former Congress president violated the model of conduct and tried to incite violence during his interaction with students of St Joseph’s Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Mulagumoodu of Kanyakumari district on March 1, state president of BJP L Murugan said in the petition. Murugan also urged the chief election officer (CEO) of TN to instruct the state police to book Rahul Gandhi on sedition charges. “There is a lot of anger being spread in the country, a lot of fear and that is what we have to fight. We have to fight the division, the anger and the fear and make India happy, comfortable, fearless and united once again,” Murugan said in the petition quoting Rahul’s speech to the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-moves-ec-against-rahul-campaign-in-tn/articleshow/81338508.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ex-CS back as Merc chief||A week after retirement, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday appointed former chief secretary Sanjay Kumar as chairman of Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (Merc). The post was vacant after the tenure of bureaucrat Anand Kulkarni ended on January 4. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ex-cs-back-as-merc-chief/articleshow/81339570.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||City to have below normal temp, dry weather over next two days||Chennai: After hot and humid weather for the last few days, here is some good news. The strong incoming seabreeze is going to keep the mercury and humidity levels low leaving days dry and warm for the next few days. Weathermen have forecast temperatures around a maximum of 34°C for the next two days after the city recorded a drop in day-time temperatures on Thursday by half a degree celsius. While light showers are expected in some parts of south Tamil Nadu starting this weekend, dry weather is set to prevail over the rest of the state including Chennai. For the next 48 hours, the city and the suburbs are likely to experience maximum temperature around 34°C and minimum around 23°C with the skies mostly clear. N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD, Chennai said, “The showers are due to a trough or an elongated region of relatively low atmospheric pressure in the easterlies.” On Thursday, Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam stations recorded 31.6°C and 32.3°C which were 0.6°C and 0.5°C below normal with humidity at 55% and 45%. It was a considerable drop from the temperatures which were one to two degrees above normal touching 35 deg C with humidity reaching nearly 80%. Minimum temperatures recorded just before sunrise on Thursday too were 0.3°C and 0.8°C below normal at 22.6°C and 21.6°C in the two stations. The drop is due to the incoming easterly winds or breeze from the sea. In its seasonal outlook, IMD has forecast below normal maximum temperatures and above normal minimum temperatures in southern peninsular India between March and May. Weather blogger Pradeep John said the both maximum and minimum temperatures will be below normal in the city and suburbs in the coming days. “Across the coastal regions, we can expect temperatures to be around 32°C or 33°C while interior regions like Karur, Salem or Coimbatore where seabreeze cannot penetrate, temperatures may go up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-to-have-below-normal-temp-dry-weather-over-next-two-days/articleshow/81336812.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Nashik||Senior citizen cheated for Rs 1 lakh||Nashik: Taking the help of a stranger at an automated teller machine (ATM) centre for withdrawing money proved costly to a senior citizen as he was cheated of Rs 1 lakh. According to police, the complainant — 64-year-old complainant Muniruddin Qasam Shaikh,a resident of Ashoka Marg — had gone to the ATM centre belonging to a nationalised bank in Bapu Bungalow in Indira Nagar on February 13. While Shaikh was busy withdrawing the money, the suspect approached him and offered to help. Not finding anything suspicious, Shaikh handed his debit card to the suspect. After withdrawing the money, the suspect returned the debit card and both left the kiosk. Later, at the end of the month when Shaikh saw the account statement he was shocked to see that Rs 1 lakh was withdrawn from his account. He then went to the police station and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/senior-citizen-cheated-for-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/81334823.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolhapur||E-waste & recycling wing started in Kolhapur varsity||Kolhapur: Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK) has started an e-waste and recycling wing on the university campus in view of the increasing pollution created by electrical equipment. The idea came up in an online lecture series organised by the electronics department on ‘Green Electronics’ recently where renowned lecturers across Maharashtra shared their thoughts on the concept of electronics and the environment.Professor Dr M.K. Bhanarkar, the coordinator of the online lecture series, said, “Rising heap of E-waste has become a threat for the society. Electronic waste contains plastic and other hazardous content and people throw away the e-waste in open, which is burnt with other garbage and produces toxic emissions.” “Keeping this in mind, the electronics department has established an E-waste and recycling wing, where the e-waste will be collected at one single place and then will be handed over to e-waste recycler by signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). This wing will be operated by students and the money received will be given to students as a stipend thus helping them in the 'Earn while you Learn' scheme.Dr P.N. Vasambekar, the head of SUK’s electronics department, said, “After getting permission from chancellor D.T. Shirke and the vice-chancellor P.S. Patil, the e-waste wing has been started in the Electronics department on an experimental basis. This centre will need support from the electronics, environment, Geography, chemistry, statistics, technology, education and other departments to ensure this concept works properly. Such kind of e-waste centre has been started for the first time in a university in Maharashtra.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/e-waste-recycling-wing-started-in-kolhapur-varsity/articleshow/81334852.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
March 5, 2021||Bareilly||Inaugural flight at UP's Bareilly airport on March 8||Bareilly: Flight operations at the much-awaited Bareilly airport at Civil Enclave are likely to start on March 8. It will be the eighth airport to operate in Uttar Pradesh after Lucknow, Varanasi, Agra, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Hindon.The Airport Authority of India officially announced the “inaugural flight at 8:55 am from Bareilly to Delhi on International Women’s Day". Flights will then operate on the route every Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday from March 10 onwards.Under the Centre's flagship Regional Connectivity Scheme, flights are scheduled to be operated by Alliance Air. Besides, plans are afoot to operate flights by IndiGo Airlines on Bareilly-Mumbai and Bareilly-Bengaluru routes, later in April.On Thursday, airport director of Bareilly, Rajeev Kulsrestha told TOI, “An inaugural flight run by Alliance Air will be taking off from Bareilly to Delhi on March 8. The flight will depart at 8:55 am and reach Delhi at 9:55 am. It will depart from Delhi on the same day at 11 am to reach Bareilly at 12 pm. Thereafter, flights will operate on the route every Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday and the departing time from Bareilly will be at 9 am. From Delhi, the flight will depart at 10:30 am and reach Bareilly by 11:30 am. The airlines will be using ATR 72 aircraft and the fare for the route will be Rs 1,956.”The UP government will give a number of sops to the airline such as viability gap funding, free electricity up to 4,000 units, waiver on VAT (ARF) for 10 years, besides, security and fire services. Road connectivity, bus services and ambulance services will be also provided by the state.“There are plans to operate direct flights on Bareilly-Mumbai and Bareilly-Bengaluru routes by IndiGo Airlines, later in April. An assessment by the airline to operate flights from Bareilly airport is currently under process,” the airport director added.Notably, the Bareilly airport project had met several roadblocks even as its inauguration was done by the state civil aviation minister Nand Gopal Nandi and Union minister and local MP Santosh Gangwar, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in March 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/inaugural-flight-at-ups-bareilly-airport-on-march-8/articleshow/81334871.cms||Maria Khan
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Park adoption scheme gets 216 applications in 2 months||Chennai: Wilting trees on road medians are growing back in T Nagar and Adyar as the park adoption scheme of the civic body has received a huge response with more than 216 applications received in the last two months. The corporation waived caution deposit of Rs 50,000 for the scheme and called for adoption of parks last November. The 216 applications received seek to adopt 104 major parks, 46 medians, 54 traffic islands and 12 roadside parks. Some of the parks are Sivan Park at KK Nagar, Panagal Park at T Nagar and other big parks across the zones. There are about about 702 parks, 99 medians, 99 traffic islands and 163 roadside parks across all 15 zones. However, with several people complaining in the past against residential welfare associations and contractors taking over parks and framing their own rules, a standard operating procedure should be formed for those adopting parks, activists said. T K Pandian from Anna Nagar Tower Park said the green cover of the city was 17% against the ideal 33%. “Unless people take ownership of parks and trees and the civic body comes up with an SOP, maintenance of parks will be difficult. Handing over parks to actual stakeholders is a good thing but the maintenance has to be done as per norms. We should try to convert parks that are for all age groups,” he said. Meera Ravikumar, a social activist from Adyar, said adoption is a good option when the department doesn’t have funds. “They should put in a system to ensure follow up of norms. It is better than handing it all over to contractors. But maintenance is a continuous process that is expensive as well. Unless the adopters are loyal to the cause, much change cannot be expected,” she said. Residents of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar youth welfare association at Sholinganallur are planning to adopt a park. “Not just parks, we would like to maintain playgrounds as well. However, we would prefer if the park or the playground that is handed to us is fully developed. We can manage and maintain them but cannot spend on its infrastructure,” said Sathish G, a resident. Meghnath Reddy, deputy commissioner in-charge of the works department, said, “We are getting many applications. We are signing a formal agreement with the applicants that will specify the SOPs and ensure the parks are not misused. We have teams that will ensure adhearence to rules,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/park-adoption-scheme-gets-216-applications-in-2-months/articleshow/81336856.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Clearing the air: You too can get the vaccine, and you must!||Now that the vaccines are finally here, the phones have not stopped ringing about if, when, which, where… Yes! You must take the vaccine. If you are over 60 or have comorbidities that are commonly known or even unknown (your physician would be able to tell you) then you need to enlist. The world was struck by a devastating pandemic after 100 years and still you want to ask whether? The more aged your immune system, the greater your need to vaccinate ASAP now that your time has come. The government has been very clear that phase 2 has begun and you too can get the jab, so you must. So what if the private hospital round the corner is not inoculating, we doctors went to municipal centres where the drive was immaculate. The vaccine is the same and the delivery method is unchanged, so what’s the fuss? Some people want to wait till they come home. Now that’s asking! While the safety record of the available vaccines is good, the domiciliary act does not perfectly abide by the safety and allergic protocol that inoculators are mandating. In addition, the multi-dose vials and the possible jeopardy in the cold chain makes this act that much more difficult. So move out of your abode and get your appointment. Should we wait for Pfizer or Moderna to come or should we fly somewhere to get it? Remember the principle of the vaccine is to aid the immune system to recognise and form antibodies. Whether a vaccine provides 78% protection or 95%, the fact of the matter is that we need a fair degree of protection and not that numerical boost. Haven’t we done well with the over 65% protection with chickenpox and other such vaccines. We have successfully averted a lot of viral infections like smallpox, polio and measles with the traditional method of using the attenuated vaccines, then what’s wrong with Covishield or Covaxin? That is not to say that I am denigrating the new method of using mRNA vaccines (P and M) but as of now we don’t have substantial data on Indians. There is a point in aspiring for the western vaccines when you have two good local ones—and two more in the pipeline—delivering a robust antibody titre. I have taken two doses and am enjoying healthy protection. The country that provides the world with software has churned out a great app which apart from implementation issues, is providing messages and certificates with a good degree of efficacy. The Arogya Setu app is proof of success. Get on, log in and if there are initial hiccups since more than 30 crore people are trying, be patient. This is the greatest such exercise anywhere in the world and it’s at the government’s expense and even in private centres, heavily subsidised. Thus, no room to complain. Which brings me to the next question, when should we do the second dose? What began as a postponement of the second dose probably owing to temporary shortage, then became a proposition owing to harvesting of more antibodies after six weeks and even more subsequently. This pandemic has taught scientists to think on their feet and revise constantly but you would not be wrong at all if you took your second dose after four weeks. With all this info I am sure the air on ‘Vaccine Hungama’ is cleared and the jabs will coast along. (Dr Hemant Thacker is a consultant physician & cardiometabolic specialist from Mumbai affiliated to The Times of India. Email:dochpt@gmail.com)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/clearing-the-air-you-too-can-get-the-vaccine-and-you-must/articleshow/81338561.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolhapur||Only 79 of 183 mills in state make full payment to sugar cane farmers||Kolhapur: More than half of all sugar factories in Maharashtra had not made full payment to the sugar cane farmers even by February-end. Of the 183 sugar mills, only 79 have so far paid the full amount based on fair and remunerative price (FRP).According to the data released by the sugar commissioner’s office, the 183 sugar mills involved in cane crushing have generated Rs 16,275 crore as FRP-based payment. The data reveals that only 79 mills had paid Rs 13,917 crore by February-end, while Rs 2,367 crore is yet to be paid.Sources in the sugar industry said the mills are making the payments despite facing several financial and other difficulties. They pointed out that the arrear amounts by February 15 were Rs 2,535 crore, which had come down to Rs 2,367 crore by the end of the month. They pointed out that 38 factories had paid 80-99% of the bills by the end of last month. As many as 36 sugar mills have cleared 60-79% of the bills, according to the data. Officials said 39 factories have paid less than 60% to the farmers.Sources said the amount yet to be paid to the farmers sounded inflated because more sugar factories had obtained the crushing license this year. Last year, 141 sugar mills were involved in crushing activities, and the number went up to 187 this season. Official figures show that Maharashtra had crushed around 832 lakh tonne of sugar cane and produced 856 lakh quintal sugar at the end of February. According to estimates, around 200 lakh tonne sugar cane is still to be crushed.Experts said the current crushing season is likely to witness the highest volume of crushing in the past 10 years. However, the sugar commissioner’s office has not issued any notice to the factories under the Revenue Recovery Code. Officials said several factories have made legal agreements with the farmers, allowing them to make the payments in instalments. According to the Sugarcane Control Act, it is mandatory for the factories to make the payments within 15 days of the cane being cut and taken for crushing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/only-79-of-183-mills-in-state-make-full-payment-to-sugar-cane-farmers/articleshow/81334893.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Tanker water to cost 30% more in Chennai this summer||CHENNAI: The city’s reservoirs have enough water and Metrowater has increased piped supply from 650 million litres a day (MLD) to 830MLD, but those depending on tankers may have to pay more, thanks to the increase in fuel prices. The Tamil Nadu Private Water Tanker Lorry Association told TOI the rates will go up by 30%. “With hike in fuel prices, especially long-distance delivery will cost more this year,” said M Manimaran, a member of the association in-charge of water supply in pots in the Red Hills area. “A 15-litre pot will cost Rs 1 more, while a 20-litre pot will cost an additional Rs 2. Residents who do not get packaged water opt for pot water,” he said. Major areas that depend on pot water include Maduravoyal, Perambur, Mogappair, Thiru Nagar in Anna Nagar. Association secretary S Murugan said the demand may have gone down in residential areas due to a better groundwater table and Metrowater supply, but commercial establishments and industries still depend on tankers. “And several gated communities depend on us. They will have to pay slightly higher due to the hike in fuel rates. The cost will go up by Rs 300. A 12,000-litre lorry that costs Rs 800-Rs 2,000 will now cost Rs 2,500-Rs 3,000,” he said. Harsha Koda, co-founder of the Federation of OMR Resident Associations (FOMRRA), said piped supply was only for core city. “We on OMR and residents in other added areas are still dependent on private tankers. In fact, we have become like a family interdependent on each other. This fuel hike will have a cascading effect on everything as maintenance costs will rise. We will try to negotiate with them as many hotels and malls were shut during the lockdown and we were their major customers. We will try and keep cost under check.” Sandhya V of Anna Nagar said the steep hike in fuel prices was pinching everyone’s pockets. “This hike in water lorry rates was expected. It is sad that due to the election here, there is no strong opposition from the state government for such hikes. On social media, several posts are doing the rounds on how petrol is given as free for making other purchases. I hope states stand strong and oppose these hikes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tanker-water-to-cost-30-more-this-summer/articleshow/81336894.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||AIADMK turned to outsiders to blunt threat from Sasikala’s camp||Wary of a split in its ranks, the AIADMK leadership turned to emissaries from outside the party to strike a deal with Sasikala, several sources close to the developments told TOI. An AIADMK leader said the main mediator was a person who has the ear of the BJP national leadership and is known as a skilled negotiator and the second interlocutor was a close relative of Sasikala’s who has stayed away from party politics. Two more sources said the mediator approached Sasikala through some of her family members to impress upon her that she should back off in the larger interest of the party nurtured and strengthened by Jayalalithaa. He urged her to extend moral support and not to dent its prospects by backing her nephew and AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran and discrediting the AIADMK leadership. On Wednesday, Sasikala sprung a surprise by issuing a statement that she was "staying away from politics". Without attributing any reason for her decision, she appealed to "true followers" of Jayalalithaa to stay united and work towards victory in the poll. She mentioned neither the AIADMK nor the AMMK by name. On her return from Bengaluru on February 9, Sasikala had vowed to enter active politics. She has been issuing statements on a letterhead that had a picture of the AIADMK flag and signed by her as the AIADMK general secretary. The Wednesday statement was on a plain sheet of paper and merely signed ‘your’s affectionately, V K Sasikala’. "We pointed out to her that it would be belittling for her to take on midget leaders," the emissary told TOI. "And, by backing her nephew she would be promoting a family member which is in clear contradiction to the AIADMK-BJP campaign denouncing dynastic politics." But what clinched it finally, said an AIADMK source, was the intervention of a family member who agreed with the emissary’s arguments. A Sasikala associate said she had been dejected that none from the AIADMK contacted her despite her call for unity and her assurance that she would soon get back to active politics. Sasikala had made the appeal for unity twice, once on February 8 while on her way to Chennai from Bengaluru, and again on February 24 after she paid homage to her friend Jayalalithaa on the latter’s birth anniversary. It is not clear yet what Dhinakaran’s plan of action would be or whether he would receive tacit support from his aunt in the run up to the assembly election. "But one strong argument that convinced Sasikala was that she would have to take the blame if the DMK came to power," said a senior AIADMK leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-turned-to-outsiders-to-blunt-threat-from-sasis-camp/articleshow/81338572.cms||Jaya Menon
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Three PWD officials in Mumbai caught in bribery case||Three officials, including two civil engineers of Public Works Department (PWD), were caught by ACB demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 90,000 from a private contractor. A search of the bag of an arrested clerk resulted in recovery of more than Rs 13 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-pwd-officials-in-mumbai-caught-in-bribery-case/articleshow/81339590.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolhapur||Night curfew in Satara dist till March 31, schools closed||Kolhapur: Collector of Satara district Shekhar Singh issued an order on Wednesday night announcing a night curfew from 11pm to 6am and closure of all schools in the district upto Class IX from Thursday till March 31. As per the order, tuition classes will also be closed. Only classes for students of Std X are allowed. As for the night curfew, movement of vehicles is prohibited barring on the national highway. Singh has warned of stern legal action against people found flouting the Covid norms. Meanwhile, the district reported 96 new Covid cases and two fatalities since late Wednesday night. The district currently has 1,500 active cases. 135 fresh cases in Solapur Solapur district has reported 135 cases since late night on Wednesday, of which 32 were from Solapur city alone. As many as as 42 patients were discharged in Solapur city. No fatalities were reported. Of the 12,548 cases registered in Solapur city, 11,490 patients have been discharged after recovering from the infection, 662 have died while 396 aree currently undergoing treatment. As many as 93 patients were identified from the rural parts of Solapur district. One person each from Mangalwedha and Malshiras —both senior citizens —succumbed to Covid-19. Of the 40,801 cases identified in the rural areas of Solapur district, 39,080 patients have recovered, 1,187 have died while 534 are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/night-curfew-in-satara-dist-till-march-31-schools-closed/articleshow/81338549.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Palghar district collector lifts ban on weekly mkt||Mumbai:A week after banning the weekly market in Palghar taluka in the wake of rise in Covid-19 cases, the district collector on Thursday lifted the ban. Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal issued directives to organise the weekly markets in Palghar, Boisar, Manor and Saphale by ensuring social distancing. Masks and sanitizers will be mandatory for both sellers and buyers, he added. The collector said that the ban had hit the livelihood of many. The markets enable sellers to sell goods, especially perishable ones like fruits and vegetables. Of the total 46,159 cases in the district, 15,705 are in rural Palghar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-palghar-district-collector-lifts-ban-on-weekly-mkt/articleshow/81338588.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nashik||Jalgaon woman’s allegations against cops untrue: Deshmukh||Nashik: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said that the allegations made by an inmate of a women’s hostel in Jalgaon against policemen is completely “untrue” and that an all-woman panel found the inmate “mentally unstable”. Speaking in Mumbai, Deshmukh said that the six-member, all-woman probe team, set up to verify the claims of the inmate had not found any evidence to show that policemen entered the hostel and asked the women to strip and dance before them. “The probe panel in its report said there was a cultural programme that the women inmates had organised for themselves at the hostel. There was recitation of poetry, singing, garba dance, which the inmates performed. One woman took off her garba dance gown that she was wearing as she was feeling uncomfortable,” said the minister. Deshmukh claimed that the woman inmate, who had made the allegations against the policemen, is not “mentally stable.” “Some other inmates have told the probe team that the woman at times abuses them when they take rest,” he said.The woman had claimed that a few policemen had entered the hostel and directed her and a few other inmates to strip and dance. A video of the woman making the allegations went viral and local activists took up the matter with Jalgaon district collector Abhijit Raut on Tuesday afternoon. Members of the opposition also raised the issue in the assembly on Wednesday. Raut told TOI that the probe team had carried out a thorough investigation and found that there was no entry of any outsiders, including policemen, inside the hostel. There was no obscene behaviour with any of the inmates. “The entertainment programme that the women inmates had organised was impromptu. Only the inmates were present at that event,” he said. Raut said the probe team has also come to know that the woman who made the allegations has a “traumatic past.” He added that even the activists who had raised the issue have now backed off as they have come to know that the allegations were false. A total of 18 inmates aged between 17 years and 60 years stay in the women’s hostel, which is managed by the state women and child welfare department. It houses women rescued in cases of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, victims of domestic violence or victimised girls in cases of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (Pocso) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-womans-allegations-against-cops-untrue-deshmukh/articleshow/81334934.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||12,700 get jabs as seniors inject enthusiasm in drive||Lucknow: A record number of people, over 12,700, were administered the vaccine against Covid-19 on Thursday in an overwhelming response of senior citizens above 60 years and those with comorbidities in 45-59 age group, but the beneficiaries had to face a tough time due to mismanagement at centres and glitches in Co-WIN app. The round was initially meant to administer a second shot of the two-dose vaccination course healthcare workers and first shot to left out frontline workers. Later, it was opened for elderly and comorbid with the option of walk-ins at government centres. The exercise was carried out at 64 centres —51 government and 13 private ones. This flexibility helped in inoculation of 12,773, highest in a single day so far. These included 3,669 elderly and 1,514 comorbid, though the feat was clouded by inconvenience to people. At KGMU, the elderly had to wait for over two hours for on-spot registration due to a glitch in the Co-WIN app. Some even went back disappointed. Ravindra Rathore, 65, a resident of Khadra, said, “I left work and came to get vaccinated, but they are saying the app is not working properly.” Retired NTPC officer, Madan Singh Chauhan (67) and his wife had to wait for over two hours and said “Technology is to make things easy for people and not add to their woes.” At a private hospital in Indiranagar, some beneficiaries with registration in advance were asked to go back because vaccine vials got finished before their turn. “ There was overcrowding at SPM Civil hospital centre as there were no separate counters for on-spot registration and verification of pre-registered. “It would have been better if I had gone to a private centre,” said Radhe Shyam (45), who is diabetic and hypertensive. Lajpat Rai (60) from Mahanagar complained about lack of signages to guide people. Doctors in some private hospitals said they are using insulin syringes as special syringes for vaccination are not available in the market. However, the glitches could not dampen the spirits and excitement of all. Former deputy director general of Doordarshan, SK Grover (70) got the shot at RMLIMS with his wife Archana Satish (57), who is also an anchor at Doordarshan and a cancer patient. Justice DP Singh and Justice Anant Kumar took the jabs along with their wives and appealed to others to also get vaccinated. District immunisation officer Dr MK Singh admitted there were issues in the Co-WIN app. “We will ensure things are smooth from next round,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/12700-get-jabs-as-seniors-inject-enthusiasm-in-drive/articleshow/81339611.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 5, 2021||Goa||90% schools ready for NEP from new academic year, says Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that 90% schools in the state are ready to implement the national education policy (NEP) from the new academic year. The state government will intervene to implement the policy in the remaining schools which didn’t have KG, he said. “The state government has taken the preliminary decision to start a foundation course for the age group from three to five years,” Sawant told reporters. The state government has taken all the people into confidence to start the foundation course and held taluka-level meetings to find out what kind of infrastructure is available, he said. Earlier, the chief minister held a meeting with Shiroda MLA and chairman of the state-level task force committee on the NEP Subhash Shirodkar, former chief minister and chairman of the 27-member committee constituted by the state government to examine the NEP in higher education Laxmikant Parsekar along with director of education, director of higher education and director of technical education to discuss the implementation of the NEP in the state. Sawant said that in the next one year they will identify the difficulties that the schools are facing. “The schools which are interested in starting should fill the forms and submit it with details about the infrastructure they have,” he said. The chief minister said that schools which have a primary section from Classes I to IV or KG and lower KG will be converted into Foundation-1 and Foundation-2. “If schools have difficulties, then the government will take a decision on intervening. In government schools, where classes from Class I to X are functional, we have decided to go ahead with it (implementation of the national education policy). We have also decided to implement the policy at government-aided schools,” Sawant said. He said that in the next 15 days, after a taluka-level meeting, the government will issue notifications related to the implementation of the new education policy. On the implementation of the NEP at the higher secondary level, Sawant said, “Whether it should be one university, two universities, or a professional university, we are waiting for a decision from the central government. Till then, it will not be implemented.” He said that the chairman will continue to study the policy for higher education and submit a report to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/90-schools-ready-for-nep-from-new-academic-year-says-sawant/articleshow/81338580.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nashik||Schools on Nashik city’s outskirts shut till March 15||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has ordered the closure of all private English-medium and international schools on the outskirts of Nashik city. All these schools fall outside the purview of the Nashik Municipal Corporation.“Many students and teachers, who reside in the city, travel to these schools every day. As the children have to take mass transport to go to their schools, they are more vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. Therefore, we have decided to close the schools till March 15,” said Mandhare.The collector said the decision was taken after discussions with the education officers. All schools within 15km from the NMC limits will stay closed now. The schools, however, can continue with online education and examinations.Citing the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Nashik city, Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav had ordered the closure of the city schools on Monday. Only the students of Classes X and XII were allowed to gather physically for English, science and mathematics lessons. Similar concessions have been made for the Class X and XII students of the schools outside the NMC limits.Vaishali Veer, the secondary education officer ZP, said the zilla parishad schools shall remain open. “The Nashik ZP has not yet decided to close the schools under its jurisdiction. The number of cases is rising in the rural areas and we are monitoring the situation,” Veer said.School closure in Aurangabad ruralIn Aurangabad, after the schools and junior colleges within the city limits were told to stay shut, even those in the rural areas have been asked to suspend operations till March 2o. Only Classes X and XII have been exempt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/schools-on-nashik-citys-outskirts-shut-till-march-15/articleshow/81338578.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 5, 2021||Goa||CZMP hearing venue shifts to Kala Academy||Panaji: The state government has changed the venue of the public hearing of the draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) from community hall, Taleigao to Kala Academy Panaji on March 7, from 10.30am to 5pm, and has notified the procedure for the same. Providing details in the notification, North Goa collector Ajit John said that Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) would restrict the number of persons gathered to 50% of the capacity at the venue for the public consultation with adequate social distancing and other safeguards in view of Covid-19 as issued by the government from time to time. Use of virtual platform/online facilities will also be employed in addition to the physical public hearing process. Given the need to give slots to maximum participants, it has been decided that one speaker will not be permitted to speak beyond a time limit of five minutes, he said. This also means that not more than 100 or 120 speakers will get an opportunity to speak. Speakers will get time slots as per the time of registration on the first come first serve basis. These speakers will be from both the categories– physical participants as well as those participating through virtual mediums. Not more than 150 participants will be registered as speakers, including both the mediums, Roy said To register as participant/speaker, he/she shall send following details to GCZMA at goacoastalzone@gmail.com or at the office of the collector and district magistrate, North during office hours on or before March 5 by 5pm: (a) Name (b) Gender (c) Address (d) Mobile No. (e) Email Id (f) Participate as: Participant/speaker (g) Mode of participation: Virtual Mode/Physical Mode (h) Valid ID Proof to be sent as attachment to email. The NGOs who wish to express their views will be allowed with one representive per NGO which has to be a registered one. No separate audio/video presentation of any kind will be allowed on the part of public participants/speakers. Such presentation if any, shall be submitted in the form of soft copy before the end of the public hearing and at the designated desk at the venue which will be considered. Roy said that those participants who are unable to attend the public hearing and/or those who could not get the slot to express their views, will be allowed to submit their written representation at the desk set up or in the office of GCZMA during the public consultation on March 7, or at fourth floor, Dempo Tower, EDC, Patto Plaza, Panaji-Goa, or the office of the collector and district magistrate, North, or by email on goascoastalzone@gmail.com by March 15, by 5pm. Participants can also submit their concern in writing to GCZMA on or before March 15 by 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/czmp-hearing-venue-shifts-to-kala-academy/articleshow/81338601.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 500 autos with updated meters to hit roads today||MUMBAI: The RTOs in Mumbai are finally gearing to begin the 2km road test for every autorickshaw and taxi meter from 6.30am on Friday. For the first time, it has set up 13 road test tracks in the suburbs for autorickshaws —five at Wadala RTO, five at Andheri and three at Borivli. At least 500 autos fitted with recalibrated meters could hit the roads by Friday evening, after getting the RTO seal and approval. The meters have also gone through the table tests in laboratories for a 48km run, sources said. Although in a few days there will be autos and also taxis fitted with meters showing revised fares of a minimum Rs 21 and Rs 25, respectively, many drivers still want to postpone their meter recalibration so that they can ferry passengers by charging old fares. The ridership continued to be hit this week and was 20% lower, transport sources said. Although their date of recalibration will be alloted soon, these drivers want to be among the last to recalibrate meters in May. The RTO has kept a timetable for 4.6 lakh autos and 60,000 taxis in Mumbai Metropolitan Region between March 1 and May 9, and those who miss the schedule can come between May10 and 31. These drivers want to rush at the eleventh hour, after giving rides to maximum passengers with old fares. “We are in no mood to collect the revised fares now as commuters too are happy to be ferried at old rates,” said Vijay Shintre, an auto driver from Bhandup. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said the hike was justified as it was due for five years. “There has been an increase in the cost of living index, fuel prices, operational costs and taxes and insurance costs. They have also suffered due to the Covid crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/first-autos-with-new-calibrated-meters-to-hit-mumbai-streets-today/articleshow/81339625.cms||Somit Sen
March 5, 2021||Goa||Mentoring programme for UGC-NET to resume soon||Panaji: The department of higher education (DHE) which is conducting the mentoring programme for candidates answering the computer-based UGC-NET conducted by the national testing agency scheduled to be held in May 2021, has announced that March 12 is the last date for registration. Students in the final year of their post-graduate studies can also apply, a press release issued by the department of information and publicity (DIP) stated. Candidates who want to avail the NET/SET mentoring session have to provide their details through Google forms at https://forms.gle/qwnP9GHDz4RkvQyy5 . The last date for these submissions online on Google is March 12, 2021. The press note has specified that no entries will be entertained after this date. A total of 20 mentoring sessions each in Paper–I will be conducted separately in March for students in north and in April for south Goa students. A subject-wise list of mentors for Paper–II along with their contact details will be uploaded at www.dhe.goa.gov.in. Students can contact mentors directly for their subjects for Paper–II mentoring, the DIP note stated. The registration fees applicable are Rs1,000 for general/OBC, Rs500 for SC/ST/PH, Rs250 for students, and Rs150 for SC/ST/PH students. Registration fees for those who have already enrolled for the previous NET/SET mentoring session is Rs300 for general/OBC, Rs250 for SC/ST/PH, Rs150 for students and Rs100 for SC/ST/PH students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mentoring-programme-for-ugc-net-to-resume-soon/articleshow/81338639.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||Actor’s best shot in pandemic times||Lucknow: Veteran actor Anil Rastogi, 77, along with his wife Sudha, 74, took the Covid vaccine at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences on Thursday. He was shooting for a series in Prayagraj and had come to Lucknow two days back and decided to get vaccinated at a walk-in facility. “It is a proud moment for our country that we have manufactured two vaccines in a short duration in the times of pandemic,” said Rastogi, a former scientist with the Central Drug Research Institute. He also urged everyone to take the vaccine Sudha Rastogi, a professor with Lucknow University, was initially skeptical about taking the jab. “I was afraid of any side-effect of the vaccine but my husband motivated me. So, I went forward and took the shot,” she said. “Taking the vaccine together was a memorable moment as this means we both are now safe against the virus,” said the couple who have been married for 59 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/actors-best-shot-in-pandemic-times/articleshow/81339642.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nashik||Nashik daily case-count topping recovery figures since Feb 3||Nashik: The city has seen a trend of a higher number of new Covid-19 cases on average compared to the average number of patients recovering from the infection. The city on an average recorded 204 new cases per day between February 10 and March 3, while during the same period, 116 patients recovered per day on average.According to NMC, the city reported 4,302 active cases during the last 21 days, while 2,437 patients have recovered.In December and January, the city had reported more per day recoveries than new cases. While the city reported 181 per day new cases on an average and 193 recoveries per day on an average in the month of December. In January, the city reported 116 new cases per day on an average and 126 recoveries per day on an average. “By the first week of February, the city reported fewer new cases per day. But there has been a rise in the number of new cases from the second week of February. A section of people are not following the Covid safety protocols and this is the major reason behind the rise in the number of new cases during the past three weeks,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintending officer of NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-daily-case-count-topping-recovery-figures-since-feb-3/articleshow/81338621.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP privilege motion after Ajit comment on boards||Mumbai: BJP politician Sudhir Mungantiwar on Thursday moved a breach of privilege notice against deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, accusing him of not fulfilling the assurance given in the house about making new appointments to the statutory development boards in the state. Moving the notice in the legislative assembly, Mungantiwar said that on December 15 last year, Pawar had told the house that appointments to the statutory development boards would be made as soon as possible. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal said the notice will be sent to the privileges committee. Pawar, who was present in the house, said that even though the statutory development boards are not in existence now, the government will ensure equitable distribution of funds to Vidarbha, Marathwada and North Maharashtra. Earlier this week, Pawar had said the appointments would be made after governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari clears the 12 names for legislative council under his quota. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bjp-privilege-motion-after-ajit-comment-on-boards/articleshow/81339675.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||Govt to develop Prayagraj’s Mahabharata era temple||Lucknow: A Mahabharata time temple in Kaurihar block of Prayagraj will be developed for tourists soon, said tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari on the floor of the Vidhan Parishad on Thursday. The temple is located about 15km from the district headquarters and is revered by people in the region. The minister said that the possibility of developing the place under the state’s plan for Mahabharata circuit will also be explored. Speaking in response to a question raised by MLC Swadesh Tripathi, Tewari said: “The government will allocate funds for development of tourist amenities in the temple area once the district submits a detailed project report in this regard.” The minister said the tourism department will also explore the possibility of investing money in the development of the temple through state funding. The temple is popularly known as Padila Mahadev while the presiding deity is called Baba Pandeshwarnath. Locals claim that the temple was built in the Dwapar Yuga by the Pandavs. “The Pandavs built this temple during their exile when the place was covered by a thick forest. On one occasion, they came across a shivling which appeared miraculously. The brothers worshipped the deity and in the course of time a temple was built around it,” said Ravi Upadhaye, a devotee. Devotees make a beeline to seek the deity’s blessing round the year and on special occasions like Mahashivratri or Sawan, it witnesses huge footfall. Some devotees also live in dharmashalas around the temple to offer 40-day long penance and offer jalabhishek to the deity. The temple is also a part of the Prayag Panchkosi parikrama which includes about 20-odd temples in and around Prayagraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-develop-prayagrajs-mahabharata-era-temple/articleshow/81339679.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||State to increase Covid vaccination session sites to 4K||Lucknow: From an average of 2,300 sites, the UP government has decided to increase the number of session sites to 4,000 to facilitate and speed up the vaccination of elderly persons. “By the end of next week, we will be scaling up the number of session sites. This is being done to speed up the vaccination of the elderly persons who are at the maximum risk,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. It may be noted that UP has a mammoth target of vaccinating 1.97 crore elderly persons. Of the total, about 25% or 49.44 lakh are to be given the first dose by the end of March. Eight districts, including Lakhimpur, Lucknow, Agra, Azamgarh, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur and Prayagraj have to immunise over one lakh persons in March with Lakhimpur Kheri accounting for the maximum 1.7 lakh persons. Prasad urged the 60 plus population to come forward and get them vaccinated as the group was at the highest risk. Data from the state health department revealed that over 45% of the Covid-19 deaths belong to the 60 years plus age group even as their case load was just 10%. The ACS also stated that the pandemic was on the decline in UP with case positivity rate declining to 0.1% which is an all-time low. However, he reiterated the importance of Covid-19 prevention protocol to keep trouble at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-to-increase-covid-vaccination-session-sites-to-4k/articleshow/81339666.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 5, 2021||Patna||9-year-old killed in ‘celebratory firing’||PATNA: A nine-year-old boy was allegedly killed in a ‘celebratory firing’ during the cremation procession of his grandmother Mora Devi near Teen Muhani Chowk under Khusrupur police station in rural Patna on Thursday. The incident took place around 11 am while family members were taking turns to carry the body in a procession barely 400 metres from their home at village Bada Hassanpur. “A relative of the deceased woman, Sanjeevan Singh (30), fired a few rounds in the air of which one struck her grandson Golu Kumar in the chest resulting in his death,” Fatuha SDPO Rajesh Kumar Manjhi said. The SDPO said the woman was aged around 90 years and had died of natural causes on Thursday morning. “As per their custom when an elderly person dies it is an occasion to celebrate. Accordingly, the relatives arranged an orchestra and were playing with colours as well as lighting crackers. It was amid this din that Sanjeevan fired his pistol suddenly, which resulted in Golu’s death,” Manjhi said. Hours after the cremation of the elderly woman’s body at Baikatpur ghat on the banks of the Ganga, the family members cremated Golu’s body at the same place around 6 pm. The SDPO said Singh fled after realising that the child was dead and was chased by people in the procession but he managed to flee. “Police later raided his home at Bada Hassanpur but found it locked. He fled with his wife leaving behind everything,” Manjhi said. Meanwhile, Khusrupur police station SHO Chandra Bhanu said they were on a patrol in the area when they spotted some villagers running while carrying an injured boy. “Police helped them rush the boy to a nearby hospital. He was breathing erratically and died soon after reaching the hospital,” he said. The SHO said Golu’s body was handed over to family members after conducting a post-mortem at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH). Bhanu said no empty cartridges were recovered from the spot but continuous raids are being carried out to nab Sanjeev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/9-year-old-killed-in-celebratory-firing/articleshow/81336418.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Massage oil, Rs 5 lakh for weapon licence in Saurashtra region||AHMEDABAD: A babu has not just taken cash and cheque but also allegedly took three litres of sesame oil for body massage to provide a weapon licence to a citizen from Saurashtra region. This is the same collector against whom already three cases of bribe and graft have been filed with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). The fourth case was filed on Wednesday. In the fresh complaint, a farmer from Saurashtra region alleged that he had approached the collector, who was earlier accused of taking money in cheque and through online banking transactions, on January 27, 2020 seeking weapon licence. The complainant said that he met the collector at his office during which he demanded Rs 1 lakh in cheque and Rs 4 lakh cash. “I was told to just fill amount and to make my signatures on the cheque and receiver details would be filled up by him. The collector told me that he would send his aide, wearing white shirt, near parking where I was supposed to give him Rs 4 lakh cash. I followed his instructions and paid him the amount,” he said. But in July 2020, the complainant was informed that his weapon licence was rejected. Aggrieved with this, he went to meet the collector and this time, the Babu told him to file an appeal before the home department. The complainant said, “When I went to meet him again, he asked me about the business I do. I told the collector that I am a farmer and do cultivation of juvar, millets and sesame seeds. He, then, told me to give him three litres of sesame seeds oil for body massage purpose to get the licence.” The complainant later went to his office and provided him body massage oil in presence of two other staffers and got snaps clicked while gifting the oil. Later, the collector told him to withdraw his appeal with home department while assuring him that he would give him fresh licence. The complainant, though, withdrew his appeal from the home department, the collector did not give him any licence and threatened him saying that he would not give the money back.  The complainant said that he has been threatened by the collector and if anything happens to him and his family, the babu will be responsible for that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/babus-cheque-red-career-massage-oil-rs-5-lakh-for-weapon-licence/articleshow/81337802.cms||Ashish Chauhan
March 5, 2021||Patna||Robbers loot Rs 14L from Nawada bank||PATNA: Bank robbers in the state are on a heist spree striking for the third day in a row on Thursday, escaping with around Rs 14 lakh from a Dakshin Bihar Gramin Bank branch at a village in Nawada district. A gang of at least half a dozen armed men entered the branch at Basti Bigha village under the Nardiganj police station area and took everyone hostage at gunpoint. This is the seventh bank loot in Bihar since January 8 this year, and the third in a row since Tuesday when robbers struck at a Uco Bank branch in Begusarai and made off with Rs 5.85 lakh. On Wednesday, bank robbers targeted an SBI's Jitwarpur Chauth branch in Samastipur and looted Rs 5.29 lakh. After Thursday's loot, the Basti Bigha branch's assistant manager Anita Kumari told TOI over the phone that at least five to six heavily armed criminals barged in around 1.40 pm. “They thrashed our cashier Rajeev Ranjan and forced him to open the iron chest at gunpoint. They also collected money from the cash counter. Altogether Rs 14,35,200 was looted as per initial counting. Further verification is going on,” she said. “As my workstation is right next to the branch main gate, one of the criminals pointed a pistol on my temple and ordered me to stay silent soon after entering,” she said Anita said the robbers barely took seven to eight minutes to rob the bank and fled. “Before leaving with the cash, the criminals forced all of us to move inside the chest room and locked the iron grill from outside. We somehow managed to slide the grill’s latch to set ourselves free. I informed my senior authorities and police about the loot,” she said. Anita further said there were altogether three bank staff inside the branch, including her, and four female customers at the time of the loot. She said more than Rs 15 lakh was brought to the branch on Wednesday for loan disbursal. “Only a small amount was disbursed while the rest amount was lying in the chest,” she added. Nawada SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram said the district border was sealed soon after receiving information about the loot. “Intensive raids are going on to nab them. At least six criminals carried out the loot,” she said. The SP said it would be hard to comment immediately if criminals involved in Begusarai and Samastipur bank loot are also involved in the Nawada incident or a separate gang committed the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/robbers-loot-rs-14l-from-nawada-bank/articleshow/81336383.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs grandmom to hand over kid to parents||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has directed a woman to immediately hand over custody of her 12-year-old grandchild to the child’s parents. The court held that parents were the natural guardians and had the highest right to have custody of a child. It, however, allowed the grandmother weekend visitation rights for three months, and then through a mutual agreement. The parents, based in Pune, had filed a habeas corpus petition (for orders to produce a person being detained) after their efforts for the last nine months to get custody of their only child was met with resistance from the wife’s mother. After a health issue cropped up in 2019, the child’s mother relocated to her mother’s hometown, Nashik, to undergo surgery. The child was admitted to a local school. Last March, they planned to return to Pune, but Covid and lockdown played spoilsport. In May 2020, the parents decided to admit the child in a Pune school, but the grandmother “picked up a quarrel and said she would not allow the child to be taken back to Pune”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-directs-grandmom-to-hand-over-kid-to-parents/articleshow/81339673.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 5, 2021||India||Some OTT shows contain porn, screening needed: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday backed the push for "screening" of content being telecast on OTT platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime as some of the shows contained “pornography” and directed that the Centre's recently-framed rules to regulate social media and OTT platform be placed before it. At the outset of the hearing on the anticipatory bail plea of Amazon Prime’s commercial head Aparna Purohit in the ‘Tandav' case, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy asked whether content of online platforms should be screened. Observing that traditional film viewing had changed with people not going to cinema halls to watch films and instead accessing them on internet platforms, the bench said, "There should be some screening of the shows. They sometimes show pornography content." Agreeing with the bench’s observation, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, said shows on OTT platforms also contained foul language. Mehta appeared for UP as the FIR in the ‘Tandav’ case was filed in the state. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Purohit, told the bench that the Centre recently framed rules to regulate social media and OTT platforms but contended that it would not be applicable in the case of his client as the rules was framed just a week ago. He said it was a "shocking" case as his client was neither the producer nor the director of the show but just an employee of Amazon. The bench, however, said a balance had to be maintained in such cases between the artist's right to freedom of speech and expression and the right of people who got offended by the contents of the show, and asked Mehta to place the rules framed by the Centre before it and posted the case for hearing on Friday. Under the new rules, OTT platforms and digital media will be required to disclose information about where they publish, the nature of the contents they share as well as their subscriber data. They will also be required to set up a grievance redress mechanism. For regulation of OTT platforms, the government mandated that a self-regulation body, headed by a retired judge or an eminent person, should be set up, besides "age-gating" of the content. Purohit approached the SC after the HC on February 25 declined to give her protection from arrest. UP police had filed an FIR against the top Amazon Prime executive for allegedly hurting religious sentiments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-ott-shows-contain-porn-screening-needed-sc/articleshow/81340313.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
March 5, 2021||Bareilly||Eye on panchayat polls, drive against illicit liquor stepped up in UP||Pilibhit: Apprehending a surge in illicit liquor distillation, sale and the smuggling in UP in view of the forthcoming panchayat elections, additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, has directed police and excise officials across the state to step up vigil. The notification for the elections is expected in the second week of this month. “The excise and the police officials have been ordered to coordinate with each other and also to keep in touch with the village ‘chokidaars’ (village guard liable to report crime to police) for any information about, the distillation and the sale of illicit liquor in rural areas,” said Bhoosreddy. As a result of the stepped up enforcement of anti-liquor drive, excise teams have recovered over 1.52 litres of illicit liquor and registered a record of 4,926 cases within a month till February 28, he said The enforcement teams have also arrested 1,449 accused for distillation, sale and the trading of illicit liquor and sent them to jail during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eye-on-panchayat-polls-drive-against-illicit-liquor-stepped-up-in-up/articleshow/81333477.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Signature campaign launched to create voter awareness||Udhagamandalam: Nilgiris collector and district election officer J Innocent Divya launched a signature campaign in Ooty on Thursday to create election awareness among the disabled voters.Divya also launched an election awareness vehicle. “The awareness programmes will ensure cent percent polling in the district,” she said. “There are 5,429 disabled voters in the district. Basic facilities have been made for them at the polling stations to enable them to cast their votes without any difficulty. Voters who are over 80 years old can cast their votes by postal ballot.”The awareness vehicle will reach remote areas in the district, the collector said.Later in the afternoon, Divya conducted a training programme for the officials involved in the election process in Ooty constituency. “The process of distribution of form 12-D started today. Voters above 80 years old and disabled voters can cast votes in person if they want,” she said.Divya instructed the officials to adhere to the directions of the election commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/signature-campaign-launched-to-create-voter-awareness/articleshow/81338686.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nashik||Dhule dist: Only 2 Covid deaths in Feb||Nashik: A significant rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases notwithstanding, the Dhule district has registered only two Covid-related fatalities in February, said Dr Vishal Patil, the district Covid nodal officer and resident medical officer. “Identification of Covid-19 patients and contact tracing work is being carried out on a war footing. That is why there have been only two deaths in February,” Patil said. The fatality rate was 0.5 %, he added. The district had only 98 active cases on February 3 and by March 3, the number had shot up to 1,041. There were 11 patients admitted to the Government Medical College on February 3. The number went up to 110 in March. Similarly the people in home isolation on February 3 was 66, but by March 3, the number was 721. Patil said the administration has ramped up testing. “From about 450 tests per day, we are now conducting 1,000 daily tests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-dist-only-2-covid-deaths-in-feb/articleshow/81338666.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Four men arrested for poaching spotted deer in tiger reserve||Erode: Forest department officials arrested four people for poaching a spotted deer at the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve on Wednesday.Special Task Force (STF) personnel from the Sathyamangalam battalion, who were conducting combing operation for Maoists at the Pikkiripalayam forest beat, had chanced upon the four men. The men were carrying two country-made guns, snare wires and deer meat.After inquiry revealed that they had poached a spotted deer on Tuesday night, the STF personnel handed them over to forest officials. Range officer A Fernandez said the men, identified as P Periyasamy, 47, S Marimuthu, 30, K Mari, 46 and M Thippan, 48, of Pikkiripalayam village, confessed to the crime.The officials are inquiring whether they were involved in other poaching activities. The accused were lodged in the Sathyamangalam sub-jail in judicial custody for 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-men-arrested-for-poaching-spotted-deer-in-tiger-reserve/articleshow/81338689.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Unease of living in Mumbai shows up in national ranking||MUMBAI: Mumbai may be India’s financial powerhouse, but on the 2020 Ease of Living Index, it ranks a lowly 10th among Indian cities with a population of over one million. Greater Mumbai has scored 58.2 compared to Bengaluru (ranked first) with a score of 66.7. The drop is drastic – in the last index in 2018, it was third. The new list released on Thursday pegged Navi Mumbai at sixth place (ahead of Mumbai) and Thane at 11th. In 2018, Navi Mumbai was second while Thane came sixth. Thus, the three biggest centres in Mumbai Metropolitan Region have all declined on the index. The Ease of Living Index 2020 was broadened into two distinct exercises over the previous one: Ease of Living Index 2020 and Municipal Performance Index 2020. Municipal Index assesses performance of municipalities, serving as a guide for policy decisions. In the Municipal Index 2020, Mumbai is ranked 8th, Navi Mumbai 11th and Thane at 25th. This ranking reflects civic governance through a data-driven approach that looks at service delivery, financial management, efficiency of planning, adoption of technology and governance practices. On this scale, Mumbai is behind Pune and Ahmedabad. The Ease of Living Index developed by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs is based on four categories – Quality of Life, Sustainability, Economic Ability and Citizens’ Perception (see graphic). Quality of Life includes parameters like education, health, housing, sanitation, waste management, mobility, safety and recreation. In the sub-ranking for Quality of Life, Mumbai comes 36th in the country; Chennai tops while Navi Mumbai comes third. Economic Ability, as a category, looks at how cities provide opportunities while Sustainability includes accessibility to green spaces. BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said citizens’ perception carries almost 30% marks. “With the kind of work BMC has done during the pandemic, citizens' perception is sure to change for the better. Also, BMC is undertaking large scale infrastructure projectslike the coastal road, Goregaon Mulund Link road and desalination plant which is all being done to improve the quality of life,” he told TOI. Architect P K Das said he is not surprised to see Mumbai drop in rankings. “We have constantly neglected our environment and public spaces. The city is obsessed with the real estate agenda and has been affected with the ‘build more’ syndrome. This is no way to improve Mumbai’s quality of life,” he said. Town planners and activists also pointed to lack of open spaces. Mumbai has the lowest ratio of open spaces to population; less than 0.03 acres per thousand people. With a population of over 12 million (1.2crore) and a geographical area of 437 sq km, Greater Mumbai is among the most densely populated cities on earth. Barely 120 sq km is actual habitable residential area where 12 million people live. “Density in residential areas is about 110,000 persons per sq km, making Mumbai the most densely populated city of the world,” said Das. Of the 12 million, roughly six million live in slums, 2.5 million in chawls and dilapidated buildings. Housing activist Chandrashekhar Prabhu said, “Ease of living comes with affordable housing, quality infrastructure and easy access to communication for work. The problem in Mumbai is that there is no land available for implementing schemes for affordable housing. Land owned by private parties is not available because government does not have money for land acquisition under the new laws.” He added, “Even if money is made available, cost of resultant housing would be so high that it will be unaffordable to 98% of the population.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unease-of-living-in-mumbai-shows-up-in-natl-ranking/articleshow/81338717.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||UP govt revokes suspension of IPS officer Vaibhav Krishna||LUCKNOW: The state government on Thursday revoked the suspension of IPS Vaibhav Krishna who was suspended on January 9, 2020 after his explicit video calling and exchange of messages had gone viral on social media. The officer was posted as SSP GB Nagar at the time of the incident. Senior officers of the home department confirmed about the same. The officer had also made allegations of taking money for transfer-postings in important districts against five serving IPS officers in the state. Of the five IPS officers, three were given clean chit by the special investigation team formed by the government to probe the charges. The SIT had, however, recommended action against two IPS officers Ajay Pal Sharma and Himanshu Kumar. Later, an FIR was lodged by the Vigilance establishment against them. Seen as an upright officer, Vaibhav Krishna was the first to unearth the Rs 4,000 crore Bike Bot scam and had arrested Sanjay Bhati, the owner of Garvit Innovators Promoters Limited (GIPL). The first FIR in connection with bike bot scam was registered during Krishna’s stint as SSP GB Nagar. He also ran intensive crackdown against mafias during his stint as SSP in GB Nagar, Ghaziabad, Etawah and Barabanki districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-revokes-suspension-of-ips-officer-vaibhav-krishna/articleshow/81339692.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Meerut||Six more Amroha villages boycott sale of milk until new farm laws are withdrawn||Bijnor: Dairy farmers of six more villages in UP’s Amroha district have stopped supply of milk to the cooperative societies in solidarity with the farmers’ movement. Earlier, three other villages in the district had announced to boycott milk supply till the three farm laws are withdrawn by the Union government. The villagers have also announced that from March 6, they will sell milk at Rs 100 per litre. At present, their supply is sold between Rs 25 and Rs 35 per litre. The villagers have started extracting ghee from the milk so as to increase the shelf life of the product. Now, dairy farmers of the nine villages are also pressing for a law on guarantee of payment and minimum support price for crops. Apart from cooperatives, several private dairies have also not received any milk for the past few days in the district. Anuj Kumar, who owns a private dairy, said, “I have been running a dairy in my village for the past six or seven years and am affiliated with a private dairy. Farmers usually supply milk to me. But for the last four days, they have stopped milk supply. The farmers have not allowed our vehicles to enter the villages. What can we do when farmers are united in not supplying milk.” Talking with TOI, Nitu, a dairy farmer, said, “We have around 20 cattle which produce at least 100 litres of milk a day. We sell it to the milkman. But for the last three days, we have not sold a single drop of milk. The government is not thinking about the welfare of farmers and cattle owners. While the price of petrol, diesel, cooking gas, fertilizers and power tariff have skyrocketed, why can’t milk prices be increased? Cost of milk production is over Rs 40 per litre while we get only Rs 30 or Rs 35 for a litre of milk. Yet we were working 24 hours to fulfill the needs of the common men in the interest of our country. We sell our products at throwaway prices but have to buy other products from the market at high prices. In such a condition, how will farmers survive?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/six-more-amroha-villages-boycott-sale-of-milk-until-new-farm-laws-are-withdrawn/articleshow/81335923.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 5, 2021||Coimbatore||VAO held for taking bribe||Coimbatore: Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) arrested a village administrative officer (VAO) on Thursday while accepting bribe from a person at his office in Pannimadai. A retired village assistant was also arrested in connection with the case.The arrested people were identified as VAO S Sivakumar, 39, of Eru Company and R Palanisamy of Hudco Colony at Vellakinar. S Karthi, a resident of Pannimadai, had applied for name transfer of patta document online. When Karthi approached him, Sivakumar allegedly demanded Rs 7,000. He asked Karthi to hand over the money to retired village assistant Palanisamy. Karthi informed DVAC officials, who laid a trap. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vao-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/81338720.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||Schools ask govt to bail them out of financial crisis||Mumbai: A year after schools across the state shut down physical classes, a private schools’ association in the state has sought help from the government to tide over financial woes. As non-payment of fees continues in large numbers, the Maharashtra English School Teachers Association (MESTA) wants the government to pay teachers the minimum wage, release the pending Right to Education Act reimbursement and provide waiver of taxes and electricity bills for schools. Association members said they were mobilising affected teachers across the state and would hold a protest march next month. “Due to a handful of parents, even those who are not eligible are demanding fee cuts. Schools are on the brink of closure, leading to unemployment to the tune of lakhs. Teachers went beyond the call of duty during the lockdown and, like other agencies providing essential services they too should be honoured with the title of ‘Covid Warriors’. Instead, they have been insulted with massive pay cuts due to non-payment of fees,” said association president, Sanjayrao Patil. The group submitted its list of demands to education minister, Varsha Gaikwad, on Thursday. Meanwhile, the BJP teachers’ cell has demanded the BMC waive rentals for schools that run out of their premises. “Most of these schools cater to students from economically weaker sections. The parents haven’t been able to pay fees throughout the lockdown, but these schools have paid Rs 2.5 crore as advance rent. The least the civic body can do is give relief in rent to help these schools survive,” said Anil Bornare, executive member of the cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mumbai-schools-ask-govt-to-bail-them-out-of-financial-crisis/articleshow/81346088.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
March 5, 2021||Nashik||Maha health varsity’s final-year UG exams to be held offline, no change in schedule||NASHIK: The Board of Examinations (BoE) of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has decided that there will be no alterations in the dates for the final-year undergraduate examinations of health science courses. The BoE, headed by varsity’s acting vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar, has also made it clear that the exams will be held in offline mode. The BoE has also approved the SOP framed by the varsity’s examination department for the conduct of the exams in adherence to the Covid safety protocols. The examinees have to wear masks during the exams. These decisions assume significance as some final-year MBBS students had written to state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh and MUHS demanding that the exams be conducted online. A total of 10,995 final-year students of various health science courses such as MBBS, BDS, BHMS, BAMS will appear for the winter 2020 exams. While the theory papers will take place between March 8 and March 22, the practicals will be held from March 25 to April 30. Varsity’s controller of examinations Ajit Pathak told TOI that the Bombay high court has directed the varsity to hold the examinations offline. “Moreover, since the students who are successful in this exam have to undergo mandatory one-year internship in hospitals, it will help those hospitals have more doctors to treat patients, including those infected with the novel coronavirus,” added Pathak. MUHS has set up 165 exam centres across the state. Each centre has been provided with Rs 20,000 to buy sanitizers and sodium hypochlorite. Pathak said the MUHS had successfully conducted the winter 2020 postgraduate exams for different health science courses in January and February this year. And results of many of these exams like PG allopathy, PG dental, PG physiotherapy have been declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maha-health-varsitys-final-year-ug-exams-to-be-held-offline-no-change-in-schedule/articleshow/81345586.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Srivilliputhur temple elephant sent back from rejuvenation camp||Coimbatore: Srivilliputhur Andal temple elephant Jayamalyatha, which was beaten up by its mahout and his assistant at the rejuvenation camp at Thekkampatti here last month, was sent back to the temple on Thursday.The annual rejuvenation camp for temple and mutt elephants had started on February 8. As many as 23 temple elephants and three mutt elephants participated in the camp. It is scheduled to end on March 27. After forest department officials arrested mahout Vinil Kumar and his assistant Sivaprasath, 32, on February 21 on charges of beating it up, the 19-year-old elephant was kept in chains.Mahout M Subramani, who was deployed by the forest department to take care of Jayamalyatha, was not confident of removing the chain.An expert committee of veterinary officers inspected Jayamalyatha on February 22. They observed that the elephant may display aggressive behavior due to absence of its mahout.In a letter to joint commissioner of Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department in Coimbatore R Senthilvelavan on March 2, HR&CE joint commissioner P Kavitha Priyadharsini said it was not safe to keep the elephant at the camp and requested the official to send it back to the temple.Senthilvelavan sought permission from the district forest officer, who gave the nod. HR&CE officials brought a truck to the camp on Wednesday night. The elephant was shifted to the vehicle under the supervision of a team of veterinary officers around 2am on Thursday. The truck carrying the elephant reached Srivilliputhur Andal temple around 10.30am on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/srivilliputhur-temple-elephant-sent-back-from-rejuvenation-camp/articleshow/81338718.cms||A Subburaj
March 5, 2021||Chennai||AMMK keen to contest polls by forging alliance||A day after V K Sasikala, a close aide of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, said she was stepping aside from politics and urged all cadres of Amma (Jayalalithaa) to work together to facilitate the formation of her sister’s (Jayalalithaa) government in the state, AMMK, a party floated by her nephew T T V Dhinakaran, maintained its efforts to contest the assembly poll. Though the statement from Sasikala came as a shock to the AMMK cadres, who had turned out in large numbers to welcome her back to Chennai after being released from a prison in Bengaluru, they overcame it soon to assemble in large numbers at the AMMK party office in Royapettah on Thursday to submit applications to contest the assembly election. "Around 1,700 applications have been submitted over the past two days. We expect the numbers to touch around 3,000 in the next couple of days," AMMK sources said. About 70% of the applications are from the southern and central districts, besides western region to an extent, they said. "There is definitely a sense of shock over Sasikala’s announcement. But they feel she was forced to take such a call by forces beyond her control. But our general secretary (Dhinakaran) is determined to go ahead and contest the polls. He will release the party’s list of candidates on March 10, by which time we expect an alliance with like-minded parties too will be announced," the sources added. AMMK spokesman Veera Vetri Pandian said ‘Chinnamma’s’ sudden announcement had come as a shock and disappointment to them. "But you may have read the statement in which she said we should strive to bring about Amma’s rule in the state. What is happening now is not Amma’s rule, only T T V Dhinakaran can give such a government and we will work towards it," he said. Pandian said it was the treachery by the AIADMK leaders, which had led Sasikala to take such a decision. "She treated them like her children," he said. AMMK’s candidate for the Lok Sabha K David Annadurai said the announcement had come as a blow. "But, if you want a real answer from me, you will have to give me a couple of days to digest the current state of affairs,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ammk-keen-to-contest-polls-by-forging-alliance/articleshow/81338739.cms||D Govardan
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Schools ask govt to bail them out of financial crisis||Mumbai: A year after schools across the state shut down physical classes, a private schools’ association in the state has sought help from the government to tide over financial woes. As non-payment of fees continues in large numbers, the Maharashtra English School Teachers Association (MESTA) wants the government to pay teachers the minimum wage, release the pending Right to Education Act reimbursement and provide waiver of taxes and electricity bills for schools. Association members said they were mobilising affected teachers across the state and would hold a protest march next month. “Due to a handful of parents, even those who are not eligible are demanding fee cuts. Schools are on the brink of closure, leading to unemployment to the tune of lakhs. Teachers went beyond the call of duty during the lockdown and, like other agencies providing essential services they too should be honoured with the title of ‘Covid Warriors’. Instead, they have been insulted with massive pay cuts due to non-payment of fees,” said association president, Sanjayrao Patil. The group submitted its list of demands to education minister, Varsha Gaikwad, on Thursday. Meanwhile, the BJP teachers’ cell has demanded the BMC waive rentals for schools that run out of their premises. “Most of these schools cater to students from economically weaker sections. The parents haven’t been able to pay fees throughout the lockdown, but these schools have paid Rs 2.5 crore as advance rent. The least the civic body can do is give relief in rent to help these schools survive,” said Anil Bornare, executive member of the cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-schools-ask-govt-to-bail-them-out-of-financial-crisis/articleshow/81339705.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
March 5, 2021||Coimbatore||City corpn makes state proud||The city corporation has been ranked 12th among the 51 city corporations in the country with a population of more than one million. None of the city corporations in the state has made it to the top 10 in the Municipal Performance Index (MPI). Chennai and Madurai corporations, however, managed to find a place among the top 25 with a ranking of 18th and 22nd, respectively. The corporations were ranked based on the services they offer, finances in hand and its use, technology, planning and governance. Surprisingly, the city corporation, which stared at empty coffers for months together in 2017 unable to take up even repair works, was ranked fourth in the country in the finance front and 29th in the planning front.The city corporation scored 58.84 out of 100 in the services front and 64.18 in the finance front, while the national highest scores in these fronts were 73.92 and 69.69, respectively. In technology and planning fronts, it could score only 28.03 and 36.12, respectively. Senior corporation officials said they were studying the rankings closely and comparing the same with that of the top performing corporations. “We do have a lot of the latest technology, be it e-payment facilities, solar power panels and LED lighting, among others. So, we need to know why people felt we were technologically inadequate. The same applies for feedback regarding planning as well,” said a corporation official.City activists, however, agreed with the MPI and said the corporation’s performance in planning and governance fronts was not up to the mark. K Kathirmathiyon, consumer activist, says, “It is because of its poor governance that unauthorized constructions come up. Planning too has to improve to avoid drainage leak and damages to newly-laid roads. It turned DB Road into a model road by widening pavements and reducing motorable space, that too when the vehicle population is on the rise.”Pointing out that the corporation has always been facing shortage of funds and dependent on grants for bigger projects, R Raveendran, secretary, Residents’ Awareness Associations of Coimbatore, wondered about the corporation securing fourth rank in the finances front. “I don’t know how the rating was issued.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-corpn-makes-state-proud/articleshow/81338753.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: Sagwara on Gujarat border turns hotspot||JAIPUR: A containment zone with zero mobility has been declared in Dungarpur’s Sagwara block after it became a Covid hotspot with more than 56 persons testing positive in the past five days. Dungarpur is along Gujarat border, which is currently witnessing a spike in cases. The district administration issued the order to create the containment zone on Wednesday and it will remain in force till further directions. People in the affected area have been asked to remain indoors as it has been declared zero-mobility zone. Police have barricaded the area and are making rounds to ensure that no one violates the order. All commercial establishments, including shops, will remain closed except healthcare services. Rallies and gatherings have been prohibited till further orders. Grocery shops and vegetable shops too will remain closed. The district administration will issue passes to grocery shopkeepers and dairy owners for door-to-door delivery of items. No vehicle will be allowed to ply in the affected area. Entry points have been set up by the police and health department teams have been deployed to ensure that no one can enter the area without proper screening for symptoms of Covid. The restrictions will not be applicable for patients and healthcare workers. Masks have been made compulsory in the containment area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sagwara-on-guj-border-turns-hotspot/articleshow/81338750.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||After 10-yr wait, SRA gets moving on rehab of Mumbai’s Badhwar Park slums||Mumbai: More than 10 years after it tabled the proposal, the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) recently issued a letter of intent (LoI) for the redevelopment of the three sea-facing slum pockets opposite Cuffe Parade’s Badhwar Park where the 26/11 terrorists, including Ajmal Kasab, had landed. This will be one of the city’s costliest SRA schemes where sale component flats could be priced between Rs 5 crore and Rs 10 crore. The long wait to move into their permanent homes could end soon for the 300-odd hutments in the slum pockets of Garib Janta Nagar, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Nagar and Amrapali. Being developed by Neumec Group, the construction is likely to be completed in two years. If all goes as planned, the slum pockets will make way for a 28-storey tower to house the slum dwellers and a 24-storey tower for sale. The process for rehabilitation of the slum dwellers had begun back in 2010 and was stuck in red tape for more than a decade. “We have received the LoI and now we will apply for a clearance to the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA). We hope to complete the project in two years. The sale component will include mid-size housing and not luxury housing,” said a Neumec Group spokesperson. The three slum colonies were constructed in the 1990s and local residents are happy things have finally begun to move. “We are very happy that finally permissions have come for slum rehabilitation. We will cooperate with the authorities and hope there are no further hurdles in the redevelopment,” said Prabhakar Tambe, chief promoter of Amrapali Cooperative Housing Society, one of the three slum colonies. The slum pockets also house the jetty where Kasab and his nine fellow terrorists had reportedly landed in Mumbai in a dinghy in 2008. The slums are located along Captain Prakash Pete Marg. The ready reckoner rates in the area are around Rs 57,000 per square foot. Tambe moved into the slum colony in 1995. “My entire youth was spent here. Now we have many youngsters who are educated and are doing good jobs. They don’t want to stay in the slums. In the monsoon, we have to struggle a lot since the sea water enters our homes. The entire sea face stinks a lot. We hope to move into regular homes in the tower soon,” he said. SRA officials said the three slum pockets, spread over 3,400 square metres, will be developed together. The entire land is sea-facing and both the slum rehabilitation building as well as the sale competent one will have an unhindered view of the sea, they said. “The LoI has been issued based on the consent given by the slum dwellers. The LoI will be valid as long as all the conditions are fulfilled and complied with,” an SRA official said. “We will first construct the rehabilitation tower and then the sale component. We are yet to finalise the exact size of the flats in the sale component, so no pricing has been fixed yet. We will get all the permissions and finish this project in a time-bound manner,” the Neumec Group spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-10-yr-wait-sra-gets-moving-on-rehab-of-mumbais-badhwar-park-slums/articleshow/81337000.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||10 nominations filed for 8 posts of Sunni board||Ayodhya : Former chairman of Sunni Waqf Board and president of Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, Zufar Farooqi, was among ten people who have filed their nominations for the eight posts of the board. Both Farooqi and another member of the Ayodhya Mosque Trust, Adnaan Farrukh, from Gorakhpur, have filed their papers for the two seats of Mutawalli quota. For the two seats of the Member of Parliament quota, Samajwadi Party MP ST Hasan from Moradabad and Bahujan Samaj Party MP Kunwar Danish Ali from Amroha have filed their nominations. For the two seats of MLA/MLC quota, three Smajwadi Party MLAs, Abrar Ahmad from Sultanpur, Nafees Ahmad from Azamgarh and Iqbal Mahmood from Sambhal are in the fray. SP MLC from Amroha, Parvez Ali, has also filed the nomination. However according to top sources in SP, Parvez Ali and MLA Iqbal Mahmood may withdraw their nominations on Friday. For the two seats of Bar Council, Imran Mabood Khan and Abdul Razzaq Khan have filed their papers. Elections for the members of the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Waqf Board are to be held on Sunday for the eight-member board to look after those Waqfs having the at least income of 1 Lakh per year. Three members would be nominated by the Uttar Pradesh government that would include a special secretary-level officer, one religious scholar and one social worker. All the 11 members of the Waqf Board are Sunni Muslims. The elected members of the board would elect the chairman. Election officer Shivakant Dwivedi told TOI that nominations could be withdrawn on Friday from 11 am to 5 pm and on Saturday the final list of contestants would be displayed. The election, if needed, would be held on Sunday and result declared the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-nominations-filed-for-8-posts-of-sunni-board/articleshow/81339699.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Coimbatore||We are living in seventh best city in country!||Coimbatore is the seventh best city to live in India among the 49 cities with more than one million population, according to the ease of living index 2020 that was prepared and released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday.While the city was ranked second in the quality of life, it was placed 47 among the 49 cities in the sustainability ranking. Residents seemed especially happy with the financial potential of the city, quality of infrastructure like electricity, women’s safety and healthcare. They were, however, unhappy with the sufficiency of income to maintain an adequate quality of life.Coimbatore scored 59.72 out of 100 in the ease of living index. Bengaluru topped the table with a score of 66.70, followed by Pune and Ahmedabad. Within Tamil Nadu, Chennai topped the list with a score of 62.61 and was ranked the fourth best city to live in the country among the cities with more than one million population.Each city was ranked by mainly assessing the quality of life, economic ability and sustainability and resilience. Among these, the residents in Coimbatore seemed most satisfied with their quality of life, for which they gave a score of 60.33, and most unhappy with sustainability, which received a score of 48.52.It had also taken into account people’s view on the services provided by the city administration through a citizen perception survey. And Coimbatore was ranked 10th in the list on people feeling satisfied with the local administration.The survey required people to score the city on 21 criteria, including women’s safety in public places, adequate recreational facilities, livelihood opportunities, and quality and affordability of electricity supply, among others. Among these, people seemed happiest with the quality of drinking water supplied, giving it a score of 90 out of 100. Quality of electricity, efficiency of emergency services, and access to healthcare and financial services also got scores above 80.However, people found it difficult to afford all the above infrastructure and facilities. While the residents admitted they enjoy high quality of electricity supply, they gave a very low score to affordable electricity. In fact, all the parameters with low scores had to do with affordability and green cover – the residents have rated the city low on affordable electricity, affordable housing, education and sufficiency of income to maintain quality of life.Activists said Coimbatore has been found to be better than most other tier-II cities in the country. “However, issues like high cost of housing and living, etc., do exist, while electricity cost is reasonable,” says K Kathirmathiyon, of Coimbatore Consumer Cause.R Raveendran, secretary, Residents’ Awareness Associations of Coimbatore, says the city has good weather and water, and pleasant and respectful people. “But there is a lot of room for improvement. We can have better infrastructure and financial opportunities, etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/we-are-living-in-seventh-best-city-in-country/articleshow/81338745.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Aurangabad||Doctor dismissed for seeking sexual favour from patient in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation has dismissed an Ayush doctor for allegedly demanding sexual favours from a 25-year-old woman admitted to the Padampura-based Covid care centre (CCC). The incident came to light on Wednesday morning after the victim confided in another patient, who, in turn, sent a message to the officials of the civic body. AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey immediately ordered a probe by woman health officials. AMC health officer Neeta Padalkar told TOI: “On learning about the incident, an inquiry was carried out by us. Based on the victims’ first-hand account, and CCTV footage corroboration, the doctor was dismissed on Thursday morning.” Padalkar added the woman has been asked to lodge a police complaint, but she and her family members are hesitant. The inquiry revealed that the alleged incident took place in the early hours of Wednesday. The woman wanted to be discharged and had made a request on Tuesday evening during the night round of the doctors. The suspect medico, who was on night duty, telephoned the woman around 1.30 am and called her downstairs on the pretext of having a word with her about the discharge. As the suspect medico was an acquaintance of her husband, the woman went to meet him. CCTV footage has revealed that woman and doctor interacted for about 40 minutes and there was no physical contact between them, said Padalkar. It is alleged that during this conversation, the doctor sought sexual favours. Shocked, the woman rushed back to the ward crying. She then confided in the patient in the bed next to her. This patient then sent a message to the civic authorities. Aurangabad police commissioner Nikhil Gupta said the police are yet to receive a complaint. “The law will take its course, provided a complaint is lodged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/doc-dismissed-for-seeking-sexual-favour-from-patient/articleshow/81338757.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||Yogi govt has given push to devpt: Tiwari||Ballia: BJP’s Lok Sabha MP from North-East Delhi and popular Bhojpuri star Manoj Tiwari on Thursday said the Yogi Adityanath government in the state has given unprecedented push to development which will continue for several years to come as BJP will return to power in 2022 with yet another emphatic margin. “People of Purvanchal in particular are blessed that there is Yogi government, which has taken special care of the region,” Tiwari said here. The BJP MP, who was here to inaugurate Seth MR Jaipuria School at Rasra, referred to the Purvanchal Expressway, which, he said is being developed on a war footing. “It will usher in a new chapter of growth in the region,” Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-govt-has-given-push-to-devpt-tiwari/articleshow/81339709.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Meerut||UP: Dalit girl, 18, pulled into sugarcane field & gang-raped, tries to kill herself||BIJNOR: An 18-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly pulled into sugarcane field by a man and his minor cousin and gang-raped in UP’s Amroha district. The alleged assault took place in Amroha’s Rajabpur region on March 1. The family members came to know about it two days later, on Wednesday, when the girl broke down and narrated the incident. Just a few hours later she consumed poison and was rushed to a hospital. Local police have registered an FIR and arrested the accused, Kuldeep Singh, 19. The minor boy has been detained. Superintendent of police (SP) of Amroha, Suniti, said, “The accused and the victim are neighbours. Police have registered a case against them under SC/ST Act and under IPC section 376-D (gang-rape). Police have arrested one of the accused and are interrogating him.” According to the complaint filed by the girl’s family members, “She was working in the field when the accused, Kuldeep, and his minor cousin dragged her into a sugarcane field and raped her. The accused had also threatened her with dire consequences if she disclosed the matter to anyone.” The girl is admitted in a private hospital and her condition is stable. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dalit-girl-18-pulled-into-sugarcane-field-gang-raped-tries-to-kill-herself/articleshow/81335985.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Wagons of goods train derail on cement factory campus||Coimbatore: Four wagons of a goods train derailed inside the ACC Cement factory at Madukkarai around 4.45am on Thursday.The spokesperson of the Palakkad division of Southern Railway said the wagons derailed during shunting. “The loco pilot was trying to attach the engine to the wagons. However, they did not align properly and due to the impact of the engine hitting them, four wagons moved out of the track. The track on the factory premises was also damaged,” he said.No one was injured in the incident. It was 2.30pm before the damage on the track was rectified and the train was rerailed. “Rerailing and repair was taken up by ACC staff since it is their engine and their tracks,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wagons-of-goods-train-derail-on-cement-factory-campus/articleshow/81338765.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Pune drops from top rank to 2nd place||Pune: Pune ranks second on the Ease of Living Index 2020 (EoLI 2020), but civic activists, experts and citizens said a lot needs to be done to justify the high rank. Else, ranking would seem like an exercise on paper, they said. On the other hand, Pimpri Chinchwad has risen from way down (69th place) to reach 16th rank. Pune had topped in the previous ranking but dropped to second position in 2020. As per details released by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), the city has bagged top position only in one (Sustainability) of the four sub-categories. In Quality of Life category, the city secured 6thposition, in Economic Activity it was ranked third, while in Citizen Perception, the city bagged 16th position. Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch said a drop to the second position from the first for Pune in EoLI shows that the city administration needs to put in more effort to ensure that citizens get better services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pune-drops-from-top-rank-to-2nd-place/articleshow/81338803.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Quality life in Chennai, courtesy safety, health and education facilities||CHENNAI: Among cities in India with more than a million population, Chennai has the best quality of life, is highly resilient with best mobility options and is safe and secure. However, the city ranks poorly on economic abilities, places of recreation and the number of green structures. This has been revealed in the latest Ease of Living Survey 2020, released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday. Along with this report, the ministry also released a detailed survey on the performance index of municipalities. Chennai has emerged as a city which has performed better than the national average on almost all indicators, but is not outstanding. It ranks fourth in the Ease of Living index, while in the Municipal Performance Index it is 18th among cities with more than a million population. The municipal index has found that Chennai does well as far as government work in registration and permits is concerned, in fiscal decentralisation and in digital governance. However, the survey found huge gaps in the planning infrastructure saying Chennai is among 27 urban local bodies that do not have an updated master plan. This impedes officials in analysing gaps in governance and infrastructure, and resolving them. Also, enforcement of plans is poor, indicating a high number of buildings with deviated structures, encroachment and poor collection of penalties. Health, education, safety and security and mobility have helped Chennai get a better score in the Ease of Living index. For instance, Chennai is one of the 34 cities that has professionally trained teachers and has high quality, accredited public health infrastructure. While public transport was found to be inefficient in Bengaluru, Pune, Navi Mumbai and Ahmedabad, Chennai was an outlier among bigger cities, scoring high marks. It had the best marks on metric for availability of public transport. Economic opportunities in Chennai were lower than in Bengaluru and Hyderabad, but the city had a healthier environment, the survey noted. Retired bureaucrat M G Devasahayam said on indicators such as education and health, Chennai has always been ahead of the curve. “But if this is analysed based on infrastructure built in the last few years, Chennai may be found wanting,” he said. Devasahayam, who was part of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority’s monitoring committee, was critical of the planning process in the city, as identified by the survey. “The master plan created in 2008 was faulty and implementation has been poor. Rules and approval process for building construction are arbitrary,” he said. The MPI survey has also found Greater Chennai Corporation wanting on the digital front, suggesting the need for more digital literacy drives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/quality-life-in-city-courtesy-safety-health-edu-facilities/articleshow/81336978.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
March 5, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: SOPs on women safety at Covid care centres by March 31||AURANGABAD: Taking cognizance of reports of an Ayush doctor allegedly seeking sexual favours from a patient at the Aurangabad-based Covid care centre, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday announced that the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on women’s safety at the Covid facilities would be issued by March 31. The announcement was made by Pawar during the ongoing Assembly session. He termed the alleged incident unfortunate. The incident has attracted widespread criticism, with activists demanding registration of an offence and immediate arrest of the doctor concerned. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s health authorities have asked the victim and her family members to lodge a written police complaint. Health authorities claimed all the CCCs have CCTV cover. A press communique released by the deputy CM’s office, also called the incident unfortunate. The communique said the woman not raped, but the government has taken this molestation incident seriously. A preliminary inquiry into the matter has been conducted by local woman medical officers. The accused doctor has been remanded in custody after first-hand facts were found in the woman’s allegation of attempted molestation. Further action will be taken after receiving a detailed report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sops-on-womens-safety-at-cccs-by-march-31/articleshow/81338797.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Man climbs up Harbour trains’ rooftops twice, services hit in Mumbai||Mumbai: Harbour line services were disrupted after a mentally unstable man climbed atop a train twice at two stations on Thursday evening.  A Central Railway official said, “The man was first spotted on the rooftop when the CSMT-Panvel train reached Mankhurd. He was brought down by Railway Protection Force (RPF). He then boarded the Panvel-CSMT train and climbed to the rooftop at Govandi station around 9.30pm. Power supply to the overhead equipment (OHE) tripped but fortunately the man did not get electrocuted.” The train was detained for 10 minutes, affecting Up and Down lines. CR has warned commuters against traveling on rooftops of trains as the system operates on 25KV AC power, which is 17 times stronger than DC power. Anyone coming within two metres of an overhead wire can be charred to death. Manthan K Mehta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-climbs-up-harbour-trains-rooftops-twice-services-hit-in-mumbai/articleshow/81339720.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccination fails to take off at many private hospitals||Nagpur: Though paid inoculation got a stupendous response from senior citizens, only half the private hospitals on the list were able to start the service and seamlessly carry out vaccination. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had authorized 26 hospitals to perform paid inoculation on their premises and later added three more by evening. Basically, NMC has permitted private hospitals empanelled under different various schemes. On Thursday, as per NMC data, 4,041 beneficiaries were inoculated at 28 centres, including the paid ones. As per the data, only 13 private and trust-run hospitals conducted the vaccination programme. Some hospitals said they were unable to start vaccination because of technical glitches. Affected hospital administration representatives spent most part of the day at NMC’s Civil Lines office trying to get their login ID and password, which would allow them to initiate the process at their hospitals. As names of these hospitals had already been made public, numerous queries were received by them throughout the day. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said vaccines have been distributed to all the private hospitals and NMC didn’t receive any complaint regarding technical issues. “All private hospitals should start by Friday. Some had their staff training pending, which doesn’t take more than 10 to 15 minutes,” he said. NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said the civic body’s job is to hand over the vaccines. “Facility managers have been given detailed training. They must contact our Co-Win team in case they face issues. None of our centres reported any technical problem,” he said. However, TOI spoke to a couple of hospital administrators. “We were unable to log into the system. Our officials visited NMC but they were unable to resolve the issue by 3pm. As soon as we are able to log in, we shall start within an hour,” said a hospital manager. Another said their IT team was still in the process of synchronizing the internal system to start the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccination-fails-to-take-off-at-many-private-hospitals/articleshow/81337004.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||I-T claims Rs 20cr evasion by Pannu and Kashyap||Mumbai: Income Tax (I-T) department claimed to have found evidence of cash receipts of Rs 5 crore by actor Taapsee Pannu and her company and tax evasion of up to Rs 20 crore by Pannu, director Anurag Kashyap and others during raids carried out on Wednesday. A statement by the department also referred to discrepancies in deals worth Rs 300 crore which are linked to a now-dissolved production house part-owned by Kashyap. The raids continued on Thursday, I-T said. In all, 28 premises belonging to Pannu, Kashyap, production houses Phantom Films (now dissolved) and Reliance Entertainment, talent management firms Exceed Entertainment and KWAN Talent Management Agency, and others were searched in Mumbai, Pune, Delhi & Hyderabad. I-T officials questioned Pannu and Kashyap at a hotel in Pune where they were shooting for a movie. I-T officials said they are probing Pannu’s endorsement of over two dozen upcoming projects and the signing amounts she has received. The department, in a statement, without identifying Pannu, said, “Evidence of cash receipts by the leading actress amounting to Rs 5 crore has been recovered. Apart from this, non-genuine/bogus expenditure to related concerns by the leading producers/director having tax implication of about Rs 20 crore has been detected. Similar findings have been made in the case of the leading actress also.” Officials said they are investigating two tax evasion cases involving Phantom Films and people-entities associated with them. In the second case they are also investigating Pannu and a company promoted by her. The I-T department claimed to have unearthed evidence of suppression of income by Phantom Films by comparing it to actual box office collections. “The company officials have not been able to explain the discrepancy of around Rs 300 crore. Evidence related to manipulation and under-valuation of share transactions of the production house amongst the film directors and shareholders, having tax implication of about Rs 350 crore has been found and is being further investigated,” said the statement. Digital data in the form of emails, WhatsApp chats, hard disks, etc, has been seized during the searches, the release said. Seven bank lockers have been placed under restraint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-t-claims-rs-20cr-evasion-by-pannu-and-kashyap/articleshow/81339718.cms||Vijay V Singh
March 5, 2021||Aurangabad||2 Aurangabad docs test +ve after 2nd dose||Aurangabad: Two doctors in Aurangabad city have tested positive for Covid-19 despite taking the second dose of the vaccine. Health officer with Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Neeta Padalkar said, “Both doctors have developed symptoms within four to five days of taking the second dose. Both have developed mild symptoms and will recover soon.” “The beneficiaries should trust the efficacy of vaccine and continue to follow Covid-19 prevention norms even after taking the first and second dose of the vaccine,” Padalkar said. Aurangabad district on Wednesday reported 308 fresh cases and seven fatalities. Currently, there are 2,445 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-aurangabad-docs-test-ve-after-2nd-dose/articleshow/81338832.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: It’s just March, mercury at year high of 33.9°C||NEW DELHI: Delhi on Thursday recorded its warmest day of the year so far, with the mercury touching 33.9 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung— city’s base station for weather. This is seven degrees above normal temperature for this time of the year. India Meteorological Department says conditions are set to get even warmer over the next seven days and a maximum of 35 degrees Celsius is expected on March 7. Before this, the warmest day of the year so far was last Thursday, when Delhi recorded a high of 33.2 degrees Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, says lack of western disturbances in the region has led to higher than normal temperature. “No rain is expected this week either and the mercury will only rise further in the next few days.A drop in wind speed is also leading to such high temperatures.” According to the weather department, the maximum temperature touched 34.6 degrees Celsius at both Pitampura and Najafgarh, while it was 34.5 degrees at the sports complex weather station in east Delhi. The Pusa station recorded a maximum of 34 degrees. Both Gurgaon and Noida had a maximum of 32.9 degrees on Thursday. The ‘normal’ maximum temperature for March 4 to March 6 is 27.1 degrees Celsius, while it is 28.7 for March 7 until March 11. Delhi at present is experiencing westerly winds, with the wind direction expected to change to south-easterly by March 7. While the maximum was above normal, Delhi recorded a minimum of 12.2 degrees Celsius—one degree below normal. The highest minimum temperature in Delhi was recorded at the Sports complex, where it touched 17.6 degrees Celsius. With a mean maximum temperature of 27.9 degrees Celsius—the second highest in the last 120 years—the capital has already recorded a particularly warm February as well. “March is also expected to be warmer than normal,” said a Met official. Forecast for Friday shows strong surface winds, ranging from 20-30 km/hr in speed. The maximum temperature could be around 33 degrees, while the minimum is expected to hover around 13 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/its-just-march-mercury-at-year-high-of-33-9c/articleshow/81338872.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Cops announce Rs 25k reward on former BSP MP Dhananjay Singh||LUCKNOW: Police on Thursday announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 on absconding former BSP MP Dhananjay Singh for his alleged involvement in the sensational murder of history-sheeter Ajit Singh in Lucknow on January 6. DCP east, Sanjeev Suman, confirmed to TOI about the announcement of the cash reward on Dhananjay Singh and added that six teams had been formed to nab him. Police also carried out raids at the five locations of the criminal-turned-politician in the city on Wednesday night. The DCP said the raids were conducted in Ansal City, Gudamba, Sultanpur Road, and Gomtinagar Extension. Singh was not found but police go some clues, DCP added. Police have also tracked some properties illegally acquired by Dhananjay Singh. These include six flats, a house, two farm houses, a laboratory in Gomtinagar, and illegal companies in Delhi, Jaunpur, Mau, Fathegarh, Barabanki, besides a petrol pump and a brick kiln in Jharkhand. Six shooters, including Girdhari alias Doctor, were nabbed by Lucknow police for killing Ajit Singh, a don from Mau. They told the police that Ajit Singh was shot at the behest of Dhananjay Singh. Police have also found movable and immovable properties in the name of Girdhari. These include a brick kiln in Azamgarh, a farmhouse, and illegal liquor shops. “We will inform the Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax about the properties amassed by Dhananjay Singh,” said DCP Suman. On February 20, a Lucknow court had issued a non-bailable warrant against Dhananjay Singh for plotting Ajit Singh’s murder. Dhananjay owns a flat in Gomtinagar Extension where four shooters who killed Ajit Singh were holed up,” said DCP. According to the police, Ajit Singh was eliminated to stop him from testifying in court against mafia don Kuntu Singh, who is accused of killing former MLA Sarvesh Singh Sipu in 2013. While Ajit Singh was close to jailed MLA Mukhtar Ansari, Kuntu and Girdhari had joined hands with Ansari’s rival Dhananjay Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-announce-rs-25k-reward-on-former-bsp-mp/articleshow/81339725.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccinated Sharjah returnee tests +ve a day before marriage at Jabalpur||Nagpur: A 23-year-old man, who returned from Sharjah this Sunday, tested positive during his three-day stay at VNIT quarantine centre on Thursday. He was also vaccinated before reaching the country, officials said. The date of his vaccination is still not known. As per protocol, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is supposed to conduct RT-PCR test on all Sharjah flyers on fifth day of their return and decide on discharge on the basis of result on the seventh day. However, the man, a resident of Jabalpur, wanted early discharge as his marriage ceremony was scheduled on March 5 in his hometown. Accordingly, the centre officials took his swab on March 3 to discharge him with a Covid negative certificate, which would also be needed for travelling to Madhya Pradesh. He was among the 95 flyers who landed in Nagpur on February 28. Of these, 77 were exempted as per norms while 18 were asked to isolate themselves in a hotel or VNIT quarantine centre. Among the 18, NMC quarantined 12 at VNIT while six are isolated in hotels. Since the man tested positive, VNIT performed RT-PCR test on all the remaining 11 inmates and their results are expected on Friday. The Jabalpur man will miss his marriage date as he has been admitted to IGGMCH. Dean Ajay Keoliya told TOI that he has been admitted at ward no. 40. “He has travelling history of Sharjah and Dubai. He was vaccinated as well,” he said. Civic officials didn’t respond to TOI’s calls. IGGMCH officials said though a policy decision was taken to conduct genome sequencing on international flyers from certain countries, a call on this case is yet to be taken. “His viral load is less. The CT value is 30:30 while it must be less then 25 for genome sequencing. We need more RNA for ascertaining the virus strain. It can’t be said whether he was infected in originating nation, on-board flight or at the quarantine centre,” they said. They said the permission of NCDC Delhi would be needed to send his sample to Pune for establishing the virus strain. Authorities had allowed resumption of international flights on a weekly basis but the second flight was cancelled due to unexplained reason on February 21. The 23-year-old is first among 155 flyers so far to land in city since February 21 and also the only among the 41 international travellers quarantined here to test positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccinated-sharjah-returnee-tests-ve-a-day-before-marriage-at-jabalpur/articleshow/81337016.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Resignation of Sanjay Rathod gets governor okay||MUMBAI: After Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod resigned from the cabinet on Sunday, CM Uddhav Thackeray finally sent the document to the governor on Thursday. The resignation letter was accepted immediately by governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari after it was received at Raj Bhavan in the evening. The governor approved the proposal to hand over the forest portfolio, which was with Rathod, to the chief minister. Rathod, who has been facing allegations over the suicide of a 22-year-old woman in Pune, had tendered his resignation to Thackeray a day before the budget session of the legislature began on Monday. The 49-year-old Rathod is a four-time MLA and represents the Digras (Yavatmal) assembly constituency. He is a heavyweight politician from the Banjara community, which has a large presence in Yavatmal and Washim districts, which are strongholds of the Shiv Sena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-resignation-of-sanjay-rathod-gets-guv-okay/articleshow/81338884.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Nine held for robbing Jaipur trader of Rs 25L||Mumbai: Reeling under debt due to business losses suffered during the Covid-19 lockdown, two friends of a Jaipur-based trader hatched a plot to rob him as his business in masks and sanitizers was soaring. Nine men, including two friends of Harihant Pabuwal (27), were arrested for allegedly robbing him of Rs 25 lakh on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway at Vasai a week ago. Pabuwal had come to Mumbai by road for business and was staying at a five-star hotel in Andheri. He was in touch with his friends Parth Jani (26) and Rabani Parel (28), who lived in Thane. On February 26, Pabuwal was headed back to Jaipur when six masked men posing as policemen intercepted his car on the highway. They thrashed him, robbed him of Rs25 lakh and threatened him against filing a complaint. Pabuwal later filed a case with Valiv police. Investigations revealed the dacoity was planned by Jani and Parel who had roped in their friends, Girish Patel and Abdul Sayyed, from Ajmer. Patel and Sayyed roped in five of their friends, identified as Imran Shaikh, Smitesh Gavas, Suresh Dalvi, Santosh More and Vinay Singh , all residents of Thane. Police said information about Pabuwal’s movements and business deals was shared by Manohar Patel, who had been doing business transactions with him. He, too, has been arrested. All the men have been booked for dacoity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-nine-held-for-robbing-jaipur-trader-of-rs-25l/articleshow/81339756.cms||Sandhya Nair
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||92-year-old takes jab from doctor son, praises med fraternity||Nagpur: Country’s medical researchers and scientists got a unique salute from a 92-year-old man, who stepped up to take the vaccine at his son’s hospital at Mankapur on Thursday. Baldeoprasad Shrivastava gave the medical fraternity a thumbs up for the Covishield vaccine. The strong-willed great grandfather does not have any serious comorbidity even in this advanced aged, making him completely at ease while taking the vaccine. Baldeoprasad took the jab from son Dr Shishir Shrivastava after braving the heat and rush to reach the family-owned Kunal Hospital. “Arrey lag gaya, maloom hi nahi pada! (I took the jab, but didn’t really feel it!),” said the nonagenarian dismissively as his daughter Amita Tandon gave a sigh of relief. Baldeoprasad has undergone two major surgeries since 2019, including a cardiac valve replacement. He still decided to take the jab to prove to the world the vaccine wasn’t a monster, which some rumour mongers have been spreading. “They (vaccine inventors) had tested and put it through numerous trials before allowing the vaccine for the masses. There could be some exceptional cases, but it’s definitely in the market because it was found safe. We should be proud of our Indian scientists,” he said. A sports lover, Baldeoprasad said he too had the usual anxiety initially, but it was a cakewalk. Dr Shishir said his father, a former MOIL officer and a sports lover, underwent two surgeries after reaching 90 years of age against medical advice, to be able to live life to the fullest possible. “We had suggested Covaxin for my father but he showed mental preparedness for Covishield, even if there was more possibility of symptoms, stating it would not matter much for him,” he said. “He keep on saying that he had already lived his life and now nothing scares him really. He is always chilled out and loves to watch cricket on television,” said Dr Shishir. He added that his son Kunal has made his grandfather’s dream come true by becoming an orthopaedic surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/92-year-old-takes-jab-from-doctor-son-praises-med-fraternity/articleshow/81337038.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Railways can’t cite negligence to deny compensation: HC||Chennai: The Madras high court has made it clear that Southern Railway cannot cite ‘negligence’ on the part of victims and deny compensation to families of people killed in accidents involving local trains (EMUs). “Negligence cannot be alleged against the deceased alone, as railways is also equally contributing to the negligence by not ensuring safety of passengers travelling in suburban trains, particularly working women who are solely dependent on such trains,” Justice S M Subramaniam said. “Indian railway authorities are receiving a very decent salary from the taxpayers’ money. Therefore, they are expected to perform their public duties with high responsibility and accountability,” the judge said. The court made the observations while setting aside an order passed by the Railway Claims Tribunal dated March 14, 2016, denying compensation to the family of a 38-year-old woman who accidently fell down and died from a moving train which was fully packed. The judge then directed the railways to pay Rs 8 lakh as compensation to the petitioner. According to the railways, the accident occurred due to negligence on the part of the deceased and further she was not holding a valid ticket. Refusing to accept the contention, the court said, “Perusal of the inquest report reveals that the deceased fell down from the running train on account of a huge rush in the suburban train. Therefore, the untoward incident occurred on account of a heavy rush in the running train.” dPointing out many working women are dependent on such EMU services, the court said, after duty hours, they are forced to rush to board in EMUs to reach their homes within a reasonable travel time. The women employees have to take care of their children and family members. Thus, the delay in reaching home would cause hardship to the working women as well as to the family members. With this pressure, more women are forced to travel standing in EMUs. Entry in such trains are broader without any doors. Therefore, there is a possibility of falling down from a running train due to jerk and jolt. The judge then blamed the railways for not providing adequate safety measures to EMU passengers and said, railway authorities are bound to provide safety measures to the passengers, more specifically, working class passengers, who are all traveling on a day-to-day basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/railways-cant-cite-negligence-to-deny-compensation-hc/articleshow/81337019.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Rajasthan link behind suicide of actor’s assistant||Kolkata: A day after actor Ankush Hazra’s assistant Pintu Dey was found hanging at his Narkeldanga residence, cops said blackmail by a Rajasthan-based gang that employs women to trick men into online video chats and then use it to extort money might have driven him to suicide. The gang has been targetting men from the city for the past eight months, claimed cops, pointing to two other similar FIRs lodged in the past. This is, however, the first instance in Kolkata when someone has ended his life. “The case has been lodged on the basis of a complaint by the victim’s sister. The cyber cell has lodged an FIR under IPC sections pertaining to abetment to suicide, cheating, extortion, fraud, criminal intimidation and Section 66C and 67 of the Information Technology Act,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rajasthan-link-behind-suicide-of-actors-assistant/articleshow/81337024.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 5, 2021||Chennai||No boards, private schools to conduct evaluation tests||Chennai: Private schools in Chengalpet and Kancheepuram districts have come up with their own evaluation for Class X students, with 15,000 set to appear for the Standard Ten Evaluation Programme 2021 (STEP 21) from April 12 to 24. The questions papers — English, Tamil, maths and social science (100 marks each) and science (75) marks — will be based on the reduced portions released by the State Council for Educational Research and Training under previous year’s pattern. “Schools allot groups to students based on Class X marks while admitting them in Class XI. Since there were no quarterly or half-yearly exams this year, most schools are planning school level tests. We plan to go one step ahead and conduct a district level common test,” said N Vijayan, patron, Unified District Self-financing Schools Association. The association plans external superintendents and common evaluation of answer scripts for more than 300 schools in the two districts. “This test will hold the interest of students and teachers. Parents also welcome it.” The association conducted meetings among schools over the past few days. “The test is on an experimental basis. Students and teachers will get a sense of fulfillment only through an exam,” said president S Prince Babu Rajendran. The Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matriculation and CBSE Schools Association also asked its members to conduct school level tests. Students and parents want an evaluation, so we decided on it, said general secretary K R Nandakumar. The school education department says there is no bar on schools holding such tests. “The government cancelled board exams and gave all pass to students but is yet to decide on the modalities to award marks,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-boards-private-schools-to-conduct-evaluation-tests/articleshow/81337022.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Excise department likely to miss high revenue target by Rs 6,000 crore||MUMBAI: The lockdown prompted by Covid-19 and a second bump in cases has torpedoed resource mobilisation by the government, and it seems likely that the excise department — a major revenue contributor — will not be able to meet its target of Rs 19,225 crore for 2020-21, said officials. The department led by NCP minister Dilip Walse Patil could fall short by up to Rs 5,725 crore. In 2019-20, it had met the target of Rs 17,477 crore, they pointed out. As on March 4, the department had mobilised Rs 12,500 crore. “In next 25 days, it is not possible to achieve the target,” said the official. Following the lockdown, there was an unprecedented decline in the consumption of beer, Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and even country liquor (see box). “It’s the worst-ever situation. When given the target of Rs 19,225 crore, the entire department knew it was unrealistic. The target was reviewed mid-year, but it was too late. For the next financial year, a reduced target of Rs 17,000 crore has been fixed,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. “Since there was a decline in consumption, most of the manufacturers did not utilise their installed capacity. It resulted in huge losses in excise duty,” he added. Multiple reasons contributed to the huge shortfall. Once the lockdown was imposed, only shops selling essentials were open. Finally, in May, some rules were eased and people could again access liquor. But several manufacturing units were in containment zones, and their manufacturing capability was drastically reduced. “Frequent rumors of fresh lockdown had an adverse impact on the entire liquor industry. We were expecting that either the CM or the excise minister would rule out the possibility of lockdown, but there was a lack of clarity. Different cabinet members were making statements on lockdown on their own,” explained the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/excise-department-is-unlikely-to-achieve-maharashtra-target-of-rs-19225-crore-there-will-be-a-shortfall-of-rs-3000-crore/articleshow/81338956.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Illegal parking under cop scanner, 2,600 motorists fined in past week||Kolkata: Intensive police drive against illegal parking has led to 2,600 motorists and truck drivers being fined over the past week. The crackdown comes days after police commissioner, Soumen Mitra, called on the force to stop illegal parking. The south traffic guard carried out a series of prosecutions, slapping 2,000-odd challans on the cars and mini-trucks that were parked illegally on SN Banerjee Road, RR Avenue, Park Street and other roads under its jurisdiction. Cops also took cognisance of social media complaints and carried out raids against extortion by parking attendants at Anandapur and Purbachal off EM Bypass. “Some people are collecting exorbitant fees for parking cars at Anandapur. There is no notice displayed anywhere by any appropriate authority that it is a designated fee parking zone. Please look into this matter,” tweeted Srijan Roy Chowdhury, a complainant. “Thanks for the input. The same has been shared to the traffic guard concerned for immediate action,” DCP (traffic) Arijit Sinha replied. After a short while, cops raided the area, where hospitals are situated. According to the police, the drive will continue and focus on important roads in north and south Kolkata, including Bhupen Bose Avenue, CR Avenue, JL Nehru Road, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road, SP Mukherjee Road and Deshapran Sashmal Road. The drive will also focus on the illegal parking of trucks at night, which encroaches spaces on major thoroughfares, thereby causing accidents. “The problem of illegal parking has always been a challenge for traffic police. These are also two areas where some cops manage to extort money in the name of policing. Hence, we are putting an emphasis on regular raids,” said an officer. Each traffic guard has also been instructed to assign two sergeants every night to attend to accidents. “They will keep their body cameras on all the time so that officers at Lalbazar can know about the actual situation at night,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/illegal-parking-under-cop-scanner-2600-motorists-fined-in-past-week/articleshow/81337140.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Look into plea on pollution units: NGT to CS||New Delhi: The National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi chief secretary to look into a plea alleging pollution by industrial units in Libaspur Village in northwest Delhi. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice A K Goel said as per the Supreme Court directions, the chief secretary has to ensure compliance of order on pollution by illegal industrial activities in industrial areas and keep a regular vigil. The green panel said it is for the statutory authorities to continue further steps for enforcement of environmental norms as per law. The NGT was hearing a plea filed by NGO Centre for Holistic Development against violation of environment norms by industries in Libaspur Village area in North-West Delhi. According to the applicant, the industries are conducting hazardous, dangerous and polluting activities, affecting the health of the inhabitants. “In the process, huge smoke, garbage and effluents are generated which are not scientifically handled. Some of the industrial processes involve chemical, metal asbestos, rubber and plastic. The industrial activities include dyeing of textiles, rolling and pickling units, among others resulting in generation and discharge industrial waste water into the groundwater,” the plea said. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/look-into-plea-on-pollution-units-ngt-to-cs/articleshow/81338939.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||Devpt in last 3-4 years in statemore than that of 70 yrs: Min||Gorakhpur: Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda said on Thursday that he is amazed to see the development in Gorakhpur since his last visit and credited Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the positive change. “I came to Gorakhpur in 2014 as rail minister and am surprised to see the development here since then. The work done in the last three-four years in the state is more than that of 70 years since Independence. The chief minister is following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of self-reliant India,” the minister said on Thursday after inspecting the Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL) fertiliser plant in Gorakhpur along with CM Yogi. As per schedule, the plant had to become operational by July-end, but the pace of work has been very good and so it will start in June, said Gowda. The PM wants to minimize imports and make India self-reliant. At present, 80-90 lakh metric tonne fertilizer is being imported, but once the five units with 12.57 lakh metric tonne capacity each become operational the import would reduce, he added. “About 98% work in Gorakhpur fertilizer plant is complete. It will provide employment to many and push economic growth of the area. Farmers of Purvanchal will get urea on time. We are working on a plan to transfer fertiliser subsidy directly in the accounts of farmers. Ramagundam plant would start by June-July and Sindri and Barauni plants by December-end,” the minister said. Gowda said on the initiative of CM Yogi, a plastic park will be set up in Gorakhpur in 52 acres and will create a large number of jobs and detailed project report will be ready by April-end. “PM Modi will inaugurate two CIPET centres, one in Varanasi and another in Ayodhya by month-end,” the minister said. Even during the pandemic, there was 16% increase in sale of urea and 40% increase in sale of NPK, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/devpt-in-last-3-4-years-in-statemore-than-that-of-70-yrs-min/articleshow/81336025.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||UP cities ‘satisfactory’ on ease of living, but have ‘poor’ civic bodies||Lucknow: UP cities have performed well in the ease of living, but performance of their municipal corporations have got a thumbs down in the survey of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. The ministry conducted Ease of Living (EoL) and Municipal Performance (MP) surveys in 49 cities, including eight from UP, with 10 lakh or more population across India in 2020. The rankings were done on the basis of marks given by the people on the scale of 100 under various parameters in the two categories. The results declared on Thursday showed that the people have rated living standards of seven UP cities as “satisfactory with scores above 50% marks out of 100 in various EoL parameters. Only one scored below average with rating “need improvement” However, functioning of municipal bodies of only two cities has been rated as satisfactory and the remaining six marked below average with rating “need improvement”. In EOL category, Lucknow's all India (AI) rank is 26 and first in the state, follow by Varanasi (AI 27), Kanpur (AI 28), Ghaziabad (AI 30), Prayagraj (AI 32), Agra (AI 35) and Meerut (AI 36). Bareillly’s performance has been poor - among lowest scoring cities in the country with AI 47 rank and at the bottom among UP cities. Citizens were asked questions under four parameters - quality of life, economic abilities, citizens perception and sustainability of services. These parameters included public satisfaction on services offered by various departments. ‘Quality of Life’ evaluated overall safety and security, affordable healthcare, recreational facilities, livelihood opportunities and access to financial services, while “Economic Abilities” asked locals about their purchasing power and assets including electronic items, automobiles, electrics and housing units among others. In ‘Citizens Perception’, several questions relating to affordable and quality education, quality of drinking water supply, adequacy of public transport, affordable electricity, quality of air and overall cleanliness were asked from the citizens. In Sustainability of Services', people were asked to assess the services by local urban bodies. The survey on MP assessed the performance of the urban local bodies (municipal corporation). Like EoL, Varanasi performed better in MP survey as well by bagging AI 13th rank and number one position in the state. Bareilly did badly in EoL, but its municipal corporation scored high in the MP category to secure AI 14th place and second slot in UP. In the six other cities, people gave less than 50% to their municipal corporation showing that they were not happy and wanted local bodies to improve services. These cities are Ghaziabad (AI 20 rank), Agra (AI 24), Meerut (AI 29), Lucknow (AI 33), Kanpur (AI 36) and Prayagraj (AI 37) The MP ranking was based on finances, planning, services, governance and technology used by a local body. The EoL survey was conducted online last year in February with 111 cities taking part in the survey. The cities were divided in two categories, more than 10 lakhs (49 cities) and less than 10 lakhs (62). Results of the survey were to be announced in September, but got delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. Aligarh, Rampur ‘Need Improvement’ Six UP cities were selected among 62 across India with a population less than 10 lakh. In the EoL category, four were rated satisfactory, while in MP category all the six scored below average. In EoL category, four rated satisfactory are — Jhansi’s all India rank is 34 with 51.7% marks followed by Moradabad (AI 38) with 51.4% marks, Rae Bareli (AI 40) with 51.2% marks, Saharanpur (AI 44) with 50.9% marks. Two rated “Need Improvement” are - Aligarh (AI 58) with 47.1% marks and Rampur (AI 59) with 46.8% marks. In the MP category, all the six cities scored less than 50% marks and thus were marked as “Need Improvement” by the people. Jhansi Municipal Corporation received (47% marks and AI 9), Moradabad (40% marks and AI 31), Rae Bareli (39.2% marks AI 38), Saharanpur (43.9% marks and AI 22), Aligarh (41.4% marks and AI 29) and Rampur (37.7% marks and AI 44).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cities-satisfactory-on-ease-of-living-but-have-poor-civic-bodies/articleshow/81339771.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
March 5, 2021||Aurangabad||Only 6 engg colleges in M’wada fill 50% seats||Aurangabad: Only six of the 22 engineering colleges in the Marathwada region have done 50% admissions in the first-year engineering course for the 2020-21 academic year.College managements have blamed the delay in the CET and admission process by the state, eventually reflecting poorly on the admission process. The CET for admission to engineering colleges is conducted in June every year, followed by CAP rounds. The admission process gets completed by the month of August. However, the CET was held in September-October 2020 due to the lockdown while the admission process started in January this year. None of the colleges have been able to fill cent per cent of their sanctioned intake capacity. Some colleges, including Sandipani in Latur, have received eight students against the intake capacity of 276, Vilasrao Deshmukh College of engineering in Latur has got 22 admissions against 345, Aurangabad college of engineering 14 against 200, while International Centre of excellence in engineering and management 19 against the intake capacity of 224. The poor admission rate is set to make it financially difficult for the engineering colleges to sustain the academic year. All the 22 colleges across the region have a total intake capacity of 8,441 students, out of which only 3,400 seats have been filled this year, making it just 40.28% of the total intake capacity. Deogiri Institute of engineering and management studies (DIEMS) principal Ulhas Shiurkar said, “Due to the delay in conducting CET and the admission process, several students opted for other courses. By the time engineering admissions started, the students who had opted for other streams had started preparing for the exams in the streams they had opted for.” Shiurkar cited the lack of awareness among students and parents as one of the reasons for running after courses like computer engineering without even knowing the potential for other engineering streams. MGM Nanded’s principal Geeta Latkar said the dip in the incomes during the coronavirus pandemic apart from the delay in carrying out overall admission process has taken a toll on the admissions. As per official data, Government Engineering College, Aurangabad, has secured 397 admissions out of the total intake capacity of 414, followed by DIEMS (469 out of 621), MGM college of engineering, Nanded, (275 out of 414), CSMSS college of engineering, Aurangabad, (310 against 483), Hitech engineering college, Aurangabad, (105 against 173) and MS Bidve engineering college, Latur, (211 admissions against the intake capacity of 414).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/only-6-engg-colleges-in-mwada-fill-50-seats/articleshow/81335104.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 5, 2021||Bareilly||Toddler run over by car in Bareilly||Bareilly: A 1.5-year-old boy was allegedly run over by a car in Baradari area of Bareilly city on Thursday. The driver was reversing the car when the child, who was playing outside his house, suddenly came to the road and was run over the vehicle, said police. The driver rushed the boy — youngest among seven (six girls) siblings — to a hospital, but he died during the treatment. Residents of Sanjay Nagar locality under Baradari police station, Rakesh Mishra, an auto driver, and his wife Baby, a domestic help, had gone to their works and their eldest daughter was looking after the child. As the girl got busy with household chores, the toddler suddenly went out of the house and was run over by the vehicle, said police. “We had visited many shrines with a wish to have a son. God is very cruel to us. We had recently shifted to the ground floor as the whitewashing was going on on the second floor,” said Baby. Baradari police station SHO Sheetanshu Singh said, “We have booked the driver, Ashok, under relevant sections and impounded the car. Ashok is absconding, but we will nab him soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/toddler-run-over-by-car-in-bareilly/articleshow/81334299.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three brothers get 2-yrs RI||Three brothers were sentenced to two-year rigorous imprisonment by the Thane sessions court for ransacking a police chowky and manhandling and beating up policemen in 2016. The accused have been identified as Santosh Kadam (43), Dinesh (45) and Sunil (39). Additional sessions judge R V Tamhanekar also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on the accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-three-brothers-get-2-yrs-ri/articleshow/81339777.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||Cop who slogged at Covid hotspots gets jab||Nagpur: Additional superintendent of police (rural) Rahul Maknikar, who was zonal DCP in central Nagpur when the pandemic was at its peak last year, took the jab at police headquarters at Takli on Thursday. As the supervisory officer, Maknikar had to spend around 72 hours at a stretch at Covid-19 hotspot Satranjipura after the city’s first death was reported from the locality. Apart from Satranjipura, Maknikar was supervising the containment zones at other hotspots in the city too such as Shanti Nagar, Mominpura and Naik Talao. In these areas, he had to face the dual challenges of shifting hundreds of citizens to quarantine centres and enforce the norms of containment zones fighting frayed tempers. Recalling the days spent in anxiety and uncertainty, Maknikar said it was miraculous that he never tested positive despite remaining present among the vulnerable groups round the clock for several days. “My parents back in Latur were petrified seeing me perform my duties through television at the containment zones. It’s easy to deal with outsiders but far more challenging to calm down families, especially parents,” he said. “Vaccine was not in sight then and colleagues with whom we spent hours together working were too falling ill. But we did not even have the time to ponder upon all these aspects then as there were multiple tasks ranging from sending people to quarantines centres to enforce Covid norms in containment zones,” he added. Maknikar, whose vaccination was supervised by Dr Sandeep Shinde of police hospital, said cops should come forward to take the jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-who-slogged-at-covid-hotspots-gets-jab/articleshow/81337154.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 5, 2021||Aurangabad||3 arrested for smuggling IMFL meant for sale in Goa||Aurangabad: The state excise department on Thursday seized a pick-up van for smuggling 1,152 bottle of India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) — meant for sale only in the state of Goa. Police have seized the vehicle and alcohol all amounting to around Rs 4 lakh.The suspects had modified the floor of the pick-up van and installed multiple containers for storing the liquor boxes. To avoid getting nabbed, the accused would put the illegally obtained liquor boxes and cover them with the metal flooring. To deceive the law enforcement agencies, the accused would put some goods in the pickup jeep. Once delivered, this liquor, purchased at lesser price from Goa, would give them heavy returns after being sold in the open market. The suspects have been identified as Dhamma Wakte and Ganesh Lahane.An excise official said that the suspects are part of an inter-state racket involved in procuring liquor from Union Territories and selling it in Maharashtra.State excise inspector Sharad Fatangde said following a specific tip off a trap was laid on Bidkin-Aurangabad road on Wednesday evening and nabbed the suspects. Preliminary probe revealed that the racket is allegedly headed by Rameshwar Hatote of Pachegaon and he too has been arrested.State excise’s deputy commissioner Pradeep Pawar said that apart from illegally procuring meant for sale only in Goa, the suspects have systematically attempted to evade state excise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-arrested-for-smuggling-imfl-meant-for-sale-in-goa/articleshow/81335109.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 5, 2021||Bareilly||Massive fire breaks out at loco shed in Bareilly||Bareilly: A massive fire broke out at a godown of Izzatnagar railway loco shed in Bareilly district on Wednesday night. The fire was reported around 8.30 pm, following which employees immediately alerted the fire fighting team and local police. It took fire tenders more than three hours to put out the fire before it could reach to locomotives parked there. Public relationship officer, Izzatnagar Railway division under North-Eastern Railway, Rajendra Singh said, “Our teams are trying to find out the reason behind the fire and assessing the loss.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/massive-fire-breaks-out-at-loco-shed-in-bareilly/articleshow/81334312.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 5, 2021||Delhi||CM takes first dose with parents at LNJP, appeals to all to get vax||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal received his first dose of the Covid vaccine at Lok Nayak Hospital on Thursday morning. Kejriwal arrived at the hospital along with his parents, Gobind Ram Kejriwal and Gita Devi, and all of them received Covishield vaccine.As per protocol, all of them were under observation for adverse reaction for half an hour after the vaccination and didn’t report any problem. The chief minister, who is 53 years old and a diabetic, appealed to the people to come forward and get vaccinated. “I, along with my parents, have received our first doses of Covid-19 vaccine. We are perfectly healthy and did not develop any complications,” he said. “We are fortunate that we now have a vaccine against Covid-19. I want to appeal to everyone who is eligible to get the vaccination.” On the expansion of the number of vaccination centres, Kejriwal said Delhi government was in touch with the Centre and would increase the numbers as and when directed.“Everybody should resolve all the doubts they had in their minds. There is nothing to fear about the vaccine,” Kejriwal said. Lok Nayak Hospital and its doctors have made adequate arrangements for administering the vaccine, he added. Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said that due to the chief minister choosing the facility for vaccination, over 50 people walked in to get the shot after him. “We are happy that the CM chose our hospital. He appreciated the work of the doctors and staff and was very happy with the way vaccination is going on in the hospital,” Kumar said. The CM’s decision to get vaccinated will motivate a large number of people and the fight against the coronavirus will become more vigorous, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-takes-first-dose-with-parents-at-lnjp-appeals-to-all-to-get-vax/articleshow/81337145.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Customer stabs tea stall owner in Kolkata's Chetla||KOLKATA: A 45-year-old tea seller in Chetla was allegedly stabbed and his 21-year-old son assaulted with bricks by a local customer in the busy Chetla Ladies Park area in south Kolkata on Wednesday morning. The accused, Bubai Deb, asked for tea at the shop and he attacked the duo for “major delay” in service. He was arrested on Thursday. The tea stall, run by Rabi Moth and his son Rahul on the footpath outside the Ladies Park, caters to morning walkers and those headed to the local market. Around 8am, when the shop had multiple customers, Deb arrived and demanded that he be served the tea immediately. When Rabi asked him to come forward and take the tea, Deb flew into a rage and began abusing him. When Rahul protested, Deb hurled a brick at him, hurting him on the head. He also took out a knife and slashed Rahul’s shoulder. When Rabi rushed to his son’s rescue, he was stabbed as well. They were later admitted to SSKM trauma care unit. “We and arrested the accused from New Alipore railway siding area,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/customer-stabs-tea-stall-owner-in-chetla/articleshow/81337175.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Cabby alleges assault by rider’s friends||Kolkata: An app cab driver was assaulted and his cab ransacked by some unidentified men on Ho Chi Minh Sarani off Chowringhee late on Wednesday night. The victim, Ganesh Shaw, has lodged a complaint with Shakespeare Sarani police station. A woman was riding in the cab for drop in a central Kolkata location. The driver alleged that a car overtook him at a high speed and then forced him to slam the brake after it blocked the road. A youth, known to the woman, and his friends alighted from the car, pulled the driver out of the cab and assaulted him. The woman, who allegedly coordinated the assault, changed her drop point twice during the ride. The south division police said CCTV footage from the area established that the chain of events, narrated by Shaw, was true. “We are trying to identify the culprits,” said DC (South) Sudheer Kumar Neelakantam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cabby-alleges-assault-by-riders-friends/articleshow/81337158.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||Senior citizens find ease and peace at private hopitals||Nagpur: She is 80. She is unable to understand how a beneficiary needs to register on Co-Win 2.0 app. Yet, retired school teacher Fausta Almeida cheerfully stood with her eyes brightening up outside the vaccination room at Kunal Hospital in Mankapur. “My doctor helped me register online. I am not tech savvy,” she said as the medical worker escorted her inside for the jab. Misbah Siddiqui (70) and his wife Azra accompanied by their son Sameer faced technical issues. But these couldn’t come in the way of the elderly couple getting inoculated by 1pm at the same hospital. “We started from home at 11.30am and were done by 12.30pm. Except for some issues in name registration of my dad, there was no problems,” said Sameer. Some 6km away, senior citizens calmly lined up for the paid jab at Lata Mangeshkar Hospital (LMH) in Sitabuldi. For conveniences, hospitals took cash, card and other modes of payments towards Rs250 per dose. “My friend went to NMC’s Indira Gandhi Rughnalaya at Shankar Nagar. It took three days for them to get the free of cost jab,” said retired veterinarian Dr Sharad Uttarwar, emphasizing that he paid at LMH. Dr Deepa Shori (67) said the little problem in understanding the procedure is nothing as compared to problems other senior citizens are facing at government centres. “I saw photos of people sitting on footpath,” she said. Unlike NMC-run centres where people are fearful of long waiting hours, lack of facilities and crowding, Snehal Kashikar (67) was initially frightened of getting pricked. “I reached at 2.30pm and in no time took the jab. My heart beats went up when I saw how deep the needle goes in the arm. But when my turn came, it was almost painless,” she said. There were many happy faces at not just Kunal Hospital and LMH but also other hospitals where paid vaccination for age-appropriate group has started. At some hospitals, the administrations have dedicated team to help elderly people. TOI came across a group of elderly citizens who helped each other in understanding the process and also motivating each other to get the jab. Agnes Anthony (65), a resident of Mohan Nagar, was flanked by Martha Francis (87), Santano Periera (75) and Edu Stephen (70). Stephen said he didn’t register but walked in with his friends and so did Periera and Francis, but Agnes and Almeida prodded them to come along. All were vaccinated one after the other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/senior-citizens-find-ease-and-peace-at-private-hopitals/articleshow/81337172.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Compensation matured, Sarojini Ngr blast victim still can’t get dues||New Delhi: For the past three months, 74-year-old Bhagwan Das, a victim of the October 2005 Sarojini Nagar bomb blasts, has been visiting the court to get his compensation money cleared by the Delhi State Legal Services Authority. Das, who lost his son, daughter-in-law and grandson in the serial blasts, lives with his paralysed wife, Celina, and his granddaughter, Manisha, in Dilshad Garden. “The compensation was put in a fixed deposit in 2017 and matured on December 19 last year. I have a problem with my knees, but have travelled to the court several times to have the money cleared for withdrawal since we have to pay our medical expenses,” the old man pleaded.Ashok Randhawa, president, South Asian Forum for People Against Terror, an NGO that has been helping the blast victims, explained the background of Das’ woes. “The compensation amount was deposited in banks for a period of three years. After maturity, the funds should have been automatically released, but the banks say an order for their release has to be given by DSLSA,” he said. “Many of the victims are not from Delhi; some are from Manipur and Bihar and travel is difficult. The legal authority should direct the banks not to harass people, especially senior citizens who have severe medical conditions.” Das and his granddaughter Manisha have reached the court several times in the last three months. “Each time they give some or the other reason when we only want them to help us,” said the 25-year-old granddaughter. “I recently got a job and it's difficult to keep shuttling between the banks and the court with my ailing grandfather.”Celina, who has suffered paralysis of the limbs, too visited the court and now despairs, “How will we survive? People have been assisting us, but for how long will they help? Our situation has become so pathetic that I sometimes think of ending my life.” A weeping Celina told TOI Manisha, who has lived with them since the blast, was unemployed till last year and only recently got a job. They have little income but have to spend a lot of money on autorickshaws to reach court. She said, “I have no patience left to fight now. I lost my only son, Michael, who had gone shopping to Sarojini Nagar with his wife and 17-year-old son. We never got Michael’s body despite fighting for it for 7-8 years. Getting a death certificate was also a similar experience.” Kanwaljeet Arora, secretary, DSLSA, responded, “We will look into the matter and resolve this immediately. I have instructed the officials to sort this out and help the victims in all ways.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/compensation-matured-sarojini-ngr-blast-victim-still-cant-get-dues/articleshow/81337171.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Religion not part of CMP, Azmi tells CM||Mumbai: Samajwadi Party state unit chief and MLA Abu Azmi on Thursday expressed displeasure over CM Uddhav Thackeray’s speech in assembly which mentioned Shiv Sena’s owning up of the demolition of Babri Masjid and said religion is not part of the common minimum programme of the MVA government. He told TOI Congress and NCP ministers should resign against the CM’s statement. “It is sad. Nowadays political speeches have begun to be made on floor of the house. The MVA government has not been formed by Shiv Sena alone, but it is a three-party government based on CMP, where there is no scope for Hindu-Muslim or any religious issues,” the SP leader said in the assembly. He said, “We had almost forgotten the Babri incident, but the CM’s speech refreshed our wounds. It’s not fair to recall old incidents and make statements that he (the CM) is proud of the fact that the Babri Masjid was demolished.” —Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-religion-not-part-of-cmp-azmi-tells-cm/articleshow/81338967.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 5, 2021||Delhi||HC seeks rationale behind Covid vaccine restrictions||New Delhi: Underlining the need to have a “sense of urgency” to vaccinate as many citizens as possible, Delhi High Court on Thursday questioned the Centre’s current policy of restricted inoculation drive. The court asked it to explain the “rationale” behind keeping strict control over the class of people who could be vaccinated against Covid-19.At present, only those aged above 60 or those having specified comorbidities falling in the age group of 45-60 years can get vaccinated.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli remarked, “We are not utilising our capability fully. The two institutes (Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech) say they have more capacity. We are either donating it to foreign countries or selling it to them and not vaccinating our own people. There has to be a sense of responsibility and urgency.”The court also sought to know from the Centre if it could increase the capacity to transport Covishield and Covaxin if the two institutes could provide more vaccines. It pointed out that the full capacity of both the suppliers was not being exploited. Both suppliers were asked to file separate affidavits on their manufacturing capacity on a per day, week and month basis and also the current usage along with unused numbers.Appearing for Bharat Biotech, advocate Sughosh Subramanyam assured the bench that the institute was ready to supply vaccines, abide by any directions given and inform if it could scale up production.A suo motu PIL was registered by the court to find out if the judicial system consisting of judges, lawyers, court staff, etc, could be prioritised without age limit and comorbidity since physical functioning would begin from March 15. The bench directed the Centre to “file an affidavit disclosing the capacity to transport the vaccines while maintaining the whole chain, particularly to Delhi, and also indicate the extent to which it is being used”.Directing Delhi government to inspect medical facilities available in court complexes to examine if vaccination centres could be set up, the court posted the matter for hearing on March 10. It also asked Delhi High Court Bar Association and Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) to disclose the strength of members registered with them to get an idea of the number of people to be vaccinated in the judicial system.Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma, appearing on behalf of the Centre, informed HC that selection of class of people for vaccination was a policy decision taken by an expert body. But the court sought an explanation by way of an affidavit.On Wednesday, the court had converted into a PIL a letter by BCD seeking to declare all people associated with judicial functioning, including judges, court staff and lawyers, as “frontline workers” so that they could get vaccinated on priority and without limitations of their age or physical condition.The bench had said that the need of the hour was to vaccinate the masses on a war footing to secure the life and health of those who step out of their homes to attend to their avocations and professions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-rationale-behind-covid-vaccine-restrictions/articleshow/81337165.cms||Abhinav Garg
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||STF guns down 2 sharpshooters of Munna Bajrangi gang in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A team of Special Task Force (Prayagraj unit) of Uttar Pradesh Police gunned down two sharpshooters of Munna Bajrangi gang in an exchange of fire near Kachar Road under the limits of Naini police station in trans-Yamuna area late Wednesday night. Two pistols and cartridges have also been recovered from the duo. The slain sharpshooters, identified as Vakeel Pandey alias Rajiv Pandey alias Raju and Amjad alias Angad alias Pintoo alias Doctor, were residents of Bhadohi district. Among other crimes, they were also accused of killing deputy jailer, Anil Kumar Tyagi, near Virus Gym Road under the limits of Cantt police station of Varanasi district in 2013. Police said that Vakeel Pandey was also carrying Rs 50,000 cash reward on his head. The police have also seized one .9 mm pistol along with seven live cartridges, one magazine of .9 mm, one pistol of 0.30 bore along with one magazine and five live cartridges, one EPIC, one bike, one helmet and Rs 700 near the encounter site. Deputy SP (STF) Navendu Kumar told TOI on Thursday, “Acting on a specific tip-off that the two sharpshooters have planned to target a reputed person with political background in the city and were present near Lavayankala village. A newly formed STF team — named as Jungle — cordoned the area and challenged the criminals who opened fire at the team near Arail area in the trans-Yamuna pocket. In the ensuing exchange of fire with the team, both the criminals were injured. They were immediately rushed to SRN hospital where they were declared ‘brought dead’ by doctors.” He added that while 20 criminal cases were registered against Vakeel Pandey, slain Amjad was wanted in connection with 24 criminal cases. After the killing of Munna Bajrangi, the sharpshooters were associated with jailed gangster Dilip Mishra, who was an associate of Bajrangi. The DySP said that further investigations were being conducted in this regard. The STF officials claimed that the sharpshooters had planned to eliminate a senior jail official of Hot War Jail in Ranchi district of Jharkhand state to maintain the supremacy of jailed criminal Aman Singh. Aman Singh is a sharpshooter of Munna Bajrangi gang and is currently lodged at Hotwar Jail on the charges of killing a Jharkhand-based coal mafia and deputy mayor of Dhanbad city. On February 11, the UP STF had arrested one Abhinav Kumar Singh alias Varun, a resident of Gyanpur and close associate of Vakeel Pandey who revealed his planning to create sensation by killing an official of the Hotwar Jail in Ranchi. Vakeel Pandey (history-sheet 129A with Gopiganj police station and Amzad alias Angad (history-sheet 51A with Bhadohi) had unleashed a reign of terror in Prayagraj, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Sonbhadra, Chandauli and neighbouring Jharkhand for more a decade. Even Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra, in a letter written to the Union home minister which also went viral on social media in June last, had sought security from Vakeel Pandey with the claim that his life was in danger. The STF officials said Vakeel Pandey along with Neeraj Singh, who was arrested by Prayagraj police on May 28, 2020 from Lawayankala area in trans-Yamuna pocket, had conducted recee three times to eliminate an RSS functionary and a local Samajwadi Party (SP) functionary in Naini and Ghurpur areas, respectively. These criminals, however, could not succeed in their nefarious designs after police arrested Neeraj Singh from a school belonging to gangster Dilip Mishra. Neeraj Singh, at present lodged at Naini Central Jail, was carrying Rs 1 lakh cash reward on his head when he was arrested by Prayagraj police last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-guns-down-2-sharpshooters-of-munna-bajrangi-gang-in-prayagraj/articleshow/81339781.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Hudco ‘inclined’ to invest in Amrapali||New Delhi: Increasing the prospects of a time-bound completion of all Amrapali housing projects in which around 45,000 homebuyers have invested money, the Supreme Court was informed on Thursday that Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) is inclined to infuse funds for the court-monitored construction work and SBI Cap is all set to release Rs 625 crore in the coming weeks.Senior advocate R Venkataramani, the court-appointed receiver to manage the affairs of Amrapali told a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan that he has been informally conveyed that HUDCO may be inclined to extend financial assistance. He pleaded that certain clarifications needed to be made by the court about Amrapali projects to pave the way for HUDCO to come on board and provide funds."I would humbly urge the court to pass appropriate orders clarifying that Amrapali projects are no longer private sector real estate projects but governed entirely by orders of the Supreme Court and the company ‘Amrapali Stalled Projects Investment Reconstruction Establishment ( ASPIRE)’” U/Sec 8 of the Companies Act has been formed for raising funds from banks & financial institutions.(non profit company for social, charitable causes etc) and be treated as a public company acting under direction and supervision of the court," the receiver told the bench. The bench, thereafter, sought response from Noida authority and homebuyers’ lawyers on the proposal of HUDCO and posted the hearing for Friday. Advocate M L Lahoty, appearing for homebuyers, readily agreed to the proposal and said HUDCO be allowed to fund the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hudco-inclined-to-invest-in-amrapali/articleshow/81337176.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Aurangabad||Jalna police seize over 96kg marijuana||Aurangabad: In a joint action carried out by local crime branch and Badnapur police station of Jalna district in the wee hours of Thursday, 96 kg of marijuana were seized from a farm at Chanegaon in Badnapur tehsil. Police have arrested the farmer Nivrutti Shewale (39), who had sown the weed along with garlic in his farm situated in gat number 91 of the said village. Inspector Maruit Khedkar said that the seized marijuana has a market valuation of over Rs 24 lakh. “To make some quick money, the farmer decided to get into marijuana farming and to camouflage it he simultaneously sowed garlic in the farm,” he said. The action was carried out following a specific tip off and it is the second major action by the Jalna police after it seized over 11 kilogram of marijuana crop from another farm in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-seize-over-96kg-marijuana/articleshow/81335119.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||BJP, Cong spar over rise in edible oil price||Gandhinagar: Ruling BJP and opposition Congress MLAs engaged in a vociferous exchange of words in the Gujarat assembly on Thursday over rising prices of edible oil. While Congress MLAs raised the issue of rising prices of oil despite a bumper groundnut crop, BJP MLAs contended that farmers had got more money than the MSP for their groundnut crop, a huge chunk of which was exported. Garbada MLA Chandrika Bariya raised the issue of a spurt in prices of groundnut and cottonseed oil. The government tabled figures in reply to her question, stating that the price of a 15kg tin of groundnut oil was priced at Rs 1,555 in January 2020, while the price for the tin stood at Rs 2,171 in December 2020. Bariya said that as of date, the price of a 15kg tin of groundnut oil has crossed Rs 2,400. Congress MLAs Harshad Ribadiya, Babubhai Vaja, Amit Chavda and Shailesh Parmar also joined the discussion even as civil supplies minister Jayesh Radadiya explained that the state government has made purchase of a record seven lakh metric tonnes of groundnut in the past two years. Congress MLAs alleged that the government was giving oil millers a free hand to increase prices of groundnut oil. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel joined the debate, contending that Congress MLAs should do their homework. “There has been a bumper crop and owing to the pandemic, there has been a huge demand for groundnut. Our farmers have exported groundnut and have earned money. Does the Congress not welcome an increase in income for farmers?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-cong-spar-over-rise-in-edible-oil-price/articleshow/81337178.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Auto driver booked for wife’s murder||An auto driver has been booked for allegedly killing his wife in Nalasopara on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Rupesh More. After killing his wife, he called up his neighbour and narrated the incident. He then left in his auto. The cops are on the look out for him. Neighbours said that the couple used to have frequent fights. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-auto-driver-booked-for-wifes-murder/articleshow/81339801.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Yoga helps to make healthy body & mind, say experts on 4th day of International Yog Festival||Haridwar: Yoga is an integral part of people’s daily lives and a person can become strong physically and mentally only if he or she practices it properly, said yoga scholar from the Art of Living Foundation, Mohit Sati on Thursday. Speaking on the fourth day of the International Yog Festival organised by the state tourism department at Ganga Resort in Rishikesh, Sati asserted, “Yoga is not just an aasan (technique), but it is a medium to connect with the supreme power.” Another yoga proponent Laxmi Narayan Joshi dwelled on the useful yoga techniques that can help maintain the blood flow in the body. The Pyramid Spiritual Societies Movement, a non-profit voluntary organisation teaching on anapanasati meditation and spiritual science, spoke on the importance of ‘Pyramid Dhyan Shakti Yoga’ during the event. During the event, Hath Yogi Swami Jeetanand performed different techniques of yoga like Kriya Yoga, Dand Kriya etc. Apart from yoga classes, cultural events were also organised in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yoga-helps-to-make-healthy-body-mind-say-experts-on-4th-day-of-international-yog-festival/articleshow/81336110.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Juna Akhada, Kinnar akhada take out peshwai in Haridwar||Haridwar: The Juna Akhada, one of the largest Naga seer akhadas, and the Kinnar (transgender) akhada took out their peshwai (royal procession) in Haridwar on Thursday. The peshwai commenced from Gughal temple in Jwalapur around 3 pm and then moved to the outskirts of Haridwar via markets and city roads, and finally reached the Juna akhada late at night. Lavishly decorated chariots, musical bands and local folk artists giving cultural performances were part of the procession that had several seers on the backs of horses and camels. The main attraction of the peshwai was the procession of the Kinnar saints who are taking part in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela for the first time. Around 50 seers were part of the peshwai. Meanwhile, a heavy police force was deployed to divert the traffic from the pewshawi-designated routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/juna-akhada-kinnar-akhada-take-out-peshwai-in-haridwar/articleshow/81336137.cms||MS Nawaz
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Senior citizens show the way, more frontline workers line up||New Delhi: The Covid vaccination footfall has been improving as more and more healthcare and frontline workers, who were avoiding the jab so far, are joining the queue. Doctors at Swami Dayanand Hospital said around 50% of the total beneficiaries on Thursday were sanitation and health workers. The crowd is expected to swell in the coming days as people are gaining confidence after senior citizens have been turning up in large numbers since Monday, they said.Dr Deepti Chaudhary, in-charge for the vaccination programme at the Dilshad Garden hospital, said 300 people had turned up on Thursday as against 205 on Wednesday. “There was a rush from the morning. To ensure that senior citizens won’t face any hurdle, we made a separate counter for them. We are ensuring that no one returns without taking a vaccine,” she said.Jai Kishan, a 91-year-old resident of Ram Nagar, said he had to go to his village to avoid the infection. “Even now the children don’t allow me to go out. I found in newspapers about this hospital providing free vaccination and immediately approached my sons to get me registered,” he said after the vaccination.Ashok Kumar Bhargava (77) and his wife Urmila Bhargava (70) were also eagerly waiting for their children to return to Delhi. “They registered us in the morning and, in one and a half hours, we got it,” said Bhargava.Dr Amiya Kumar Verma, nodal officer for the programme at Max Patparganj, said they had started two shifts between 9am and 9pm as senior citizens wanted to come with their children. The number of centres has been increased from two to three and registration timings on Co-Win till 7.30pm. On Thursday, the hospital handled 300 beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/senior-citizens-show-the-way-more-frontline-workers-line-up/articleshow/81337190.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Three states owe Gujarat Rs 6,934 crore||GANDHINAGAR: The states of Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan owed Gujarat a sum of Rs 6,934.19 crore as part of the Narmada project, The state government informed in the ongoing budget session of the Gujarat assembly on Thursday. Visavadar MLA Harshad Ribadiya asked a question, seeking details of amount that three states owed Gujarat as part of the Narmada project, as on December 31, 2020. In a written reply, the deputy chief minister said the Madhya Pradesh government owed Rs 4,764.35 crore, Maharashtra government owed Rs 1,627.66 crore, and Rajasthan owed Rs 542.18 crore. The MLA also sought to know what steps were being taken by the government to recover the amount from the three states, to which the minister replied that Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) has been writing to the departments concerned of all three states every month in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-states-owe-gujarat-rs-6934cr/articleshow/81337209.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kalyan ranking improves, Thane and Navi Mum drop a few notches||Navi Mumbai/Thane: While Navi Mumbai came higher in the earlier rankings, it has dropped to sixth place in the 2020 Ease of Living Index. However, it is still the best ranked city in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) officials said the ranking was a recognition of the standard of infrastructure and quality of services provided. “It would have been higher, had we been part of the smart city criteria. We had opted out of the smart city project and we lost a few points...however, we are happy to have bagged the 6th rank in India,” said NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar. BN Kumar, a city-based activist said, “It is a matter of concern that Navi Mumbai has slipped to sixth rank.” Kumar added that amenities and living standards in slum pockets are being considered in the evaluation process. The Ease of Living report also underscores that the public transport system is not efficient enough to support the growing population in Navi Mumbai. Four civic bodies in MMR, including Navi Mumbai, Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan Dombivali, figure among the top 20 on the Ease of Living Index 2020. In Thane, which stood third after Navi Mumbai and Mumbai, citizens reacted saying the 11th rank had not come as a surprise, Pradeep Indulkar, an activist, said Thane’s ranking dropped since 2018 as it failed to reach out to the common man. "From designing projects that fail to impact the lives of residents to lack of transparency in functioning, the administration needs to do more," he said. Mayor Naresh Mhaske said Thane city has a lot of challenges unlike Navi Mumbai where land was easily available for development. In Kalyan-Dombivli which rose to 12th from the 50th position in the 2018 round, Dr Vijay Suryawanshi, Commissioner of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, was justifiably enthused. "The improvement in ranking is because of hard work of our team which improved ease of living by providing better roads, proper solid waste management and cleanliness," he said. Kalyan-Dombivli ranks above Pimpri-Chinchwad, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nashik and Solapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-kalyan-ranking-improves-thane-and-navi-mum-drop-a-few-notches/articleshow/81339085.cms||B B Nayak
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||2,470 patients recover in Vid in a day; highest ever in 2021||Nagpur: Vidarbha region has reported a significant increase in number of recovered patients on Thursday. With 2,470 patients recovering from all 11 districts, this number is 500 more than Wednesday’s 1,943. More recoveries indicate that the severity of the disease in the present surge is less, and more patients have all chances of recovery at home isolation only. The number of under-treatment patients, which is around 29,000 now, is similar to the conditions in September peak. But at that time, there was a huge shortage of beds in hospitals and people were dying without medical facilities. At present, a few of them actually require hospitalization and deaths are also very less as compared to the September peak. On Thursday, the region reported 22 deaths — 9 of them from Amravati, 8 from Nagpur, 4 from Akola, 2 from Wardha, and 1 from Yavatmal. Out of these, 18 deceased were senior citizens (above 65 years of age) having severe co-morbid conditions. Vidarbha’s case fatality rate is 2.25%, which is less than state’s 2.40%. Increased number of tests is also a notable factor that has been tracing even asymptomatic and mild symptomatic Covid-19 positive patients. On Thursday, more than 26,000 tests were done in Vidarbha. The sample positivity rate in most of the districts was largely under control. Nagpur conducted 10,978 tests with 1,070 positive cases at 9.74% sample positivity. In Bhandara, 41 out of 1,579 tested positive (2.59%), Wardha had 156 positive out of 1,582 tests (9.8%), Gondia has only 20 positive out of 481 tested (4.15%), Chandrapur has 70 out of 1,106 (6.32%) and Gadchiroli had 13 out of 780 tested positive. On the other hand, Amravati division, which is worst-hit by second surge continued having more positivity rate. Akola conducted 2,227 tests and 479 of them tested positive (21.5%). Amravati increased testing capacity up to 2,694 on Thursday with 21% of samples testing positive. Yavatmal (13.2%), Buldhana (19.8%), and Washim (12%) are all having more than 10% positive rate, but this is significantly less than the February last week when the surge had just started. Up to 50% samples in Amravati used to test positive during the early phase. Akola: District reported 4 deaths on Thursday. Deceased include 76-year-old man, 72-year-old woman, 65-year-old man and 68-year old man. All were admitted in last 4 days of time in critical condition. This took Akola’s death toll to 378. Now, 4129 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Total Covid-19 cases are about to surpass 20k mark in Buldhana with 446 cases reported on Thursday. On the other hand, 581 patients recovered in a day which is also a record. Now, 2,492 patients are under treatment. Washim: With 183 new cases and 87 recoveries, Washim now has 9,543 total cases, 7,834 recoveries and 1,547 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 13 new cases, 5 recoveries and no death on Thursday. Total Covid-19 caseload has now reached 9,624, including 9,368 recoveries and 108 deaths. At 148, Gadchiroli has least number of under-treatment patients in Vidarbha. Gondia: 20 new cases, 14 recoveries and no deaths were reported on Thursday. Gondia now has 165 patients under treatment. Caseload has reached 14,500, including 14,149 recoveries and 186 deaths. Bhandara: The district reported 41 new cases, 15 recoveries and no death on Thursday. Bhandara now has 13,812 total cases, 13,185 recoveries and 328 deaths. Total 299 patients are under treatment. Amravati: Even as collector Shailesh Naval hinted at unlocking things in a phased manner from Match 8 when the lockdown ends, the district continued to report 600-plus cases and nine deaths on Thursday. A spike of 673 cases and the deaths took the toll to 549 and caseload to 37,796. The 442 recoveries took the total to 30,509 (80.72%), leaving 6,738 active cases, including 5,391 in home isolation. Praising people for supporting lockdown and acting judiciously during the period, Naval said the lockdown will not be extended after March 8 but eased in a phased manner with restrictions. Yavatmal: The district recorded one death taking the toll to 473. The administration received 1,213 test reports of which 161 were found positive. Currently, there are 1,726 active positive patients in the district. Of the 18,402 positive patients, 16,206 including 175 of Thursday have recovered. Wardha: A 65-year-old man from Arvi and a 70-year-old man from Hinganghat died on Thursday taking the toll to 353. Total 156 patients tested positive taking the caseload to 12,912 while 155 patients were discharged. Chandrapur: Total 70 new cases were reported taking the caseload to 23,873. No death was reported and the toll remained at 399. Total 14 patients were discharged from hospitals. Total recoveries have climbed to 23,040. There are 434 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2470-patients-recover-in-vid-in-a-day-highest-ever-in-2021/articleshow/81337208.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 22-year-old dies as Mercedes rams car at Dwarka crossing||NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old man was killed while his colleague was injured when a Mercedes rammed their car at a crossing in Dwarka in the early hours of Thursday. The Mercedes driver is absconding. The man who died in the crash was identified as Akash Ranaage, a resident of Panipat, and his friend as Rahul Rana (23) who has been critically injured and is being treated at DDU Hospital. They worked for an insurance firm and were returning from an officer party, police said. According to police, the two vehicles hit each other at a traffic signal crossing in Dwarka Sector 6. “A team reached the spot and found two vehicles — a Mercedes and a Ford Figo. There were two occupants in the second car,” an officer said. While one of them was unconscious, the other was severely injured. Both were rushed to hospital where Ranaage was declared brought dead, he added. Locals told police that the Mercedes car was speeding and looked like the driver was driving it negligently. The family members of the deceased and the injured man were informed and Ranaage’s body was sent for a postmortem examination. While the Mercedes driver fled from the spot, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Meena said as per initial probe, records of the Mercedes car showed that it was registered in the name of Ajay Kumar Singh of Jharkhand, a business man whose family lived in Sector 12 Dwarka and his driver was at the wheel. “A case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered,” said Meena. Teams have been formed to identify and nab the person who was driving the Mercedes during the accident, he added. Police are also checking CCTV camera footage of the stretch to establish the sequence of the accident. Both the vehicles have been seized for inspection, a cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/22-yr-old-dies-as-merc-rams-car-at-dwarka-crossing/articleshow/81337219.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Fog delays flights at Vij airport||Vijayawada: Dense fog on the runway has become a major concern for in-bound flights at Vijayawada International Airport. Several flights have been delayed or diverted in the last ten days as airport authorities, along with IMD, continue to monitor the situation closely for the safety of passengers. Movement of flights has increased at Vijayawada after business activities were restored across the state but flight operations in the early hours have been affected as a result of fog. As per DGCA norms, a minimum visibility of 1,000 meters is mandatory for aircraft landing. However, visibility at the airport during early hours can be as low as 270 meters making landing of flights a tough proposition. Airport director Madhusudan Rao said the weather is changing rapidly and they are unable to predict the situation on the runway. “Visibility at the airport at 6 am on Wednesday was 1,100 meters and we permitted take-off for a few flights but dense fog covered the runway by 7.15 am and visibility came down to 265 meters. Even the IMD is not able to predict the situation of fog on the runway,” he said. Rao said they were carefully observing the situation and taking necessary measures for the safe landing of flights, hoping the situation will come under control soon. IMD authorities at Amaravati said that day temperatures were increasing each day but the fog situation in Vijayawada will continue for a few more days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fog-delays-flights-at-vij-airport/articleshow/81336560.cms||Venu Lanka
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||500 autos with updated meters to hit Mumbai’s roads today||Mumbai: The RTOs in Mumbai are finally gearing to begin the 2km road test for every autorickshaw and taxi meter from 6.30am on Friday. For the first time, it has set up 13 road test tracks in the suburbs for autorickshaws —five at Wadala RTO, five at Andheri and three at Borivli. At least 500 autos fitted with recalibrated meters could hit the roads by Friday evening, after getting the RTO seal and approval. The meters have also gone through the table tests in laboratories for a 48km run, sources said. Although in a few days there will be autos and also taxis fitted with meters showing revised fares of a minimum Rs 21 and Rs 25, respectively, many drivers still want to postpone their meter recalibration so that they can ferry passengers by charging old fares. The ridership continued to be hit this week and was 20% lower, transport sources said. Although their date of recalibration will be alloted soon, these drivers want to be among the last to recalibrate meters in May. The RTO has kept a timetable for 4.6 lakh autos and 60,000 taxis in Mumbai Metropolitan Region between March 1 and May 9, and those who miss the schedule can come between May 10 and 31. These drivers want to rush at the eleventh hour, after giving rides to maximum passengers with old fares. “We are in no mood to collect the revised fares now as commuters too are happy to be ferried at old rates,” said Vijay Shintre, an auto driver from Bhandup. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said the hike was justified as it was due for five years. “There has been an increase in the cost of living index, fuel prices, operational costs and taxes and insurance costs. They have also suffered due to the Covid crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/500-autos-with-updated-meters-to-hit-mumbais-roads-today/articleshow/81337286.cms||Somit Sen
March 5, 2021||Rajkot||Family does final rites with Buddhist rituals||Rajkot: The last rites of slain Dalit RTI activisit, Amra Boricha, was performed with Buddhist rituals in this native village Sanodar of Bhavnagar district on Thursday. Women including the deceased’s daughter carried the body to the crematorium and completed the final rites in presence of hundreds who turned up to pay their last respects. Boricha was killed by 10 people who barged into his house and attacked him with sharp weapons on Tuesday. The murder was a fall-out of an eight-year-old dispute over settling the atrocity complaint he had lodged against some of them. Arvind Makwana, district coordinator of Navsarjan Trust, a human rights organization said, “He was very active in Dalit movements and that’s why the family decided to perform his last rites with Buddhist rituals.” A condolence meeting for Boricha is planned on March 14 in which victims of oppression by upper caste from all over the state are expected to join. “There are many people who wanted to come to express their condolences and we received several phone calls from other victims also. So, we decided to organize public tribute function on March 14 in which all these people will remain present,” said Mavji Sarvaiya, a local Dalit leader. The victims of atrocities from Una, Thangadh, Kutch and north Gujarat and leaders of Dalit organizations like Dalit Adhikar Manch will remain present. “We will submit a memorandum to the government in the function to ensure that Dalits should be provided adequate security and such heinous crimes are not repeated,” said Sarvaiya. Ghogha police have so far arrested seven of the 10 accused in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/family-does-final-rites-with-buddhist-rituals/articleshow/81336504.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Woman flees with gold, cash day after wedding||VIJAYAWADA: Just a day after her marriage, a bride allegedly stole cash and gold from her husband’s place and fled with her lover in Kammavaripalli village under Anantapur district’s Peddapappur mandal. The incident took place on Monday but came to light only on Wednesday when the husband, Payyavula Kesha Murali, lodged a complaint with police. This was Murali’s second marriage, according to police who said his first wife passed away due to illness around six months back. To balance the upbringing of his children and work, Murali decided to get married again and wed a 23-year-old from Srireddyvaripalli village. However, he did not know of her relationship with another man. “The very next day after the wedding, the woman stole three ounces of gold, Rs 80,000 in cash and fled with her lover to Odisha,” a police official said. Cops said that Murali did not lodge a complaint immediately as he tried to reach out to the woman himself and tried to resolve the issue internally without public involvement . However, after his efforts to reach her went in vain, he decided to reach the cops. Police said they had traced the woman to Odisha but were yet to arrest her. Meanwhile, a case has been registered based on Murali’s complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-flees-with-gold-cash-day-after-wedding/articleshow/81336181.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC staffer held for ‘sex harassment’ of his junior||Mumbai: An assistant head supervisor in BMC’s solid waste management department was arrested on Thursday morning for the alleged sexual harassment of his 20-year-old junior. BMC’s G-North Ward has suspended him too. Civic officials said the woman had joined BMC a month ago and was reporting to the accused who headed a team of labourers and managed their attendance and distribution of work. Recently, the woman raised a complaint that the accused spoke to her inappropriately and demanded sexual favours. “This is a very serious matter and hence following the complaint, we decided to constitute a three-women officer committee to investigate the matter. A police complaint has also been registered at Shivaji Park police station,” said a civic official, adding they had sent the committee’s report for further inquiry to the chief engineer, solid waste management department. The accused has been booked under Indian Penal Code sections for outraging a woman’s modesty and stalking. He was produced before Bhoiwada court and remanded to judicial custody. (With Ahmed Ali)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-staffer-held-for-sex-harassment-of-his-junior/articleshow/81335036.cms||Richa Pinto
March 5, 2021||Aurangabad||Bhusawal division starts train drive to check tickets||Nashik: To curb train travel without valid tickets, the Central Railway’s Bhusaval division has started a ticket checking drive across all major railway stations in the division.During the ticket checking exercise at Bhusawal on Wednesday, the railway officials collected Rs 74,960 as fine. A ‘fortress’ checking drive — involving a large number of railway employees and the personnel of the Railway Protection Force deployed at all exit points — was carried out.“In all, 128 people were found travelling without valid tickets and all of them were penalised,” senior divisional commercial manager Yuvraj Patil said.The officials also pointed out that only people with confirmed tickets are allowed to travel by the special trains that are being run since the Railways resumed partial service after the lockdown. It may be noted that at the moment, the Railways is not issuing ‘current’ tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bhusawal-division-starts-train-drive-to-check-tickets/articleshow/81335145.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Cops stumble upon plot to kill two riots accused in jail||NEW DELHI: In January first week, when police intercepted a call from Tihar Jail as part of their surveillance and security exercise, they realised that it was not just another bid by an inmate to get some things he required from his associates or family. One of the items demanded seemed quite unusual. He wanted mercury. After a brief search on the internet, senior officers were informed and they were left alarmed with the development. DCP Pramod Kushwaha then put together a team comprising inspector Sanjay Gupta and others to dig deeper. This was the beginning of a month-long operation. Subsequently, surveillance was mounted on the caller, Shahid, and the recipient, Aslam, a relative and associate of the inmate. Shahid turned out to be a dangerous inmate. When his records were checked, police found that he was in jail for gang rape and murder. In 2015, his friend and he had gang-raped a woman and brutally killed her. The men did not even spare her two children as they had seen them committing the crime. A watch was kept on Aslam and it was found that he had bought a lot of thermometers and filled a tiny perfume bottle with the mercury extracted after breaking them. He was soon arrested. He told police that Shahid had tasked him to smuggle the mercury inside jail, which was to be used to kill someone. He didn’t know the target’s identity. Special Cell then took Shahid on remand from court. During interrogation, he allegedly revealed that he had come in contact with inmates Azeemushan and Abdus Sami, who were Islamic State operatives. They had motivated him to kill two men who had allegedly desecrated and vandalised a mosque and killed a few members of their community during the riots. Shahid said he was impressed with the Islamic State ideology from what was explained to him. Convinced and motivated to seek revenge, he agreed to carry out the task. The plan was to stage a brawl when the inmates came together and administer them the mercury. Sami and Azeemushan were then taken in for questioning. The trio had met in jail number 3 where the plan was allegedly hatched. One of Azeemushan’s associates in his IS module was a Unani doctor, who had once explained to him about the concept of mercury poisoning, said a police source. However, the two alleged IS operatives have not been arrested yet. Refusing to share any details, Kushwaha told TOI, “The investigation is on and we will share information after completion of the probe.” But a source said that a third person had been questioned too. His identity has not yet been revealed. Sami was among 15 people convicted in an IS case probed by National Investigation Agency (NIA). Azeemushan was also arrested and charged by NIA in a terror case. Both belong to the Amroha IS module. Between 2013 and 2015, IS recruiters based abroad had created small modules of footsoldiers like Sami and Azeemushan. They were given names like Harkat-ul-Harb-E-Islam and Junood-ul-Khilafa-Fil-Hind, police said. These groups owed their allegiance to IS and its former chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and aimed to establish a caliphate in India by resorting to large-scale terrorist attacks in Delhi-NCR. Their handler was identified as Yusuf al-Hindi alias Shafi Armar alias Anjan Bhai, who was based in Syria. He was the IS communications head before being killed in an airstrike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-rising-deadly-game-at-tihar/articleshow/81337263.cms||Raj Shekhar
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||With eye on farmers, reverse migration and infrastructure, CM tables Rs 57,400cr budget||Dehradun: With the stated objective of boosting reverse migration, farming and strengthening infrastructure, especially roads, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday presented a budget of Rs 57,400 crore for 2021-22 in the Uttarakhand assembly. This year’s budget is around Rs 4,000 crore more than that of Rs 53,526 crore presented in the House for 2020-21. The total receipts for 2020-21 are estimated at Rs 57,024 crore. In the financial year 2021-22, the revenue receipts are estimated at Rs 44,151 crore and capital receipts at Rs 12,872 crore. The tax revenue is estimated to be Rs 20,195 crore and receipt of Rs 23,955 crore has been estimated under the non-tax revenue. Revenue expenditure for the next fiscal is estimated to be Rs 44,036 crore and under capital expenditure, a provision of Rs 13,364 crore has been made. Salary and pension is a major sector of focus for the government. Under salary and allowances, a provision of Rs 16,422 crore and under pension and other retirement benefits a provision of Rs 6,400 crore has been kept. While the expenditure on interest payment is estimated at Rs 6,052 crore, the expense for repayment of loans is likely to be Rs 4,241 crore. CM Rawat while presenting the budget said that the state government was committed to its stand of doubling the income of farmers. A provision of Rs 87.56 crore has been kept in the state budget for Traditional Agriculture Development Scheme. For payment of cane farmers, a provision of Rs 255 crore has been made in the budget, Rs 12 crore for CM Integrated Aadarsh Gram Krishi Yojna and Rs 67 crore for National Agricultural Development Scheme. With a high number of people returning to the hills of Uttarakhand during the pandemic phase, the state government has kept a provision of Rs 272 crore in the Mahatma Gandhi National Guarantee Scheme. The working days for a person has been increased from 100 to 150 days. A provision of Rs 18 crore has been kept under the ambitious CM Migration Prevention scheme. CM Rawat has also given a special thrust on infrastructure and road connectivity in the budget. In the financial year 2021-22, new roads of 843-km, road repairs on a 743-km stretch, 43 bridges and connectivity to 120 villages are to be carried out by the Public Works Department. For this, a provision of Rs 1,511 crore has been kept in the budget. For the repair and restoration of 3,300-km long road network, Rs 385 crore have been earmarked. Under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna, an amount to the tune of Rs 954 crore has been kept. For the border areas, a provision of Rs 20 crore has been made under the head of CM Marginal Prevention Scheme.With a view to expand the air facility in the state, a provision of Rs 20 crore has been made in the budget for the construction of the airstrip in Chaukhutia area of Almora district. CM Rawat termed it ‘a comprehensive budget aimed to take the state on the track to progress.’ “I would like to thank my cabinet colleagues, finance department staff and others involved in this extensive drive to come up with positive decisions for the state and its people,” said the CM. Meanwhile, Congress state chief and Chakrata MLA Pritam Singh said that the expectations were high from this budget as it was the last one from this government, but it has turned out to be a disappointment. “The budget lacks vision as well as a road map for the future. We thought it would talk more about boosting tourism, reviving the industrial sector and helping the farmers. But it was more focussed on issues related with central government schemes, whereas the common man has been ignored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-eye-on-farmers-reverse-migration-and-infrastructure-cm-tables-rs-57400cr-budget/articleshow/81336157.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Assembly passes resolution to save underground water level||Chandigarh: The Punjab assembly on Thursday passed a resolution unanimously, urging the state government to take immediate steps for saving the groundwater. The speaker also announced to form a committee of the House to give a report on the status of underground water level and suggest ways to replenish it to save the state from turning into a barren land. The panel, which was formed on MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid’s proposal, will submit its report within three months. The speaker also asked the state government to direct the principal secretary of water resources to assist the committee. During the course of discussion on the issue, MLAs across party lines expressed concern over the depleting groundwater level and suggested water conservation measures like crop diversification, rainwater harvesting and drip irrigation. It was pointed out that 109 out of 138 blocks in the state had turned into dark zones with depleting underground water level. Cabinet minister Manpreet Singh Badal said 80% of Punjab was dependent on groundwater even though there is a myth that the state has surplus water. “Cultivating one kg rice takes 5,000 litres of water. Punjab is selling its water (to other states) for 1 paise per litre. States like Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra face drinking water deficit and would be willing to pay much more if Punjab was to supply water to them,” he said, referring to the way Israel had taken steps to conserve water. Manpreet added that the Centre should fund agriculture search to help in diversification as cash-strapped state governments were unable to do so. “Apart from wheat and rice, there has been no major breakthrough in new seeds of other crops. The STP plants should use recycled water for irrigation needs,” he said. Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu said even though an agriculture policy had been finalised by the State Farmers Commission, it had not been tabled in the House. “It had recommendations on groundwater revitalisation as well and we had given our inputs,” he said. AAP MLA Aman Arora showed pictures released by NASA some years back that showed Punjab in the red zone for its depleting underground water. He added that even though Punjab is giving free power to farmers, it has not made farming profitable in the state. “Punjab has to be self-sufficient and needs to go in for diversification,” he said. Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the view of the Congress government was the same as that of the House and it was time to wake up to the issue as otherwise the future generations would be left devoid of water. He also made case for penal action against those who do not take steps for rainwater harvesting while building new houses. SAD’s Manpreet Singh Ayali said direct seeding of rice can be an immediate solution to the problem until a new policy is worked out. He said 25% of the state’s area should use the DSR technology. Earlier, Congress legislator Kuldeep Singh Vaid expressed concern over depleting underground water level in the state, saying the way water was being extracted, the state will turn into a “barren land” by 2040. Then farmers will be forced to grow chickpea and groundnut, he said. Akali legislator Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra talked about dropping water level and said there are 14.50 lakh tubewells in the state and 14 litres of underground water was being drawn in one second.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/assembly-passes-resolution-to-save-underground-water-level/articleshow/81339047.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Government should declare the pandemic as over: TTF chief||Ahmedabad: Citing that the death rate of Covid-19 has stabilized over a period, Sanjiv Agarwal, chairman of the company organizing the Travel and Tourism Fair (TTF), opined that the government should declare the pandemic as over. TTF was inaugurated on Thursday at Gujarat University Exhibition Hall in Ahmedabad.“Case counts increase in proportion to increased testing, so that is not a problem as long as deaths are low. Deaths have indeed stabilised down to very low levels. In my view, the pandemic is pretty much over and its high time the Union government declared so,” said Agarwal, during a telephonic interaction with TOI after the inauguration, signalling it will improve sentiment.Travel industry came to a standstill thanks to the pandemic and things are slowly reviving, according to him. Speaking of factors that are hampering travel, Agarwal said, “The mandatory requirement for undergoing a Covid-19 test before entering a state is a huge deterrent for travel and must be done away with. It impacts the sentiment of travellers in a big way and therefore, government must take necessary steps to address this.”Even Ahmedabad-based tour operators are of a similar view and have represented the issue on multiple forums. “Territorial restrictions, localised lockdowns and non-uniform protocol to curb spread of Covid-19 will not augur well for travellers as it will kill sentiment,” said an Ahmedabad-based tour operator.TTF was inaugurated on Thursday by Jenu Devan (IAS), managing director & commissioner – Tourism, Gujarat Tourism Development Corporation.According to TTF, leisure travel has revived to 75% of pre-Covid levels, albeit only for domestic travel. “Typical travellers who used to opt for domestic destinations to travel are now preferring luxury holidays within India. This has caused a rise in popularity of cruises and luxury resorts and upscale properties. Moreover, demand has improved for weekend destinations which are near city limits,” said Manish Sharma, chairman – Gujarat, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/government-should-declare-the-pandemic-as-over-ttf-chief/articleshow/81337243.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada takes a tumble in 2020 Ease of Living Index||VIJAYAWADA: Now placed at 41st position in the Ease of Living (EOL) Index for 2020, Vijayawada now ranks in the bottom 10 among 49 cities with populations of over one million. This, as per the report released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday. In what can be seen as a drastic fall for the city, Vijayawada stood ninth in the previous edition of these rankings, released in 2018. Visakhapatnam was ranked 15th with a score of 57.28. Vijayawada also performed poorly in terms of citizens’ perception of the city, ranking 47th out of 49 cities with a population of over one million. Vizag fared much better in this parameter too, and was ranked 23rd. Vijayawada stood low in other categories too — 39th for quality of life; 33rd for sustainability; 29th in economic ability with a poor score of 11.57 out of 100. Under the subcategories for quality of life, Vijayawada performed poorly under recreation, mobility, housing and shelter, safety and security, and sanitation. However, in a rather shocking development, Vizag scored a paltry 2.66 out of 100 in recreation compared to Vijayawada, which was given a score of 7.67 under this category. This, despite the port city having a more cosmopolitan population and beaches. Meanwhile, Vizag ranks 10th in mobility, 13th in safety and security, 40th in housing and shelter, 13th in health and 24th in education. On a positive note, Kakinada was ranked fourth with a score of 56.8 in the EOL index, among 62 cities with a population below one million. Under the same category, Tirupati was ranked 46th with a score of 50.3. However, in terms of municipal performance of cities, Tirupati stood second after Delhi, with a score of 51.7 while Kakinada was ranked 11th scoring 46.8. Kakinada ranked sixth in terms of citizens’ perception under the category of cities with a population under one million. Despite being a bustling destination for pilgrimage in the country, Tirupati only managed a 62nd rank under citizens’ perception. The EOL Index assessed 111 cities on various parameters by collecting 3.2 million citizen feedback forms and analysing 1.3 million social media responses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vijayawada-takes-a-tumble-in-2020-ease-of-living-index/articleshow/81336046.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Actor files complaint over fake film poster in Mumbai||Actor Suniel Shetty has filed a police complaint against a production company for circulating a fake film poster featuring him. Shetty, filed the complaint at Versova police station and accused the production company of using his photo without permission and lying about him playing lead role, an official said. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-files-complaint-over-fake-film-poster-in-mumbai/articleshow/81339808.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Guntur: 6-yr-old battling cancer lives his police dream||VIJAYAWADA: The dream of a six-year-old, suffering from cancer, came true after he was made Guntur Urban SP for a day on Thursday. According to Guntur police, six-year-old Sheikh Rehal has been battling sarcoma cancer for a few years now. Family members who were keen to fulfil Rehal’s wish to become a police officer, approached Guntur Urban SP RM Ammi Reddy who happily obliged the family’s request and help Rehal live his dream. Emotions were high as the six-year-old received salutes from other officers in the department, much to the delight of Rehal. The sarcoma cancer has already spread from Rehal’s bones to his soft tissue and his father Nobul Chand and mother Beebe Noorzahan, have been struggling to raise funds for his treatment. The SP briefed the six-year-old on the duties of a police officer and assured his parents to help them spread the word, seeking help to raise funds for treatment. Grateful, the parents thanked the SP’s gesture who even gave the six-year-old some hearty treats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/6-yr-old-battling-cancer-lives-his-police-dream/articleshow/81336512.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nashik||NMC to transplant 29 ‘dangerous’ trees||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finalised a contractor for transplanting 29 fully grown trees located on the side of the roads across the city. There are 50 trees in the city that are located either in the middle or on the edges of the road. These trees have been posing problems for the motorists, leading to accidents particularly after sunset. Although tenders were floated in the past, no contractor was appointed due to poor response. But this time NMC has managed to rope in a contractor. “We had floated tenders for relocating and transplanting trees in the city around seven times, but we did not receive any good response. We had recently floated a bid and for the first time received good response,” Shivaji Amale, deputy commissioner (garden) of NMC, said. “We have already finalised the contractor and are in the process of giving him a work order.We are expecting the work for relocating these dangerous trees to begin by the second half of this month,” Amale said. “In the first phase, 29 of the 50 trees will be transplanted and remaining 21 odd trees will be transplanted in the second phase. Apart from transplantation, the contractor concerned will have to maintain the trees for the next two years after the transplantation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-transplant-29-dangerous-trees/articleshow/81335149.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 5, 2021||Vadodara||Two firms bag contract to build int’l stadium||Vadodara: Moving a step ahead, the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) on Thursday awarded a contract for constructing its international cricket stadium to two firms. The apex council discussed eligibility of different firms that had applied for the project and chose two of them. BCA officials said that the stadium project has been estimated at Rs 80 crore and both firms have been given Rs 40 crore contract each. “It’s the initial cost of the project wherein the pavilion, north and south stands, dressing rooms for players and other such facilities will be built. The total cost of the stadium will go up in second phase,” said Satyajit Gaekwad, chairman, BCA’s press and publicity committee. “The stadium will have a sitting capacity of 30,000 and in phase one about 8,000 to 12,000 seats will be constructed, Gaekwad added. BCA officials said that they are expecting the stadium to be ready for hosting international matches within one and half years. BCA member Kalpesh Parmar, however, objected to one of the firms being granted the contract. “The same firm couldn’t give a counter bank guarantee for this project and the association had to cancel the contract. I will write to the BCA management and seek a reply. If I don’t get a satisfactory reply, I will write to the ombudsman,” Parmar said. During the apex council meet, BCA also decided to reward Rs 20 lakh to the Baroda team that was runners up in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-firms-bag-contract-to-build-intl-stadium/articleshow/81335813.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Former OSD of health minister discharged in corruption case by court||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Thursday discharged Dr Nikunj Aggarwal, former OSD of Delhi health minister, and Dr Anup Mohta, former director of Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya (CNBC), in connection with a case of alleged irregularities in Aggarwal’s appointment by Mohta in a state-run paediatric hospital.Special CBI judge Sanjay Bansal said, “It is held that no prima facie case is made out for framing any charge. Both the accused are entitled for discharge, and are hereby discharged from the case.”According to the prosecution, Dr Mohta, during his tenure as the director of the Bal Chikitsalaya, approved the appointment of Dr Aggarwal to the post of senior resident (ortho) on an ad hoc basis. It was alleged that his appointment was illegal, as there was no such post vacant in the hospital at that time.An FIR was registered on December 28, 2016 under the provisions of IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act. Appearing for Dr Aggarwal, senior advocate Rebecca John and advocate Rishikesh Kumar had argued that the prosecution case was misconceived and was a result of misconstruing the facts.The counsels asserted that the appointment of Dr Aggarwal by Dr Mohta was totally in consonance with the relevant rules and procedure. For Dr Mohta, advocate Pramod Kumar Dubey argued that there was no objection from any person who processed the file of appointment of Dr Aggarwal indicating that there was no wrongdoing in the appointment.“There was no violation by Dr Mohta in appointing Dr Aggarwal, and if there was any, the violation was merely of executive instructions that does not give rise to any prosecution,” argued the advocate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/former-osd-of-health-minister-discharged-in-corruption-case-by-court/articleshow/81337242.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Techie from Chittoor kills self in US’ Dallas||Vijayawada: Upset over the cancellation of her marriage at the last minute, a software engineer ended her life by hanging herself at her residence in United States’ Dallas on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Sushma, a native of Police Colony in Chittoor town. Chittoor One Town police said they had received a complaint from Sushma’s parents who have held the fiancé, Bharat — also an NRI — responsible for the death of their daughter. The family said that Sushma was engaged and all set to marry Bharat, a native of Bandarlapalle village under Putalapattu mandal, on March 3. Police said that grand arrangements had been made for the ceremony and invitations had been issued to several relatives and friends. However around a week ago, Bharat decided to call off the wedding over some mutual differences. Family members tried to resolve the issue between them and he allegedly agreed to the wedding too but did not turn up at the venue. Upset over the alleged embarrassment caused to her family, Sushma is said to have taken the extreme step. Police sources said that Sushma’s body be brought to Chittoor over the next two days following the completion of post-mortem procedures. A case has been registered at One Town police station as family members of the deceased are seeking action against Bharat and his family. An investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/techie-from-chittoor-kills-self-in-us-dallas/articleshow/81336265.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Harassed by husband, woman dies by suicide||AHMEDABAD: In a similar case of suicide like Aisha Makrani of Vatva, another woman, 24, from Chandlodia, committed suicide by hanging herself on February 28, after which her husband was booked by Sola police for abetment to suicide. According to the FIR filed by the deceased Manisha Ahirwar’s father Maniram Ahirwar, a native of Damoh in Madhya Pradesh, his daughter was constantly being thrashed and harassed by her husband Rahul Kushwaha, 25, who stays in Chandlodia and hails from Kota in Rajasthan, as she objected to his extra-marital relationship with a woman. Maniram stated in his FIR that Manisha, who was eldest amongst six siblings, had met Kushwaha in 2017 when she was working with a private firm in city. She had told her younger sister that she loved Kushwaha and wanted to marry him. On March, 12, 2020, they got married but as the lockdown was imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic, she stayed with her parents in Damoh. In June 2020, Kushwaha had come to Manisha’s place and taken her with him at his native place for around 15 days and then they moved to Ahmedabad, stated Maniram in the FIR. Before moving to Ahmedabad, Kushwaha had demanded a motorcycle from her family as dowry which was given also. When she was living with Kushwaha in the city, she came to know that he had an affair with another woman named Sangeeta. She objected to this, for which Kushwaha had beaten him black and blue. Later, Manisha contacted Sangeeta and told her not to indulge into relationship with Kushwaha. But when Kushwaha knew about it, he assaulted her again. Since then, Kushwaha thrashed her almost every day. On February 23, she told her younger sister about Kushwaha’s affair and on how she was constantly beaten by him. In that chat, Manisha told her sister that she would commit suicide due to Kushwaha’s harassment. On February 26, Manisha called up her father and told her crying that she would end her life. Later, her phone was switched off. After a while, Kushwaha called them up and told them that Manisha has ended her life. Sola police have filed a case of abetment to suicide against Kushwaha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-harassed-by-husband-woman-dies-by-suicide/articleshow/81337884.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||Youth arrested, minor aides detained in Ranjangaon MIDC robbery case||Pune: The Pune rural police have arrested a youth and detained his three minor accomplices for robbing workers in Ranjangaon MIDC. The police have detected two cases and, recovered an equal number of cellphones and a motorcycle from the four. The youth, Vikas Rode (20) of Shirur, was arrested on Tuesday based on a tip-off received by constables Dattatreya Giramkar and Umakant Kunjir. Senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the local crime branch of the Pune rural police said, after receiving complaints about workers being robbed at night in Ranjangaon MIDC, the police had alerted the informants. “We got a tip-off about four people being involved in the robberies and took Rode into custody. During questioning, he admitted to his involvement in two robberies and revealed the names of his three accomplices,” Ghanwat said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-arrested-minor-aides-detained-in-ranjangaon-midc-robbery-case/articleshow/81337313.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Amid noisy scenes, oppn corners govt on various issues||Chandigarh: The fourth day of the budget session was rocked by protests on various issues by SAD and AAP in the Punjab legislative assembly on Thursday. SAD and AAP members raised slogans as they tried to corner the government before staging separate walkouts on the issue of rising fuel prices and non-implementation of the 85th amendment of the Constitution. Akali leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon raised the issue of increasing fuel prices, saying it was affecting all the sections of the society, including farmers, who are on the streets in protest against the contentious three farm laws introduced by the central government. He demanded that the state government slash Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, which was among the highest in the country. Dhillon informed the House that the government was charging 27.5% VAT in petrol and 17.5% on diesel. SAD leader Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra also asked the government to take steps for reducing fuel prices as Punjab is an agriculture state. Failing to get a response from the treasury benches, the Akali leaders charged into the well of the House before walking out. Send bureaucrat to jail, demands Cheema The ruling party faced the ire of opposition over non-implementation of the 85th amendment of the Constitution, to extend reservation in promotions to scheduled caste employees. During the zero hour, SAD member Baldev Khaira demanded privilege proceedings against Congress MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal for misleading the House on the implementation of the amendment. Khaira said the Congress leader had lied in the House on March 3 by saying that the government has implemented the amendment, which was factually incorrect. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the amendment was passed by the assembly and the governor and despite formal notification, the department of personnel issued a separate notification stopping its implementation. He demanded that the officer who issued the notification be jailed. He also accused the government of not following reservation norms while filling vacant posts on a contractual basis. Minister of social welfare Sadhu Singh Dharamsot acknowledged that the amendment has been approved by the House and assured its implementation at the earliest. However, AAP members raised slogans against the government before staging a walkout. Later in the day, Chabbewal accused Akalis of misleading people on the issue, saying the state government had passed the Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in services) Amendment Act, 2018, and a letter issued by a department cannot challenge the legislation passed in the assembly. He said he had given an appropriate statement in the House on Wednesday regarding the implementation of 85th Amendment and if there was any lacuna at the administrative level, that would be resolved at the earliest with the intervention of chief minister Amarinder Singh. ‘Get false FIRs against farmers quashed’ AAP legislator Baljinder Kaur demanded that false FIRs registered against farmers be quashed. She accused the BJP-led Union government of putting farmers behind the bars by registering false cases. While sharing the name of some of the farmers who have been put behind bars, she claimed that their family members were not even aware of their whereabouts for weeks. She urged that the state government take up the issue with the Prime Minister and home minister and get the FIRs quashed. ‘Eh gal chalegi, tah door tak jayegi’ Heated argument broke out between health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Akali MLA Bikram Singh Majithia after the latter took a dig at the former for preferring a private hospital for Covid-19 treatment. Majithia said that had Sidhu opted for a government facility, the confidence of general public in government hospitals would have increased. Sidhu hit back by saying that while he had paid from his own pocket, a member of Majithia’s family had received treatment in a foreign country at government expense. Seeing things getting out of control, assembly speaker Rana K P Singh intervened and asked them both to stop, saying, “Eh gal chalegi, tah door tak jayegi (if raised, this topic will persist).” Vaccine shots for MLAs With the rollout of the third phase of the Covid vaccination drive, SAD’s Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi urged the government to give all the elected representatives vaccine shots on priority. He said as all the MLAs are highly vulnerable to infected (as they meet general public), they should be immunised on priority. The health minister assured of making arrangements for their vaccination after the budget session. Delhi-Katra eway compensation When Congress MLA Rana Gurjeet took up the issue of land acquisition for Delhi-Katra expressway, minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar informed the House that the land’s collector rate has not been reduced. The affected farmers had recently submitted a memorandum to the Punjab chief minister, who had formed a committee comprising the minister of public works department, additional chief secretary (revenue) and additional chief secretary (agriculture). The speaker also urged the minister to ensure that farmers don’t face loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-noisy-scenes-oppn-corners-govt-on-various-issues/articleshow/81339108.cms||Vinod Kumar
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand assembly to function on Saturday & Sunday too||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand assembly on Thursday gave its consent to run the session on Saturday and Sunday as well. Usually, the assembly does not function on these two days. The business advisory committee suggested that the assembly functions on March 6 and 7. Following which, Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal placed the suggestion in the House. Later, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik presented the proposal and it was passed in the House. Now, the budget session of Uttarakhand assembly is likely to conclude on March 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-assembly-to-function-on-saturday-sunday-too/articleshow/81336169.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Housing, commercial complexes part of Walled City revamp pilot||New Delhi: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has planned to create a model residential tower and a commercial complex as a pilot project to carry out redevelopment of old Delhi areas. Two sites were selected and a special area redevelopment plan was submitted to the Delhi government’s urban development department on Tuesday, a senior official said.“The commercial complex will come up at Peeli Kothi near Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Marg, while the residential tower has been proposed at a site behind Town Hall near Dangal Maidan,” the official added.Another official said that while the Master Plan-2021 had the provision of a special area redevelopment plan under which the corporation was supposed to start allowing amalgamation of plots to minimum of 3,000 sqm for their redevelopment as a complex to reduce congestion and fire hazard, but it could never materialise.“This was to be incentivised by allowing extra floor area ratio (FAR) for redevelopment by private sector. The plan was again taken up after the Anaj Mandi fire tragedy. In the last meeting, LG had asked us to set up pilot for this project,” the official said.Instead of looking for a complicated process of amalgamation of plots owned by private players, the civic body has proposed the sites, which are largely owned by corporation, along with some portions where offices of DJB and BSES have been running.“They have been made stakeholders in the project and meetings have been held in this regard. The process got delayed due to the pandemic,” the official said.The residential site currently houses a DEMS (sanitation) office and its adjoining properties between Shanti Desai Marg and Sushila Mohan Park behind Dangal Maidan. “The adjoining property of BSES is 1,776 sqm and BSES will get benefit of 225 FAR under this proposal. A minimum area of 3,000 sqm is required to avail the benefit of 1.5 times the permissible FAR,” the official explained.The proposed site area is 3,478 sqm, while the redeveloped property will have covered floor area of 6,548 sqm. The proposed new structure has height of 38.95m with multi-storey building commercial units on ground floor, community facilities on first floor and basement parking, the report states.“The parking area will be able to accommodate 73 vehicles for commercial and residential units. The redevelopment will provide more office space while reducing fire hazard,” the official added.The civic body has also incorporated a small portion of adjoining Sushila Mohan Park in the site but the greenery of the portion will be maintained. The commercial complex scheme has been proposed for Peeli Kothi offices. “In commercial complex, DJB is the stakeholder while rest of the land is under the corporation,” the official said.“Peeli Kothi is a bit complicated site with V shape but it touches two main roads, namely Naya Bazar Road and SP Mukherjee Road. It will be developed into a shopping-cum-office complex and special provisions have been made for stilt parking and fire tender movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/housing-commercial-complexes-part-of-walled-city-revamp-pilot/articleshow/81337282.cms||Paras Singh
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet nod to revamp PPCB, 3 other depts||Chandigarh: The Punjab cabinet on Thursday approved the restructuring of another four departments, including the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), to create more employment opportunities. The three other departments that will be restructured include governance reforms, environment and climate change and employment generation, skill development and training, an official spokesperson said after the virtual cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh. The revamp of the governance reforms department would lead to creation of 56 new posts while doing away with 75 obsolete ones. Twenty new posts across cadres will be filled through Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC), Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board. In the employment generation, skill development and training department, which has been mandated to solve the problem of unemployment under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Programme, 29 new posts of different cadres would be created while 57 existing ones will be done away with. At present, the department has 615 sanctioned posts across cadres, of which 369 are filled. In PPCB, two new posts will lead to right sizing and better efficacy in dealing with the challenges of pollution. Hike in Class X scholarship To incentivise Class X students of government schools, the Punjab government has decided to enhance the Dr Hargobind Khurana Scholarship amount from Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per month. The scheme, being implemented by the school education department since August 1, 2013, will also be amended to promote brilliance among students by making it applicable to those obtaining 90% marks or above instead of the earlier ceiling of 80%. Those studying in Adarsh Schools run by the Punjab School Education Board would be paid the scholarship amount by the board out of its own funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cabinet-nod-to-revamp-ppcb-3-other-depts/articleshow/81339077.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Up to 4% dip in electricity rates; e-vehicle charging also cheaper||MUMBAI: The overall electricity tariff across power utilities in the city will either remain unchanged or decrease up to 4% from next month, as per tariff order of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission. Electric vehicle charging station rates have also been cut from Rs 6 per unit to Rs 5.5 per unit to encourage sales of e-cars and e-bikes, said sources. The cost of maintaining and running such vehicles is also lower than vehicles that run on fossil fuels. As for utility tariffs, Tata Power consumers in the 0-100 units user bracket will enjoy the highest dip at 4%. The rates for BEST, which has 10.5 lakh consumers in the island city, will remain unchanged for the first two slabs, 0-100 units and 101-300 units, which comprise a majority of its residential consumers from Colaba to Sion and Cuffe Parade to Mahim. For high-end consumers, there will be a tariff drop of 1% from April 1, the first day of the new financial year. The drop will be a relief to many residential, commercial and industrial users who were financially hit in the Covid-19 lockdown. Pending power bill payments today amount to over Rs 45,000 crore across the state, said sources. BEST will continue to have the cheapest power in the state for the fifth year in a row. The MSEDCL, with 2.6 crore consumers, will continue to have the highest residential, commercial and industrial user tariffs in 2021-22. Tata Power, with over seven lakh users, and Adani Electricity, with nearly 30 lakh consumers, are at second and third position when it comes to cheaper power. For Tata, the rate for low-end residential users will reduce, mainly for 0-100 units, where it will dip from 3.77 per unit to 3.63 per unit, a drop of around 4%. In the 101-300 units category, there is a drop of 4 paise, or under 1%. There is a marginal increase, of under 1%, in tariff for high-end users in the 301-500 units category. In case of Adani Electricity, there is a marginal rise, of under 1%, for low-end residential consumers, but high-end users, whether in the 301-500 units category or 500-plus units category, will get a drop in rates from next month. For users of MSEDCL, which powers Bhandup and Mulund, Thane, Navi Mumbai and the rest of the state, there is dip of up to 2% in tariff for residential users. For the 500-plus units bracket, there is a marginal increase of 4 paise, or less than 1%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-up-to-4-dip-in-electricity-rates-e-vehicle-charging-also-cheaper/articleshow/81339162.cms||Somit Sen
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Jakhar questions Parminder for ‘mortgaging’ Punjab’s future||Chandigarh: The Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday challenged Parminder Singh Dhindsa former, who served as the Punjab finance minister during the SAD-BJP regime, to come clean and explain his political compulsions which led him to mortgage state’s interests by agreeing to Rs 31,000 crore food account repayment, even though “the Centre had agreed to cap the settlement at Rs 13,000 crore” in 2017. Speaking to mediapersons at Punjab Bhawan, Jakhar said this act was akin to a seditious act deliberately committed by the then SAD-BJP government to put the state under heavy debt. The state Congress president emphasised that Punjab demanded not only ‘jawab’ but also ‘hisab’. Showing a copy of the central government’s report on the issue, Jakhar said it clearly mentioned the Centre’s plan that Punjab would accept the responsibility for Rs 13,000 crores. The state Congress president also said that the national leadership of the BJP should make all documents public to let the truth come out to confirm if BJP’s senior leadership arm-twisted the central government to put this additional burden on Punjab as they knew people had voted them out in the 2017 state assembly elections. Asking Lehra MLA and now SAD (Democratic) leader Dhindsa to at least now seek forgiveness from people of Punjab by being honest and truthful, Jakhar wondered how Akalis could even now claim to speak for Punjab. “I ask Dhindsa, will you reply about backstabbing Punjab since you had earlier left the SAD as they back stabbed the Sikh community,” questioned Jakhar. He also raised questions on then food supplies minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon for being signatory to such a suicidal agreement. The central government report, Jakhar said, left not even an iota of doubt in anyone’s mind that Akalis back stabbed Punjab by bartering their financial interests for their political ambitions. Jakhar said he would soon be writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to ascertain all facts on the issue in the public domain. He aid the Youth Congress will on March 8 give this central government document to all senior leaders of BJP including Dushyant Gautam, Tarun Chugh and Shwait Malik, and of the SAD to elicit answers and accountability from them on behalf of all Punjabis. “Our MLAs will give copies to their legislators during the legislative assembly session that day,” he added.-||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jakhar-questions-parminder-for-mortgaging-punjabs-future/articleshow/81339125.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||5,199 schools without fire NOC, high court flays govt||Ahmedabad: Shocked that 5,911 schools in Gujarat function without fire NOC, the Gujarat high court has issued a warning to such schools that it would order derecognition of schools if they fail to install fire-fighting equipment and obtain fire NOCs. Questioning how “one could play with innocent lives of students in schools”, the high court also reminded the government that it “is committed” to ensure safety of children in all school premises, whether government or private. The high court said that it was “extremely sad and shocking to know that there are 5,911 schools in the state of Gujarat not possessing a valid and subsisting No Objection Certificate”. It questioned, “How is this permissible? How can one play with the innocent lives of the students studying in such schools? If no steps are taken in this direction at the earliest, then this court may be compelled to ask the state government to cancel the recognition of such schools,” the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora said.The high courtissued the warning after petitioner-advocate Amit Panchal highlighted the number of schools that are without fire NOC in the state and underlined the negligence even after the 2007 Supreme Court order in connection with fire tragedy in Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu. The lawyer filed the PIL last year, seeking action in the Shrey Hospital fire tragedy and demanding proper implementation of fire safety norms in the state.The court said that under constitutional provisions, the government “is committed” to ensure safety of children in all school premises, whether government or private. It slammed the government for its “deficient” enforcement of laws and observed, “Fire safety in schools is often a neglected element… The government does not enforce fire safety and most schools still function without even the basic safety amenities.”The court exhorted schools to take responsibility to ensure that all safety precautions are maintained. “Every school must take the necessary precautions in order to prevent anything untoward from happening in the case of an emergency, like a fire. Every floor must have a fire extinguisher or, at the very least, sand banks must be set in place,” the court said while issuing directions for the schools. It said that training must be imparted among staff members and the schools must remain in contact with emergency services.The high court also ordered all schools to install fire alarms. It said that fire alarms are expensive, but a necessary investment to save lives in case of any crisis. The court also said that the schools cannot expect the state government to install any fire safety provisions, and that the schools are entirely responsible for the safety of the children studying there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5199-schools-without-fire-noc-high-court-flays-govt/articleshow/81337321.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||Man accused of killing four tigers gets bail||Nagpur: The accused, who poisoned four tigers to death in Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary, 65km from here, was on Thursday granted bail as the investigating officials could not file a chargesheet in the prescribed 60 days. Accused Diwakar Nagekar from Navegaon Sadhu village on the sanctuary’s fringe was arrested on January 1, 2021, for spraying insecticide on a cattle carcass killed by the tigress. The carcass was consumed by the tigress and her three sub-adult cubs causing death. The accused was remanded to magisterial custody (MCR) on January 3, after a day’s FCR. “As forest officials did not file a mandatory chargesheet in 60 days, the Umred JMFC AV Pandit released Nagekar on bail,” said Raju Bhombe, counsel for the accused. This is the second time the accused Nagekar had applied for bail. Pench CCF & field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “The chargesheet is almost ready but we are waiting for some corroborative evidence like call detail records (CDRs), and reports from the regional forensic lab. Other reports from the Centre for Cellular (CCMB) and Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), UP, has been received.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-accused-of-killing-four-tigers-gets-bail/articleshow/81337314.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP neta held in molestation case||A BJP corporator, Nitin Telavane from Murbad in Thane district has been arrested for allegedly molesting a woman corporator, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday. The minister was speaking in the Legislative Council. Telavane has been arrested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bjp-neta-held-in-molestation-case/articleshow/81339816.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Salem||I-T dept opens control room to keep cash flow in check||Salem: Income-tax (I-T) department officials have set up a control room to monitor the flow of money during the election campaign. They have appealed the public to alert them of illegal cash flow, if they know of any.I-T officials usually book the people who carry cash without valid documents during the election time and initiate legal proceedings against them. However, that was only after flying squads seize the cash or ornaments.‘But this time we have set up the control room to monitor the cash flow,” said an official. The public, he said, could reach them at the toll-free number 18004256669 and WhatsApp number 9445394453.The official said the control room would function round the clock and the public could also alert them about money and freebies distribution to the voters by the political parties. “The department will keep the informers’ identity very secret.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/i-t-dept-opens-control-room-to-keep-cash-flow-in-check/articleshow/81337336.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab again gives extension to 6th pay commission||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Thursday again extended the term of the 6th Pay Commission to submit its report by March 31. The pay commission has failed to submit its report even after over five years of its constitution in 2016. The state government had given the last extension to the commission in December last year and it was to submit its report to the government by February 28. Neighbouring Haryana had announced implementation of the 7th Central Pay Commission in October 2016. The Punjab government, during the SAD-BJP regime, had constituted the 6th Pay Commission in February 2016 by appointing retired chief secretary R S Mann as its chairman. After the incumbent Congress government came to power in March 2017, Mann resigned from the post. The Congress government then appointed retired 1968-batch IAS officer and former chief secretary Jai Singh Gill as head of the commission in April 2017. Now it is possible : Gill Asked as to what resulted in so much delay in submission of the pay commission report, Gill told TOI, “Its obvious whatever has to happen will happen with its time. This is routine and nothing more than that. Sometimes you want to write something and you require more information which gets delayed.” To a question whether the employees can be sure this time that the commission is finally going to submit the report by March 31, Gill said, “Yes. Of course. Now it is possible.” He further added, “The government has given this extension and we cannot embarrass the government. Certainly there would be something.” Asked does not he think that five years time is too much for a pay commission to finish its task, Gill replied, “Look at other commissions in other states as to how much time they take.” He explained that it was “very detailed work” and the commission was dependent for the information to come from various departments of the government as the commission did not have database of its own. Punjab Employees on Hunger Strike Punjab and UT employees’ joint front convener Sukhchain Singh Khaira told TOI, “On one side, Punjab government says its coffers are empty, on the other they extend the term of pay commission and paying its staff.” He added the employees unions were sitting on hunger strike at district headquarter level in all 22 districts of the state from March 2 till March 10 seeking release of pay commission recommendations at the earliest. The employees are also demanding release of their three pending instalments of 16% dearness allowance and arrears of the dearness allowance ranging from Rs 1.25 lakh to Rs 2.50 lakh per employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-again-gives-extension-to-6th-pay-commission/articleshow/81339138.cms||Sanjeev Verma
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Denotification of Shivalik and expansion of Jolly Grant Airport two separate issues, U’khand chief wildlife warden tells HC||Nainital: The chief wildlife warden (CWLW) of Uttarakhand JS Suhag on Wednesday told the high court (HC) that the denotification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve and the expansion of Jolly Grant Airport are two separate issues. He added that it is “just a coincidence that the 87 hectares of land which will be acquired for the expansion of the airport is part of the Shivalik reserve.” In the affidavit, the CWLW said that the denotification of the reserve does not have anything to do with the use of forest land for non-forestry purposes. The affidavit, a copy of which is available with TOI, further says that the process of acquiring 87 hectares of reserved forest for a non-forestry purpose is “under consideration at the level of competent authority for approval under the provisions of section-II of the Forest Conservation Act” and that the transfer process can continue “irrespective of whether the Shivalik Elephant Reserve exists or not”. As reported by TOI earlier, the Uttarakhand HC, while hearing a PIL last month, had stayed the government order that denotified Shivalik reserve, Uttarakhand’s only elephant reserve. The court had then said that the Forest Conservation Act mandated that the state should have permission from the Centre before diverting any forest land for non-forestry purposes. Citing objections raised by the Centre in its letter that asked the state to look for alternate land, the court had stated that there was no evidence to show that the central government had given its consent. However, the state government has now argued that its January notification was only about cancellation of an earlier notification from 2002 – which had notified Shivalik as an elephant reserve – and that Centre’s letter is about non-forestry use of reserve forest land (expansion of the airport), a matter that is still under consideration. The court has now directed the member secretary of the state wildlife board to remain present before the court in the next hearing as he failed to submit his response. The court has also asked the petitioner, Doon-based environmental activist Reenu Paul to amend her petition. The case has now been listed for further hearing on March 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/denotification-of-shivalik-and-expansion-of-jolly-grant-airport-two-separate-issues-ukhand-chief-wildlife-warden-tells-hc/articleshow/81336277.cms||Prashant Jha
March 5, 2021||Salem||3 killed as sidewall of house collapses||Namakkal: Three people, one of them a toddler, were killed after the sidewall of a house collapsed on them at Ernapuram here on Thursday. The Nallipalayam police identified the deceased as K Chinnathambi, 60, of Kanakkan Thottam area near Ernapuram and their neighbour Poonkodi, 55, and her two-year-old granddaughter Deva Sri. A police officer said Chinnathambi had constructed a new house adjacent to his old house recently. “Work was on to demolish the old house and he had roped in a few workers for the same.” The incident, he said, occurred when Chinnathambi was sitting close to the old house and chatting with Poonkodi, who had her granddaughter on her lap, on Thursday morning, even as workers were demolishing the house. “A huge wall suddenly collapsed and fell on the trio, who were trapped under the debris. The workers immediately removed the debris and pulled them out. However, both Poonkodi and the toddler had succumbed to their grave injuries on the spot,” the officer said. They rushed Chinnathambi, who was battling for life, to the hospital, but he died on the way. When alerted, the Nallipalayam police sent the dead bodies to the government district headquarters hospital in Namakkal town for postmortem. They have registered a case and initiated inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/3-killed-as-sidewall-of-house-collapses/articleshow/81337351.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gold price plunges by Rs 1,800 in week||Ahmedabad: Plummeting by around Rs 1,800 over a week, gold price settled at Rs 46,500 per 10 gram in Ahmedabad on Thursday. Gold price went down drastically against Friday’s Rs 48,300 per 10 gram. This means yellow metal price has plunged by 8.2% from Rs 50,700 per 10 gram since February 1 in the Ahmedabad market. Analysts suggest that global cues coupled with good returns in the Indian equity markets and strengthening of the Indian rupee against the US dollar caused gold prices to plunge drastically. Jewellers are rejoicing the decline in price of gold because the business has revived. “The daily gold consumption is 50-60kg for jewellery manufacturing as well as bullion. The demand is definitely picking up well after the duty cut on gold and silver, coupled with a decline in gold price in the international market. People are purchasing bullion. Jewellery purchases are good, too,” said Jigar Soni, president of Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). Jewellers feel that duty cut coupled with relaxation in Covid-19 guidelines is currently working well to boost gold demand because weddings are taking place in good numbers. “At least 70% of purchase of jewellery come from customers who want to buy wedding jewellery. The demand is good from both rural and urban customers and we expect sales to improve in the days to come. The sentiment is very good,” said Soni. Analysts attribute the decline in gold price to the rise in interest rates and low liquidity that has created pressure on the international gold prices since February 2021. “Reduction in price is only aiding demand. People are now comfortable with the sub-50,000 level of gold price,” said another jeweller based in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-plunges-by-rs-1800-in-week/articleshow/81337353.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Investor’s trust in riskiness of portfolio imp’||Ahmedabad: How does an investor choose stocks and ensure diversification? A working paper by Prof Sobhesh Kumar Agarwalla from IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) and Rajan Raju, director of Singapore-based Invespar Pte Ltd titled ‘Equity portfolio diversification: How many stocks are enough? Evidence from India’ points at an investor’s confidence level at ‘the given riskiness of the portfolio compared to the market portfolio’ to arrive at the holdings required.“Moreover, investors also check the historical variance of portfolio returns vis-à-vis the chosen benchmark returns to determine diversifiable risk carried in the portfolio,” mentioned the paper.The researchers mention that simulation for the study and real-life scenario are different as investors select stocks based on specific reasons. But a well-balanced approach can help them target risk reduction and increase confidence level.“I do not agree with the idea of having a portfolio of 40-50 stocks. If an individual investor wants to have so many stocks in his portfolio, he or she should invest in mutual funds,” said Nilesh Kotak, a city-based stock analyst. “Charlie Munger, vice-chairman of Warren Buffet’s Berkshire Hathaway, had famously claimed that his portfolio consists of only 3 stocks. Thus, the key is to have a well-balanced portfolio in terms of fund allocation,” he added. Bankim Merchant, a business associate with Motilal Oswal, said that the portfolio size and composition depend on the investor and advisor’s planning. “Along with stocks, the investors now have options such as mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETF) to reduce the risk and diversify their investment. But we often see that the investor doesn’t want to miss on the ongoing trend and wants to acquire or sell specific stocks rather than holding on to it,” he said, adding that commitment level – period for which the stock is kept like 1 year to 10 years – also plays a major role. “Certain firms have also created products which not only invest in stock, but also equity debt, international stock and gold/commodity to diversify.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/investors-trust-in-riskiness-of-portfolio-imp/articleshow/81337425.cms||Parth Shastri
March 5, 2021||Coimbatore||6 take jolly ride on a bike, land in trouble||Coimbatore: After a video of six people travelling on a motorcycle in the city in violation of traffic rules went viral on social media on Thursday, city deputy commissioner of police (traffic) R Mutharasu has instructed traffic police personnel to trace the and seize the motorcycle. The video seems to have been recorded by someone who was travelling in a four-wheeler. The traffic police managed to trace the vehicle owner based on the registration number, but only to realize that the owner had sold the motorcycle two years ago and that the buyer hadn’t transferred the vehicle to his name. Now, a police team is trying to trace the buyer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-take-jolly-ride-on-a-bike-land-in-trouble/articleshow/81337382.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||This is govt’s last budget, midterm election soon: Devnani||Jaipur: Former education minister and BJP MLA Vasudev Devnani, during his speech in the state assembly on Thursday, said “this would be the last budget of this government as there is a possibility of a midterm election”. Terming the budget “a bundle of lies”, he said “the state was staring at a financial bankruptcy”.“In the past two years, only 33 per cent of the budget announcements have been implemented, 35 per cent are under process and there is no progress in the rest 32 per cent announcements. This budget is nothing, but a bundle of lies and is beyond reality, said Devnani in the assembly. Devnani further pointed out the state government’s share of loan has increased from3.11 lakh crore to over 4 lakh crore. He also pointed out that revenue receipts have also gone down. Sanganer MLA Ashok Lahoty said, of the Rs 1.73 lakh crore estimated amount for 2020-21, up to December only 79,000 crore (48%) has been revenue receipt. In 2019-20, of the estimated revenue receipt of Rs 1.64 lakh crore, only Rs 1.40 lakh crore was received by the state, which was down by 14 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/this-is-govts-last-budget-midterm-election-soon-devnani/articleshow/81337386.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: TMT bus connects Bhiwandi and Diva||TMT has finally started a new route connecting Bhiwandi and suburbs of Diva and Mumbra. The first bus from Mumbra will depart at 7am while that from Bhiwandi will leave at 8.20am.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-tmt-bus-connects-bhiwandi-and-diva/articleshow/81339821.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Photos: Punjab’s ‘Rafale’ runs @ 15kmph on roads||BATHINDA: The French-made Rafale might be flying high in the sky but a 60-year-old self-taught mechanic from Bathinda’s Rama Mandi has designed his very own ‘Punjab Rafale’ — a jet-shaped vehicle that runs at 15kmph on roads. This vehicle, which is 18 feet long, 10 feet wide and 8 feet high, can run up to 7 kilometres in a litre of petrol. The vehicle cost Ram Pal Behniwal, a matriculate who took around 45 days to design it, about Rs 3 lakh. It weighs nearly 800kg, has the engine of Maruti 800 car and the steering system of a jeep. “The idea came to me after I saw the keen interest people had in the jet and the way they watched its arrival from France,” he said.  Behniwal, who has a small reverse osmosis water plant at Rama Mandi near the Hindustan Petroleum-Mittal Refinery, has named the jet as Ram Pal Airlines. “I used to watch my mother late Bhagwanti Devi prepare household items with perfection and started with clay modelling before shifting to steel and iron modelling,” he said. In his latest venture, he was helped by local mechanics Kuldeep Singh and Sewak Singh. They prepared the vehicle by using an iron sheet and putting two big wheels in the rear while the two in front are smaller. Behniwal is preparing a cultural centre at Rama Mandi on small piece of land, where the cultural heritage will be put display. In 2019, he had designed a railway engine from scrap, which has been installed in the refinery of the township.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-rafale-runs-on-roads/articleshow/81339149.cms||Neel Kamal
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||City to get respite from heat||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad may witness a respite from heat for three days from Friday, due to change in wind direction, said IMD officials in a forecast on Thursday. “Fall in minimum temperature by 2-4 degrees Celsius during next 2-3 days and thereafter gradual rise very likely,” mentioned the forecast. Meanwhile, minimum temperature on Thursday touched 20 degrees Celsius, which is 3.6 degrees higher than the normal. Maximum temperature of 35.7 degrees is 2.8 degrees higher than the normal, indicating arrival of summer. With Surendranagar and Vadodara recorded highest of 35.8 degrees Celsius on Thursday, Ahmedabad and Bhuj came second. Except Dwarka, Okha and Veraval, all other weather stations recorded maximum temperature above 31 degrees Celsius, whereas average minimum temperature remained around 20 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-to-get-respite-from-heat/articleshow/81337369.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Pandemic blow: Telangana’s tax income likely to take a hit||HYDERABAD: Just before Covid-19 hit Telangana last year, the state’s budget projected a bright picture with a higher income from its own revenues at 61 per cent. A budget analysis of all the states across the country between 2015-16 and 2019-20 shows that Telangana was among top states having its own tax income than what it got from the central tax pool. However, the current scenario may not be as bright as this. As indicated by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report, the state could earn Rs 60,424 crore income in the current financial year (2020-21) as against the total budget estimated own tax revenue of Rs 1,02,026 crore. This would mean only 59 per cent of the target would be reached. “In the last financial year, 72 per cent of the income was earned by January-end,” officials said. In these last five years, Telangana had own tax–GSDP ratio at 7.4 per cent. Own tax-GSDP ratio is a measure of a state’s potential to generate taxes from its economy on its own. Delhi led the charts in having own tax revenue, followed by Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. Experts said a higher ratio indicates better ability to harvest taxes from economic activities in the state. It is estimated that average own tax-GSDP ratio of states during 2015-16 to 2020-21 has been 6.3 per cent.  For most states, it ranges between 5%-7.5% except north-eastern states where it hovers between 2.5%-5%, an expert said. In terms of having non-tax revenue, Telangana with 14 per cent share was the second highest in the country. Telangana also had the lowest central tax share at 19 per cent along with Gujarat when compared to other states. Despite the setback in own tax income, the state government is keeping its hopes alive. It has estimated the GSDP (Gross StatevDomestic Product) at Rs 9.7 lakh crore this year and per capita income at Rs 2,27,145. Maharashtra leads the charts in terms of GSDP with Rs 30.7 lakh crore. Uttar Pradesh is second largest state in India with Rs 19.4 lakh crore by surging past industrialised states like Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pandemic-blow-states-tax-income-likely-to-take-a-hit/articleshow/81337376.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD MLAs ride bullock carts to protest high fuel prices||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLAs on Thursday carried out a march on bullock carts towards Punjab legislative assembly to register their protest against the Punjab government’s refusal to give relief from hike in diesel and petrol prices to farmers and commoners. The SAD legislators later also staged a walk-out on this issue as the state government refused to give an assurance that it would reduce state tax on petroleum products which is levied in the form of value added tax (VAT). Earlier, the SAD MLAs, led by party legislative wing leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Singh Majithia, carried out a march on bullock carts to the legislative assembly to draw attention on the Congress government in Punjab not paying heed to the demand to reduce prices on petroleum products by at least Rs 5 per litre. The SAD MLAs, while raising slogans of “lokan nu lutna band karo” and “VAT ghat karo”, also attacked the state Congress president Sunil Jakhar for allegedly trying to befool Punjabis by refusing to put pressure on his government to reduce VAT on petroleum products. Later, Majithia told mediapersons that chief minister Amarinder Singh and finance minister Manpreet Badal were responsible for not reducing VAT imposed on petroleum products in Punjab. “Instead of tackling this issue, the state government is trying to shift its responsibility to the Centre,” he added. Majithia said the Congress government was playing a fixed match with the Centre as each hike in prices of petroleum products resulted in a similar hike in VAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-mlas-ride-bullock-carts-to-protest-high-fuel-prices/articleshow/81339160.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Visit schools daily: Collector to edu officials||Hyderabad: Education officials of all ranks in Mahabubnagar district have been instructed to visit all schools everyday as it has been noticed that teachers were absenting themselves without notice to leave. Collector S Venkat Rao paid a surprise visit to the government primary school at Bandameedhipalli in Mahabubnagar and found that the headmaster Yousuf had not come to the school. He had also not applied for leave. The collector instructed the District Education Officer (DEO) to issue a show cause notice to the head master. It was found that the headmaster had applied for leave on February 2 but did not come to school on February 3 also. Henceforth, the collector said he would make more surprise visits to schools to check if the teachers were regular and also in time. The DEO, MEOs and other officials have been instructed to be at different schools by 9.30 am itself to see if the teachers are coming in time. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/visit-schools-daily-collector-to-edu-officials/articleshow/81337397.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||NU to hold backlog papers from March 31 to April 15||Nagpur: After declaring the timetable for its regular (winter) examinations, Nagpur University (NU) released its schedule for conducting papers for failure students on Thursday. NU will hold theory exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students of odd semesters from March 31 to April 15. After NU announced its schedule for regular exams on Wednesday, a lot of backlog students took to social media asking on the fate of their papers. Many of them also contacted NU authorities in this regard. Students said they were already suffering due to inordinate delay in exams on account of Covid-19 pandemic. As per the notification issued by Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable, the theory exams of third and fifth semesters of PG regular and ex-students will be held from March 25 to April 10, but those will be conducted at the college/departmental level. In the same period, the papers for regular and ex-students of UG courses have been scheduled. However, those too would be conducted partly at the college/department level. The exams of UG first semester students for traditional courses will be held from April 24 to May 5. The notification directed colleges to submit internal tests marks of sessional, practical, project work, seminar, assignments, and viva voce of all UG and PG students before the commencement of theory exams. They were further told to conduct practical exams through online, offline and mixed mode, and upload their results immediately on NU website. Sable said the exam schedule of the first semester of professional courses, where students are admitted through the centralized admissions process (CAP), will be announced soon. The students will get a multiple choice question (MCQ) of 40 marks which they need to solve within one hour on their respective mobile handsets. Each question would carry 20 marks with four options and it will include filling up the blanks and matching the following, besides regular questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-to-hold-backlog-papers-from-march-31-to-april-15/articleshow/81337403.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 5, 2021||India||Left to fight 165 West Bengal seats, Congress 92, ISF 37||KOLKATA: The seat-sharing squabble that had threatened to derail the Congress-Indian Secular Front (ISF) tie-up in Bengal even before it could take off was resolved on Thursday after the Sanyukta Morcha, which includes the Left Front, arrived at a formula to keep all three alliance partners happy. Congress will contest 92 seats out of 294 and the Left Front will field candidates in 165 constituencies, leaving 37 to Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui’s ISF. Left Front chairman Biman Bose finalised the deal after talking to his partners at the CPM’s state headquarters on Alimuddin Street. Later, Bose spoke to Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury and they agreed to release on Friday the candidates’ list for 60 seats going to polls in the first two phases. Chowdhury left it to Congress veterans Pradip Bhattacharya and Abdul Mannan to make the joint declaration along with ISF’s Nausad Siddiqui. There are, however, no consensus candidates yet for two to three seats in north Bengal. The Sanyukta Morcha leadership has decided to address these “teething problems” on Sunday. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance has organised a joint rally in Kolkata on Saturday against spiralling fuel prices and to project itself as a vehicle for mass protest that goes beyond electoral adjustments. At the alliance’s first big rally at Brigade Parade Grounds, Abbas Siddiqui had struck a discordant note by extending support to Left Front candidates across the state, but stopping short of doing the same for Congress. He also stressed the need for “bhagidari (equitable sharing)” in electoral politics and said the ISF would extend support to others strictly on a quid pro quo basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/left-to-fight-165-bengal-seats-congress-92-isf-37/articleshow/81340345.cms||---
March 5, 2021||---||Left to fight 165 West Bengal seats, Congress 92, ISF 37||KOLKATA: The seat-sharing squabble that had threatened to derail the Congress-Indian Secular Front (ISF) tie-up in Bengal even before it could take off was resolved on Thursday after the Sanyukta Morcha, which includes the Left Front, arrived at a formula to keep all three alliance partners happy. Congress will contest 92 seats out of 294 and the Left Front will field candidates in 165 constituencies, leaving 37 to Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui’s ISF. Left Front chairman Biman Bose finalised the deal after talking to his partners at the CPM’s state headquarters on Alimuddin Street. Later, Bose spoke to Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury and they agreed to release on Friday the candidates’ list for 60 seats going to polls in the first two phases. Chowdhury left it to Congress veterans Pradip Bhattacharya and Abdul Mannan to make the joint declaration along with ISF’s Nausad Siddiqui. There are, however, no consensus candidates yet for two to three seats in north Bengal. The Sanyukta Morcha leadership has decided to address these “teething problems” on Sunday. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance has organised a joint rally in Kolkata on Saturday against spiralling fuel prices and to project itself as a vehicle for mass protest that goes beyond electoral adjustments. At the alliance’s first big rally at Brigade Parade Grounds, Abbas Siddiqui had struck a discordant note by extending support to Left Front candidates across the state, but stopping short of doing the same for Congress. He also stressed the need for “bhagidari (equitable sharing)” in electoral politics and said the ISF would extend support to others strictly on a quid pro quo basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/left-to-fight-165-bengal-seats-congress-92-isf-37/articleshow/81340342.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Can’t allow AIADMK to win again: CPM||Coimbatore/Tirupur: CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the AIADMK government cannot be allowed to come back in power in the interest of Tamil Nadu as well as India. Addressing a public meeting in Coimbatore on Thursday, Yechury said the people of Tamil Nadu have a historical responsibility to show India the way to restore the dignity of the country by ousting BJP’s ally AIADMK from power. The assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and few other states are very significant in the current Indian context because the country is going through one of the worst stages in terms of parliamentary democracy and constitutional order, he said. “The AIADMK government is in alignment with the Centre and supportive of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s policies which are ruining the livelihood of people and destroying the constitution while spreading communal poison and dividing the people,’’ Yechury said. “In the interest of TN and India, this cannot be allowed to continue,’’ he said. Noting that a decisive defeat to BJP and its ally AIADMK in the assembly polls was essential to safeguard TN and India was imperative to create a better nation, Yechury said that people should take up the challenge and shun AIADMK and BJP. Yechury came down heavily on the economic policies of the Centre and alleged that in the last one year 15 crore Indians lost jobs. He alleged that child malnutrition in India was the worst in the world, women’s health, particularly pregnant women had plunged to the bottom, prices of essential commodities were galloping, and people’s miseries were growing. “But billionaires in the country have grown at the fastest rate. Modi’s policies are enriching the rich and impoverishing the poor. Such a government is supported by AIADMK. We cannot allow these governments to continue,’’ he said. “TN people should show India how to restore dignity of India and restore our survival in a proper manner. That’s the essence of this election. It’s your historical responsibility,” he said. Later at Tirupur, he said at a similar public meeting that AIADMK government has compromised the Dravidian ideals for the sake of its survival. Yechury noted that AIADMK claims itself to be part of the Dravidian fold but has forgotten self–respect. “TN showed the path for self-respect and social justice, but AIADMK leaders have buried those ideals,’’ he alleged. “DMK should unite all the parties who are working against the BJP and AIADMK in the state,” Yechury said. “The seat sharing talks are happening between CPM and DMK. We cannot conduct such talks through the media. In Kerala, the ruling party will grab the victory and in Tamil Nadu, the ruling party will be defeated,” Yechury said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cant-allow-aiadmk-to-win-again-cpm/articleshow/81337412.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Only IIT-B from Maha in global ranking||Mumbai: Indian universities put up a poor show in the latest QS global universities subject-wise ranking. From Maharashtra, only Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay figured in the rankings for several subjects. Neither Savitribai Phule Pune University nor Mumbai University made it to subject-wise lists. Indian Institutes of Technology bagged top slots. Interestingly, IIT-B had the best rank for art and design (51-100 bracket); it ranked 67 for computer science, 70 for chemical engineering, 61 for electrical engineering and 82 for mechanical engineering. For civil engineering, it ranked in 51-100 range and stood 41st for mineral engineering. Subject-wise rankings take into consideration H-index citations, citations per paper, academic and employer reputation. IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “We are happy to know that IIT-B has done well. We value the opinion put forward by the agency and appreciate that they have reposed faith in the quality of education and research at IIT-B. Nonetheless, any effort to singularly quantify quality of education provided by a higher education institute must be taken with a pinch of salt. Meeting aspirational demands of faculty members and students of diverse background is our first priority. IIT-B believes in providing top class education and offering cutting-edge research and shall continue to do so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/only-iit-b-from-maha-in-global-ranking/articleshow/81336290.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Botanical park opened for morning walkers||Jaipur: The botanical park along the Dravyavati riverfront that remained closed despite work being completed two years ago has been opened for public.The park developed under the Rs 1,600-crore river rejuvenation project had been facing neglect. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) initially refused to take possession of the park claiming that the firm had not completed its work. But, later it was decided to open it for the public. An official said, “In the recent internal meeting, a decision was taken by morning walkers and joggers. The other facilities such as restaurant will be open soon.”An official said the area of the park is around 4,000 square-metre. This park is situated on the southern fringes of the city in Bambala. It houses more than 1,000 different species and about 1 lakh plants and trees ranging from cactus, tropical plants, Ayurvedic plants and herbs to exotic species which normally survive in the cold and high altitudes of the Himalayas. A greenhouse has also been created to house such exotic varieties like orchids and lilies.The JDA will also soon rent out cafeterias and kiosks built in the bird park and botanical park- the two large gardens developed under project. It is expected to help in earning more revenue.A senior official said, “The department had earlier decided to rent out 5 kiosks and a cafeteria in the bird park located in Panipech and 12 kiosks built at the botanical park in Bambala. The cafeterias and kiosks were developed by JDA for visitors in the two large gardens developed on 3.68 hectares on Panipech Sikar Road and 2.98 hectares near Bambala Pulia. The proposal was, however, shelved. Now the JDA is thinking to invite tenders again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/botanical-park-opened-for-morning-walkers/articleshow/81337411.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Govt implemented 62% of last Budget announcements||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday termed the Budget development-oriented and asked the opposition not to worry about the implementation of the proposals while making a slew of announcements in reply to the Budget on Thursday.He said, “The execution of the Budget should be the concern of the government and the opposition need not worry.” He assured the assembly that whatever announcements were made would be fulfilled.He was countering opposition leader Gulab Kataria’s speech where he accused the chief minister of making announcements without the resources to back up execution on the ground.The chief minister said the Budget deficit increased as the revenue sources dried up during the lockdown and the government expects hike in its revenue with more tax compliance and broadening its resource base.The chief minister accused the Centre of consistently reducing its share in the centrally sponsored schemes putting additional burden on the cash-strapped state governments.Gehlot said despite the lockdown, the government was able to implement 62 per cent of the last budget announcements.He attacked the Centre accusing it of ‘Hitler raj’ under Modi and said the country’s image as the largest democracy has taken a beating.Quoting a Washington Post report, he said other nations are downgrading the country’s democratic credentials with the arrest and slapping of sedition charges on activists, journalists and political opposition is being targeted with raids by ED, IT and CBI.Major announcements HealthSub-health centres at 784 gram panchayats in phasesUrban primary health centre at Nathdwara-RajsamandSatellite hospital at Kishanpole, JaipurSub-district hospital to be converted into district hospital at Salumbar in UdaipurICUs in Bagaria Hospital, Sujangarh in ChuruNursing college in Kumher of BharatpurNew neuro-surgery unit at MDM Hospital and ortho-spine unit in Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in JodhpurEducationIn 200 government schools, science streams will be openedRs 100 crore for the construction of buildings and over all development of the government collegesChoice-based credit system to be implemented in RajasthanPetroleum course to be opened in Barmer Engineering CollegeGirls college at DeedwanaIn order to improve quality of education in engineering colleges, the autonomous engineering colleges were brought under various technical universitiesBio-technology and public health will be recognized as graduate and post-graduate coursesMunicipal CorporationRs 50 crore for sewerage system in Walled City Jaipur5,000 dairy booths to be opened in RajasthanAgricultureKisan e-mandi for direct purchase of fruits and vegetablesSub-centres of Rajasthan state seed and organic certification agency at Jodhpur, Udaipur, Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner and KotaAgriculture colleges at Mandawa, Musawar, Chandgoti and BaytooRs 3 crore to strengthen infrastructure at 600 veterinary sub centresIndustryElectronic toys and sports goods manufacturing to be brought under thrust sector in the RIPsIndira Gandhi Credit Card Scheme for 10,000 spinners and weavers, besides training and stipendInvestment limit for RIPs benefits slashed to Rs 5 crore from Rs 10 cr for Plug & Play Office ComplexMSMEs in services sector can apply at district level as wellNew industrial areas in Bassi, Sirohi and Alwar to be developedNew industrial zone in Jaipur-Basis-Dausa to be developed along Delhi-Mumbai ExpresswayLabour and employmentSetting up of skill testing and career counselling centersUDHThree open gyms each at every municipal council and 5 at municipal corporationsRiver front at Sangod in KotaCity nature park at Fatepur in SikarTourismRs 2 crore for development of Ramdevra temple at JaisalmerPower400 KV grid substation at Hanumangarh at Rs 329 crore Social justice Upliftment of homeless and Rehabilitation Policy to be introducedRs 20-crore Valmiki fund to be created for the progress of youths and children of the community||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-implemented-62-of-last-budget-announcements/articleshow/81337429.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||City third-best in quality of life||Ahmedabad: Here is what one can call a giant leap for Gujarat cities. Back in 2018, when the Union government first declared the Ease of Living index (EoLI), none of Gujarat’s cities ranked among top 10 liveable cities in India. Surat ranked 19, followed by Ahmedabad at 23, Vadodara at 36, Rajkot 38, Gandhinagar 39 and Dahod lagging behind at 79 rank. In the 2020 ranking, Ahmedabad was number 3, Surat was at 7, Vadodara ranked 8, while state capital Gandhinagar was ranked 7 among cities with less than a million population.The purpose of the EoLI is to propel governments into investing in cities in sectors that require improvement to accentuate quality of life, as well as track sustainable development goals (SDG). Water supply, safety, governance , solid waste management, green space, cultural spaces, career opportunities, economic dynamism or safety were among the aspects analysed by the index.However, when one peered deeper, it was revealed that though Ahmedabad’s overall EoLI rank was third, in terms of Municipal Performance Index (MPI), the city ranked eleventh in governance. Similarly, Rajkot ranked 37, Vadodara ranked 29. While in case of using technology for municipal governance Vadodara ranked 36, Rajkot ranked 16. After bagging the ‘second cleanest city in the country’ tag in the fifth edition of Swachh Survekshan, the Diamond City came second in the Municipal Performance Index (MPI) 2020 in the million-plus category.“SMC has done commendable work,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. VMC commissioner Swaroop P said, “Vadodara has green spaces, and there is a good health system in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-third-best-in-quality-of-life/articleshow/81337456.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Tutor, father held for culpable homicide||Ahmedabad: More than a month after a 16-year-old student died after being hit by a train while crossing a railway line near Daxini Underpass, Khokhra police on Thursday arrested the owner of a coaching centre and his father for culpable homicide. The accused have been identified as Akshay Rajput, the owner of Neha Coaching Centre in Maninagar (East), and his father Manoj Rajput The accident, which had taken place on January 26, also left another student, Saiyam Khicha, grievously injured. The Class 10 students were on their way back from tuition class when the incident occurred. In the FIR, Tanishq’s father Sanjay stated that he and Saiyam’s father Ravindra had met Akshay at his coaching class and decided on engaging his service for their sons for Rs 60,000. At the time, Rajput told him that for an additional Rs 800 a month, they would also have to engage the rickshaw pick-up and drop service offered by his father. When Sanjay and Ravindra agreed, they were told that the rickshaw would ferry a maximum of three children at a time. Surana stated, “On the evening of January 26, I received a call from Akshay, telling me my son had met with an accident near Daxini Underpass and was taken to LG Hospital. There, I learned that while Saiyam had been hospitalized, my son had died at the site of the accident.” Surana then went to the spot and saw his son’s body, amid a crowd of policemen and onlookers. He added that after Saiyam regained consciousness, he told them that Manoj usually drove six boys in his rickshaw to a spot near Daxini Underpass and would make him and Tanishq walk across the tracks. The rickshaw would use the underpass and come to a certain spot on the other side, where the boys would get back in for the rest of the journey. Rajput had told them that this was to avoid being fined or have his vehicle detained by police for ferrying more than the permissible number of passengers. Surana added, “Saiyam told them that on that fateful day, a man named ‘Soni kaka’, and not Manoj, was driving the autorickshaw. He said that Sonikaka made him and Tanishq get off to cross the railway line, as instructed by Manoj.” Police have not apprehended this ‘Soni kaka’ yet. Inspector Y S Gamit of Khokhra police said, “We have arrested the father-son duo. The stand-in rickshaw driver had been instructed by them to make some of the children walk across the railway line, knowingly putting their lives in danger. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have not yet been able to arrest the third accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tutor-father-held-for-culpable-homicide/articleshow/81337445.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR targets BJP again, this time over Kazipet rail factory||Hyderabad: A day after asking the BJP to apologise to the people of Telangana for failing to get the ITIR project to the state, TRS working president KT Rama Rao slammed the saffron party once again for failing to get the rail coach factory in Kazipet, which was part of a promise made in the AP Reorganisation Act of 2014. Alleging that the Centre has been meting out injustice to Telangana since its formation, KTR said the BJP has shown its ‘anti-Telangana’ stance by failing to fulfil its promises. He said TRS MPs would fight for the rail coach factory in the upcoming session. He said the railway minister while responding to a recent RTI petition had said that there was no need to set up a railway coach factory in Telangana. KTR said the Centre had already cancelled the ITIR project and derailed IT development in Hyderabad. “We strongly condemn the Centre’s attitude towards Telangana. Not setting up the coach factory would be causing great injustice to Warangal and Telangana by the Centre,” he said. The BJP government had already done a great injustice to Telangana by not sanctioning the bullet train and high-speed railways. “Non-allocation of the bullet and high-speed trains to a metropolis like Hyderabad is a testament to BJP’s discrimination towards Telangana,” he alleged. He demanded that the NDA government make a clear statement on setting up the railway coach factory in Kazipet. The TRS working president said the state government had already acquired 150 acres for the proposed factory and handed over the land to the railways. He said the Centre has remained silent on Telangana’s other demands like sanctioning eight pending railway lines, two new lines, Kazipet wagon factory, Kazipet railway division and setting up of a railway university. He said Telangana drew a blank in the Union Budget and not a single rupee was allocated for railways in Telangana. The Centre, which is keen on privatising the railways, did not respond to land allotment requests by Telangana for construction of double bedroom houses and road-widening, he said. Setting up of a rail coach factory is the constitutional right of Telangana. The BJP does not have any right to reject or take a U-turn on the promise made to Telangana in Parliament. We will fight for our rights with Centre||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-targets-bjp-again-this-time-over-kazipet-rail-factory/articleshow/81337414.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Uproar in assembly over interruptions during Poonia’s speech||Jaipur: The Assembly was adjourned for half-an-hour on Thursday after BJP members trooped to the well of the House following frequent arguments and interruptions by ruling party members during BJP president Satish Poonia’s speech on budget.Poonia raised issues related to farmers' suicide, farm loan waiver and deaths of infants at the children hospital in Kota earlier.This led to a heated exchange of words between the ruling and Opposition legislators.Chairperson Rajendra Pareek sought cooperation from the legislators to let the House function, but to no avail.Ruling party members alleged Poonia was presenting wrong facts. Trouble started when Poonia said more than 100 children died at JK Lon hospital in Kota and people of the whole country were witness to the pathetic condition of the hospital.This was objected by medical and health minister Raghu Sharma and parliament affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal who hails from Kota. He asked the member to visit the hospital to see for himself the facilities there.Poonia then wanted to place the figures on literacy in the country 10 years before and present.Dhariwal interrupted the member to place on record the prices of petroleum products as well.BJP leaders also dragged on Rahul Gandhi’s admission of Emergency being wrong.Dhariwal then countered by saying that Rahul Gandhi had the heart to accept the mistake, what about Modi who had fooled the people promising to deposit Rs 15 lakh into the accounts of people from black money deposited abroad. The ruling party members wanted to know from the BJP the number of people who died during the ongoing farmers agitation and demonetisation in 2016.This argument and counter argument went on till the Opposition rushed to the well forcing the chair to adjourn the House for half-an-hour. When the House resumed, Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria said the behavior of the ruling party MLAs especially parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal was unacceptable and demanded an apology from the minister.Speaker CP Joshi later gave a ruling that no member will interrupt a member during his speech and if any member had to counter his arguments, it will be only after getting permission from the chair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/uproar-in-assembly-over-interruptions-during-poonias-speech/articleshow/81337406.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet approves 6 recommendations||Chandigarh: The Punjab cabinet on Thursday approved six key recommendations of the 6th state finance commission, including compensation against revenue losses on certain counts. The commission had submitted seven recommendations for the financial year 2021-22 to the Punjab governor on January 29. While six were approved by the council of ministers on Thursday, one relating to continuation of devolution of 4% own share of state taxes to local bodies for the year 2021-22 will be examined by a group of ministers. The group of ministers shall comprise finance minister, local government minister, rural development and panchayats minister, and water supply and sanitation minister. The recommendations accepted by the cabinet are continuation of compensatory payments in case of loss of revenue from abolition of octroi on power and liquor to local bodies for the year 2021-22, continuation of 16% share of excise duty on Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) and 10% share on auction money from liquor vends to be devolved to the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies (ULBs). The 6th Punjab Finance Commission was constituted by the state government under section 3(1) of the Punjab Finance Commission for Panchayats and Municipalities Act, 1994, vide notification on July 3, 2018, under the chairmanship of former chief secretary K R Lakhanpal. It included former vice-chancellor of Punjabi University Patiala B S Ghuman as expert member, besides financial commissioner rural development and panchayats and principal secretary local government as ex officio members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cabinet-approves-6-recommendations/articleshow/81339169.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||No recognition for electropathy courses: Min||Jaipur: Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma in assembly said that neither any institution is affiliated with the state government nor recognition has been given for conducting electropathy courses in the state.He said electropathy system is not approved by the Centre or any state. The Centre has formed a committee in 2016. There have been five meetings of this committee on the subject, but nothing has been concluded so far, he said.In reply to a question by MLA Narayan Beniwal during the Question Hour, Sharma said that Rajasthan Electropathy System of Medicine Act, 2018 was passed by the assembly on April 11, 2018. After this a committee was formed under the chairmanship of the director of the ayurveda department. There have been two meetings of this committee and further decision will be taken based on its report, he said.Sharma said that the state government does not have any information regarding the conduct of electropathy syllabus before and after the passage of the Act. There are six institutes functioning in the private sector, but none are recognised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-recognition-for-electropathy-courses-min/articleshow/81337478.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After 10-yr wait, SRA gets moving on rehab of Badhwar Park slums||Mumbai: More than 10 years after it tabled the proposal, the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) recently issued a letter of intent (LoI) for the redevelopment of the three sea-facing slum pockets opposite Cuffe Parade’s Badhwar Park where the 26/11 terrorists, including Ajmal Kasab, had landed. This will be one of the city’s costliest SRA schemes where sale component flats could be priced between Rs 5 crore and Rs 10 crore. The long wait to move into their permanent homes could end soon for the 300-odd hutments in the slum pockets of Garib Janta Nagar, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Nagar and Amrapali. Being developed by Neumec Group, the construction is likely to be completed in two years. If all goes as planned, the slum pockets will make way for a 28-storey tower to house the slum dwellers and a 24-storey tower for sale. The process for rehabilitation of the slum dwellers had begun back in 2010 and was stuck in red tape for more than a decade. “We have received the LoI and now we will apply for a clearance to the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA). We hope to complete the project in two years. The sale component will include mid-size housing and not luxury housing,” said a Neumec Group spokesperson. The three slum colonies were constructed in the 1990s and local residents are happy things have finally begun to move. “We are very happy that finally permissions have come for slum rehabilitation. We will cooperate with the authorities and hope there are no further hurdles in the redevelopment,” said Prabhakar Tambe, chief promoter of Amrapali Cooperative Housing Society, one of the three slum colonies. The slum pockets also house the jetty where Kasab and his nine fellow terrorists had reportedly landed in Mumbai in a dinghy in 2008. The slums are located along Captain Prakash Pete Marg. The ready reckoner rates in the area are around Rs 57,000 per square foot. Tambe moved into the slum colony in 1995. “My entire youth was spent here. Now we have many youngsters who are educated and are doing good jobs. They don’t want to stay in the slums. In the monsoon, we have to struggle a lot since the sea water enters our homes. The entire sea face stinks a lot. We hope to move into regular homes in the tower soon,” he said. SRA officials said the three slum pockets, spread over 3,400 square metres, will be developed together. The entire land is sea-facing and both the slum rehabilitation building as well as the sale competent one will have an unhindered view of the sea, they said. “The LoI has been issued based on the consent given by the slum dwellers. The LoI will be valid as long as all the conditions are fulfilled and complied with,” an SRA official said. “We will first construct the rehabilitation tower and then the sale component. We are yet to finalise the exact size of the flats in the sale component, so no pricing has been fixed yet. We will get all the permissions and finish this project in a time-bound manner,” the Neumec Group spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-after-10-yr-wait-sra-gets-moving-on-rehab-of-badhwar-park-slums/articleshow/81339186.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Raj cities cut a sorry figure in ease of living index rankings||JAIPUR: In what would leave the urban development authorities scratching their heads, none of the cities of the state found a place among top 10 in the ease of living index announced on Thursday. Rather, the coaching hub of the country Kota was placed among the bottom 10, coming at 44 out of the 49 million plus population cities ranked in the index. The only solace is Udaipur which has come at 8th position in the Municipal Performance Index for cities below one million population. Of the three cities in Rajasthan, Jodhpur has been placed at 21st position, while Jaipur’s ranking stands at 23. In fact, on citizen perception pillar, which records the views of the people, Jodhpur has done fairly well coming at number 2 position among the 49 cities of more than a million population. While on other three parameters like quality of life, economic activity and sustainability, it has scored poorly. In case of Jaipur, except the economic activity parameter where it stands at 13th position among the 49 cities, it has disappointed in all other three pillars. Barring a mediocre score in citizen perception, Kota has come at the bottom in all other parameters. In fact, under sustainability pillar, the city has ranked at 48th position, just one position above the worst performer. Union ministry of housing and urban development has designed the index to assess the progress made in cities through these various initiatives, and also empower them to use evidence to plan, implement and monitor their performance. It has made two indexes, one for million plus population cities and another for cities below one million population. In the below one million population, the ranking was made of 62 cities. Ajmer and Udaipur, two cities in the state, have featured in the ranking with both coming at 12th and 48th respectively. In the quality of life pillar, the index evaluates cities on education, health, mobility, recreation, and safety, while the economic ability captures opportunities for employment and business. Under the sustainability pillar, the index assesses environment, green spaces and buildings, city resilience, and energy consumption. GFX Million Plus Cities In Raj, Score Under Pillars City Overall ranking Quality of Life Economic Activity Sustainability Citizen perception Jodhpur 21 41 32 21 2 Jaipur 23 23 13 40 24 Kota 44 43 42 48 19 Less Than 1-million Population Cities Ajmer 12 39 13 24 23 Udaipur 48 16 33 40 52||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-cities-cut-a-sorry-figure-in-ease-of-living-index-rankings/articleshow/81337451.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||NCLT stays appointments at Electrotherm||Ahmedabad: The National Company Law Tribunal, Ahmedabad has put on hold the appointments of Sanjay Bhandari and Mukesh Bhandari as whole-time directors of Electrotherm India Ltd till March 17. The appointment of Sanjay Bhandari as additional director of the board has been put on hold as well, according to the appellate tribunal’s interim order. NCLT’s order comes after a petition was filed by Siddharth Bhandari, son of Mukesh Bhandari, challenging the agenda of a board meeting to be held on Thursday, which included the appointment of his uncle Sanjay. “One of the agenda is regarding holding of nomination and remuneration committee for the appointment of Sanjay Bhandari as an additional director and whole-time director for a period of three years,” the order mentions. Another agenda is to appoint Mukesh Bhandari as a whole time Board Director, it said. The tribunal questioned the credibility, merit and eligibility of Sanjay Bhandari and stated that no documentary evidence or other material has been provided to prove the eligibility of Sanjay for the appointment on board. “The applicant has mainly alleged that no credential of Sanjay Bhandari has been brought on record. We also found that no material, in fact, exists in this regard only one letter which has been circulated by proposer chairman has been provided even in that e-mail, there is nothing mentioned about his credential and eligibility / suitability on his appointment or qualification.”The NCLT bench also stayed appointment of Mukesh Bhandari, the company’s founder and current non-executive director, as a whole-time director and fixed the entire case for further hearing on March 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nclt-stays-appointments-at-electrotherm/articleshow/81337474.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Bird flu detected among chickens in Sola||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad district collector Sandip Sagale on Thursday ordered the culling of chickens within a 1-km radius of the Waghri Vaas locality of the Sola area of the city, after samples of chicken sent to the National Institute for High Security Diseases, Bhopal, were found to be positive for H5NI or bird flu. The areas within 1km of Waghri Vaas has been declared infected through a notification. The area within 10km of the infected zone has been declared an ‘alert zone’. Poultry products will not be allowed to be taken outside the alert area and sale of items such as birds and eggs will be prohibited. The animal husbandry department, police department, forest department, AMC and district panchayat have been asked to take action according to these provisions. Two weeks ago, around February 15, nearly 17,000 poultry birds were culled after bird flu was detected at a poultry farm in Uchhal town of Tapi district. This town is located adjacent to Maharashtra’s Navapur taluka that had witnessed a spurt in H5N1 cases a few days earlier. Within Ahmedabad, panic had struck on February 5, when 200 pigeons were found dead near Akruti farm in Narolgam area, the animal husbandry department later confirmed that it was not bird flu. Gujarat’s first bird flu was detected in early January in Batva in Jungadh district. Later stray cases were detected in Surat , Vadodara and Valsad districts in a few dead crows. “Normally, the quarantined area requires that a lot of similar birds be culled. For instance a total of 5.78 lakh poultry birds were culled and 25.13 lakh eggs destroyed from 22 poultry farms in neighbouring Navapur (Maharashtra),” said a senior official of the animal husbandry department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bird-flu-detected-among-chickens-in-sola/articleshow/81337582.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Bareilly||Four booked for duping man of Rs 28L by petrol pump under disabled quota||Pilibhit: Four people have been booked for allegedly duping a 31-year-old physically handicapped resident of Pilibhit’s Puranpur of Rs 28 lakh on the pretext of getting a petrol pump allotted to him under the disabled quota. In his complaint, Ubaish Quraishi of Sahukara locality under Puranpur Kotwali police station, said he had applied for a cooking gas agency three years ago but was not issued the letter of intent by the petroleum company concerned. Since then, he was trying to secure a petroleum dealership, he said. In November 2019, said Quraishi, he was approached by one of his relatives, Mohammad Rubaid of Sherpur village under the same police station, and his colleague, Zulfikar Asad of Shahjahanpur. The duo allegedly told him that Asad had close relations with the petroleum minister and he could “manage” the allotment of a petrol pump in his favour at Udaikaranpur village, where he had earlier applied for an LPG dealership. They demanded Rs 28 lakh from him for the work and assured that the allotment would be given within 15 days from the date of the payment of money, claimed Quraishi. As he had already spent a considerable amount on the purchase of 1,500 square meters of land on Pilibhit-Basti national highway for the gas agency, he borrowed Rs 22 lakh from friends and arranged another Rs 6.20 lakh by pledging family jewellery. Thereafter, he paid the money to Asad in the presence of Rubaid and his two brothers in Shahjahanpur in January 2020. As proof of transaction, he captured a video of the exchange of money and also recorded the entire conversation with the four. Rubaid had taken the responsibility of overseeing the allotment, he said. When he did not hear from them for a month, he approached Rubaid and Asad. After making several excuses, they took him to Delhi on September 1 last year and handed over to him an “allotment letter” of Indian Oil. He found it was a fake when he checked with the company. Later, Rubaid refunded him Rs 2 lakh on condition that his name would not be included in the FIR, Quraishi claimed. Puranpur Kotwali SHO SK Singh said the four -- Rubaid, his two brothers Hanif and Yamin, and Zulfikar Asad were booked under IPC section 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-28l-by-petrol-pump-under-disabled-quota/articleshow/81332891.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||HCBA mulls online polling due to Covid-19 surge||Nagpur: In view of spiralling Covid-19 cases in the city, the High Court Bar Association (HCBA) is considering conducting its much delayed elections online. A decision in this regard would be made by the HCBA’s election panel on Friday. HCBA executive committee headed by president Gauri Venkatraman and secretary Prafulla Khubalkar conveyed its opinion to the poll panel members in this regard on Thursday. “After our meeting today, we asked the election panel to explore option of online voting. It’s the best option in view of the pandemic situation and standard operating procedure (SOP) for it is in force,” Khubalkar told TOI. A section of lawyers, however, submitted a representation to the poll panel strongly opposing any move to defer the polls. Signed by about 50 lawyers, including District Bar Association (DBA) president Kamal Satuja and Shreerang Bhandarkar, the representation alleged that a few members of the poll panel were hand-in-glove with some contestants who wanted to postpone the elections. “It’s a ploy by those who apprehend they will be defeated. A few incompetent poll panel members are keen to defer the polls for saving their contestants and they should be made to resign. We demand that young members should be introduced in the panel to have complete transparency,” an upset Bhandarkar told TOI. He added they had been demanding online polling since June due to the pandemic but all their pleas were ignored. According to lawyers, the issue would snowball if poll panel members failed to properly handle the situation and postponed the March 12 polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hcba-mulls-online-polling-due-to-covid-19-surge/articleshow/81337462.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Record 1L+ vaccine doses administered in a day||Ahmedabad: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday,Gujarat administered record 1.04 lakh first doses of Covid-19 vaccination,taking the total to 11.09 lakh. The figure included 1.02 lakh beneficiaries of phase III (including population above 60 years and above 45 years with comorbidities) and rest from phase I and II. Likewise, the state recorded 27,231 second doses of the vaccine, taking the total to 2.45 lakh. To put the figure in perspective, it was 10% of the state’s total vaccination in a day. Dr Nayan Jani, state immunization officer, said that it’s the response from the citizens, as the number of vaccination centres have remained almost the same. “The vaccination will be expanded after March 6. We attribute the numbers – about 1.5 lakh in total – to increased awareness and enthusiasm among the beneficiaries,” he said, adding that the senior citizens account for the significant chunk of phase III vaccination. After reports of a few hospitals insisting on Aadhaar card as identity proof for the CoWIN registration, Dr Jani clarified that all valid photo identity cards issued by the government and part of the vaccination procedure must be accepted by the hospitals. A private hospital official in Ahmedabad said that if any other document is submitted, in some cases the OTP generation takes longer than expected. Meanwhile, Ahmedabad’s daily cases went below 100 after three days as the state recorded slight rise in daily tally at 480. In March, Gujarat has recorded two deaths due to Covid-19 – both recorded in Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/record-1l-vaccine-doses-administered-in-a-day/articleshow/81337577.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Shrey hosp fire: HC orders speedy trial||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has transferred the Shrey Hospital fire case from the court of additional chief metropolitan magistrate No 23 to the chief metropolitan magistrate and ordered a speedy trial. The HC also granted permission to the kin of eight fire victims to raise demand of harsh charges against the culprits during the trial.The HC ordered chief metropolitan magistrate to take charge of the criminal case and to see that summons are served on the accused at the earliest. “If any of the accused evades summons, the trial court should take appropriate steps. We do not want the trial to get delayed in any manner,” the HC said, and sought status report on the trial during the next hearing.The relatives of the eight Covid-19 patients who died in the fire complained before HC that the police had invoked mild charges against the accused. The HC said, “In the course of trial, it shall be open for the prosecution including victims’ kin to raise the issue as regards the exact nature of the offence.”The HC, however, refused to interfere in the trial and said that it cannot determine at this stage whether the offence is of rash and negligent act punishable with three-year jail term section 304A of IPC or one of culpable homicide not amounting to murder punishable with 10-year imprisonment under section 304 of IPC. “The probe agency has rightly or wrongly filed the charge-sheet for the offence punishable under Section 304A of the IPC. However, the trial court can go into the issue even at the time of framing of charges,” the HC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shrey-hosp-fire-hc-orders-speedy-trial/articleshow/81337511.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Excise dept earns R2,273 crore revenue in phase -1 of e-auction||Jaipur: The excise department has earned a revenue of Rs 2273.31 crore after selling 1,279 composite liquor shops through e-auction.In the first phase of e-auction, the department fixed the reserve price Rs 1,724.43 crore for these shops. Receiving a surprising response, the department booked a profit of Rs 548.88 crore.Under the new policy, Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor both are being sold in the same shop.In Jaipur, the department earned Rs 287 crore against the reserve price of Rs 207 crore fixed for 78 liquor stores.Ramesh Kumar Saini purchased the shop situated in Sanganer, Gaj Singh Pura in Jaipur after quoting a highest bid price of Rs 8.91 crore against the base price of Rs 2.56 crore.An official said, “From the five shops of Gaj Singh Pura in Jaipur (ward number, 63, 66, 67, 68) the department earned a revenue of Rs 37.60 crore including Rs 8.91 crore, the highest bid. In the bidding till date, if the total average is estimated, the department has sold shops at 38 per cent higher price.”Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare Society said, “The bid is increased by dummy candidates fielded by the department. It will be interesting to find out whether participants who won the bid deposit the money or not.”On Thursday, the e-auction of 1,160 shops, which were put under hammer in phase –II, continued till late night. An official said, “Total of 1,550 shops was listed for e-auction. However, not a single applicant showed interest in 390 shops. Total 2,283 participated in the bidding. In Jaipur, out of 77 shops listed for bidding, 19 shops received single bidder.”For a shop in Nimbera, Chittorgarh, the bid continued for a record 51 hours.There are a total of 7,665 liquor stores in the state. In Jaipur, 404 shops will be allotted. An official said, the last e-auction will be organised on March 10. The bidding, which was scheduled to be held on February 24 and 25, is being organised on March 4 and 5. Similarly, instead of auction on February 26 and 27, it will now be held on March 9 and 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/excise-dept-earns-r2273-crore-revenue-in-phase-1-of-e-auction/articleshow/81337494.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Infringement of copyright offence non-bailable: HC||Mumbai: Bombay high court has held that offences of infringement of copyright under Copyright Act and of falsely applying any trademark under Trade Marks Act are non-bailable offences as the punishment attracted is up to three years and can be “exactly three years”. Justice Sarang Kotwal had raised a legal question on whether the offences punishable with up to three years imprisonment were bailable or not. HC said offences under section 63 of Copyright Act (infringement of copyright) and section 103 of TM Act (false application of TM), which are not in Indian Penal Code (IPC) but attract up to three years’ imprisonment, are “non-bailable”. Advocate Mandar Soman, who appeared for a man seeking protection against arrest, argued that a magistrate had granted bail to a co-accused as section 418 of IPC (cheating with knowledge of wrongful loss to person he ought to protect), which attracts up to three years, is bailable. Soman claimed relief on parity, saying copyright and TM offences are also bailable. HC heard prosecutor Ajay Patil and appointed advocate Aniket Nikam as amicus curiae (friend of court) to assist on the law point. Nikam argued that several courts have held that offences where punishment can “extend to three years are non-bailable’’. He cited classification of offences under Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to say that any offence where an offender may get sentenced to three years and more is non-bailable, while one where punishment is less than three years is bailable. Justice Sarang said, “Wherever it is possible to impose punishment extending to three years, this category would apply, as in such offences it is possible to impose a sentence of exactly three years. In such cases offences would be non-bailable.’’ In the case before him, he also said custodial interrogation was necessary. HC said, “Certainly, there appears to be infringement of trademark registered in the name of the informant’s company… The accused falsely applied the informant’s trademark to their products and attempted to sell the products. Thus, the act of the accused also amounts to offence under section 420 (cheating)...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-infringement-of-copyright-offence-non-bailable-hc/articleshow/81336349.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||Pune: Shortage of slots starts impacting vax drive||PUNE: Finding a slot or appointment for the Covid vaccine in the city is starting to become a problem for citizens registering via the CoWIN website, www.cowin.gov.in. Many aged 60 and above and those over 45 with comorbidities said they’ve been unable to find suitable slots for the rest of March. Chirag Baxi, a 54-year-old with hypertension and type 2 diabetes, said he’s been hunting for a slot since March 1. He said, “ I tried five times to find a slot on CoWIN website. My wife went to a site, but she was told they’ll call once we get an appointment.”  Ashish Bharati, head of PMC’s health department, said, “The CoWIN system is currently showing only one time slot — 9am to 5pm. There are no hourly or two-hourly sub-slots in the portal citizens can book. With just one time slot showing, many tend to arrive at once at a vaccine site. This has also led to overcrowding.” Bharati said non-availability of slots, despite registering on CoWIN, suggests all slots at operational sites have been booked. Citizens said spot registration at sites can also mean long, risky waits. Bavdhan resident Vinod Menon (64) said, “On Thursday, I tried to book a slot across Pune city, Pune rural and Cantonment limits but none were available for March. And April slots have not been enabled. Senior citizens walking in to register face risk of exposure. Online registration seems safer, but we’re not getting suitable slots online for March in Pune.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-shortage-of-slots-starts-impacting-vax-drive/articleshow/81337531.cms||Neha Madaan
March 5, 2021||Bareilly||Youth, 20, held for molesting minor girl||Pilibhit: A 16-year-old girl in a village under Pilibhit kotwali was allegedly molested by a 20-year-old youth of the same village when she had gone to make cow dung cakes at her farm around half a kilometre from her house on Thursday afternoon. SHO Atar Singh said following a written complaint lodged by the girl’s father, police registered an FIR against the accused under sections 354 A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Police arrested the accused, said the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-20-held-for-molesting-minor-girl/articleshow/81332898.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||As Similipal blaze hits 8th day, cross-country forest fire alerts up 125%||Dehradun/Bhubaneswar: It has been eight days since a fire broke out in Odisha’s Similipal biosphere reserve, affecting over 300 hectares of forests and home to the Bengal tiger and Asian elephant. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has held a review meeting, Union minister of environment and forests Prakash Javadekar has sought a report and hundreds of forest staff have been deployed to bring the fire under control. But the fire is far from out — on Thursday, Odisha had the highest number of real-time fire alerts, at 154 locations, out of 650 across the country. It is in keeping with the larger pattern — latest Forest Survey of India (FSI) data accessed by TOI show forest fire alerts shot up across the country by 125% this year. The FSI had initiated the forest fire alert survey last year, collating the number of alerts sent out in winter based on heat detection by satellites. Between November 2019 and January 2020, some 1,321 alerts were sent out. This year, 2,984 were. The highest number of alerts has been sounded in Uttarakhand (470, up from 39), followed by Odisha (353, up from 158) and Maharashtra (324, up from 163). Most states have, in fact, seen dramatic spikes — from 15 to 165 in Himachal Pradesh, from 3 to 58 in Jammu and Kashmir, and from 69 to 264 in Madhya Pradesh. Only Kerala (15 from 49), Assam (64 from 71), Meghalaya (55 from 62) and Tamil Nadu (7 from 13), among the bigger states, have been able to rein in the numbers. “The numbers are high this year because of the dry season and little rain,” deputy director of FSI Sunil Chandra said. The head of forest forces in Himachal Pradesh, Savita, concurred: “It has been very dry this winter. We barely had any snowfall even in January and February.” The backdrop could be climate change. “The unusual shift in fire season seems to be due to either climate change or greater human intervention in forests,” Arti Chaudhary, head of silviculture and forest resource management division at the Forest Research Institute (FRI) in Dehradun, said. In many states, forest authorities assigned blame to forest dwellers or questioned the data. In Odisha, for instance, forest officials said the situation was not alarming. “It is wrong to say Simlipal is burning. A spike in fire incidences were recorded on March 1 and 2 only. Similipal has 209 beats and these fires have occurred in four beats,” said Shashi Paul, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), under whose jurisdiction Similipal lies. Paul added: “We had almost no fires in winters but since February 15, tribal communities have been going into the forests to collect mahua and have been lighting fire under the trees. Sometimes, villagers passing by light fires to keep animals away. Sometimes, they do it for no reason.” Principal chief conservator of forests Jitendra Kumar said it was because of “high atmospheric temperature” and that “ours are ground fires, not crown fires. Big trees are not damaged in such fires.” Maharashtra forest officials, too, blamed locals. “The prime reason in Maharashtra remains brewing of illicit liquor by villagers at night … We had sufficient rain before January,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Maharashtra forest department. In Uttarakhand, officials questioned the data itself. Chief conservator of forests Man Singh said, “Satellites capture heat signatures of 1x1 sq km ground area. Because ground conditions are dry and a lot of local small fires are burnt, there is over-reporting of forest fire alerts.” But given the alarming spike, a five-year study across 15 states has been initiated by FRI to look into the reasons. And Himachal has planned an awareness generation drive. Savita said, “We have identified over 80 forest ranges and 465 gram panchayats which are vulnerable. From March 9, we will be holding rallies create awareness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-similipal-blaze-hits-8th-day-cross-country-forest-fire-alerts-up-125/articleshow/81336307.cms||Shivani Azad
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat FDCA now issuing CoPP online||Ahmedabad: Gujarat’s Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) has begun issuing the certificate of pharmaceutical products (CoPP) online. Gujarat FDCA has become the first state drug regulator in India to start issuance of CoPP online. “FDCA has started issuing certificate of pharmaceutical products (CoPP) online along with digital signature and QR code from last week,” said Dr HG Koshia, commissioner, FDCA, Gujarat. This certificate, issued in a format recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO), establishes that a particular product is approved by a regulatory authority in India and it is safe for consumption. Developed countries such as the US and UK have their own robust regulatory systems in place for approving drugs, which are intended for exports to those countries. However, CoPP has been recommended by WHO to help undersized drug regulatory authorities or drug regulatory authorities without proper quality assurance facilities in importing countries to assess the quality of pharmaceutical products as prerequisite of registration or importation. “The online system will bring in speed as well as more efficiency and transparency in the issuance of such certificates. Manufacturers will not have to physically visit the FDCA office to obtain the certificate, which is now being made available at their doorsteps,” Koshia added. Most importantly, the regulator of an importing country can now conveniently verify the authenticity of the product and exporter using the QR codes. “Previously, when the certificates were issued physically, it used to take months to authenticate the products as this was done through the importing countries’ respective embassies in India,” he added. With Gujarat being a top pharmaceutical products exporting state, CoPPs issued by Gujarat FDCA are relied upon by more than 100 countries. A minimum of 2,000 CoPPs are issued every month by Gujarat FDCA. The state accounts for 28-29% of India’s total pharma exports. Gujarat FDCA has also commenced issuing online product licences with QR codes. About 2,500 product licences are also issued by the FDCA every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-fdca-now-issuing-copp-online/articleshow/81337598.cms||Kalpesh Damor
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Now Centre to rank states on tourism||Jaipur: After national indexes for ease of doing biz, Swachhta, ease of living, etc, now the Centre is planning to introduce another index for tourism to rank the states.According to a concept note circulated by the Niti Aayog, states’ tourism potential, performance and gaps will be evaluated based on domains like enabling ecosystem, infrastructure, products, and environment. All the pillars cumulatively will have 32 parameters.“The framework is intended to capture the performance of the states in the travel and tourism sector, induce a sense of healthy competition among states to strive for further progress and improve the country’s position in the World Economic Forum’s Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index,” the note mentioned.Identification of gaps and their improvement, and a comprehensive picture of states’ travel and tourism sector will be other objectives of the assessment.Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of Hotel, Restaurants Association of Rajasthan and Rajasthan Association of Tour Operators, said, “Such an index will bring new interest to the sector. Being a leader in the tourism industry, Rajasthan will gain further.”Under the enabling environment, the parameters will capture the general conditions necessary for operating in a state. The composite state score for the NITI Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) India Index will be the single indicator for this domain. The score will be as per the NITI SDG state score based on the overall status and progress of a state in social, economic and environmental spheres in line with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).Similarly, under infrastructure, the index will evaluate the ease and access of a traveller to and within the state and availability of accommodation and other tourist services. It is comprised of seven indicators related to air, ground and tourist services infrastructure.The factors that directly impact the development of tourism industry of a state will be assessed under tourism environment, which has 15 indicators including prioritisation of sector by the state government, its marketing, and the safety of tourists among others.The tourism product will evaluate the drivers of tourism growth to create an overall visitor experience. It will have nine indicators covering the growth of various tourism products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-centre-to-rank-states-on-tourism/articleshow/81337512.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘10% schools in city yet to get fire NOC’||Ahmedabad: The state government has told the Gujarat high court that all the schools in the city of Ahmedabad have got valid fire No Objection Certificates issued by the fire and emergency services.However, the district education officer of Ahmedabad city, R C Patel said that there are nearly 10% schools which still do not have fire NOC. “We have issued instructions to install firefighting equipment in those schools and some of them have followed instructions and their applications to the fire department for inspection and issuance of certificate are pending,” the officer said.According to the DEO, Ahmedabad-rural, Rakesh Vyas, nearly 40 schools in the district were yet to obtain fire NOC. And some of these school buildings are more than 15-metre height requiring fire NOC in accordance with the fire safety norms. The process has been initiated in this regard.On September 28, 2020, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had filed an affidavit and claimed that all 1,200 private and government schools barring 4-5 schools in the city had fire NOC. However, a week later, the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board gathered data about schools without fire NOC and it found that 542 schools out of 1,003 in city area did not have fire NOC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10-schools-in-city-yet-to-get-fire-noc/articleshow/81337579.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation seeks police help to trace ‘missing’ nCoV patients||PUNE: The civic body has sought help of the city police to trace over 300 “missing” Covid-19 patients, giving fake contact details to the officials before undergoing the RT-PCR test. “The civic administration has given the details of such people to the police for tracing them,” said Ashish Bharati, the head of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s health department. According to the PMC’s data, about 300 people who had registered for Covid-19 tests had given fake contact details in the last fortnight, making it impossible for the authorities to communicate to them that they had tested positive. The civic administration is recording an average of 20 such cases every day. “The cascading effect these patients can have is big. They can infect others. So tracing them is important. These people are either expected to stay in home quarantine or get hospitalised,” said a senior PMC official. These “missing” Covid patients did not provide their Aadhaar cards while registering for the RT-PCR test. They gave other identify proofs to dodge the officials at the testing labs. The PMC officials said the civic body had been carrying out contact tracing of all the Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-seeks-police-help-to-trace-missing-ncov-patients/articleshow/81337609.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Yadadri temple may be thrown open to devotees in May: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: With the Yadadri temple works expected to be completed by May, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao hinted that the renovated temple would be reopened for general public in May itself. The main temple was closed for devotees in April 2016 for renovation works and now darshan is being allowed by shifting deities to a different location on the temple premises. The CM on Thursday inspected the ongoing renovation works at the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple and spent six hours going around the temple complex. He inspected the Mada streets, queue complex, mandapam, exhibition complexes, Brahmotsavam mandapam, facilities at the Raja Gopuram, construction works of Shivalayam and Swami Pushkarini. He also took stock of construction of bathing ghats and staircases. KCR said: “The front elevation of the temple should look beautiful and aesthetic even from a long distance. Devotees should think for a while that they are actually in Vaikunta.” While making some suggestions, the CM asked the officials to visit famous temples in the country to see the sculpture as the works at Yadadri are on the verge of completion. “There should not be any obstructions at the main entrance so that devotes should be able to view the Abhishekam and other pujas in the sanctum sanctorum ven from a distance,” he said. KCR said since several devotees not only from Telangana but also from other states would come to Yadadri, all facilities would be provided for them. He said the ‘mirror mandapam’ should display its unique identity once it is completed. “If need be, officials under the leadership of CM’s special secretary Bhoopal Reddy should visit the mall in Beijing constructed with lights, to get an idea,” he said. The CM expressed his unhappiness over slow progress of works such a lifts of the guest houses. KCR interacted with the shop owners who are losing their shops and livelihood due to widening of the roads. He assured them they would be given more for their loss and they would be given spacious new shops like a show room as compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yadadri-temple-may-be-thrown-open-to-devotees-in-may-cm/articleshow/81337573.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Unemployment allowance: With 27 lakh unemployed youths in state, BJP says, 2 lakh upper limit is too less||Jaipur: As many as 62,912 new unemployed youths have been registered in 2020-21 (up to December 31) for unemployment allowance under CM Yuva Sambal Yojana. According to the employment department data, from February 1, 2019 to December 31, 2020, about 2.49 lakh unemployed youths have been given unemployment allowance amounting to a total of Rs 800 crore. Even as the government has increased the upper limit for registration up to 2 lakh (from 1.60 lakh) in the state Budget, the BJP has alleged that this will not be enough to meet the demands of the unemployed youths as there are 27 lakh unemployed youths in the state and applications of over 2 lakh youths, who are in the queue, are yet to be cleared. Former education minister and BJP MLA Vasudev Devnani said, “They had announced that they would provide unemployment allowance to everybody. But, there are 27 lakh unemployed persons in Rajasthan and nearly 16 lakh are registered with the employment exchange. How will they meet the target? They are giving it to only 1.6 lakh per year. Also, of the 1.78 lakh posts, which they announced will be filled, only 41,000 are under process. But not a single person has got employment. Even two lakh they have announced is too less.” During the presentation of the Budget, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had increased the unemployment allowance for unemployed youths by Rs 1,000. Now, it will be Rs 4,500 for female beneficiaries and Rs 4,000 for male beneficiaries.“Of the 62,912 newly registered youths, 35,987 are males and 26,925 are female beneficiaries. The total amount spent by the department in 2020-21 is Rs 419.12 crore (from April 1 to December 31, 2020). Over 95,000 beneficiaries have been carried forward from last year (2019-20),” said Chain Singh of the employment department. Meanwhile, in 2019-20, 1.46 lakh new beneficiaries were registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unemployment-allowance-with-27-lakh-unemployed-youths-in-state-bjp-says-2-lakh-upper-limit-is-too-less/articleshow/81337539.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||PM to launch ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’||Gandhinagar: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ – a 75-week long programme to celebrate 75 years of freedom – from Sabarmati Ashram in city on March 12. The PM will also flag off the Dandi march between Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad and Dandi in Navsari district. The march is held every year in remembrance of the historic salt satyagrah done by Mahatma Gandhi against British rule. The government of India and the state government are giving final touches to a major event which will be organised at the Sabarmati Ashram to kick off nationwide celebrations of 75 years of India’s Independence. The committee of secretaries, led by chief secretary Anil Mukim, is organizing the event in coordination with agencies of the central government. Key sources in the government confirmed that PM Modi will kick off the ‘Azadi KaAmrut Mahotsav’ programme from the Sabarmati Ashram and will also flag off the 38km Dandi march on March 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-to-launch-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav/articleshow/81337603.cms||Kapil Dave
March 5, 2021||Pune||Four rob Khadki resident of cash & jewellery; held||Pune: Four persons, including a woman, were arrested on Wednesday, a minor boy was detained and three others were booked for robbing cash and gold earrings worth Rs13,000 from the home of a 31-year-old man after threatening him and his family members with sharp weapons. The incident occurred at Qureshi mohalla in old Khadki Bazaar on Tuesday night. An FIR was registered with the Khadki police by Moinuddin Qureshi, who runs a business of selling pre-used cars. Qureshi stated, “A woman and her accomplices from dargah vashat had been terrorizing residents in Qureshi mohalla since January this year.” The FIR stated that Qureshi was at his brother’s residence in a neighbouring house when the suspects barged into his residence armed with sharp weapons. Qureshi rushed to his house after his family members raised an alarm, but the suspects threatened him and others. According to the FIR, “The suspects forced Qureshi to open the cupboard safe and robbed cash and gold earrings, abused and threatened to kill them if they lodged a police complaint. After a sizeable crowd assembled at his residence, the suspects threatened them with weapons, while the woman asked them to d silence and left the place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-rob-khadki-resident-of-cash-jewellery-held/articleshow/81337588.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||Task force calls for at-home vaccination, mobile camps||Pune: The state task force on Thursday urged the Centre to allow home vaccination of bed-ridden people and those in old age homes. Task force member Shashank Joshi told TOI that the state had sought alternative arrangements like setting up vaccination sites at old age homes and giving shots at home in proposals to the Centre after relatives of many elderly people called for easier vaccine access. He said there were several old age homes and one cannot expect all residents of such facilities to go to vaccination sites. “Mobile camps should be conducted at these sites,” he said. Joshi stressed that there were many people who cannot reach sites. “If the Centre wants to adequately cover 60-plus and 45-plus people with comorbidities, such drives are needed in the mop-up rounds at least,” he said. Sunithi M, whose father is bed-ridden with pancreatic cancer, is clueless how she can get her father vaccinated. When she called up the health services, she was told the government had not issued clear guidelines for people like her father. “When the elderly population is being covered, the authorities must think of people like my father,” she said. State immunisation officer DN Patil said the Centre has rolled out the vaccination programme on the election model, where citizens have to be brought to the sites, like poll booths. “Eventually the Centre may consider home vaccination after gauging the response.” This phase of vaccination programme is expected to cover 27 crore people across the country. About 1 crore people would be covered in the state. The state task force has also sought vaccination of chemists, a vulnerable population, in this phase in its proposal to the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/task-force-calls-for-at-home-vaccination-mobile-camps/articleshow/81337575.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Doon 29th on ease of living index, scores poorly on municipal services category||Dehradun: Dehradun secured 29th rank among the 62 liveable and best performing cities with less than a million population in India in the Ease of Living Index, 2020, which was released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday. Dehradun scored 49.81 against the national average of 51.38 in the quality of life parameter. The city scored 56.96 in the sustainability category, while in the ease of living category, it scored 29.82. The city’s score in economic ability was 6.65, whereas in the citizens’ perception category, it scored 75.30. In the municipal performance category, Dehradun secured 47th rank among 60 cities. A total of 111 cities had participated in the rankings. In the municipal index, Dehradun scored the lowest on the parameters like technology (6.79), services (38.92), finance (48.58), planning (53.73) and governance (31.32). The municipal performance index is calculated by taking into account the performance of municipalities based on their defined set of functions. The responsibilities of a municipalities vary across a range of verticals that include provisions from basic public services planning to more complex ones like urban planning. Apart from that, the report also seeks to capture the digital coverage of the municipality services and the extent to which it empowers its citizens to access such services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-29th-on-ease-of-living-index-scores-poorly-on-municipal-services-category/articleshow/81336373.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||A lot needs to be done to justify 2nd rank: Activists||Pune: Pune may have ranked second in the ease of living index (EoLI 2020), but civic activists, experts and citizens said a lot should be done to justify the high rank. Else, ranking would seem like an exercise on paper, they said.Pimpri Chinchwad has ranked 16th in EoLI 2020. Pune had topped in the previous ranking but dropped to the second position in 2020. As per the details released by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), the city has bagged top position only in one (sustainability) of the four categories. In the quality of life category, the city secured the 6th position, in economic activity it was ranked third, while in citizen perception, the city bagged the 16th position.Among municipalities with million-plus population, the Pimpri Chinchwad has ranked fourth and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has ranked fifth.Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch said the drop shows that the city administration must put in more effort to ensure citizens get better services continuously. “The PMC has many tasks on hand starting from the management of garbage, water supply, traffic and transportation and execution of pending projects to handling of encroachments. Promises are not being fulfilled. Moreover, deadlines for completion of work are often missed. PMC must present an effective execution plan for every project,” Velankar said.He said the government should declare the criteria on which the cities have been ranked and stressed on the need to get feedback from maximum citizens while deciding the rankings.Town planning expert Ramchandra Gohad said, “Unplanned expansion of the city is a reason for the fall in ranking. It puts pressure on PMC and makes an overall impact on the ease of living.”Sarang Yadvadkar, who works in the field of environment protection, said, “The city has got natural and historical base. However, things are going bad because of lack of planning and holistic approach.”Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said, “The city has performed better than the last time on many parameters, which has led to improvement in ranking in various categories. Efforts are under way to achieve further improvement in citizen-centric services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-lot-needs-to-be-done-to-justify-2nd-rank-activists/articleshow/81337686.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Every second person in Hyd has had Covid-19 bout, say city researchers||Hyderabad: Hyderabad is now moving towards what scientists call herd immunity against the pandemic virus, if the result of a research study is any indication. The study by the city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) reveals that one in every two people in Hyderabad or 54% of the population had contacted the virus, with or without symptoms. The city researchers arrived at the immunity levels based on a seropositive study. As every other person in Hyderabad has had Covid-19, the city may be heading towards herd immunity. The current vaccination drive would only further boost the immunity levels in Hyderabad. “The data indicates that the population of Hyderabad might be slowly moving towards herd immunity, which will be certainly accelerated by the ongoing vaccination effort,” said CCMB director Dr Rakesh Mishra The study covering about 9,000 samples was conducted in 30 municipal wards. Women showed a marginally higher seropositivity rate (56%) than men (53%). Those above 70 years showed a lower seropositivity (49%), perhaps because of limited mobility and extra care taken by older individuals during the pandemic. Unsurprisingly, those who had Covid-19 positive cases in their own households showed the maximum seropositivity of 78%. This was followed by those with known COVID-19 contacts outside their household (68%). Bharat Biotech was also part of the research group. About 300 people each from 30 wards, all of them older than 10 years, were tested. Most of the wards showed a similarl uniform range of seroprevalence, from 50 to 60%. However, a few wards showed as much as 70% or as low as 30%. Earlier studies by researchers from as many as 40 research institutions had revealed that widespread asymptomatic and undetected Covid-19 infection affected more than 10 crore people in the country by September 2020. “Declining new cases thereafter may be due to persisting humoral immunity amongst subcommunities with high exposure. We found that 95% of the seropositive subjects also had significant neutralising activity, suggesting at least partial immunity. It confirms that by September 2020, a large pool of recovered Indians with at least partial immunity existed. The subsequent nationwide decline of new cases starting in October 2020 can be well understood through these observations,” the previous study updated on February 28 had stated. Dr A Laxmaiah, senior scientist at NIN, said having a larger number of rooms in houses and small family size households had low prevalence of coronavirus infection. “This multistage random sampling study in Hyderabad showed that more than 75% of the seropositive population did not know that they had contracted infection in the past. This suggests seroconversion, that is antibody formation has happened even with silent infections,” said Dr R Hemalatha, director, NIN. According to the study, individuals who had suffered strong Covid-19 symptoms as well as those who were asymptomatic, both had equivalent seroprevalence of around 54%. About 18% of the study group had been tested earlier and found positive for the coronavirus and 90% of them were found to be seropositive, suggesting that they retain the antibody response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/every-second-person-in-hyd-has-had-covid-19-bout-say-city-researchers/articleshow/81339883.cms||Syed Akbar
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Quality of life: Delhi eases into 13th slot, scores big on job opportunities||NEW DELHI: From being ranked 65th among 111 cities in 2018, Delhi has climbed up to the 13th position in the Ease of Living Index-2020 released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. The capital’s ascent has primarily been powered by the economic opportunities it offers, the parameter on which it was ranked second in the country after Bengaluru. Among the five major “pillars” of the index, economic ability is the worst performing with an aggregate score of 13.1 nationally. The cities that buck the trend are Bengaluru, which has secured the top spot with a score of 78.8, followed by Delhi (50.7), Pune (48.8) and Ahmedabad (48.1). All these cities have a population of over a million. When it comes to economic opportunities, Delhi is the only positive outlier in the category with a perfect score of 100, followed by Bengaluru with a significant gap (58.1), Hyderabad (48) and Chennai (45.11). Delhi is on top among 29 cities scoring above the national average, including 16 with a population of over a million and 13 with less than a million. The capital is also an economic powerhouse in the northern region with the economic ability score of 50.7. This not only ranks it the highest, but also way ahead of the next city Ludhiana, which has a score of 26.2. In fact, with a regional average score of 52.5, most of the over 17 million cities in the northern region have a score higher than the national average of 53.5. Apart from Delhi, the other top ranking north Indian cities are Ludhiana (14th), Jodhpur (21st) and Jaipur (23rd). Interestingly, in the economic development category, Delhi scores the lowest at 1.4, while the national average is 18. The reason is that cities like Bengaluru, Pune, Ahmedabad, Thane and Chennai and even Gurugram score higher due to their legacy of industrial development. Delhi is traditionally a major trading point and only non-polluting industries are allowed in the city. Another area where Delhi scores high is the housing and shelter category, where along with Thiruvananthapuram, Puducherry and Bhopal, it has been identified as the perfect positive outlier. All households in these cities have electrical connections and beneficiaries are covered under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. However, 10-20% of the urban population resides in slums. Delhi is also among at least 34 cities, including Bengaluru, Chennai and Chandigarh, that have professionally trained teachers. An area of major concern is the number of crimes against women. Most cities recording high incidence of such crimes are in north India, including top performers in the quality of life category, like Delhi, Gurugram and Indore. Despite having the largest metro network in the country, Delhi records low figures for availability of public transport. The figure of Delhi (1,688.5 per lakh population) is lower than Bengaluru (4,409.6), Pune (2,585.5) and Navi Mumbai (2,037.8). In Chennai, availability of public transport is the highest at 92,017.9 per lakh population, followed by Visakhapatnam (21,212.9). The public transport system in cities like Delhi is not efficient enough to support the population and they may be “automobile-dependent”, states the report. Delhi’s figure for transport-related fatalities of 12.43 per lakh population is also higher than many other cities. The report mentions that according to World Health Organisation, 20 of the world’s most polluted cities belong to India, including Delhi, Kanpur, Lucknow and Patna. However, it also states that Delhi government shut down a thermal power plant at Rajghat, aiming to redevelop it into a 5,000 kW solar park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/quality-of-life-delhi-eases-into-13th-slot-scores-big-on-job-opportunities/articleshow/81339215.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Architect details measures to be followed at Yadadri temple||Hyderabad: As the government is gearing up to dedicate the Yadadri temple, renowned temple architect Sundararajan is busy making technical changes to preserve the rich splendour of the temple sculpture. The architect, who had rebuilt several centuries-old gopurams in the Telugu states and Tamil Nadu, is the main stapathi of the Yadadri temple. He has also been appointed as one of the stapathis for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The seasoned architect said that Yadadri temple should strictly follow some measures. “To conserve the ancient style sculpture and give a facelift to the temple the government is spending about Rs 1,500. But to maintain it properly the management should follow certain measures. Only pure water should be used instead of bore water. Salt and minerals damage the originality of the stone sculpture. Water jets with nozzles should be used to clean them. Emulsion paints should not be used,” Sundararajan said, adding that brooms should not be used to remove the dust. He also said that safety grills and mesh should be used to prevent birds and snakes. “It is better to have safety grills and meshes as birds like pigeons, crows, sparrows pollute the structure. The sculpture will lose its beauty,” he added. “Use of the illumination bulbs should also be restricted. If possible, restrict breaking of coconuts and eating prasadams inside the temple complex,” the architect said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/architect-details-measures-to-be-followed-at-yadadri-temple/articleshow/81337628.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat GSDP erodes by over Rs 2lakh crore in 2020-21||Gandhinagar: The nationwide lockdown and related restrictions have caused a considerable slide in Gujarat’s Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The GSDP has been reduced by a sizable Rs 2.26 lakh crore in the state government’s revised estimates for the financial year 2020-21. As against the budget estimate of Rs 18.84 lakh crore, Gujarat’s GSDP has been pruned to Rs 16.58 lakh crore in the revised estimates for 2020-21. This was revealed in statements under the Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management (FRMB) Act, which were presented with the state budget for 2021-22 on March 3, by deputy chief minister Nitin Patel. He also holds the finance portfolio. At current prices, the GSDP has been estimated at 16.58 lakh crore for 2020-21 as against quick estimates of Rs 16.49 lakh crore for 2019-20, showing a nominal growth of 0.6% during the year, according to the official statements. “The growth rate of GSDP witnessed considerable slide in fiscal 2020-21 (as per the revised estimates) on account of nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic,” the statements further read. The state government’s revised estimate for FY21 is based on its advanced estimates for the fiscal, while that of FY20 are based on its quick estimates for that year. The state GSDP at current prices has grown at an annualized rate of 11.64% from 2011-12 to 2020-21. The GSDP has further been projected to be at Rs.18.79 lakh crore for 2021-22, lower than budget estimate of Rs.18.84 lakh crore in 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-gsdp-erodes-by-over-rs-2lakh-crore-in-2020-21/articleshow/81337634.cms||Kapil Dave
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Man dies hours after Covid jab in Kota district||Kota: A 60-year-old man, who had taken the first dose of Covid vaccine at a primary health centre (PHC) in the district on Wednesday, died on Thursday morning. His family alleged that he died because of the side effects of the jab.Following demand by family members, police got the autopsy conducted by a medical board before handing over the body for last rites. Police registered a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC to ascertain the actual cause of death.PHC Baluheda in-charge Mohammad Sabir ruled out any side effects as the cause of death. “As many as 114 persons were given the first dose of on Wednesday. Bhadur Singh was one of them and stayed under the medical observation for 30 minutes with no complications,” he said.The medical officer said Singh did not have any complications till Thursday morning. “The actual cause of death will be clear only after the autopsy report,” Sabir said.Sources said while having tea at his home on Thursday morning, Singh reportedly felt dizzy and fell unconscious on the ground following which he was immediately rushed to the government community health centre at Kaithun town where doctors on duty declared him brought dead, Sabir said.Ruling out the death because of vaccine, Kota RCHO Devender Jhalani said the actual reason of death could be ascertained only after the receipt of autopsy report by the medical board.Notably, the second phase of vaccination meant for senior citizens had kicked off in the state on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-dies-hours-after-covid-jab-in-kota-district/articleshow/81337630.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||-ve test report must on trains to Rajasthan||Pune: All train passengers going to Rajasthan from Maharashtra would have to carry negative RT-PCR test reports with them. The Pune railway division on Thursday issued an instruction in this regard after the Rajasthan government made the negative RT-PCR test report mandatory for passengers travelling from Maharashtra and Kerala. The railway officials claimed that bulk text messages had been sent to all the passengers travelling from Maharashtra to Rajasthan. — Joy Sengupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/-ve-test-report-must-on-trains-to-rajasthan/articleshow/81337635.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops raid Andheri mobile store, seize 52 doctored iPhones, nab 3||Mumbai: The city crime branch team on Wednesday s arrested three persons, including a mobile shop owner from Andheri who used to buy stolen iPhones and sell them in the market after jail breaking (removing all restrictions installed to take full control) the mobiles. Experts have been called in to figure out how they used to jailbreak the iPhones. As many as 52 such phones, two jailbreak softwares and two hard disks have been recovered from the shop. Raes Khiylani, the store owner, Asif Dodiya and Tarif Shaikh have been held. The key accused, Mohammed Aribi aka Momo is on the run. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cops-raid-andheri-mobile-store-seize-52-doctored-iphones-nab-3/articleshow/81339848.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||1 more accused held in couple’s murder case||Hyderabad: A man, who allegedly conducted a recce and kept tabs on advocate couple G Vaman Rao and PV Nagamani till they were brutally murdered, was arrested by Ramagundam police on Thursday. Ramagundam police said they arrested Lakshman, an associate of prime accused and alleged assailant Kunta Srinivas. On the day of the murder, Lakshman was in the company of the three already arrested accused — Kunta Srinivas, Kumar and Chiranjeevi. On seeing Vaman Rao’s car, Srinivas instructed Lakshman to follow the couple, who went to the local court. When the couple was at the court, Lakshman reportedly constantly updated Srinivas about their movements. When the couple left the court and started their journey towards Peddapalli, Lakshman alerted Srinivas about their movement. Lakshman and Kumar followed the victims and gave information about their route course. Based on the information given by these two accused, Srinivas and Chiranjeevi intercepted the victim’s car and killed the couple, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-more-accused-held-in-couples-murder-case/articleshow/81337629.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad company launches world’s 1st hybrid freezer for vaccines||HYDERABAD: With cold storage of Covid-19 vaccines posing challenges globally, Hyderabad-based cold chain appliances manufacturer Rockwell Industries has developed a freezer-cum-chiller powered by hybrid renewable energy. Called Chillermill, the device is the world’s first cold storage unit to harness both solar and wind energy, the company claimed. It comprises a chiller and freezer unit as well as a powering unit that is equipped with a solar panel and three small wind turbines. The system has been certified by WHO PQS and National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education & Research (NIPER) Hyderabad, it said. “The unit can operate for up to 72 hours even without proper sunlight or wind conditions,” Rockwell Industries managing director Ashok Gupta, said. The devices will be manufactured at the company’s facility at Medchal on Hyderabad’s outskirts that has a capacity to make 4 lakh units per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-co-launches-worlds-1st-hybrid-freezer-for-vaccines/articleshow/81337641.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: No summer respite from air pollution||HYDERABAD: It’s the onset of summer but air pollution levels in the city continue to be as bad as they were during winter. As per the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) figures, the air quality index (AQI) in the city is steadily rising with Sanathnagar slipping into the ‘poor’ category by recording AQI of 201 on Thursday. In the last one month, the AQI level has been in the moderate category hovering between 100 and 150. Though winter is over, the air pollution in the city continues to remain in the moderate category with the air quality index recorded at 143 at the seven monitoring stations in the city on Thursday. “Due to release of pollutants of industrial origin in the air, I often get headaches and nausea. Multiple complaints to the pollution board has yielded no result. The condition is much the same throughout the year irrespective of the season,” said Divya B, a resident of Hafeezpet. Except Sanathnagar, other stations remained in the moderate category by recording AQI of 121-140, causing slight breathing discomfort to people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases. According to experts, during summer, radiation from the sun is stronger due to which nitrogen oxide reacts with hydrocarbons and other chemicals thereby polluting the quality of air. “Typically, winter season has highest air pollution levels due to the change in wind pattern followed by summer. The air pollution during the monsoon season is the lowest due to rains,” said Prasad Dasari, senior scientist, TSPCB. “Last year, due to the lockdown, there was a slight drop in pollution levels in summer. With normalcy restored, the construction activities, dust particles and vehicular emissions are only going to add to the rise in AQI this season,” he added. Air pollution is not only prevalent outdoors but also indoors. An Indian study conducted by Dyson, the company manufacturing household appliances - in collaboration with FICCI Research and Analysis Centre - indicates that houses in Hyderabad had one of the highest percentages for particle size more than 20 um. The dust samples were collected from 27 surfaces in areas such as Attapur, Somajiguda among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-summer-respite-from-air-pollution/articleshow/81337619.cms||Preeti Biswas
March 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Farmer’s face reconstructed by plastic surgeons at Civil Hospital||Ahmedabad: Pravin Bhobhi, a resident of Ankla village near Idar in Sabarkantha district, was at his farm in mid-January. During the night hours, a wild animal attacked him in sleep. Bhobhi could not see the animal as it gnawed at his face and damaged about 40% of it including his left eye and ear. He was first taken to Himmatnagar Hospital and then was shifted to Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad for further procedure. “He had lost left eye, part of nose and lips along with the entire cheek in the incident. A flap from his thigh was used to create his cheek, whereas tissues from his mouth and forehead were used for his nose and eye,” said Dr Jayesh Sachde, a plastic surgeon at Civil Hospital. The reconstructive surgery lasted for 10 hours where teams from plastic surgery, ophthalmology and anesthesia participated. The experts said that Bhobhi’s exposed tissues are now covered. “The entire recovery might take over a year with a series of smaller procedures. The damaged eye cannot see but differentiate between light and dark,” said an official. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the plastic surgery department performed about 1,300 surgeries, said Civil Hospital officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/farmers-face-reconstructed-by-plastic-surgeons-at-civil-hospital/articleshow/81337695.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Biker acquitted as mishap victim got off bus at unscheduled stop in Mumbai||MUMBAI: If one alights from a bus at a point other than a bus stop and gets hit by a bike, the biker cannot be blamed for negligence. A magistrate court recently acquitted a 24-year-old biker on charges of negligence and rash driving after it found that the woman he hit got off the bus at an unscheduled stop in Kurla. The accident took place in 2015. The court said the possibility of the bus driver suddenly and negligently halting on the road, though there was no bus stop, cannot be ruled out. “As the bus stopped on the road though there was no bus stop, the possibility cannot be ruled out that the informant (victim) tried to get down hurriedly without seeing the vehicles coming from behind,” the court said, adding that it could not be said that the accused hit the informant as he was driving the motorcycle in a rash and negligent manner. The accused, Yadnyesh Sawant, however, has been held guilty for not taking the woman, Vinakumari Vijan (51), to the hospital and not informing the police, both of which are punishable offences under the Motor Vehicles Act. He has been fined Rs 200. The court said as per section 134 (a) and 134(b) of the Motor Vehicles Act, it was the duty of the accused to inform the police about the accident and to take the injured woman to the hospital, irrespective of whether he was rash and negligent in driving. According to the FIR at Kurla police station, the woman was headed to Kurla court in a BEST bus at 11 am on January 7, 2015. When the bus reached the gate of Kurla court, the woman told the conductor she wanted to alight. It was alleged that when the woman stepped down, the bike, which was being driven at high speed, hit her. The woman said she had signalled to the biker to stop. The woman fell down and sustained injuries. Those gathered at the accident spot took the woman to the hospital.The accused was later traced and booked. The owner of the bike, the father of a friend of the accused, deposed as a prosecution witness. He said the accused had taken the two-wheeler on the date of the incident. The woman deposed and iterated the contents of the FIR. The accused denied the allegations. His advocate submitted that since the woman had demanded money from him after the accident, he left the spot. During the cross examination by the defence lawyer, the woman denied the suggestion that after the accident, the accused had stopped and apologised to her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/biker-acquitted-as-mishap-victim-got-off-bus-at-unscheduled-stop-in-mumbai/articleshow/81339276.cms||Rebecca Samervel
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||2 arrested for impersonation in govt exam, cheating using spycam||Nagpur: The Bajaj Nagar police have busted a gang involved in helping people pass examinations for various government posts using fraudulent means. The gang used spy cameras to send photos of the exam paper outside the centre, from where an accomplice would supply answers over Bluetooth devices. The police have arrested Pratap Singh Dhondiram Dulhat (25, a resident of Pardesiwadi, Badnapur, Jalna district) and Poonamsingh Harisingh Sundarde (34, a resident of Aurangabad). Both have been remanded to police custody. Sophisticated equipment including spy camera and Bluetooth device were seized from their possession. On February 23, 2020, the state government’s marketing and textile cooperation had conducted an examination for the posts of junior clerk and sub-registrar. Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar College was one of the exam centres. One Indrajit Borkar (29, a resident of Ambedkar Nagar) was to appear for the exam. But instead of him, Dulhat took the exam by replacing his picture with that of Indrajit. As ‘Indrajit’ scored 178 out of 200 marks, he was called for personal interview and verification of documents on March 11, 2020. During the process, senior officials from the textile department noticed disparities in Borkar’s signature at the examination centre and those on his documents. Suspecting foul play, Borkar was questioned, and admitted that an impostor had appeared for his exam. One of the officers, Raju Birle, had filed an FIR with Bajaj Nagar police, which started the investigation. The police came across Hanshraj Rathod, who too spilt the beans, leading to the arrest of Dulhat and Sundarde. Dulhat was preparing for competitive exams, while Sundarde has a goat farming business. With the help of a spy camera, a photograph of the paper was emailed to Sundarde, who was waiting outside the examination centre. Sundarde used to answer Dulhat’s questions through a Bluetooth device. The Bajaj Nagar police used details of mobile calls near the examination centre to track them. Ten mobile numbers were found to be constantly active. The police had arrested Premsingh Rajput, a clerk in the Aurangabad office of National Highways Authority of India, and Hansraj Mohan Rathod, a retired teacher, besides Borkar and his father Keshav immediately after the incident. Keshav and Rajput have obtained bail in the case. Borkar’s father had reportedly paid Rs4.5 lakh to the accused persons. The prime accused Dulhat and Sundarde were traced now by the cops. Dulhat was also supposed to appear for an examination to be conducted by the health department in Pune for many more candidates through fraudulent means, said DCP Noorul Hasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-arrested-for-impersonation-in-govt-exam-cheating-using-spycam/articleshow/81337681.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||PMR adds over 1.8k cases; more than 1,100 recover||Pune: The daily Covid-19 cases further increased to 1,831in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday as against 1,191 recoveries, taking its total infections and discharges above 4.13 lakh and 3.92 lakh, respectively. The Pune municipal limits added 904 cases in the last 24 hours, while the PCMC and rural areas recorded 502 and 425 cases, respectively. Of the total tally, more than 2.05 lakh cases have been reported in the PMC limits, followed by 1.07 lakh in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas and over 1 lakh cases in the rural and Cantonment limits. Health officials said they had been monitoring the cases. The containment measures have been initiated in both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations and the rural areas. The daily testing has been ramped up too, they said. According to the report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar, as many as 12,001 samples were tested in PMR on Thursday, including 7,585 samples from the PMC limits and more than 2,300 tests from the PCMC limits. The region recorded 11 deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday, of whom seven patients succumbed in the PMC limits and four in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas. Meanwhile, the tally of active patients in the region increased to 12,129 on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-adds-over-1-8k-cases-more-than-1100-recover/articleshow/81337658.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Train coaches turned into quarantine centres returned to railways||JAIPUR: Train coaches that were developed as quarantine centres in June have now been freed for the use for which they were manufactured. The health department has written to the North Western Railways that they no longer require the coaches as quarantine centres for suspected Covid patients since the cases have gone down.A health department official said 16 coaches with 256 beds in Jaipur, 20 coaches with 320 beds in Jodhpur and 20 coaches with 320 beds in Jaisalmer were developed as quarantine centres with oxygen facilities. The health department turned the coaches into quarantine centres as the number of cases were on the rise in June and the health department was searching for space to create more space for the suspected patients. The health department developed the facilities in the coaches which were required at quarantine centres. Later, the state government issued guidelines and allowed Covid treatment under home quarantine and also suspected cases were also allowed to remain in their houses under quarantine. Health department officials said they no longer require the coaches for the quarantine facilities now as the number of cases have gone down drastically over the past few months. Now, North Western Railways can use the coaches for their general use. DGP felicitates health officialJAIPUR: DGP M L Lather felicitated chief medical health officer (Jaipur -I) on Thursday after the completion of first dose of Covid vaccination of 1,700 police officials at the police headquarters. Lather said no police official complained of any side effect or any adverse event following immunisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/train-coaches-turned-into-quarantine-centres-returned-to-railways/articleshow/81337646.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||School principal, 7 teachers test positive||Mohali: A principal and seven teachers of two government schools in Mohali tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Friday, all the children and teachers of government senior secondary schools in Phase 3B1 and Dayalpura village will be tested and the centres closed for sanitization.Civil surgeon Dr Adrashpal Kaur said the principal and five teachers are of the government school in Phase 3B1 and two teachers are of government school, Dayalpura village. Civil surgeon said, “The orders to close the government school in Phase 3B1 and take the samples of all the schoolchildren as well as teachers have been issued.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/school-principal-7-teachers-test-positive/articleshow/81337650.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||State writes to Centre to send Covid vaccines before scheduled date||JAIPUR: Anticipating that the supply of Covid vaccines to districts will run dry, the state government has written to the ministry of health to supply the doses before scheduled date. Rajasthan is scheduled to get 6 lakh doses of Covishield on March 9, but the pace at which the vaccination is being done, the current available stock is expected to last till March 7-8. On Thursday, Rajasthan reported 1,19,111 vaccinations including 1,05,636 first dose and 13,475 second dose taking the overall tally of vaccinations to 16,09,343 (13,26,074 first dose and 2,83,269 second dose) till date from January 16. The state has so far distributed the available doses, which is more than 10 lakh, to vaccination centres across the state, but they but the stock at the centres will be exhausted soon and more will be required. For scaling up the inoculations, the health department is planning to increase the number of centres to complete the vaccination of 88 lakh above 60 years and 15 lakh above 45 years to 59 years with specified co-morbid conditions. The health department is planning to vaccinate 4lakh beneficiaries daily but for that they require sufficient supplies from the Centre. The health department has already clarified that the pace of vaccination is completely dependent on the supplies of vaccines from the Centre. “The number of Covid vaccinations is affected every Thursday since we provide routine vaccines to children and pregnant mothers across the state,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh,project director (immunization), health department. Number of vaccinations of people above 60 years was 95,470 and above 45 years with specified co-morbid condition was 5,986. Also, second dose vaccine for frontline workers (FLWs) has also been started. The FLWs received 1,475 first doses and 7,359 second doses. Also, healthcare workers (HCWs) received 2,705 first dose and 6,116 second dose. Vaccinations done on Thursday1st dose2nd doseHealthcare workers27056116Frontline workers1475735945-59 year olds with co-morbidities5986-Over 60 years95470-Total achievement1,05,63613,475||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-writes-to-centre-to-send-covid-vaccines-before-scheduled-date/articleshow/81337666.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||CBIT’s 2-day cultural fest from today||Hyderabad: Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology (CBIT) will organise a cultural and sports festival ‘Shruthi’ on March 5 and 6 to create awareness on saving natural resources.The fest has gone virtual this year and will be broadcast on multiple YouTube channels. “Of course, life had been normal for us a year ago and was full of use, misuse, and abuse of natural resources without being sensible about lurking dangers until we had one thing come afloat as Covid-19. Wuhan is not alone to be blamed but our mere thinking and treating our planet earth, the way we’ve been with greed and ever growing ‘consume’rISM too,” the institute said in a release, adding this is the premise of CBIT’s two-day cultural & sports festival, ‘Shruthi’ 2021 edition. Further, Chaaya, the film club of CBIT, is also coming up with a film festival for pan-India student community that would encourage them to ‘think planet’, ‘think future’ and ‘think safety’. The theme of the fest is ‘Resurgence’, asking the community outside to re-live for strength and safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbits-2-day-cultural-fest-from-today/articleshow/81337665.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Pune||Senior citizens brave the shots with some hand-holding from children||Pune: The unprecedented Covid-19 adult vaccination drive has brought senior citizens to centres for the shots along with their sons and daughters who complete all the formalities and make sure their parents are taken care of.Vaccination officials said it is a reversal of roles since many children now accompany their parents, but it makes their job to finish vaccination-related formalities easy. “They are tech-savvy while senior citizens are not used to apps. Hence, children leading their parents to the vaccination drive is heartening,” a vaccinator said.Vanmala Deshmukh, 89, mother of deputy director of health, Pune, Sanjay Deshmukh, said it was simpler in the olden days. “We listened to what the official at the primary health centre in our village said and acted accordingly. We had no fancy technology, but there was immense faith in people. If our children got fever after a vaccine, we would spend sleepless nights putting cold compress on their foreheads,” she said.She had decided not to leave her house or visit relatives till she got the vaccine. “It protects me as well as those around me. When I learned that the vaccine is available for senior citizens, I told my son that I would like to get the shot on the first day.”Sanjay Deshmukh told TOI he was worried about his ‘aai’ on the day of vaccination, because she is old. “I was hoping there would be no adverse event following immunization. After post-vaccination formalities, I dropped her home and went to office, but followed up every two hours. She is fine,” he added. On Thursday, Renuka Surpur accompanied her parents to two different centres for vaccination. Surpur, 45, is a doctor and has many memories of her doctor mother treating patients. “I cannot recall much about my vaccination, but I am happy to be with them during this pandemic. Their safety is paramount,” she said, adding that her 75-year-old mother Manisha Dravid made her aspire to be a doctor.Dravid told TOI, “It was tough to balance personal and professional life in late 1970s. But it all worked out eventually. My son registered for the vaccination and my daughter took us to the centre.”Her husband Mukund said the arrangements at the vaccination sites should be improved so that senior citizens or the those accompanying them do not get exposed to the virus while waiting for the shot.MC Sharma, 80, and wife Madhukanta Sharma, 76, were accompanied by their son Vikas, 54, to the Aundh District Hospital on Thursday. But after seeing the rush at the vaccination site, the Sharmas told Vikas to wait at home till they finished the formalities. Sharma said the lack of planning marred the experience. “Hence we sent our son back. We will call him once the process is over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senior-citizens-brave-the-shots-with-some-hand-holding-from-children/articleshow/81337702.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 5, 2021||Delhi||NDMC tops charts, but none of Delhi’s 3 corporations in top 25||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council was placed first among 60 municipality bodies in the Municipal Performance Index (MPI) 2020. This is a survey conducted by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry to judge the overall performance of municipalities on the five parameters of services, finance, planning, technology and governance. The civic bodies’ performance helps measure the ease of living index of a city. While NDMC ranked first among 60 municipalities in cities with less than one million population, Delhi’s three other municipalities, which were judged among 51 municipalities in the above 1 million population category, did not have impressive results. South Delhi Municipal Corporation managed the 28th spot, while the others lagged with EDMC at 42 and the north corporation at 48. NDMC chairman Dharmendra said the civic body has participated in the rankings since MPI was launched in 2019. “’Active participation has provided us good insight into improving quality of services,” he said. “We have successfully implemented IT-based e-governance initiatives. NDMC’s 311 mobile app, online bill tracking system, QR-based response mechanism in public toilets and digitisation of records pertaining to civic services are initiatives that have helped us improve our ranking.” Asked about the dismal performance, North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash claimed that the results were a surprise for them. “Despite the Covid pandemic, we increased our revenue collection from Rs530 crore on March 31, 2020, to Rs580 crore till February this year from property tax,” he said. “Trade licensing has been made online and conversion will be made online soon. We have carried out reforms in death and birth registration and adopted digitalisation. The only drawback I could find is that our services were hampered due to the workers’ protests for non-payment of salaries from time to time.” EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain too expressed similar views. “We have around 70% settlement and unauthorised colonies and are still reaching them with all services. Such residents may not respond to the digital mode of services, but we are extending all help. We have introduced services for online health and trade licence, online booking of community halls, digital diaries where officials contact numbers can be accessed, etc.,” said Jain. Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, said they could have performed better but for the financial constraints that halted many development projects. NDMC had also topped the cleanest capital city category in Swachh Survekshan 2020, though it ranked third among 382 cities with a population below 10 lakh. In contrast, the performance of the municipal corporations in the Swachhta Rankings 2020 was poor to say the least. EDMC finished 46 out of 47 cities with population of more than 10 lakh people, North DMC was 43rd, while SDMC ranked 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-tops-charts-but-none-of-delhis-3-corpns-in-top-25/articleshow/81337735.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 5, 2021||Pune||Pune: Man gets 7 years in jail for raping woman||PUNE: A sessions court here has convicted and sentenced a 32-year-old company supervisor to seven years’ rigorous imprisonment for raping a woman in her house at Jategaon Khurd near Shikrapur in Shirur tehsil on May 10, 2015. Additional sessions judge M R Purwar also sentenced the convict, Govind Devraj Singh, to two years rigorous jail each for the offences of wrongful confinement and criminal intimidation and said these sentences are to run concurrently with the main prison term. Singh, who hailed from Bhadohi in Uttar Pradesh, worked as a supervisor with a company where the woman and her husband worked as helpers. The couple stayed in a room given by the company. On the day of the incident, the woman was alone at her home and had not gone to work as she was not feeling well. Singh went to the couple’s room and told the woman he was feeling hungry and needed some food. After entering the room, he closed the door from inside and raped the woman, besides threatening her against disclosing the incident to anyone. However, the woman narrated the incident to her husband the same evening and the couple consulted their relative before lodging a first information report. Singh was arrested on May 18, 2015, and is in jail since. Prosecutor R R Kavediya examined total 10 witnesses in support of the prosecution’s case. The court relied on the evidence recorded by the survivor and found the same as credible, reliable and not shaken by defence cross examination. The court further relied on the medical and forensic evidence, including the chemical analyser’s report, for convicting the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-gets-7-years-in-jail-for-raping-woman/articleshow/81337719.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Couple murder: Another person arrested||Hyderabad: A man, who allegedly conducted a recce and kept tabs on advocate couple G Vaman Rao and PV Nagamani till they were brutally murdered, was arrested by Ramagundam police on Thursday. Ramagundam police said they arrested Lakshman, an associate of prime accused and alleged assailant Kunta Srinivas. On the day of the murder, Lakshman was in the company of the three already arrested accused — Kunta Srinivas, Kumar and Chiranjeevi. On seeing Vaman Rao’s car, Srinivas instructed Lakshman to follow the couple, who went to the local court. When the couple was at the court, Lakshman reportedly constantly updated Srinivas about their movement. When the couple left the court and started their journey towards Peddapalli, Lakshman alerted Srinivas about their movement. Lakshman and Kumar followed the victims and gave information about their route course. Based on the information given by these two accused, Srinivas and Chiranjeevi intercepted the victim’s car and killed the couple, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-murder-another-person-arrested/articleshow/81337692.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Cash-strapped MC gets Rs 75-cr relief from UT||Chandigarh: Giving financial relief to the municipal corporation, the Chandigarh administration has sanctioned a grant of around Rs 75 crore under revised estimate (RE). It will be released in a week or 10 days. Though the bifurcation of the amount is yet to be done and is under consideration by the UT administration, sources said around Rs 50 crore have been kept only for development in villages. Getting a big additional financial grant in the last month of the current financial year is crucial for the cash-strapped MC, as many developmental works are in pipeline or on hold due to the paucity of funds. Though the road re-carpeting work will start in a day or two, other major development works were suffering, for which councillors had held multiple meetings with the UT officers, and the MC had also raised the points aggressively before the administration. In January, the administration had sanctioned a Rs 502-crore budget for the MC under grant-in-aid (GIA) and the civic body had kept a target of Rs 469 crore to earn from its own resources. Now extra Rs 75 crore will help them tide over the financial crisis.The MC engineering department had prepared a Rs 102-crore development plan budget for 13 villages, which were transferred from Chandigarh administration in 2019. The detailed development plan along with the amount for each segment was submitted to the administration for release of a special financial package. The plan includes building and road (B&R) works, laying of storm and sewage drainage pipelines, electrical works, horticulture tasks, water supply and setting up of approximately 1,200 tubewells. Besides, bringing canal water in a few villages is also part of the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cash-strapped-mc-gets-rs-75-cr-relief-from-ut/articleshow/81337670.cms||Deepak Yadav
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||13 pvt hospitals join drive in Mumbai, can vaccinate 8,000 a day at the most||Mumbai: At its maximum capacity, the city’s major private hospitals will manage to vaccinate between 7,000 and 8,000 people in a day, which means public centres will have to shoulder most of the vaccination burden. On Thursday, 13 private hospitals joined the programme out of 29 that have been granted permission by the Centre. The number is expected to rise to 35. While Mumbai’s daily vaccination turnout has been rising steadily, it needs to increase manifold, BMC officials said. The city was vaccinating 11,000-12,000 every day till Phase II began on Monday for senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities. The numbers have since jumped to 18,566 on Wednesday and 22,975 on Thursday. On Thursday, apart from 13 private hospitals, six Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS)-empanelled hospitals joined the drive. Together, the 19 hospitals vaccinated over 4,000 and BMC centres over 18,000. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the plan is to push daily coverage to 50,000 in a day. “We have a lot of population to cover and we want to do that swiftly,” he said, adding dispensaries and more local centres could be started in due course. The corporation is flooded with applications from private hospitals. Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said the state has given its nod to rope in more private players. “We will inspect and fast-track permissions. The drive has to pick up pace,” she added. On Thursday, most private hospitals crossed their target of 100 vaccinations. Many have planned to double the numbers in a few days. Joy Chakraborty, COO of Hinduja Hospital, said private hospitals would boost the speed of vaccination. As per his calculation, most private hospitals will manage to vaccinate 300 at best. “The highest private hospitals could vaccinate is probably around 7,000-8,000,” he said, adding some of the stringent criteria could pose a hurdle for space-strapped Mumbai hospitals to scale up. “There have to be separate entry, exits, waiting area and adequate space for social distancing. Considering all this, most can’t exceed 300 vaccination,” said Chakraborty. Jaslok Hospital CEO Jitendra Haryan concurred open spaces are a luxury. “We have started with 120 today and are targeting 300 on Friday,” he said. Dr S Narayani, zonal director of Fortis Hospitals in Mumbai, said, “We vaccinated about 190 senior citizens and those in the age group of 45-59 years on Thursday.” Breach Candy, H N Reliance and Masina hospitals will start vaccinating from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/13-pvt-hospitals-join-drive-in-mumbai-can-vaccinate-8000-a-day-at-the-most/articleshow/81337736.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||3 of four traffic violators in state didn’t pay fine in Jan: Data||Nagpur: Over 74% of traffic violators in Maharashtra have not paid fine. Of the 15,28,679 motorists penalized for violations of various traffic rules across the state in January, only 3,17,744 paid up, according to official figures. Violators from western Maharashtra comprising Pune city/rural, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Mumbai city, Mumbai traffic police, Thane city/rural, Nashik city/rural, Navi Mumbai and Palghar are worst when it comes to paying fines, the data revealed. Of the 10.76 lakh challans issued, only 1.68 lakh violators cleared their pending challans, while the police are struggling to recover dues from 9.08 lakh violators, reveals the data of paid and unpaid fines of 46 city and rural police stations prepared by the office of director general of police in Mumbai. However, motorists from Vidarbha region including Yavatmal, Buldhana, Amravati, Nagpur, Gondia can be considered relatively more sincere. Of the 1.59 lakh challans issued in these areas, over 1 lakh violators paid up. The statistics reveal Nagpur rural police tops the list in recovering fines. Hingoli and Mumbai police stand last and second last respectively. Nagpur rural police had issued 6,197 online challans across the district. Of these, the rural police led by Rakesh Ola succeeded in recovering unpaid dues from 6,073 violators or nearly 98%. The recovery rate of unpaid fine in Gondia and Yavatmal districts stood at 96%. Of the 10,152 challans issued, the Yavatmal police succeeded in recovering pending fines from 9,787 violators. Similarly, Gondia police issued 2,321 online challans of which it succeeded in recovering fines from 2,224 motorists. In Vidarbha Washim district is worst performer with just 8.5% of 17,000 violators paying the fine. Nagpur city traffic police too fared well in recovering fines from the violators. As per the statistics, the traffic police issued 67,612 challans and recovered dues from 53,904 motorists. The traffic police led by DCP Sarang Awad has also launched Smart nakabandi, which resulted in improving recovery of unpaid challans. Mumbai Traffic police have issued 4.92 lakh online challans. Of these, it managed to collect dues from only 54,338 or about 11%violators, while 4,38,206 motorists haven’t paid up. Similar is the situation with highway police. It issued over 1.57 lakh online challans to violators of which only 19,259 paid the fines. Total challans issued:-15,28,679 Fines paid by :- 3,17,744 Unpaid fines:- 12,10,935 Police stations---Paid challans---Unpaid challans Nagpur Rural---6,073---124 Mumbai police---1,849--- 41,729 Mumbai Traffic---54,338--- 4,38,206 Nagpur C---53,904---13,708 Highway Police---19,259---1,38,543 Bhandara---2,122---2,447 Buldhana---1,741---3,649 Chandrapur---4,057---4,648 Gadchiroli---974---451 Gondia---2,224---97 Pimpri C---10,059---80,157 Pune C---46,290---61,737 Pune R---2,254---20,317 Thane C---11,567---57,872 Thane R---2,151---12,253 Wardha---2,738---1,929 Washim---1,447---15,554 Yavatmal---9,798---365||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-of-four-traffic-violators-in-state-didnt-pay-fine-in-jan-data/articleshow/81337709.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Municipal performance: City’s civic body ranks 23||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh municipal corporation secured 23rd rank among 111 cities of the country in the municipal performance category. The data was released by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) on Thursday. This is for the first time that MoHUA has kept the municipal performance segment in the survey to judge the work on multiple parameters related to services to the public.The survey results are based on the performance of services for the financial year 2019-2020 when the MC was struggling hard to generate its own revenue resources, which is a crucial segment in the study. With 23rd rank, Chandigarh scored 47.71 in the survey, which had five segments: finance, planning, services, technology and governance. Of these, Chandigarh got 48.68 points in finance, 26.77 in planning, 60.69 in services, 32.77 in technology and 54.19 in governance.The city got a blow in planning and finance segments in which it got 43 and 37 ranks, respectively. Planning is not with the MC but with the UT administration and the civic body is still struggling to increase its revenue. Many services were not delegated to the MC from the UT administration, but in the survey these were put under the MC as is being done in many cities. Municipal commissioner KK Yadav said, “In Chandigarh, the powers delegated to the MC are few and these were the main criteria. Revenue generation was a major segment of the survey and we need to do serious work in this field to be financially self-reliant. The planning segment is also with the administration.”With a score of 66 points, Indore got the first rank in the survey, while Surat and Bhopal secured the second and third rank with 60.82 and 59.04 points, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/municipal-performance-citys-civic-body-ranks-23/articleshow/81337703.cms||Deepak Yadav
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||After Garhwal & Kumaon, Gairsain announced as third administrative division of U’khand||Gairsain: Like last year, this year, too, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat sprung a major surprise during the budget assembly session by announcing Gairsain as a new administrative division in Uttarakhand. After Kumaon and Garhwal, Gairsain will now be the third commissionerate of the Himalayan state, the CM said. The commissionerate would comprise of four hill districts of Chamoli & Rudraprayag (from Garhwal) and Almora and Bageshwar (from Kumaon). A commissioner and a Deputy Inspector General (DIG) rank officer would be posted at Gairsain. To improve the economy of the area, the CM during his budget speech announced to set up a food processing unit in Gairsain. Rawat said that a total of 20,000 fruit saplings would also be planted in the summer capital. In addition, he directed authorities to ensure planned development of the Gairsain area for which a tender to prepare a master plan would be floated within a month. Meanwhile, on Thursday, cultural events and a ‘Deepotsav’ (Festival of Lights) were held to mark one year of CM’s announcement to declare Gairsain as the summer capital of the state. A total of 1100 earthen lamps were lit to mark the ocassion and a 2-minute silence was observed as a mark of respect for those killed in the recent Chamoli disaster. The CM also announced a fund of Rs 1 crore each for infrastructure development of newly-constituted nagar panchayats and 20 computers to be given to each of the state universities..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-garhwal-kumaon-gairsain-announced-as-third-administrative-division-of-ukhand/articleshow/81336420.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Body of Army officer who died in Srinagar brought to Doon||Dehradun: The body of Lieutenant Colonel Sudeep Bhagat, who allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday in Srinagar (Kashmir), arrived in Doon on Thursday evening. The officer’s family members, currently residing in Dehradun’s Harrawala, said he was a happy person, and like every day called his wife and children at 8 am, barely hours before shooting himself.Bhagat’s body was found at an Army depot in Khonmoh area of Srinagar on Wednesday afternoon.The incident came to light after the Army officer's colleagues heard gunshots from the area and went to the depot where they found him in a pool of blood. His body was sent to Chandigarh after post-mortem. Bhagat’s younger brother Uttam Negi told TOI, “This has come as a big shock for us. We are at a loss to know what could have prompted my brother to take this step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-of-army-officer-who-died-in-srinagar-brought-to-doon/articleshow/81336617.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 5, 2021||Pune||Unregistered healthcare workers left in the lurch||Pune: Unregistered health care workers in Pune have been unable to locate a tab for registration on the CoWIN portal, making it impossible for many of them to get vaccinated. Rough estimates from the Indian Medical Association (IMA) indicate that there are still 50,000 private doctors in Maharashtra, who had earlier registered, but their data has not been reflecting on CoWIN. Sources said they might have to re-register. This figure is likely to rise if the remaining health care workers, who did not register during the first round are added, said IMA representatives. Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, Hospital Board of India, and IMA Pune, told TOI, “There is no tab on CoWIN to register the remaining health care workers. The portal only has the option of registering individuals aged 60 and above and those of 45 years or above with comorbidities. We have had reports of health care workers not being allowed to register on site, while this method of registration and vaccination is also time consuming.” Dr Avinash Bhondwe, past president, IMA, Pune chapter, said, “I was among the private doctors who registered earlier but never got a call for vaccination. We estimate that there are around 50,000 private doctors who had registered but their data has somehow gone missing from CoWIN.” A healthcare worker in Pune said, “The authorities had announced that unregistered health care workers can register on-site, but my attempts to do so have been in vain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unregistered-healthcare-workers-left-in-the-lurch/articleshow/81337737.cms||Neha Madaan
March 5, 2021||Pune||Crowds swell, over 5,000 get first dose on Thursday||Pune: The addition of more civic-run and private vaccine sites led to a massive increase in Covid jabs on Thursday across the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). The PMC had 46 operational sites and the PCMC ran a total of nine centres. In the PMC areas, 2,753 senior citizens and 292 people above 45 with underlying conditions turned up on Thursday — almost double the numbers from the day before. The PCMC sites gave out first jabs to 1,114 elderly. And in Pune rural, 1,177 seniors, along with 100 between 45 and 59, received their first shots. Problems, however, continued to occur at several sites. Issues included long lines, mismanaged token systems and lack of slots. The rush at prominent hospitals is also increasing. Both Sutar and Kamala Nehru hospitals had huge turnouts on Thursday. “More vaccinators are now being roped in at the sites. But the number of beneficiaries is so high that fulfilment remains a major concern,” said Anjali Tilekar, medical officer of the Kothrud ward office. A senior PMC official said, “Big crowds are gathering at major hospitals, because people are not opting for the smaller units. This is leading to heated arguments at sites. Overcrowding can be reduced by promoting these smaller centres.” The PMC has started vaccinations in two shifts at Kamala Nehru, Rajiv Gandhi and Naidu hospitals — from 8am to 3pm, and 3pm to 10 pm. Administrators said the extended timings have received a good response. PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil five more private hospitals will be added to list of sites by Friday. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director (health), Pune circle, said the vaccine drive in the region is being closely monitored. He said, “We will be sending the Centre a fresh proposal for vaccinations at hospitals with 50 to 150 beds, just like how we requested shots at hospitals with 200-bed capacity. If all goes well, we will have 60 more sites in Pune district by March 8.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crowds-swell-over-5000-get-first-dose-on-thursday/articleshow/81337725.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 5, 2021||Pune||Cops arrest two under MCOCA||Pune: Ten months after a woman and her accomplice were booked under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) for extorting Rs5.39lakh from a Hadapsar-based medical practitioner, the Pune police crime branch arrested them at Phaltan on Thursday. The woman and her accomplice were on the run since the Hadapsar police booked them on charge of kidnapping and extortion following the arrest of four other men, including a policeman, on June 3 last year in the same offence. Senior inspector Hemant Patil (unit V) from the crime branch told TOI, “We received information that suspects, Ranjana Wanwe (38) and Sagar Raut (24), had taken shelter in Phaltan. A police team intercepted their car at Tathawade ghat and took them into custody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-arrest-two-under-mcoca/articleshow/81337761.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 5, 2021||Delhi||261 new Covid cases, 1 death in last 24 hours||New Delhi: Delhi recorded 261 new Covid-19 cases and one fresh fatality on Thursday, which pushed the death toll in the city to 10,915, authorities said. These new cases were reported from the 66,432 tests conducted on Wednesday. The infection tally crossed 6.40 lakh on Thursday, according to the latest health bulletin. The number of active cases of the disease in the city increased to 1,701 from 1,584 on Wednesday, while the positivity rate rose to 0.39%. The city had reported 240 Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate 0.35% on Wednesday. There are a total of 5,709 beds designated for Covid-19 patients in the national capital. Of them, 565 are occupied, data shows. Doctors stressed on the need to continue wearing masks and sanitising hands regularly to reduce disease spread. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/261-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/81337783.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||At 38.1°C, last March’s max temp record breached, in Mumbai||Mumbai: The city recorded a maximum temperature of 38.1 degrees Celsius on Thursday, beating the highest maximum recorded in March (17th) last year of 37.5 degrees But IMD officials said a slight dip in temperature could be expected by Friday. On Thursday, the maximum recorded by IMD Santacruz was 38.1 degrees, which was 5.2 degrees above normal. This was also an increase from 37.3 degrees recorded a day back. IMD Colaba recorded a maximum of 33.8 degrees, which was 2.5 degrees above normal. The all-time highest maximum for March has been 41.7 degrees. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology & climate change, Skymet Weather Services Pvt Ltd, said, “In March, average rain is nil, and since the last few days north-easterly winds are blowing, which are dry and hot. The wind has been coming from central parts of the country, where temperatures have been high. Sea breeze is also setting in later, and this delayed setting in is causing the temperature to stay high.” Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD Mumbai, said, “A drop in temperature can be expected from Friday.” The minimum at Colaba and Santacruz was 23 degrees and 20.6 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-38-1c-last-marchs-max-temp-record-breached-in-mumbai/articleshow/81337851.cms||Richa Pinto
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS tweaks strategy with 3,400 committees||Hyderabad: In a bid to reach out to every graduate voter in the ensuing MLC elections, TRS has set up a committee for every 50 voters in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency. As part of this strategy, nearly 3,400 committees have been formed with division leaders in Greater Hyderabad. Similar committees will also be formed in Rangareddy and Mahbubnagar districts, which are part of the graduates’ constituency. “In the next 10 days, the party leaders should meet all the 1,53,383 voters in Hyderabad,” minister Gangula Kamalakar, who is incharge of Hyderabad said. He held a meeting with TRS constituency incharges, division incharges and important workers meeting at Ministers’ Quarters on Thursday. He said every worker should meet every voter and explain what TRS had developed in all the sectors in the past six years. “BJP resorted to malicious campaign during the GHMC elections to grab votes. This time, we should expose the true colours of the saffron party. The state achieved good results in IT development, employment and maintaining law and order, which need to be highlighted,” Kamalakar said. He said BJP candidate Ramchander Rao did not talk about graduates problem in the council in the past six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-tweaks-strategy-with-3400-committees/articleshow/81337743.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Woman dies of Covid-19 3 days after marriage||VADODARA: A new bride’s excitement to visit her parental home for the first time as per tradition after her wedding which took place three days ago on March 1 however came to a shocking end after she collapsed at her husband’s place moments before leaving.  Later, it came to light that the woman was Covid-19 positive. The incident took place in the Gotri area of the city on Friday morning when Sanyukta (name changed) was preparing to leave for her parents’ home in the neighbourhood but collapsed suddenly. Relatives called an ambulance and she was rushed to the SSG Hospital (SSGH), where she died during treatment. Samples of the newly married woman were collected for Covid-19 test, which was found to be positive. Her husband, which was in a state of shock, could not talk much and said, “We are now planning funeral rituals.” The emergency police report at the SSG Hospital mentions that the woman was suffering from fever since the past two days. In wake of her death, the officials at SSGH also informed the Laxmipura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-bride-dies-of-covid-3-days-after-marriage/articleshow/81337769.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh slips from 5th to 29th rank in Ease of Living Index||CHANDIGARH: India’s first planned city, Chandigarh, has been ranked 29th in the Ease of Living Index-2020 among 111 cities of the country. The city was ranked fifth in 2018. Bengaluru was adjudged the most liveable among 111 cities, followed by Pune, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Surat, Navi Mumbai, Coimbatore, Vadodara, Indore and Greater Mumbai. Chandigarh figured at the 29th spot among the 49 cities in the million-plus population category. The index was released by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday. The city got an overall score of 54.40 in ease of living, 54.42 for quality of life, 9.9 for economic ability, 60.13 for sustainability and 72.8 for citizen perception. For the index, the Centre has kept 30% marks for citizens’ perception survey, 35% for quality of life, 20% for sustainability and 15% for economic ability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-slips-from-5th-to-29th-rank-in-ease-of-living-index/articleshow/81337753.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Students up to Class V in state-run schools to be promoted on basis of worksheet||Gairsain: In a significant decision, the Uttarakhand government has decided to promote all the primary students (from Classes I-V) of state-run schools to the next class. The students would be provided grading on the basis of the worksheet prepared by them when the schools were closed in the Covid-19 phase. In reply to a question by Jhabreda MLA Deshraj Karnwal, education minister Arvind Pandey told the House that the students of Classes VI, VII, VIII, IX and XI would be promoted on the basis of online or offline examination depending upon the prevailing situation. Pandey also said that during the Covid-19 phase, when the schools were closed, the students were provided Food Security Allowance (FSA) in lieu of mid-day meal (MDM). The FSA allowance was transferred to the bank accounts of the students under Direct Benefit Transfer scheme, Pandey said. The minister stated that the cooking cost of Rs 4.48 per student in March 2020 and Rs 4.97 from April 2020 was transferred to the accounts of students. Pandey further said that 10.17 lakh metric tonne ration was also provided to the families of the students under MDM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/students-up-to-class-v-in-state-run-schools-to-be-promoted-on-basis-of-worksheet/articleshow/81336457.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP nat’l leaders unlikelyto campaign in MLC polls||Hyderabad: The state BJP unit’s plans to get at least a dozen national leaders to campaign for the March 14 graduates MLC elections may not materialise. Initially, the national leaders were planning to undertake campaigns from February-end. Expect Union minister Prakash Javadekar, no leader has come to the state in recent times. Nirmala Sitharman, Piyush Goyal, JP Nadda and other senior leaders were supposed to campaign during the MLC polls. During December 2020 GHMC elections, visits by the BJP national leaders garnered much attention with the ruling TRS ridiculing the saffron party’s desperation. It took pot-shots at BJP by saying that the party was getting leaders from Delhi to campaign for a ‘galli’ election. BJP shot back with its top leaders Amit Shah and JP Nadda campaigning here and taunting the TRS for ‘insulting’ Hyderabad people by calling it as a galli election. Meanwhile, BJP complained against agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy to chief electoral officer of Telangana for his remarks. BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday said for CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, a member of legislative council (MLC) means ‘member of liquor council.’ Describing the MLC polls as a war between the TRS and BJP, he called upon graduates to vote for his party. The excise department on Thursday issued directions on sale of liquor in 77 assembly segments forming part of the March 14 MLC polls. Liquor shops will be closed from 4 pm on March 12 to 4 pm on March 14. Again on the counting day, shops will be closed from 6 am till the counting is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-natl-leaders-unlikelyto-campaign-in-mlc-polls/articleshow/81337775.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 5, 2021||Delhi||New Delhi World Book Fair to be held virtually from March 6-9||New Delhi: The New Delhi World Book Fair will be held virtually from March 6 to March 9 in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic-related restrictions, the National Book Trust announced on Thursday. Minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ will inaugurate the fair at a virtual ceremony on Friday. The event is organised annually at the Pragati Maidan grounds in January every year. The fair’s theme is ‘National Education Policy 2020’. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-delhi-world-book-fair-to-be-held-virtually-from-march-6-9/articleshow/81339335.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Over 100 notices issued for cancellation of CHB small flats||DUES NOT CLEAREDChandigarh: The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) on Thursday issued show-cause notices to over 100 small flat allottees who have failed to clear their pending dues. CHB chief executive officer (CEO) Yashpal Garg said, “We will continue to issue the notices in the coming days, too. If allottees fail to justify the delay, their allotment will be cancelled. After the cancellation of flats, the CHB will evict the allottees from the small flats after following the due process.” The CHB had recently taken a slew of measures, like a list of allottees and their pending dues was uploaded on the board’s website, public notices were issued, special collection counters were set up at Dhanas, Mauli Jagran, Maloya and CHB office complex, online payment facility and payment service at all e-sampark centres introduced. The previous year, too, the board had issued notices to more than 6,000 allottees but only some of them cleared their dues. In about 275 cases, the CHB had issued notices for cancellation. The small flats are located in Dhanas, Ramdarbar, Mauli Jagran, sectors 38 (West), 49, 56 and Industrial Area, Phase I.In June 2019, CHB had organized a special drive for collection of outstanding dues of small flats in the city. The CHB had held collection camps at different areas, where the small flats were located, from June 7 to June 16, 2019.Over Rs 30 crore yet to be recoveredAfter giving a number of opportunities, the CHB is left with no alternative other than canceling the allotment of units whose dues have not been cleared. The CHB efforts resulted in recovery of more than Rs 6 crore in February, but most of the allottees have not yet cleared their dues. More than Rs 30 crore are yet to be recovered from these allottees. The special collection counters at Mauli Jagran have been closed and the others will be shut in the next few days. However, online payment facility and that at e-sampark centres will remain available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-100-notices-issued-for-cancellation-of-chb-small-flats/articleshow/81337770.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||When assisted living takes an inclusive turn||What happens after? When Gopalan Gurumoorthy began asking himself this question a few years ago, it wasn’t because he was a few years away from retirement. He was thinking about his daughter living with autism. "It’s a question that plagues the mind of a parent with a special needs child," says Gurumoorthy. "What happens to my child when I am no more?" By the end of this year, Gurumoorthy, his wife and daughter, and 47 other parents of children with intellectual disabilities — they call themselves CLAPS or the Community Living Association for Parents of Special Citizens — will move into an exclusive community in Tiruvallur district. "The 48 of us created it together. It’s set up like a nucleated joint family so our children can live out their lives in comfort." Realising the demand for living spaces which take into consideration the needs of people with intellectual disabilities, inclusive and exclusive residential communities are coming up for adults with disabilities, more number of such facilities are coming up across Tamil Nadu. Senior living community CovaiCare, for instance, recently turned inclusive, offering 10% of its space to those with intellectual disabilities such as autism, Down Syndrome, and cerebral palsy. By the year-end, the Autism Residential Community will be up and running in Vellore. Set up by Pradeep Jeyathilak, parent to a son with autism, the centre will be spread across seven acres and will comprise living quarters, sports, activity centres and a vocational centre to skill adults in areas such as paper bag making to aid employment. "It’s an exclusive supported living facility for adults with disabilities," says Jeyathilak, who has taken an apartment building on rent in Vellore, to house four adults with special needs until the community is ready. "There is a lot that goes into the design of a facility like this. Adults with special needs can have meltdowns, and they are predominantly non-verbal. In terms of room design, ceilings have to be high, furniture has to be minimal, glass has to be shatter-proof and so on. Safety is paramount as is comfortable living," he says. In Chennai, the Special Child Assistance Network (SCAN), a 600-member organisation, is in talks with builders to create a special group of homes within gated communities to house those with disabilities. "It will be regular apartments taken on a rental basis. We will also provide a vocational training centre within the gated community," says Gopinath Ramakrishnan, the founder. SCAN has tied up with Chennai-based Vidyasagar, an NGO that works with people with disabilities. "As children and teens school hours keep them active. But as adults they need to be engaged physically, mentally and socially. They have to live their lives like everyone else." Inclusive communities are ideal because they allow those with disabilities to work, socialise and connect with people with and without disabilities, says Akila Vaidyanathan, founder of the AMAZE Charitable Trust, which runs programmes to empower young adults. "While an exclusive community or an institution may provide specialised services, it may not take care of what forms a larger part of their lives, which is socialising and the ability to learn to be independent. Even if severely disabled, mingling with people helps mental health," says Vaidyanathan, who has a son with autism. At CovaiCare, just as seniors are encouraged to work both within and outside the community, so are the adults with autism, says Colonel A Sridharan, founder of the community. "We have adults with autism working in factories and libraries as well as some who have set up their own businesses within the community," says Sridharan. "We have a 48-year-old woman with autism who lives with her 52-year-old brother. She is an excellent baker, but both don’t know how to count. So we help her manage the financial aspects of her business." Sridharan says there is a symbiotic relationship in the interactions between the seniors and those with special needs in the community that is mentally uplifting for both. At CLAPS, the adult children will be living apart from their parents. "We have created exclusive apartments for them, so four of them can live in one house along with a caretaker," says Gurumoorthy. While the living spaces will remain exclusive, the park and activity areas will be open to the larger community to facilitate social interaction. "It is important for adults with intellectual disabilities to have a permanent home. I learned the hard way when I had to move my daughter to a specialised care institution when my in-laws and parents were hospitalised. It was a cause of extreme anxiety for her. That was when I realised the need for her to have a place of her own." Senior care homes, says Vaidyanathan, work well as inclusive communities for those with disabilities as seniors have the same requirements as those with developmental disabilities. "Many of them may be using a wheelchair for instance, such as a person with cerebral palsy. Those with Alzheimer’s may need mental healthcare just as someone with an intellectual disability may require," she says. Inclusive living setups also give the carer support. "What happens when the carer cannot look after themselves and their ward? In an inclusive community, both get the support they require," says Vaidyanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-assisted-living-takes-an-inclusive-turn/articleshow/81337759.cms||Kamini Mathai
March 5, 2021||Pune||Pune: 24x7 jab centres possible but need major planning, resources, say experts||PUNE: The state government on Thursday reached out to government and private hospitals to explore round-the-clock vaccine drives that have the potential to speed up the Covid inoculation. Currently, three government hospitals in Pune city — Naidu, Kamala Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi — operate their vaccination sites till 10pm. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said execution of 24x7 services will depend on citizen response and hospital resources. “It may not be done immediately. But if required, we can operate vaccine sites in shifts,” he said. Health officials who consulted with certain hospitals said administrators of some sites were willing to extend vaccine times. But the officials added the rule will not be mandatory. “The rush will ease. Once more private facilities join in, we’ll have more people booking slots on CoWIN portal rather than walking in to register at sites. We’ll also have more slots because of extended timings,” an official said, adding that the administration expects the rush at sites to ease sometime by the middle of March. State immunisation officer Dr DN Patil said teething problems are expected. “People should not rush and hospitals should manage their time slots well,” he said. Administrators of Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital have also launched a parallel slot-booking system on their website for citizens already registered on the CoWIN website. The hospital plans to cover 1,000 people daily. Medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar, Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, said they plan to operate from 9am to 9pm from next week. “The parallel booking system on our website will help citizens pick a slot. We also want to ensure Covid-protective behaviour,” he said. Dr Vaishali Jadhav, the assistant health chief of the PMC, said the private hospitals they have reached out to for extended timings are expected to send their replies in the coming week. She added they are seeing a good response at government sites. Dr S Patsute, the medical superintendent of Naidu hospital (a government site operating till 10pm) said round-the-clock operations will need more staff and vaccine supply. “As of now, the extended timings may just be enough to serve beneficiaries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24x7-jab-centres-possible-but-need-major-planning-resources-experts/articleshow/81337766.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Auction schedule of 269 CHB properties out on March 8||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) directors will take a call on finalising the auction schedule of 269 properties on March 8. The 269 properties include 11 residential (leasehold), 108 residential (freehold) and 150 commercial (leasehold) that will be auctioned in a phased manner. The CHB had recently reduced their reserve price by 10% to 20% after witnessing a poor response to a bidding attempt last year. These properties are in sectors 51, 63, 38 (west), 39 and Manimajra and include 51 new flats, which were part of CHB’s costliest housing scheme in the city. Besides these, the commercial properties are located in Manimajra, sectors 51 and 61 and Maloya.A senior board official said these properties were lying vacant for the past many years and their condition was deteriorating as the CHB had failed to auction them over the years. These will be auctioned in a phased manner, he added. The board has tied up with NIC for e-auction. After registration with the CHB, interested bidders will have 10 to 15 days’ time to place their bid. The board has fixed the reserve price of HIG flat (leasehold) in Sector 39 at Rs 1.05 crore, of a three-bedroom flat (freehold) in Sector 63 at Rs 86.24 lakh, a two-bedroom flat in Sector 51 between Rs 81 lakh and Rs 84 lakh. The reserve price of one-bedroom flat has been fixed at Rs 39.38 lakh and EWS flat at Rs 24.35 lakh in Sector 49, while that of a two-bedroom flat in Sector 49 between Rs 69.87 lakh and Rs 71.26 lakh. The reserve price of a two-bedroom flat in Sector 63 has been fixed at Rs 67.3 lakh, of an HIG flat (leasehold) in Sector 45-A at Rs 1.07 crore, of a restaurant site in Manimajra at Rs 2.59 crore and of a small booth (corner) at Rs 97 lakh. Earnest money For properties worth Rs 1 crore, the earnest money will be around Rs 2 lakh, for Rs 1 crore to 1.5 crore, around Rs 3 lakh and for Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 2 crore, around Rs 4 lakh. However, the final decision will be taken in the board’s meeting on March 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/auction-schedule-of-269-chb-properties-out-on-march-8/articleshow/81337779.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP neta seeks election date of new speaker||Mumbai: BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar demanded to know when the election for the post of speaker of the state assembly would be held. Speaking at the state assembly on Thursday, he sought answers from deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal. Nana Patole resigned from the speaker’s post on February 4. “According to rules, there cannot be a gap of more than a month between the exit of the speaker and his successor,” said Mungantiwar. Permission of the state government or the cabinet is not required for the speaker’s election, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bjp-neta-seeks-election-date-of-new-speaker/articleshow/81339341.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||City moves up six places to no. 25||Nagpur: The city ranked 25th among 111 in the country’s Ease of Living Index (EOLI) 2020 released by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. In 2019, the city’s ranking was 31. The Municipal Performance Index, which was introduced for the first time, saw the NMC securing 30th position. Nagpur’s poor performance is attributed to citizens’ feedback. “Sufficiency of income to maintain quality of life and incidence of water logging are the two main categories where the city scored low,” Smart City CEO Buvneshwari S told TOI, adding she was happy with the city’s 25th ranking.Minister of state for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday released the EOLI 2020 and the Municipal Performance Index (MPI) 2020 in an online event. EOLI 2020 assessed a total of 111 cities of which 49 have population over a million and 62 below a million (10 lakh) people.The EOLI primarily seeks to improve India’s urban development environment including the achievement of sustainable development goals, measuring well-being of citizens for such things as quality of life, economic ability and sustainability based on 49 indicators under 13 categories.EOLI measures outcome of the indicators whereas Municipal Performance Index (MPI) focuses on the factors that produce those outcomes.Nagpur is at 16th, 17th and 20th position under sustainability, citizen perception survey and economic ability but surprisingly Nagpur is at 38th spot in quality of life, which affected Nagpur’s overall position.Under MPI, Nagpur did quite well under technology, governance and services securing 9th, 15th and 22nd position respectively among cities with plus one million population. However, in finance, Nagpur is placed at 43rd position, which also had a direct impact on planning where Nagpur is at 50th position.Buvneshwari S said NSSCDCL will try to improve shortcomings. “This will also help in improving performance of Nagpur city,” she said.Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B congratulated the NSSCDCL for improving the city’s rankings.Industrialist Manish Jain admitted insufficient salaries or wages were being paid to both employees and daily wagers in the city. Citing an example, he said industries could easily hire an MBA on Rs 8,000 salary per month, exposing insufficiency of income to maintain quality of life in the state’s second capital.Civic activist and founder of city-based NGO Green Vigil foundation Kaustav Chatterjee said the city's MPI has been badly affected by finance and planning. “It is well known that NMC is struggling with finance which affects planning. Otherwise NMC has done quite well,” he pointed out. “Due to routine cleaning of Nag, Pili and Pohra rivers, waterlogging has reduced to a large extent. However, it culd have increased in some areas due to construction of cement roads,” he explained. It will be unfair to judge any municipal corporation based on performance for the last one year as the main focus for all ULBs were to combat Covid-19, Chatterjee said.Abhijeet Jha of Nagpur Citizens Forum said, “Although Nagpur’s position in the Smart City rankings has improved it is not satisfactory.” Metro, cement roads and flyovers are not the only defining factors of development. If the greenery of the city is to be destroyed to create a concrete jungle, then Nagpur will not be a livable city.“It is necessary to study the planning done by the top 10 cities and formulate a policy. Public participation is also important in this process. If people are actively involved, this picture will definitely change and Nagpur will be in the top 10,” he pointed out.SCORE CARDUnder EOLI* Nagpur secured 16th, 17th and 20th position under Sustainability, Citizen Perception Survey and Economic Ability* City is at 38th Position in Quality of LifeUNDER MPI* Nagpur secured 9th, 15th and 22nd position in Technology, Governance and Services * 43rd position in Finance* 50th position in Planning||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-moves-up-six-places-to-no-25/articleshow/81336473.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 21,000 beneficiaries get vaccination on Day 4||HYDERABAD: Covid vaccination roll out for the latest category of beneficiaries - elderly above 60 years of age and people between 45-59 years of age having comorbidities -- picked up further on Day 4 with 96% of target being met in government sector and 92% target in private sector. A total of 21, 207 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Thursday, against a target of 22,652. Another 4,914 beneficiaries among healthcare workers and frontline workers were vaccination for the first and second doses as well. Meanwhile, Telangana on Thursday recorded 152 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths on Thursday. There are currently 1,948 active cases in the state, a total of 2,95,821 patients have so far recovered. A total of 41,201 samples were tested on Thursday. The GHMC recorded 25 new cases, Medchal Malkajgiri 11 and Ranga Reddy 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21k-beneficiaries-get-vax-on-day-4/articleshow/81337807.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||IMA cadets get into a scuffle with each other, probe ordered||Dehradun: Foreign and Indian cadets allegedly got into a scuffle at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Wednesday night. According to a statement issued by the officials of the academy, an inquiry has been ordered in the matter. It is alleged that a few gentlemen cadets (GCs) got into a physical fight after a heated argument. While the fight started between a few GCs, it drew attention when many others also got involved. It is not clear as to what precipitated the fight or which foreign and Indian GCs were involved. According to a statement issued by the authorities of IMA on Thursday, “a case of scuffle involving gentlemen cadets undergoing pre-commission training at Indian Military Academy occurred on the night of March 3.” “The case is being investigated and followed-up as per regulations governing the academy,” said the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ima-cadets-get-into-a-scuffle-with-each-other-probe-ordered/articleshow/81336484.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 5, 2021||Pune||1,674 flout norms, fined||Pune: The police on Thursday penalised 1,674 people in the district for not wearing face masks and violating Covid-19 norms. The administration collected Rs5,60,100 in fine. The Pune police penalised 816 people and collected Rs3,96,400 in fine. Their Pimpri Chinchwad counterparts took action against 32 people and collected Rs16,000 in fine. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1674-flout-norms-fined/articleshow/81337837.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Vaccination alone is not the end of the coronavirus story: CCMB director||Hyderabad: The Covid-19 vaccine is not the end of the coronavirus story, especially with the threat of a new strain of the virus looming large across the globe, a top scientist said on Thursday. With more than one million active cases currently in the country, physical distancing and wearing masks will remain the social vaccine against coronavirus for now, said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director of the CSIR Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology. “Vaccine is not the end of the coronavirus story. When the first dose of the vaccine is taken, it takes two weeks for the immune system to respond and after the second dose, it takes another 45 days for the immune response to work. Till this period, a vaccinated person is also vulnerable,” Mishra said. Analysing the efficacy results of vaccines, Mishra said the vaccine will not work for 15% of the population, and a new strain may emerge at any time. So, it would take 45 days for immune response to get triggered completely in the rest 85% of the population who gets the vaccine. “I got a vaccine, so I can do whatever will not work. That attitude won’t work. How long the vaccine protects the rest of 85% is still not known. It can be months or year, or two. Time will decide this. The best thing is social vaccine, like wearing mask, avoiding crowd and hygiene to defeat the virus,” he said. Speaking to TOI on the occasion of one year of Covid-19 pandemic, he said most of the 7,000 mutations observed are inconsequential and have no impact, but any new virus mutant that can turn bad for the host is always a possibility. “Vaccine is a very good tool to fight the virus. Covid-19 vaccines approved by all regulatory authorities are safe to use. More than a crore of people have been vaccinated, and all data shows they are safe. People should proactively get vaccinated,” he said, while cautioning people to be careful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccination-alone-is-not-the-end-of-the-coronavirus-story-ccmb-director/articleshow/81337794.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Accept my challenge on ITIR or quit’||Hyderabad: AICC national spokesperson Dasoju Sravan on Thursday said Congress candidates will not contest the graduates MLC elections if the TRS government issues the guidelines on the ITIR project, notification on filling up jobs in government sector and regularisation of contract employees. Addressing a press conference at Gandhi Bhavan, he said challenge is applicable to BJP also as it has failed to get funds sanctioned for the prestigious ITIR project. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accept-my-challenge-on-itir-or-quit/articleshow/81337813.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana high court cracks the whip on illegal constructions||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday ordered a crackdown on all illegal buildings and unauthorised additional floors being built in different parts of Hyderabad. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy directed the six zonal commissioners in the city to furnish reports on such buildings along with particulars of action taken against them. The judges wondered if Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) field staff was in cahoots with those building illegal structures. They asked the zonal commissioners to include details of action taken against errant staff in all 30 circles in their reports. “The bells are ringing and it is time they realise that we will pass orders recommending coercive action,” warned the bench while resuming hearing in a petition that initially wanted to stop demolition of an illegal structure in Kukatpally but was turned into a PIL on rampant illegal construction in the city. “Give us particulars of individual owners who approached civil courts and obtained stay orders on demolition. Also tell us whether you have filed vacate stay petitions in such matters,” the bench said, addressing Harender Pershad, the state’s special counsel. When Pershad said GHMC had filed its counter, the bench said they do not need peripheral reports and wanted a detailed ground report. “Your counter merely talks about GHMC’s vigilance wing taking action against illegal buildings and encroachers. It does not say anything about action on errant staff who connived with the wrongdoers,” the bench said. The judges wanted details of who grants building permission in all the 30 circles and names of assistant city planners and town planning officials at every circle. “Each zonal commissioner must tell us how many illegal buildings were identified in his or her zone. Have they issued notices? If so, tell us the dates. Did they display boards in front of such buildings indicating that they are illegal structures as was directed by this court earlier?” The bench had earlier indicated that cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act could be booked against errant staff and also against their supervisors. The case was posted to April 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-cracks-the-whip-on-illegal-constructions/articleshow/81339891.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||With 50 additions, 98 vaccination centres in Kolkata now||KOLKATA: The state health department on Thursday added 50 Covid vaccination centres (CVC) across Kolkata to expedite the inoculation of senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities. Now, the city has around 98 centres but, health department officials said, technical glitches in Co-Win was not allowing them to create more vaccination sites. “We have the capacity to create 5,000 vaccination sites across the state. But because of the Co-Win technical problems, we are unable to add as many sites as we want to,” said a Swasthya Bhavan official. Of the new additions, 60 were KMC urban primary health centres, where 3,500 senior citizens were inoculated. Most registered on the spot. “Anyone above 60 can visit our urban centres with an ID and age proof. They will be registered on spot and vaccinated. Citizens above 45 with co-morbidities can also go to the facilities but they will have to show medical certificates for co-morbidities,” said Firhad Hakim, chairman of board of administrators. A majority of centres in the city, especially those attached to hospitals, exceeded their vaccination targets on Thursday. With the teams gaining more experience and senior citizens eager to get the shot against Covid-19, health officials said the state could easily vaccinate close to 2 lakh recipients a day now. Health officials pointed out that Kolkata could have started with almost 100 vaccination centres but their technical team could do little due to the portal problems. The Swasthya Bhavan technical team creates vaccination sites through the Co-Win portal. Once done, a login ID and password are issued to the vaccination centres. “Our team is working till midnight every day to create more vaccination sites. But the portal glitches are becoming a challenge. If the system runs smoothly, we plan to scale up the CVC number to 5,000 by next week,” said director of health services Ajay Chakraborty. The state had planned to create 2,500 vaccination sites on Wednesday but only 752 materialized. Hospitals, like AMRI Salt Lake, could get access to the portal only on Thursday though it was supposed to start the drive on Monday. “We got access to community vaccination from our Salt Lake unit on Thursday. We will soon be able to vaccinate around 900 people a day from our three centres. We will also start spot registration for limited recipients, which will help the elderly,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO of AMRI Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-50-additions-98-vax-centres-in-kol-now/articleshow/81337920.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 5, 2021||Delhi||CAIT to launch trader dialogue campaign in Delhi||New Delhi: Confederation of All India Traders said it will launch a one-month long dialogue campaign from Friday involving door-to-door visit of each market in Delhi to discuss the problems faced by traders. The traders’ body claimed that it has become extremely difficult for them to conduct business activities in a smooth manner. Instead of doing business, most of the time is spent in compliance of notices of various government departments and government orders. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cait-to-launch-trader-dialogue-campaign-in-delhi/articleshow/81337888.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||Four tie up 80-year-old in bungalow in Pune, rob valuables worth Rs 4.25 lakh||PUNE: Four men allegedly gagged an 80-year-old woman, tied her hands while assaulting her, as well as her caregiver, before robbing cash and ornaments, collectively worth Rs4.25 lakh, from her bungalow at Panchwati in Pashan on Wednesday evening. The woman, a former teacher, and her caregiver, Kailash Gholap (30), sustained cut wounds to hand and thigh, respectively, in the robbery, the Chatushrungi police said, adding that the suspects also beat up Gholap with a stick. The incident came to light after the woman managed to free herself and raised an alarm. Later in the night, she lodged an FIR with the police. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said, “There are many bungalows in the society at Panchwati. The four men targeted this bungalow sometime between 7.30pm and 7.45pm. The elderly woman’s husband was a lawyer before he suffered a stroke of paralysis and is now bedridden. Their son lives in the USA and their two daughters are married and settled in different parts of Pune city.” The officer said the bungalow did not have a watchman, but had a CCTV surveillance. “The CCTV cameras installed on all the four sides of the bungalow have captured the images of the four men. They are local residents who know the area very well,” Shewale said. The elderly woman told TOI, “We have been staying here since 2002 and never felt unsafe. We have a caregiver who has been with us for the past three years. Panchwati has many senior citizens staying alone or with caregivers.” Narrating the Wednesday’s incident, she said, “Around 7.30pm, four men entered the house from the front gate and came around to the back side of the house. One of them stayed outside on the back verandah, while the three others entered the house. They then gagged and tied me and the caretaker. They put a knife to my neck and started ransacking the house while asking ‘Maal kahan hai’ in Hindi. Finally, they left with money and gold but didn’t untie us. The robbers had even smashed our phones and disconnected the landline.” The FIR stated that the suspects asked the victim about the place where she had kept the valuables and then went to a room on the first floor of the bungalow, removed all clothes and other valuable from a cupboard there and found Rs25,000 and gold and silver ornaments worth Rs4 lakh. The police have registered a case under sections 394 and 34 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-tie-up-80-yr-old-in-bungalow-rob-valuables-worth-rs-4-25l/articleshow/81337844.cms||Gitesh Shelke
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Slept in lab, dreamt about solutions||HYDERABAD: Sleeping in labs and burning the midnight oil, scientists, researchers and students of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) rose to the challenge that the Covid-19 pandemic presented. One year since the pandemic began, CCMB has achieved a great deal from sample testing, producing surveillance reports, genome sequencing, finding mutations in SARS-CoV-2 to developing testing kits. CCMB has also contributed to the world repository of the virus genome. CCMB director Dr Rakesh Mishra said, “At the time when panic hit the country and there was a total lockdown in Hyderabad, we worked 24 hours a day. Even now, we get samples to test for the UK variant from the airport. Within 48 hours, the results have to be given so that the infected persons can be quarantined. We are always under the pressure.” Hundreds of volunteers, mostly students and staff, lead from the front taking part in testing, sequencing and research. “Students were brave. They could handle the virus and experiments. They felt this is the time they could contribute to society. They sacrificed their time and joined forces,” he said. The institue was never closed in the past year. Out of the 50,000 samples tested, 15,000 were positive cases. Archana Bharadwaj Siva, senior principal scientist, CCMB, who heads testing, said, “On March 30, the first sample came from Osmania Hospital. These were times of frenzy when we got several calls from hospitals. The security used to calls us in the middle of the night and tell us hospitals had brought samples. At one point, we were testing 500 to 600 samples a day. It was going to be a risky affair, but we had biosafety training and all protocols in place.” She said, “We worked three shifts initially. The work load was at its peak in May, June and July. Initially, we had to struggle with the kits and consumables, but now we have plenty of supply.” Dr Krishnan H Harshan, virogloist, said, “Everybody in CCMB rose to the occasion. We were in the eye of the storm. We isolated the virus in two to three weeks. We were the second lab to isolate and characterise the virus. We used cultured virus in therapeutics and vaccine research. Horses were injected with virus to produce antibodies. It was a great collaboration of academics and industry.” Harshan said, “India should invest more in virology research facilities and created greater capabilities. Scientists too have to be rewarded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slept-in-lab-dreamt-about-solutions/articleshow/81337849.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 5, 2021||Pune||Ornaments, cash of Rs 8.31L stolen from sr citizen’s flat||Pune: The Shivajinagar police are investigating a complaint by a 63-year-old business consultant regarding cash and ornaments, worth Rs8.31 lakh, having been stolen from his flat at Ashit apartment in Model Colony between February 26 and March 1. Complainant Milind Vardhe said he and his family had visited Kolhapur for offering prayers at a temple on February 26 and had returned home the very next day. However, on March 1, when he opened his bedroom cupboard for collecting some cash, he found the money and gold and silver ornaments — including diamond studded ones — to be missing. Senior inspector Neelima Pawar of the Shivajinagar police said on Thursday, “The ornaments, purchased around 20 years ago, and a sum of Rs15,000 had gone missing from his unlocked cupboard. Vardhe suspects the involvement of his serving or former domestic helps behind the theft.” “The questioning of domestic helps has revealed that Vardhe had registered a similar complaint relating to theft of ornaments/cash from his residence with the Shivajinagar police around two years ago,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ornaments-cash-of-rs-8-31l-stolen-from-sr-citizens-flat/articleshow/81337858.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Vadodara||Five buildings sealed for not taking fire NOC||Vadodara: The fire department on Thursday sealed five big commercial buildings that had not taken a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the department for years. Shree Ram Chambers and Windsor Plaza were sealed in Alkapuri, in Sayajigunj Alankar Tower and Antriksh Complex and Blue Diamond Complex in Fatehgunj were sealed. Help from police was taken to evacuate the building and MGVCL was asked to disconnect the electricity. Despite repeated notices, several commercial and residential buildings in different areas of the city have failed to take NOC. On January 1, Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services (VFES) had given notices as per state government’s gazette to such buildings threatening to seal them and disconnect electricity if fire equipment is not installed and NOC is not taken. “We waited for two months and yet no action was taken by the owners and occupants, so we started sealing the buildings and disconnecting electricity on Thursday,” said in-charge chief fire officer Parth Brahmbhatt. “Everything will be restored only after fire equipment is installed and fresh NOC is taken,” said Brahmbhatt. He added that in coming days too more such properties will face same action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-buildings-sealed-for-not-taking-fire-noc/articleshow/81335846.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Govt busy with politics, sanitation faces neglect||Jaipur: The condition of the city’s sanitation is degrading with mayor Somya Gurjar remaining occupied elsewhere and the working committee’s proposals being rejected by the state government.Residents of Vaishali Nagar, Jhotwara and Vidyadhar Nagar have complained that garbage collection vehicles are coming once in three days or during odd hours in their colonies. Girdhar Israni, resident of Krishna colony in Jhotwara said, “Once a week or in three days, garbage collection vehicles come in the colonies. Piles of garbage are accumulating in the corners of lanes and despite repeated complaints, it is not resolved.” Similarly, Jyoti Taneja, a resident of Vidhyadhar Nagar, said although garbage collection vehicles are coming every day, they have no fix timings. “Sometimes, they come in the morning or afternoon or evening. They have no fix timings and I had fought with them many a times,” said Taneja. Nodal officer of Swachhta Survekshan Harshit Verma said the work for clean city has begun. “We had a meeting with the company responsible for garbage collection and will soon be starting our awareness campaign. We are taking up matter in our own hands and very soon residents will not face any problems,” said Verma. A senior BJP councillor in JMC-Greater also admitted that the situation of sanitation was not up to the mark. “We cannot disturb the mayor as she is not well and lot of problems in her family. Without any sanitation committee, there is a problem of better management in JMC-Greater. Most of the councillors are organising private vehicles to clean the garbage,” said a BJP councillor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-busy-with-politics-sanitation-faces-neglect/articleshow/81337908.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||Pune: Re-register vehicles aged over 15, says RTO||PUNE: The Regional Transport Office has sent notices to owners of over 15-year-old vehicles to get them re-registered and pay the green tax without delay. The The Regional Transport Office (RTO), Pune, has little information about the number of such vehicles in its jurisdiction. The officials stated that a drive would start against such vehicles. “Those having such vehicles should immediately check the documents and find out if the green tax has been paid. If not, it should be paid immediately and the vehicles should be re-registered,” an RTO official said. “Vehicles would be checked on roads during the drive. If an old vehicle is found running without being re-registered or the green tax paid, it would be confiscated,” the official said. The Union government recently announced a scrapping policy for old vehicles. More than 16 lakh vehicles could be scrapped in Maharashtra, the state transport department said. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said while the transport department would be the single stop for the process, the respective RTOs would do the re-registering once anyone approached with an old vehicle. The RTO official said, “It is difficult to give a definite number of vehicles plying without re-registration. We shall have some idea after the drive starts,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/re-register-vehicles-aged-over-15-rto/articleshow/81337915.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Court seeks voice samples of AAP MLA in doc’s suicide||New Delhi: A court has directed Delhi Police to deposit voice samples of AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal with the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) immediately in the case of alleged suicide of a doctor. Special CBI judge Geetanjli Goel observed that “no cogent steps were taken for completing the investigation and obtaining the voice samples”, adding that “quite clearly, at every step, matter is sought to be delayed.” The court, therefore, ordered the IO to deposit the voice samples and place the report on record before the next date of hearing. On receiving a report from the DCP concerned, the court noted “no sincere efforts” had been made to collect voice samples and before the filing of the chargesheet, only the voice sample of the witness Revadhar Bhatt was obtained on July 2, 2020. “Despite the order dated February 15, 2021, it is now stated that the voice samples of only accused Prakash Jarwal and Harish Kumar Jarwal had been taken and the said samples had also not been sent yet to FSL for obtaining the report, for which there is no explanation,” it noted. The court also took note of the additional DCP’s report that stated that owing to the heavy law and order arrangements in January in connection with the Republic Day celebrations and in February, 2021, for the on-going farmers’ protest, the services of the maximum staff were utilised. “But the same does not inspire confidence in view of the fact that even prior to that no cogent steps were taken for completing the investigation and obtaining the voice samples,” the court said. Police have alleged that Jarwal called the doctor on his phone and threatened to get him killed due to which he allegedly died by suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-seeks-voice-samples-of-aap-mla-in-docs-suicide/articleshow/81339348.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||1 in two infected by Covid in Hyderabad: Survey||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad is now moving towards what scientists call herd immunity against the pandemic virus, if the result of a research study is any indication. The study by the city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) reveals that one in every two people in Hyderabad or 54% of population had contracted the virus, with or without symptoms. The city researchers arrived at the immunity levels based on a seropositive study. As every other person in Hyderabad has had Covid-19, the city may be heading towards herd immunity. The current vaccination drive would only further boost the immunity levels in Hyderabad. “The data indicates that the population of Hyderabad might be slowly moving towards herd immunity, which will be certainly accelerated by the ongoing vaccination effort,” said CCMB director Dr Rakesh Mishra The study covering about 9,000 samples was conducted in 30 municipal wards. Women showed a marginally higher seropositivity rate (56%) than men (53%). Those above 70 years showed a lower seropositivity (49%), perhaps because of limited mobility and extra care taken by older individuals during the pandemic. Unsurprisingly, those who had Covid-19 positive cases in their own households showed the maximum seropositivity of 78%. This was followed by those with known COVID-19 contacts outside their household (68%). Bharat Biotech was also part of the research group. About 300 people each from 30 wards, all of them older than 10 years, were tested. Most of the wards showed a similarl uniform range of seroprevalence, from 50 to 60%. However, a few wards showed as much as 70% or as low as 30%. Earlier studies by researchers from as many as 40 research institutions had revealed that widespread asymptomatic and undetected Covid-19 infection affected more than 10 crore people in the country by September 2020. “Declining new cases thereafter may be due to persisting humoral immunity amongst subcommunities with high exposure. We found that 95% of the seropositive subjects also had significant neutralising activity, suggesting at least partial immunity. It confirms that by September 2020, a large pool of recovered Indians with at least partial immunity existed. The subsequent nationwide decline of new cases starting in October 2020 can be well understood through these observations,” the previous study updated on February 28 had stated. Dr A Laxmaiah, senior scientist at NIN, said having a larger number of rooms in houses and small family size households had low prevalence of coronavirus infection. “This multistage random sampling study in Hyderabad showed that more than 75% of the seropositive population did not know that they had contracted infection in the past. This suggests seroconversion, that is antibody formation has happened even with silent infections,” said Dr R Hemalatha, director, NIN. According to the study, individuals who had suffered strong Covid-19 symptoms as well as those who were asymptomatic, both had equivalent seroprevalence of around 54%. About 18% of the study group had been tested earlier and found positive for the coronavirus and 90% of them were found to be seropositive, suggesting that they retain the antibody response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-in-two-infected-by-covid-in-hyd-survey/articleshow/81339894.cms||Syed Akbar
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Joint drive to remove Walled City encroachments||Jaipur: A joint campaign will be launched by Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage, and police to remove encroachments from the markets of Walled City.This decision was taken in a meeting held at Heritage headquarters on Thursday under the joint chairmanship of commissioner Lok Bandhu and DCP, Jaipur (North) Paras Deshmukh. Instructions have been given to officers to first politely ask people to remove encroachments, but if they do not comply, action must be taken. Instructions have been given to special officers to carry out campaign to remove encroachments. Commissioner Lok Bandhu instructed officials of Smart City to consult police department before deciding on the location of CCTV cameras in the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/joint-drive-to-remove-walled-city-encroachments/articleshow/81337893.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana records 364 forest fires in seven days||HYDERABAD: Wildfire in Amrabad tiger reserve that destroyed 10 acres of forest land in Domalapenta forest range on Tuesday, has once again raised long-standing issue which has been a challenge for the forest department. According to numbers put out by the Forest Survey of India, Telangana recorded 364 forest fires in the last seven days. Forest department officials said information sent by MODIS mounted on NASA satellites sometimes leads to double counting due to data being recorded multiple times. Data on forest fires reveals Amrabad tiger reserve circle recorded 58 fires in the last one month, while Kawal tiger reserve circle in Mancherial recorded 115 fires even before summer set in. To control wildfires in summers, the forest department embarked on preventive measures with the help of the Compensatory Afforestation Fund (CAMPA) given by the union government. In Amrabad tiger reserve, forest department officials said thatRs 5 crore is utilized only for forest protection. “Expenditure from CAMPA funds for forest areas in Nagarkurnool is around 15 crore. For laying fire lines, digging of peripheral trenches the expenditure goes up to Rs 5 crore. Department also uses funds to procure firefighting equipment,” said Kista Goud, district forest officer, Nagarkurnool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-364-forest-fires-in-seven-days/articleshow/81337879.cms||Moulika.KV
March 5, 2021||Pune||Seniors anxious after getting SMSs||Pune: Sachin Bhosle (65), who lives with his wife in the Fatimanagar area, became anxious when he received a text message four days ago stating that his vehicle did not have a FASTag and he could be penalized. Bhosle, a retired state government employee, said, “The text message said that, as per records, my vehicle didn’t have a FASTag and it is a violation of the Central Motor Vehicle Act so I would be liable to pay penalty. The message stated that I should get a FASTag immediately and call 1033 for help. It has been more than a year since I drove on a highway and I do not intend to either. I called up the toll free number but I couldn’t connect to anyone. For the next couple of days, I was anxious about being fined if the police stopped me for not having a FASTag.” Like Bhosle, a number of people have received the same text message. “My wife and I live alone and our children are away. I have hardly driven my car in the last seven months. Why do they want me to get a FASTag when I am not going anywhere? The whole thing is extremely irritating,” said another senior citizen, who retired from the armed forces. Officials at the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said that they had no information of such messages being generated. “We don’t have any information about text messages being circulated by us. As far as the regulation goes, it is not mandatory for vehicles to have a FASTag. However, not having a FASTag while a vehicle is passing through a toll booth will attract penalties,” said Suhas Chitnis, Pune project director, NHAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seniors-anxious-after-getting-smss/articleshow/81337897.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Govt holds 3rd session on UPSC exams||New Delhi: Delhi government on Thursday organised the third session of its initiative to create better understanding of UPSC exams among school students, during which they interacted with civil service officers. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-holds-3rd-session-on-upsc-exams/articleshow/81337934.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad doctors say obese people more prone to severe Covid-19||HYDERABAD: People with obesity and resultant diabetes are more prone to contracting a severe form of Covid-19, shows data collated from various hospitals in the city. As per the findings, at least 30% of all complicated Covid-19 cases are reported among obese patients. Also, recovery is more difficult in these cases say experts, cautioning people to keep a watch on their weight. “Recovery is difficult largely because obese people have reduced lung length due to increase in stomach fat. In case of Covid, these patients suffer more from a breathing problem,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, secretary, Indian Medical Association, Telangana. As per National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) of 2019-20, 30.1% women in Telangana have a BMI (body mass index) of more than 25 while the percentage among men stands at 32.3. On ‘World Obesity Day 2021’, on Thursday, state health minister Eatala Rajender said most people who died due to Covid-19 in the state were obese. “Obesity is the root cause of many disorders,” he said. This was reiterated by Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital. “Around 35% to 40% of patients who succumbed to the coronavirus had obesity. Many had more than two comorbidities,” he said. “A public health approach to develop population-based strategies for the prevention of excess weight gain is of great importance,” said Dr Krishna Mohan, HoD, bariatric surgery at Care Hospitals. “The prevalence of overweight and obesity among a section of children that stood at 15% has now shot to 35% to 40%,” said Dr Saratchandra, senior consultant cardiologist, Indo-US Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/obese-people-more-prone-to-severe-covid-say-doctors/articleshow/81337901.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||Leaders of traders’ body launch co to take on e-com giants||Nagpur: Trade leaders who had taken on e-commerce giants like Amazon and Flipkart in the courts front are now preparing for a battle on the business front. A case of was filed by Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) in the Competition Commission of India (CCI) against the deep discounting schemes during festivals and alleged predatory pricing by the e-tailers. This was followed by an anti-trust probe against the e-commerce giants which has been stayed by the Karnataka high court. CAIT is an organization of small and unorganized retail traders. A group of leaders of CAIT including its president, B C Bhartia have now formed a company Lalamart Technologies that will be launching e-commerce business to take on the giants. “The Bharat e-mart portal will be launched in Delhi on March 11. We are targeting 10 lakh small retails traders for registration,” Bhartia told TOI. A similar venture-- E-lala — was launched in 2011 which did not get much success. It was because the traders had to pay for getting registered on the portal. “Now there will be no charges for the sellers. Unlike other e-tailers, no commission will be charged from the sellers. Our income will be from advertisement on the portal. It may take time to make a profit but we are prepared for the long run,” said Bhartia. The company already has the data of 10 lakh traders and will be soon sending messages to them. It’s expected there would be a favourable response from traders dealing in a whole gamut of products, he said. The model also promotes hyper local businesses. The registration of both sellers and buyers would be based on PIN code. With this, any search by a buyer will first bring offers for shops within 3 kms of the purchaser’s location. The options can be further expanded, he said. Bhartia said CAIT also plans appeal against the Karnataka high court stay on the anti-trust probe by CCI. CAIT also demands that the ongoing ED probe on alleged violation of foreign exchange laws against the e-tailers Amazon and Flipkart should be finished fast. The probe was initiated after CAIT’s complaint, he said. CAIT to continue GST stir CAIT, which had called a countrywide trade strike on February 26, has maintained the government should not label all transactions where no movement of goods is seen as fake, if the tax is paid for such deals. CAIT has been protesting against high-handedness of GST authorities probing against alleged fake transactions to claim input tax credit (ITC). GST authorities have reported cases of buyers recording fake purchases to claim the credit. On this, CAIT maintained that some transactions may happen due to business compulsions and internal adjustments. If the tax is paid on them, then GST need not probe as it is not a case of evasion, said Bhartia. From March 5, CAIT will hold month long agitations and submit memoranda to each state’s chief minister, finance minister, GST commissioner and principal secretary (finance). On March 12, demonstrations will be held in each district of Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leaders-of-traders-body-launch-co-to-take-on-e-com-giants/articleshow/81337933.cms||Shishir Arya
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Organic farming area in U’khand witnesses 23% rise in 3 years; Pithoragarh to be announced organic district||Dehradun: The total organic farming area in Uttarakhand has witnessed a 23% rise during the last three years. Agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal told the House on Thursday that out of the total agriculture area, 8% land was being used for organic farming in 2017 and the figure went up to 21% in 2020. BJP legislator Dhan Singh Negi had asked the minister about the efforts underway to promote organic farming. In his reply, the minister said that in 2017-18, a total of 585 clusters with 2,92,50 farmers were involved in organic farming on 11,700 hectare land. In 2020-21, organic farming was being done by 4.59 lakh farmers on 2.18 lakh hectare land. Uniyal said, “Several areas are being developed as organic belts and we have decided to develop Pithoragarh as an organic district.” The minister added that a total of 1.08 lakh famers have been provided with organic certification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/organic-farming-area-in-ukhand-witnesses-23-rise-in-3-years-pithoragarh-to-be-announced-organic-district/articleshow/81336544.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Pune||Contractors face heat for on-site death||Pune: The Chatushrungi police on Wednesday registered a case against two sub-contractors for neglecting safety standards while installing a natural gas pipeline, which resulted in fire and death of worker, Amit Kumar Prasad (19), from Kothrud. The incident occurred at a Baner flat on December 24. Kumar, a native of Ajamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, was admitted to a hospital with over 35% burns. He later succumbed to injuries on December 30. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of Chatushrungi police told TOI, “Amit had been assigned work to cut pipes and drill holes into the wall. Some switched on the gas supply and, due to sparks from the drilling machine, a fire broke out at the end of the pipe. Amit sustained burn injuries on his upper body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/contractors-face-heat-for-on-site-death/articleshow/81337931.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||‘No coach factories in near future’||Warangal: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, ruling TRS party leader and state planning commission vice chairman B Vinod Kumar among others visited erstwhile Warangal district for campaigns. A social worker Ravikumar asked the union government whether the railway coach factory is coming up in Kazipet or not. Government replied that “no more coach factories are required in railways and there are no coach factories in foreseeable future.” Vinod Kumar said the BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay to take the delegation to Prime Minister before the ensuing parliament session to discuss about the coach factory. AICC member V Hanumantha Rao also took part in several meetings here as part of the MLC election campaigns. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-coach-factories-in-near-future/articleshow/81338010.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Landslide-hit Tanakpur-Pithoragarh national highway restored after 40 hours operation||Pithoragarh: The Tanakpur-Pithoragarh national highway (NH-9) was finally cleared for traffic movement on Thursday after a heavy landslide at Chupkot, about 20 kilometres (kms) from Pithoragarh. It took nearly 40 hours for the national highway authorities to clear the debris and make way for smooth movement.“The surface is soft and since the location is at an elevated height, it took us nearly 40 hours to clear the road,” said PL Chaudhary, regional assistant engineer, National Highway Authority of India.The district administration has advised people to use the alternate Berinag-Nainital- Udham Singh Nagar route, which is 80 kms long until the road is cleared for regular traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslide-hit-tanakpur-pithoragarh-national-highway-restored-after-40-hours-operation/articleshow/81336522.cms||Prem Punetha
March 5, 2021||Allahabad||Striking HC lawyers call for Prayagraj ‘bandh’ on Mar 9||Prayagraj: The ongoing agitation of lawyers of Allahabad High Court took a new turn on Thursday when the lawyers along with several other organizations resolved to observe Prayagraj ‘bandh’ (closure) on March 9 in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill. Meanwhile, working in the Allahabad high court remained disrupted as the boycott of work initiated by the lawyers in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill continued for the 10th consecutive day on Thursday. The Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) had been protesting against the Bill, which provides for setting up of the principal bench of the Education Service Tribunal at Lucknow, instead at Prayagraj. In a resolution passed on Thursday, HCBA again resolved to continue to boycott judicial work on Friday on the same issue. On Thursday, a meeting of the lawyers was organized near the high court, which was addressed by former city MLA Anugrah Narain Singh and several leaders of employees’ organizations in protest against the said Bill. In the meeting, former MLA and other speakers criticized the state government for gradually shifting one by one, all important organizations from Prayagraj to Lucknow. They unanimously promised to extended their support to the bar association to make the bandh on March 9 a success. Earlier, on previous days, the leaders of trade organizations, student leaders and councillors of Nagar Nigam have promised to extend their wholehearted support to the bandh on March 9. According to HCBA joint secretary (press) Rajendra Kumar Singh, in the meeting, which was presided over by HCBA president Amrendra Nath Singh and conducted by secretary Prabha Shankar Mishra, it has been resolved to continue the agitation and make Allahabad bandh on March 9 a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/striking-hc-lawyers-call-for-prayagraj-bandh-on-mar-9/articleshow/81335324.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: As city ups its vax stats by 20%, 10 more pvt hosps to join today||Mumbai: The state has finished vaccinating over a lakh senior citizens within four days of the launch of Phase 2 of the vaccination drive. On Thursday, BMC managed to increase its vaccination statistics by 20%, immunizing 22,975 people, including 14,892 senior citizens (and another 1,200 who are over 45 years old with comorbidities). There were 43 hospitals participating in the drive on Thursday, with 10 more private hospitals to join on Friday. Of the 29 private hospitals already permitted by the Centre, 13 joined the drive on Thursday. Most managed to meet their target of 100 vaccinations and some are planning to scale up by Friday. Breach Candy hospital, HN Reliance, Masina, HBT Trauma hospital in Jogeshwari, Lion Tarachand (Sion), Sapna Healthcare (Ghatkopar), Millat Diagnosis (Jogeshwari), Balaji Hospital in Malad, and Meena’s hospital and Dr Bhatia in Bhandup will start vaccinating from Friday. Several districts in the state started administering the second dose to frontliners on Thursday. Across Maharashtra, 1,008 frontliners received their second dose. However, barring Nanded, Nashik and Satara, most districts gave the second dose to less than 100 on Thursday. Even in Mumbai, merely 1,687 frontliners took the second dose on Thursday. A civic official said that the numbers would pick up gradually. Even for healthcare workers, merely 33,668 have taken the second dose while over 1.10 lakh have taken the first dose. A senior physician from South Mumbai said that he has finally managed to register but hasn’t managed to get an appointment so far. Barring a few glitches, CoWin’s performance has been improving, said most centres. On Thursday evening, the software stopped working at Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli, leading to overcrowding. The hospital’s medical superintendent and other staffers took down numbers of recipients who couldn’t get the vaccine and said they would be called again on Friday. The head of another civic vaccination centre said that registration was taking up a bulk of their time. “And in between if the app stops, the crowd starts swelling,” he said. The BMC has set up five to 10 verification units outside most of its vaccinating centres to help senior citizens who come without registration. “By Monday, we will have many more centres in the city, with our aim to set up a centre in each ward,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, adding that the local ward officials were in the process of identifying potential centres. “It will be advisable for people to book appointments and then visit the centres,” he said. Meanwhile, state officials said that they had enough stocks of the vaccine to accelerate the drive. Mumbai officials said that they have nearly 5 lakh doses, including 3 lakh that they have received this week. About the demand for more Covaxin centres in the state, Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said they were planning to add more centres next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-as-city-ups-its-vax-stats-by-20-10-more-pvt-hosps-to-join-today/articleshow/81338118.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Over 200 water connections given in Kho Nagoriyan||Jaipur: Public health and engineering department (PHED) is organising camps in Kho Nagoriyan area to give water connections to the people.Kho Nagoriyan area is a complete dark zone where the residents were supplied water through tankers. Many agitations had occurred in the past due to the acute water crisis. The work of the pipeline has almost completed and department has started giving connections to the people. Their target is to get the water supplied to the households by March 31.Manish Beniwal, additional chief engineer of PHED, said, “Our work is done and very soon households will be provided with water connections. Every day, we have to spend Rs 1 lakh in supplying water through tankers in summer season. With the water connection, this amount will be saved.”In the last two days, more than 200 connections were given to people in the camps organised. This will continue for another week after which people can get the connection directly from the department. In 2012, government approved water pipeline for areas of JDA approved colonies in Kho Nagoriyan and now as the work is completed the connections are being given. The pipeline in the area is worth Rs 68.41 crore and the work has finally come to an end. However, more than 50% of the Kho Nagoriyan area is not approved by the JDA and the colonies settled are illegal. In those areas, water will be supplied through water tankers till the basic requirements are fulfilled and they get approved by JDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-200-water-connections-given-in-kho-nagoriyan/articleshow/81337936.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Comorbidities linked to obesity||Hyderabad: Diabetes, stroke, mental health disorders and other comorbidities are linked to obesity, say doctors, advising lifestyle changes that help maintain an ideal Body Mass Index (BMI). “One of the consequences of obesity is Type 2 diabetes. Our bodies tend to accumulate more fat in the body mass, which leads to insulin resistance. This insulin resistance can lead to other complications like rise in cholesterol and triglycerides and hypertension. Studies indicate that people who modify their lifestyle have seen 55% reduction in diabetes, while those who were managed just with medication saw 30% to 35% reduction,” said Dr NG Sastry, director, Dr Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, Hyderabad. Bringing BMI to less than 22 should be the goal, say doctors. “Foods which cause obesity and need to be avoided are simple sugars like squashes, readymade juice packs, daily meat consumption without vegetables, refined cereals, maida associated products like noodles, pasta, bread, biscuits... ,” said nutritionist, Aparna Nemalikanti. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/comorbidities-linked-to-obesity/articleshow/81337942.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||After almost a year, campuses grant access to libraries ahead of exams||Kolkata: Several universities and colleges in the city have started reopening libraries, partially or fully, as examinations approach. Presidency University has already reopened its libraries, while several colleges affiliated to Calcutta University have been providing students with partial or full access to libraries to borrow and return books. After almost a year, Jadavpur University will again throw open its libraries on its Jadavpur as well as Salt Lake campuses from Friday. “Those coming to borrow books and the staff present will have to wear masks and sanitize themselves properly. Only a limited number of users will be allowed to enter the library circulation counter,” said an official at Jadavpur University. The JU library will be open on all working days from 11am till 5pm. Digital services that were activated during the lockdown will continue. Libraries, along with the rest of the campuses, shut in March last year to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. As the lockdown was lifted after several months, students’ bodies as well as some teachers have been demanding the reopening of libraries so that students can have access to books and journals for reference. The students’ councils at JU and Presidency University even staged demonstrations with the demand. Students at Presidency University have to fill an online form to requisition their books. The library authorities mail back, providing the students with a time and date to pick up the books and journals from the campus. “The process has started, and several students are requisitioning books every day. We are giving time slots to avoid crowding inside or outside the library,” said an official of the university. At Lady Brabourne College, principal Siuli Sarkar has allowed students pursuing post-graduation to use the library services, but she has made it compulsory for everyone to follow the Covid-preventive guidelines recommended by the government. “Postgraduate students had approached me, seeking the permission to use the library. Since they are going to appear for their examinations later this month, I gave the go ahead. If undergraduate students approach us, we will consider their request as well. Our librarians have been attending work daily. Due to the pandemic, we are following all safety protocols,” said Sarkar. Students and researchers at Ballygunge Science College have also been given access to the library. “It is not always possible to access or buy books and reference materials online. It is a costly affair. Many students and researchers requested us to allow them to use the library facilities. Permission has been granted on the condition that everybody will follow the safety guidelines,” said a senior official at the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-almost-a-year-campuses-grant-access-to-libraries-ahead-of-exams/articleshow/81338021.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||HC summons Aurangabad PSI in rape case transfer||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has summoned the police station officer of Aurangabad to remain present on March 10 regarding a rape case. The rape survivor had filed a petition challenging Jaripatka police’s action of transferring her rape complaint to Aurangabad’s Satara police station against accused boyfriend Saurabh Tiwari. Even a charge sheet was filed there. Through counsel Amit Band, the survivor contended that the case shouldn’t have ideally been transferred to Aurangabad as the accused forced himself on her at various places multiple times, including at Nagpur and Pune. “Ample opportunity has been granted to the Aurangabad commissioner of police and inspector to file their reply. Now, both of them should file a reply before March 10. If they fail to comply with these directives, the commissioner shall have to remain personally present,” a division bench of justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote warned. According to the petitioner, she was familiar with the accused. He once called her to his flat in Aurangabad, mixed sedatives in her drink and raped her after she fell unconscious. He then promised to marry her, and again committed the same acts at various locations. When she insisted that he should marry her, he used to neglect her request under one or the other pretext. Finally, he married her at his flat in Aurangabad in the absence of any witnesses. He, however, refused to register their marriage and continued forcing himself on her. After the petitioner came to know about his engagement to another girl, she lodged a complaint of rape against Tiwari last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-summons-aurangabad-psi-in-rape-case-transfer/articleshow/81337992.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 5, 2021||Pune||5 booked for illegal sale of foreign liquor||Pune: A flying squad of the Pune police raided a restaurant and bar at Mandai on Shivaji Road on Wednesday night and seized 659 foreign liquor bottles, worth Rs11.73 lakh, as well as hookah equipment. The police claimed that restaurant authorities had opened an unauthorized counter facing the main road to illegally sell liquor to customers not wanting to move into the bar. The restaurant was also running an illegal hookah parlour, the complaint states. Sub-inspector Ajitkumar Patil of the flying squad registered an FIR with the Khadak police station against the restaurant manager and four others. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Priyanka Narnavare said, “We had received information that the restaurant authorities had opened a counter facing the main road for illegally selling liquor to customers, who preferred not to move into the bar. They were also running a hookah parlour.” “We verified the information and a special squad raided the restaurant and recovered 659 bottles of foreign liquor stored in the counter and some cash, collectively valued at over Rs11.73 lakh. The squad also seized the hookah equipment and other articles,” she added. The squad has registered an FIR against the restaurant manager and four customers on the charge of prohibition of smoking in a public place and illegally importing liquor under the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act and Maharashtra Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-booked-for-illegal-sale-of-foreign-liquor/articleshow/81337960.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||PIFF shifts focus on piracy concerns before online debut||Pune: Strict precautions have been taken against piracy concerns as the Pune International Film Festival makes its online debut this year due to the pandemic. The 19th PIFF would be jointly organized by the Pune International Film Foundation (PIFF) and government of Maharashtra.The names of films, which will be screened in the ‘World Competition’ and ‘Marathi Competition’ categories, were announced on Thursday. The festival will be held from March 11 to 18. While online viewers can watch only four movies a day, offline viewers can pick from approximately 24 movies across seven screens on each day of the festival.Addressing piracy concerns, deputy director of PIFF Vishal Shinde said, “Once viewers register for online screening, they will receive a link to create a profile on the website. After logging in, users have to create their own password to avail the films. While watching the film, your name will be watermarked on the screen. Also, it will be geo-tagged so you can’t send your login credentials to anyone abroad to watch the movies, only viewers located in India will be able to view them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/piff-shifts-focus-on-piracy-concerns-before-online-debut/articleshow/81338013.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||55 Army aspirants among 100 who test Covid-19 positive||Dehradun: After a gap of over 40 days, the new Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand touched triple digits on Thursday with 100 new cases, of which 55 were Army aspirants in Nainital’s Ramnagar area. Apart from Nainital, 20 new cases were recorded from Dehradun, 13 in Haridwar, three each in Udham Singh Nagar, Pauri and Pithoragarh, two cases from Chamoli and one case from Almora. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 97, 234 in Uttarakhand. “We tested a couple of symptomatic Army aspirants from Ramnagar area earlier this week. After they tested positive, their contacts, with whom they used to do physical training, too, were tested. The rest of the contacts are still being tracked and tested,” Dr Bhagirathi Joshi, chief medical officer (CMO) of Nainital, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/55-army-aspirants-among-100-who-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/81336589.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Zimbabwe nod to Covaxin||Hyderabad: Close on the heels of Brazil sealing a deal to secure 20 million doses of Covaxin, India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, now Zimbabwe has authorised its use. Zimbabwe becomes the first African country to authorise the use of the vaccine that has been developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council for Medical Research-National Institute of Virology, Pune (ICMR-NIV). The Indian Embassy in Harare tweeted about Zimbabwe’s decision being conveyed to the Indian Ambassador to Zimbabwe by its vice president General Constantino Chiwenga during a meeting. Amb Vijay Khanduja called on vice-president Gen (R) Dr Constantino Chiwenga, and discussed bilateral matters. VP Chiwenga conveyed the good news of authorization of COVAXIN India's indigenous COVID-19 vaccine, in Zimbabwe,” the Indian embassy in Zimbabwe tweeted on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zimbabwe-nod-to-covaxin/articleshow/81338002.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 5, 2021||Delhi||On their day, women cops to guide the force across city||New Delhi: This Women’s Day, all major traffic junctions in the capital will be managed by women cops. They will also be the duty officers at all police stations while the PCR vans will have women cops as in-charge. To ensure that women lead from the front on March 8 and engage with the public, Delhi Police will put its men in the assistants’ roles. Till about five years ago, Delhi Police had around 6% women personnel in the force; but the number has grown gradually and today it stands at 12.7% — approximately 9,400 — in a force of around 80,000 personnel. “We have been trying and will continue to ensure that roles that are male-dominated are also performed by women,” said PRO Chinmoy Biswal. “Our SWAT commando team, which was earlier dominated by men, now has a women’s unit. We want their strength to grow and will also recruit more women personnel in the near future.” Delhi Police has also introduced a women’s band to underline that it is not a gender-specific role, Biswal added. “Our women officers who have been doing great in their respective fields will also be honoured on the International Women’s Day.” Apart from this, every district has planned programmes such as tree plantation drive by women personnel, health check-up camp for women staffers, lecture on gender sensitisation, and special sessions to address the grievances of women, among other things. Since most of the schools and colleges are being run online, sessions will be held with the students where women personnel can interact with them, and guide them on various initiatives of Delhi Police while asking them about the future generation’s expectations from the force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-their-day-women-cops-to-guide-the-force-across-city/articleshow/81338061.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||HC rejects bail application of accused in Pratap Nagar double murder case||Jaipur: A single bench of Rajasthan high court on Thursday rejected the bail application of Saurabh, the alleged contract killer for the double murder of a woman and her son at Pratap Nagar police station area in January 2020. The bench comprising Justice Pankaj Bhandari gave this order while hearing the bail application of accused Saurabh. “The accused had committed twin murders, taking advantage of his association with the family. In such a situation, he cannot be given the benefit of bail,” the court said. In the bail application, it was maintained that police failed to give proper evidence against him. “He is accused of killing only with an advance of ten thousand rupees. While he is not a contract killer, thus, he may be granted bail in this case,” said his counsel. However, protesting against the bail, Sher Singh Mahala, public prosecutor stated that it is evident that since he was known to the family including the deceased woman, she had opened the gate for him. “Also the CCTV footage of the neighbouring flat cleared his arrival into the flat. Also, the mobile location of the deceased’s husband Rohit and Saurabh has also come from the same place. Both had Shweta and her 21-month-old child killed by planning. Therefore, the accused cannot be granted bail,” Mahala argued in the court. It is alleged in the case that Saurabh murdered Rohit’s wife Shweta and her 21-month-old son on January 7, 2020 at the behest of Shweta’s husband Rohit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-rejects-bail-application-of-accused-in-pratap-nagar-double-murder-case/articleshow/81337972.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Surat||School principal, two students among 91 new Covid-19 cases in Surat||Surat: A school principal, two students and three siblings of an infected student, were among the 91 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Surat on Thursday. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has once again asked those people coming from outside to get themselves tested for coronavirus to curtail the spread of infection. “In the last 10 days, five people who had travelled to different parts of Gujarat or outside the state, have tested positive for Covid-19 from the central zone,” said an SMC official. These people had travelled to the union territory of Daman, Nadiad, Kathor village and Karjan near Vadodara. “People coming from outside the city have been found to infected with the Covid-19 virus. Therefore, we are urging people who have travelled outside the city to get themselves tested once they return,” the SMC official added. Since the schools and colleges have reopened, SMC has been aggressively conducting tests in schools in the eight zones of the city. “On Thursday, we carried out testing in 54 schools and colleges across the city and conducted 3,294 tests. Out of which one school principal from Rander zone and two students of class IX in Limbayat zone tested positive for the Covid-19 virus. Moreover, three sisters of a Covid-19 infected student also tested positive. This suggests that educational institutions might become 'new super spreaders' of the virus, if Covid-19 guidelines are not followed strictly,” said an SMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/school-principal-two-students-among-91-new-covid-19-cases-in-surat/articleshow/81338001.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Exposure to virus may also affect fertility rate||HYDERABAD: A year after its outbreak, Covid-19 seems to have taken a toll on fertility rate too in India. According to experts, several infected young women are reporting a sharp drop in the count and quality of eggs. Similarly, infected men too saw a substantial decline in sperm count – from the usual 40 million per millilitre to 10 to 15 million per millilitre. The frequent occurrence of these cases, experts say, has left them wondering if there is a direct correlation between Covid and fertility. “Though there is no scientific study yet, our observations suggest the virus – and the stress and anxiety it brings – has a major role to play in this,” said city-based fertility consultant Dr Patima Grover who receives over 20 donors every day. “We have a set of regular egg donors. While previously we managed to collect at least 18 to 20 eggs (on an average) from each such donor in her 20s, after they came back post-lockdown, the count among many of them dropped to seven or eight. When we enquired with them, we realised all of them had contracted Covid-19 during the last few months,” said Dr Grover. In fact, some experts say that this drop in quality is more apparent among those who experienced a severe form of Covid as compared to mild or asymptomatic cases. Apart from donors, doctors have also recorded a drop in anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) levels – it signifies a woman’s egg count – among those walking in for IVF treatment after a serious bout of Covid. “Due to this, we have had to suggest some patients to opt for a donor and not use their own eggs,” said Dr Samit Sekhar owner and director of Kian Infertility Centre referring to cases where couples have even been advised surrogacy because of a reduced rate of fertility. While a healthy AMH level, doctors say, should be between two and four, post-Covid many patients have seen it drop below two. Among men too the issue is significantly prevalent. “At least 50% of the men turning up for IVF procedure with their partners, after recovering from Covid, are reporting a drop in sperm count,” said Chennai-based embryologist Om Prakash overseeing laboratories across Bengaluru and Hyderabad. “Across the three cities we have seen at least 80 to 90 such cases in the last six months. Among many of them, even the sperm motility rate (ability of a sperm to move) had dropped from ‘rapid’ to ‘sluggish’,” he added. According to Prakash, this trend can adversely impact the quality of embryos and, in turn, increase the chances of miscarriage, apart from lowering the success rate of IVFs. IVF specialist and medical director of Akanksha Hospital and Research Institute, Anand (Gujarat), Nayana Patel, however, sees no reason for worry just yet. “In the initial months of Covid, we did see a lower rate of success in IVF procedures. That could have been due to stress and fear. But now, there is no such impact,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exposure-to-virus-may-also-affect-fertility-rate/articleshow/81339903.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar hints at relief in fuel rates, says Usmani to face strict action||MUMBAI: Days ahead of the state budget, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar hinted at some relief in prices of petrol and diesel which have skyrocketed. Pawar said the Centre collects Rs 35.9 per litre of petrol and of this Rs 32.9 is collected as cess, whereas the state government collects Rs 28.9 as value added tax. “Our government has not increased the tax on petrol and diesel. We are thinking of certain changes which I will announce in my budget speech on March 8,” he said. Sources in transport associations say they are hoping the government will reduce taxes and VAT in the state budget. Last year, during the state budget, government had increased VAT on fuel by Rs1. Pawar also said strict action will be taken against Sharjeel Usmani, a former Aligarh Muslim University student leader, accused of hurting religious sentiments in his speech at the Elgar Parishad. Replying to the discussion on the Governor’s address in the legislative council on Thursday, he said there is no reason to back anyone who poses a threat to national security, adding all should take sensible positions on crucial issues. A complaint has been filed against Usmani for making anti-Hindu remarks and hurting religious sentiments at the Elgar Parishad in January in Pune. “Strict action will be taken against Usmani. No one will be spared. You (BJP) should also not have two positions on the country and state’s social security,” he said, without naming any party. He also said the government would ensure the development board for Marathwada, Vidarbha and rest of Maharashtra received the same quantum of funds as in the past. The board is yet to be constituted. Pawar had earlier said the board would be constituted when the Governor approved the appointment of 12 members to the Upper House as proposed by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-mumbai-centre-collects-rs-32-9-per-litre-as-cess-as-against-the-state-governments-rs-28-17-as-vat/articleshow/81339358.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Two arrested for raping help in west Delhi||New Delhi: Two men have been arrested for the rape of a 20-year-old woman who was employed as house help in west Delhi's Tagore Garden. The crime took place on Sunday and was reported to the police on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Alvish, working as a driver, and Nolej Prem, who works as a housekeeping staff. The woman told police that she was brought from Jharkhand by one Poonam seven years back, who used to beat her when she asked for her wages. The survivor came in touch with one Nisha, whose brother Prem found her another employment at accused Alvish’s house, where she was raped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-arrested-for-raping-help-in-west-delhi/articleshow/81339353.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||India||Punjab 3rd state to hit 1,000+ daily tally||NEW DELHI: Punjab became the first state other than Maharashtra and Kerala to record more than 1,000 new Covid-19 cases in nearly two months (54 days), when fresh infections in the state surged to 1,074 on Thursday. While Maharashtra and Kerala have been posting daily cases in four digits for over seven months now, no other state had touched the 1,000 mark since January 9, when Chhattisgarh had recorded 1,014 new cases. Chhattisgarh had also posted 6,451 infections on January 28, but over 6,000 of these were backlog cases. Punjab has added 5,022 new cases to its Covid tally in the past week, a 65% growth over the previous seven days, registering the biggest surge in infections outside of Maharashtra in the past three weeks since coronavirus cases started rising again in the country. Thursday’s tally was the highest recorded in the state for a single day since October 3. India recorded 16,820 new cases of the virus on Thursday, a slight drop from the previous day's tally of 17,432 but higher than the number recorded on the same day last week. As a result, the seven-day rolling average of daily cases rose for the 18th consecutive day to 15,785. Daily deaths rose to 113, after three days of below-100 toll. Maharashtra continued to account for more than half of the national tally with 60 fatalities, followed by Punjab (15) and Kerala (14). As many as 19 states out of 36 recorded no fresh death on Thursday. The total toll in the country stands at 1,57,585 while the cumulative caseload has risen to 1,11,73,918. The number of active cases, rising since mid-February, crossed 1.75 lakh on Thursday. The surge in Punjab, which had recorded 778 cases on Wednesday, came on a day when both Maharashtra and Kerala reported a slight drop in cases. Maharashtra added 8,998 fresh infections on Thursday as compared with 9,855 on the previous day while Kerala reported 2,616 cases. Delhi logged 261 fresh cases, the highest since January 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-3rd-state-to-hit-1000-daily-tally/articleshow/81340350.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
March 5, 2021||Pune||Days after FASTag turns mandatory, issues persist||Pune: Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said around 10% vehicles passing through Khed Shivapur and Anewadi toll plazas on Pune Satara highway each day did not have FASTag or had insufficient balance. NHAI officials have said that vehicle owners, who do not have enough funds in their FASTag accounts, tend to argue when they are told to pay double the amount. The situation is similar along the Pune-Mumbai Expressway and, as a consequence, long queues are seen at the toll plazas. “While things have improved since FASTag was made mandatory, some teething issues persist. We are still witnessing quite a few private vehicles without the tag,” said Suhas Chitnis, Pune project director of NHAI. The Union government made it mandatory for all vehicles passing through any toll plaza to have FASTags from February 15 failing which they have to pay double the toll as a penalty. Officials of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which manages three toll plazas along Pune-Mumbai Expressway, said that they too were facing similar issues. “Each day, around 40,000 vehicles pass through the toll plazas on the expressway. We created a dedicated FASTag lane in January this year so that people could get accustomed to the process. Around 10% vehicles are without the tags even now. However, things are improving and soon the problems will go away,” said Kamlakar Phand, chief general manager of MSRDC’s toll administration department. Those using highways, however, said that there are still long queues at toll plazas. “We were travelling from Mumbai to Pune and got stuck at the Urse toll plaza on the expressway for 45 minutes in the late afternoon hours. There was a long queue of vehicles and we saw many issues related to FASTags. We also saw people paying in cash. It seems that there is mismanagement, which needs to be fixed as waiting at toll plazas for long is a major hassle,” said Shraddha Warde, a Pune resident. After the Radio Frequency Identification Tag was made compulsory, FASTag sales recorded two- to three-fold increase at the Khed-Shivapur and Anewadi toll plazas, NHAI officials confirmed. Data collated by the authority revealed that sales surged by 30-32% at the Patas and Indapur toll plazas. Estimates presented by NHAI showed that as compared to sale of 50 FASTags per day at Patas toll plaza earlier, the daily sales rose to 65 tags as February 15 neared. In case of Indapur toll plaza, around 23 FASTags would be sold everyday on an average earlier. This number rose to 30 tags a day. FASTag penetration at Patas toll plaza stood at 65.32%, while at Indapur toll plaza, it was 68.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-after-fastag-turns-mandatory-issues-persist/articleshow/81338043.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Better infrastructure? Hyderabad ranked 24th in ease of living index||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad was ranked 24th on the ease of living ranking among 49 cities with a population of more than one million, baffling urban planners who said the city has better infrastructure and lower cost of living than many cities ranked higher. The assessment by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOHUA) was based on quality of life, economic ability and sustainability, among other parameters. The Central government had launched the ease of living index (EoLI) and municipal performance index (MPI) to assess the performance of various cities. The city scored low in citizen perception, ranking 41st among 49 cities in the category. Scoring 70.70 marks, the city ranked behind Hubli Darwad (40th rank), Ghaziabad (33rd rank) and Aurangabad (39th rank). The MOHUA score card also revealed that the city scored poorly in quality of living criteria. As per the assessment, Hyderabad (34th rank) stood behind Lucknow (33rd rank). The city scored 51.28 out of 100 marks in the category. In the MPI index, the city stood at 17th spot among 51 municipal corporations. GHMC performed poorly in services parameter (45th rank) and planning (17th rank). The city scored 46.96 and 45.84 marks out of 100 in the categories respectively. In services parameter, the city was behind Faridabad (44th rank). The city ranked behind Faridabad (16th rank) in planning category as well. When TOI called several resident welfare associations (RWAs), denizens, activists and top bureaucrats, they expressed dissatisfaction and lashed out at the survey. “I am totally baffled. We have been number one in Mercer’s quality of living index in India since 2015 till date and not finding ourselves in even top 10 is weird. It is very unfortunate that such rankings aren’t based on transparent criteria and are done always in a subjective manner,” said a top official from the state government. A Narshimhan, president, Golf View Apartment, Financial district questioned the criteria and basis of the survey. “I don’t want to name the cities, but irony is cities and municipal corporations that have half the infrastructure and generate half the revenue compared to Hyderabad secured a better rank,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/better-infra-city-ranked-24th-in-ease-of-living-index/articleshow/81338038.cms||Nabinder Bommala
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||Cong neta’s bid to set self ablaze foiled||Nagpur: Congress state secretary Zia Patel attempted suicide by pouring petrol on herself, but was stopped in the nick of time. The incident took place at Dadasaheb Kalmegh Smriti Dental College, Hingna road, on Thursday afternoon. The incident has caused a stir in political circles. It is learnt that Zia Patel’s daughter had appeared for BDDS final examinations and secured low marks. On Thursday afternoon, Zia Patel went to the college and allegedly poured petrol on herself. Before she could light a matchstick, a youngster Naresh Singh grabbed the stick, which fortunately saved her. Police said Zia’s daughter applied for re-evaluation of papers. On January 8, the university revealed that she scored zero marks. Zia later knocked the doors of the high court, which directed the university to re-conduct her daughter’s exam. The college conducted the examination but did not send the papers to university for valuation. This led Zia to take the extreme step, said police. After the incident, the college has sent her daughter’s papers to the university for valuation, said sources. Liquor worth Rs1.95L seized from train Chandrapur railway protection force, on Thursday, seized 1,290 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor worth Rs1.95 lakh from an unclaimed seven bags lying in train number 09776. During search of the bags, 1,290 bottles of ‘Officer’s Choice’ 90ml liquor were found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-netas-bid-to-set-self-ablaze-foiled/articleshow/81338039.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Surat||After Indore, Surat best in municipal performance||Surat: After bagging the ‘second cleanest city in the country’ tag in the fifth edition of Swachh Survekshan last year, the Diamond City has added another feather to its cap. Surat city scored the second rank in the Municipal Performance Index (MPI) 2020 in the million-plus category in the country. Indore has emerged as the top ranked municipality, followed by Surat and Bhopal. Hardeep Singh Puri, minister of state (independent charge), housing and urban affairs on Thursday released the final rankings of Ease of Living Index (EoLI) 2020 along with MPI 2020 in an online event. “Getting the second rank in MPI is very important. We have improved on many governing aspects of SMC. Performances in water supply, drainage, road, street lights, health, education and e-governance were considered and SMC has done commendable work in these areas,” Banchhanidhi Pani, Municipal Commissioner, Surat, told TOI.  Surat also improved from 19 to rank fifth in the EoL 2020, the rankings for which were announced for cities with a population of more than a million and cities with less than a million people. “With implementation of various initiatives like biodiversity park, mass transportation system, entertainment, and round-the-clock water supply, SMC has improved its ranking in EOL from 19 to five this year,” Pani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/after-indore-surat-best-in-municipal-performance/articleshow/81338034.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB may soon get a nominated member||Secunderabad: Decks are being cleared for the nomination of a civilian member to the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) as the Ministry of Defence (MoD) asked the CEOs of the Cantonment boards to forward the names of the applicants to the director general defence estates (DGDE), New Delhi before March 19. In the official communication, the MoD said, “You are requested to send a panel of three persons, not in the service of government and duly recommended by the GOC-in-C of the command. The bio-data of the persons so recommended and the acceptance from the proposed persons.” With this development, the officials have begun a marathon exercise of shortlisting the aspirants. According to sources, more than half-a-dozen persons have submitted their applications to the SCB CEO while another five have approached the DGDE in New Delhi. The MoD has to nominate a civilian member until the new body is elected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-may-soon-get-a-nominated-member/articleshow/81338024.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit to set up women’s advisory, safety panels at all 14 police stations||Pilibhit: The district police administration will be setting up women advisory and safety committees at all the 14 police stations in Pilibhit under Mission Shakti of the state government before March 8. One women police outpost will be set up in Puranpur. Pavitra Mohan Tripathi, ASP, said the women police post will be inaugurated by chief minister, Yogi Adityanath virtually on March 8, the International Women’s Day. The six-member women committee will comprise eminent social volunteers including lawyers, doctors, college lecturers and social reformers. It will function as an integral link between women victims or complainants and police personnel to ensure quick disposal of their complaints. Efforts will be made to resolve disputes through counselling. “Earlier, women help desks at police stations under the command of a policewoman had been set up under Mission Shakti, which will now be bolstered by the advisory and safety committees with the ultimate objective of making them more efficient and productive,” said the ASP. Regarding the women police outpost, he said the decision was taken to set it up in Puranpur as the Kotwali police station is over 40 km from the district headquarters, the same distance from Seramau, North as well as Hajara police station under Puranpur police circle. A woman police sub inspector and at least five police personnel will be deployed at this post to deal with women complainants, said the ASP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-to-set-up-womens-advisory-safety-panels-at-all-14-police-stations/articleshow/81332278.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Development of state, NHs meet||Hyderabad: State forest department’s Principal Chief Conservator of Forests discussed the development of state and national highways that pass through different parts of Telangana. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/development-of-state-nhs-meet/articleshow/81338036.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Colleges fill pandemic vacuum, bond with students with online quiz, fest||Kolkata: Colleges in the city are coming up with new ideas to bridge the gap the pandemic has imposed on society and bond with each other virtually. Teachers, college authorities and even students have been organizing events to nurture their creativity and keep the lockdown fatigue at bay. Lady Brabourne College organised its annual sports online, while Bethune College went ahead with its annual fest and prize distribution ceremony on the virtual platform. J D Birla Institute has been organising several activities online, including Saraswati Puja last month. Inter-college clubs at St Xavier’s have been holding quiz, skit and debate. Principals feel these activities were important not only to break the monotony but also to strengthen the bond. “Students have been confined to their homes for almost a year now. They have not been meeting their friends or teachers as classes have been taking place online. Even sporting activities have been put on hold. Such restrictions are bound to take a toll on physical fitness and overall well-being of students,” said Lady Brabourne principal Siuli Sarkar. Last month, they held online sports, which included competitions on yoga, sit-ups and skipping. “They participated from their homes and the enthusiasm was evident. The judges ranked them from the college auditorium,” she said. Bethune College’s annual fest Alaap and prize distribution went online. “These are two annual events our students wait for throughout the year. We could not cancel these and disappoint them. Co-curricular activities play a big role in strengthening the relationship between students and their colleges. Our students performed online that was viewed by many people,” said an official of Bethune College. Saraswati Puja has always been a popular campus celebration and teachers and principal of J D Birla Institute did not want to cancel it. Instead, they shifted it to online. The puja, rituals and other activities were streamed live on social media platforms. “It was our way of telling our students that occasions important to them are important to us. The arrangements were made by the teaching and non-teaching staff of the college. Students performed online,” said principal Deepali Singhee. Loreto College organised the 21st Annual Reunion by Loreto College Alumnae Association online, which was attended by current and former students, teachers, former principals and Loreto sisters. The programme included songs and piano recitals by former students, a quiz contest on the city’s heritage and Loreto College and a virtual tour of the institute. “We need more such events in these times to break the monotony and interact with others for strength,” said principal Christine Coutinho.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-fill-pandemic-vacuum-bond-with-students-with-online-quiz-fest/articleshow/81338074.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 5, 2021||Kochi||DMRC all set to hand over flyover to RBDCK tomorrow||Kochi: With the completion of load test on the Palarivattom flyover, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will hand over the inspection report and the flyover to the roads and bridges development corporation, Kerala (RBDCK), by Saturday. Speaking to the media after inspecting the bridge on Thursday, Metro man and DMRC chief adviser E Sreedharan expressed satisfaction at the early completion of the work, which was over in five months and 10 days. “The reconstruction will be completed on Friday and the bridge will be handed over by Saturday. This is a happy moment and we have been able to complete the construction of the bridge ahead of time. A special thanks to Kozhikode-based Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society, the implementing agency of the work,” he said. “When DMRC took up the reconstruction work, we did not do it for profit or for the work, it was taken up because of the hardships of the public. We thought it could be completed in nine months. But when we called the limited tender and the work was assigned to Uralungal society, we gave them eight months’ time. But they finished it ahead of time with proper finishing and good quality of construction. Remedies were suggested and the new designs were done by Sreegiri structural consultants,” Sreedharan said. He said once handed over, it was for the state government to decide when the bridge should be opened. “Since the code of conduct has come into being, they might need to take permission from the Election Commission,” he added. The bridge will be opened to the public based on a certificate issued by the public works department and RBDC-K after evaluating the inspection report. Some minor works remain and within a few days, all the construction debris will be cleared, said the Metroman, for whom it was the last day that he was donning the DMRC uniform.  “I will be submitting my resignation before filing the nomination for contesting elections. I will be available for advisory/supervisory roles either as MLA or other, but I don’t think I will be wearing this uniform again,” E Sreedharan said. The flyover had 19 spans, and out of these 17 have been reconstructed. Earlier, the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had pointed that more than a year was lost when the government fought legal battles for going ahead with the reconstruction of Palarivattom flyover. The state government had decided to proceed with the reconstruction of the flyover following a Supreme Court order. The court asserted that the state government was allowed to take immediate action to reconstruct the flyover considering public safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dmrc-all-set-to-hand-over-flyover-to-rbdck-tomorrow/articleshow/81335450.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||Housing societies start implementing own rules||Pune: The extension of the night curfew for another two weeks has made many housing societies implement rules for their residents — such as closing the gates from 11pm to 6am, not allowing people to walk inside the compound or children to play on the premises — despite the government not having directed any of them to do so. Pet parents, especially those who need to take their dogs for walks during the curfew hours, feel bothered by these rules. “My dog needs to be taken out for a walk around 11pm for half-an-hour. Now, I have to take special permission from the chairman to open the gates and he has even advised me to change the timing, which is not possible,” said a resident of a single-building housing society on NIBM Road. Another resident from a housing complex in Wanowrie said, “Vendors for milk and newspapers are told to come only after 6am. Tennis coaching has also been stopped for children.” An excerpt from a message, sent out to residents of a housing society in Kalyaninagar, advised them to, “Keep kids and senior citizens mandatorily at home unless it is unavoidable to go out for medical reasons etc. If we continue to see casual approach of residents, we may impose strict restrictions in the society as per the government’s guidelines.” A chairperson of a multi-wing housing society committee on NIBM Road said, “We are encouraging residents to come home by 11pm. We will close the gates post that.” In June last year, the collector’s office issued an order reiterating that housing societies should only adhere to guidelines given by the government and refrain from implementing independent rules and those enforcing their own prohibitory orders would face strict action. “We have not issued any guidelines for the housing societies to implement. They are making up their own rules,” said Sardar Patil, senior inspector of the Kondhwa police. (With inputs from SwatiShindeGole)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-start-implementing-own-rules/articleshow/81338051.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||RAC jawan gets promotion for foiling escape bid||Kamar Singh, a Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) jawan, has been promoted as head constable following his intervention in foiling a bid to free a hardcore dacoit from a bus. When the police guards were taking Dharmendra alias Lukka from Sewar jail to a Dholpur court in a RSRTC bus on Wednesday, at least six armed assailants attacked police by throwing red chilli powder and opening fire. “Singh was off duty and was going to his village, but he resisted it due to which the attempt to get the criminal released was foiled. Thus he has been granted an out-of-turn promotion,” said a senior officer of Rajasthan police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rac-jawan-gets-promotion-for-foiling-escape-bid/articleshow/81338048.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Surat||After 35 days, four Covid-19 fresh cases reported in Dang||Surat: After nearly 35 days, four cases of Covid-19 were recorded in Dang district of South Gujarat on Thursday. The tribal-dominated district had not reported a single coronavirus case since January 28. According to health officials, the last Covid-19 patient in Dang was discharged on January 28 and since then not a single case was reported. But on Thursday, the district reported four cases. “Those persons who tested positive for coronavirus included a 58-year-old man, a 36-year-old man, a 31-year-old and a 25-year-old from Ahwa taluka. We have appealed to people to follow Covid-19 guidelines strictly to avoid the spread of the virus,” said a district health official. With four new Covid-19 cases, the case tally in Dang reached 165.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/after-35-days-four-covid-19-fresh-cases-reported-in-dang/articleshow/81338046.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Budget: Special focus on drinking water, health and social welfare||Dehradun: Apart from farmers and infrastructure, the Rs 57,400 crore budget tabled in the assembly by CM Trivendra Singh Rawat lays a special focus on projects related to drinking water, health and social welfare. A whopping Rs 667 crore has been reserved in the budget for Jal Jeevan Mission. For the people living in hills and remote areas, the state government has already announced a pipeline water connection at a charge of Re 1. For the Peri Urban Scheme in five districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Tehri, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar, the state has kept a provision of Rs 328 crore. For the NABARD funded 268 drinking water projects, a fund of Rs 180 crore has been earmarked for the financial year 2021-22. For externally-aided drinking water projects, the government has kept a provision of Rs 1,258 crore. A provision of Rs 228 crore has been kept in budget for three medical colleges of Haridwar, Pithoragarh and Rudrapur. For the ambitious Atal Ayushman Yojna, an amount of Rs 150 crore has been earmarked. To develop district hospitals on the format of clusters, a provision of Rs 200 crore has been made. For health and family welfare, the government has earmarked a total fund of Rs 3,319 crore. Under the Social Security Pension of the social welfare department, a provision of Rs 1,152 crore has been made. For scholarship schemes of Schedule Caste students, a fund of Rs 25 crore has been kept in the budget. For Centre-aided schemes, the social welfare department has kept a provision of Rs 40 crore. A whopping Rs 482 crore has been kept in the budget for Rashtriya Poshan Mission and Supplementary Nutrition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/budget-special-focus-on-drinking-water-health-and-social-welfare/articleshow/81336609.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||3 held for robbing man of cellphone||Hyderabad: Amberpet police arrested three persons for robbing the cell phone and Rs 510 from the victim at Durga Nagar on March 1. The accused are Syed Mujahid (21), a supervisor at a construction company, Mohammed Sameer (22), a garments seller and Md Nawaz (19), an auto driver. On March 1 when the victim, Shravan was walking, the accused assaulted him, forcibly took his phone and Rs 510. Based on the complaint of the victim, cops identified the accused and arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-held-for-robbing-man-of-cellphone/articleshow/81338055.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Man arrested for faking shooting, trying to frame others after tiff||New Delhi: A Civil Defence volunteer has been arrested for allegedly shooting himself in the leg on Wednesday and trying to frame two men with whom he had an argument. Police said that the accused has been previously arrested in a murder and a molestation case. Police said that the man had shot at himself himself at his home in south Delhi’s Neb Sarai. His wife Anshu has also been arrested by the police for concealing facts and aiding her husband by hiding the weapon. The man has been identified as 30-year-old Sujeet Kumar, a resident of Indira Enclave in Neb Sarai. Police received a report about a firing incident at 10.50 am on Wednesday. A police team found that Kumar had sustained a gunshot wound in his leg. Kumar lives with his wife and a 10-year-old son, and works as a driver. “Kumar told police that he had stepped out of his house to smoke a cigarette when two youths on a black Splendor motorcycle started an argument with him. He claimed the boys shot at him and he was taken to AIIMS Trauma centre for treatment. A case was registered and investigation was taken up,” said a police officer. However, while recording Kumar’s statement, the cops noticed that his statements had inconsistencies. Eyewitnesses did not notice any gunshot firing sound and no blood was found at the alleged spot. The police also found that Kumar’s wife had left the house and was not taking calls. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said the victim was again questioned, after which he disclosed that he had a fight with some men in his neighbourhood around 15 days ago. “He identified three of the men, who were then called for questioning. The three men said that on Wednesday, Kumar had shown them the pistol. He and his wife then went inside the house with the weapon and after some time Kumar came out with the bullet injury,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-arrested-for-faking-shooting-trying-to-frame-others-after-tiff/articleshow/81339375.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Surat||Miscreants rename Yogi Garden as ‘Patidar Garden’||Surat: On Thursday morning the residents of the Yogi Chowk area were in for an unpleasant surprise. Yogi Garden, a popular public space of the area, was renamed by unidentified miscreants as Patidar Garden. A board with the new name was put up at the entry gate of the garden.Later in the day, the officials of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) removed the name ‘Patidar Garden’ board from the entry gate. SMC officials said that it was a mischief by some unidentified persons. The officials did not file a police complaint over the issue. Still, there was a police bandobast in the area when the ‘Patidar Garden’ board was removed.For a long time the public space is identified as Patidar Garden in Google maps. It is believed that some app users have named it as Patidar Garden and no one has changed it since. The Yogi Chowk area was the epicenter of the Patidar quota movement. It is a densely populated area with highest concentration of Patidar community from Saurashtra. In the past, putting up posters writing graffiti messages on walls was the preferred tool of protest of the Patidar community. This was the first time when they changed the name of a public place.“We did not receive any complaint but we kept watch in the area to avoid any untoward incident. It seems to be a mischief by some people,” said a police officer.“The garden department has not received any demand for renaming of the garden from the locals. The garden was named as Yogi Garden after consultation with people of the area and local municipal councilors,” said S J Gautam, garden superintendent, SMC.Aam Aadmi Party candidates won 27 seats in the recent municipal elections with the support of Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS). Since then the Patidar dominated areas have witnessed an increase in political activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/miscreants-rename-yogi-garden-as-patidar-garden/articleshow/81338084.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||88-yr-old cancer survivor takes jab||Hyderabad: Dr Usha Lakshmi (88), founder chairman, Ushalakshmi Breast Cancer Foundation and a breast cancer survivor, also took the vaccine on Thursday. She said, “There is vaccine hesitancy amongst many elders as they think staying at home will make them immune from infection. Older people must not hesitate because they are vulnerable and the vaccine reduces the risk of developing serious life threatening Covid infection. Cancer survivors must also not hesitate either as they too fall into the vulnerable group.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/88-yr-old-cancer-survivor-takes-jab/articleshow/81338069.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||2 arrested for robbing Barmer bizman||Jaisalmer: Police have arrested two miscreants for stealing gold and silver jewellery and Rs 10,000 cash from a businessman in Barmer on Wednesday. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said on Wednesday , Om Prakash, a resident of Parei gave a report at Pachpadra police station that after closing his shop at Rohida Nadi village, he left for home on motorcycle when two youths on a motorbike started followed him. They overtook him and then threw chilli powder in his eyes and took away the jewellery and Rs 10,000 cash from him and even the keys of his bike, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-arrested-for-robbing-barmer-bizman/articleshow/81338062.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Cabinet forms panel to look into pension of employees recruited before Oct 1, 2005||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet, which met on Thursday, has formed a sub-committee on the issue of giving pension to those employees who were recruited before October 1, 2005. The three-member committee would be headed by cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal with minister Madan Kaushik as member. The cabinet also approved the pay grade for the one ex-cadre member judicial of revenue council. Also, the commissioner and the secretary of revenue council were given the right to decide the work responsibilities for the ex-cadre judicial member of the council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-forms-panel-to-look-into-pension-of-employees-recruited-before-oct-1-2005/articleshow/81336615.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Pune||Can’t blame one side for death triggered by sudden fight: Pune court||PUNE: A sessions court here has held that it is difficult to blame one side for death resulting from spur-of-the-moment fight between two individuals. “A sudden fight implies mutual provocation and blows on each side. The homicide committed is then clearly not traceable to unilateral provocation, nor in such cases could the whole blame be placed on one side,” additional sessions judge G P Agrawal said while convicting a 36-year-old painting contractor for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and sentencing him to three years’ imprisonment. Accused Mahadev Nana Salve was tried for the offence of murder of Ramesh Galphade, a worker whom he had engaged on a daily wage basis a week prior to the incident that occurred around 9.30am on October 1, 2014. There was a sudden fight between the two over a wage dispute and they had assaulted each other with Salve landing some blows on the victim’s stomach and with an iron rod on the head. The two were then treated and discharged from a hospital and did not report the matter to the police due to mutual scuffle. However, the same evening Galphade had to be hospitalised due to severe stomach-ache. He succumbed to his wounds the following day. Galphade’s brother had then lodged a case of murder against Salve and the latter was arrested and remained in custody for over two months before being released on bail, pending trial. Judge Agrawal referred to the overall circumstances leading to the death and held that the accused can’t be convicted for murder as he had no intention to kill the victim. However, the accused knew the consequences of his action and hence must be convicted for culpable homicide, the judge said. Public prosecutor Sunil More told TOI, “Soon after the sentencing, the court granted bail to Salve to enable him move an appeal in the high court. Since the sentence was for three years, the bail was granted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cant-blame-one-side-for-death-triggered-by-sudden-fight-court/articleshow/81338071.cms||Vishwas Kothari
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Aug 2022 Date For Dwarka E-Way||New Delhi: The Dwarka Expressway will be completed before August 15, 2022. This was stated by Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday. The 29km expressway, which starts near Shiv Murti on NH-8 and terminates near Kherki Daula toll plaza, is being constructed at a cost of Rs 8,662 crore. After reviewing the progress of work, the minister said nearly 12,000 trees had been transplanted and their survival rate was 84%. “This is the first time that trees have been transplanted on such a massive scale in the country. We have spent over Rs 25,000 for transplanting one tree using new technologies. Based on this experience, the method will be replicated across the country,” added Gadkari. The eight-lane Delhi-Gurgaon section of NH-8, which is a part of the Delhi-Jaipur-Ahmedabad-Mumbai arm of the Golden Quadrilateral, currently carries traffic of over three lakh passenger car units, which is beyond its design capacity. This leads to severe congestion. With this project, 50-60% of traffic on NH-8 would be reduced. “The project will also provide around 50,000 direct or indirect employment opportunities. It will be the first-ever elevated urban expressway in India and will immensely help reduce air pollution,” said the minister. Considering connectivity and congestion, Dwarka Expressway was conceptualised essentially as a bypass for Gurgaon. It would also connect Dwarka to Terminal 3 and take off around 5.3km away from near the railway underbridge, thereby providing alternate connectivity to IGI Airport from west Delhi and Haryana. Besides, direct connectivity would also be provided to the upcoming India’s International Convention Centre, which is being built over 90 hectares in Sector 25, Dwarka. “We will also build a 5km tunnel from Shiv Murti to Nelson Mandela Road to reduce traffic. The work may start this year. The demand of Gurgaon residents of shifting Kherki Daula toll plaza will also be met. It will be removed before the expressway is inaugurated,” said Gadkari. The minister added, “The project will be an engineering marvel and have several unique features. It will have the longest (3.6km) and widest (eight-lane) urban road tunnel in India. The road network will comprise four levels — tunnel/underpass, at-grade road, elevated flyover and flyover above flyover.” “The project, which will be equipped with intelligent transportation system, will have India’s first 9km-long eight-lane flyover (34m wide) built on a single pier with six-lane service roads. The tolling system will be fully automated at the 22-lane toll plaza,” Gadkari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aug-2022-date-for-dwarka-e-way/articleshow/81338109.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Body of Army officer who died in Srinagar brought to Doon||Dehradun: The body of Lieutenant Colonel Sudeep Bhagat, who allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday in Srinagar (Kashmir), arrived in Doon on Thursday evening. The officer’s family members, currently residing in Dehradun’s Harrawala, said he was a happy person, and like every day called his wife and children at 8 am, barely hours before shooting himself. Bhagat’s body was found at an Army depot in Khonmoh area of Srinagar on Wednesday afternoon.The incident came to light after the Army officer's colleagues heard gunshots from the area and went to the depot where they found him in a pool of blood. His body was sent to Chandigarh after post-mortem. Bhagat’s younger brother Uttam Negi told TOI, “This has come as a big shock for us. We are at a loss to know what could have prompted my brother to take this step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-of-army-officer-who-died-in-srinagar-brought-to-doon/articleshow/81336630.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops arrest three with weapons||Hyderabad: Golconda police raided a house near Hussain Medical Hall on Seven Tombs Road, Quli Qutub Shah Colony, Tolichowki and arrested Ahmed Ali Khan, Ibrahim Ali Khan and Zubair Ali Khan for possession of a sword, two hammers, two knives and a baseball bat. Police said that the accused were planning to threaten businessmen using the weapons to extort money. All the accused have criminal records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-three-with-weapons/articleshow/81338064.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||One burnt alive as hut catches fire||Kota: A 55-year-old man was burnt alive after the hut in which he was sleeping in his agriculture field reportedly caught fire on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday in Karwar village of Bundi district. The police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Thursday morning and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of Cr.PC while initiating investigation into the matter. The deceased has been identified as Ratanlal Dhakad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-burnt-alive-as-hut-catches-fire/articleshow/81338077.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Covid impact visible on U’khand’s economy: Tax collections, industrial output and export suffers||Gairsain: The Economic Survey 2020-21 report — tabled by the state government on Thursday — highlighted a slowdown in the state’s economy due to the outbreak of Covid-19 According to the report, a whopping 19% dip was witnessed in tax collection. While the tax collection in 2019 was Rs 9,282 crore, the same was Rs 7,488 crore (till December 31, 2020), reflecting a 19% loss. The non-state GST collection — which was 1,297 crore (till December 31, 2019) — recorded a 6% decline as Rs 1,216 crore were realised in the form of non-state GST (till December 31, 2020). The revenue generated through petrol and diesel witnessed a decline of 6.65% whereas the liquor sales went up by 3.07%. Apart from the four-month period from April 2020 to July 2020, the excise collection remained positive in the remaining months (from August to December 2020). Under the head of stamp and registration department, the state secured Rs 710 crore (from April 1, 2020 to December 2020) which is 13.65% less than the amount of Rs 1,071 crore realized in the corresponding period of last financial year 2019-20. The industrial sector too faced a slowdown during the pandemic. The investment in industries in 2018-19 was Rs 1,536 core and went up to Rs 1,731 in 2019-20. However, till January 2021, a mere Rs 635 crore was invested in the industries. Similarly, employment generation which was 20,894 in 2018-19 and 28,700 in 2019-20, went down to 15,846 in January 2021. The total export in 2018-19 was worth Rs 16,285 crore and went up to Rs 16,971 crore in 2019-20. However, from April to August 2020, it was reduced to Rs 8,624 crore. According to the report, the annual growth rate of Uttarakhand was 5.77% in 2018-19, whereas on the basis of the present-day performance, it is likely to be 4.30% for 2019-20 . The state GDP for 2018-19 was Rs 1,91,484 crore but it is estimated to be 1,99,718 crore in 2019-20, indicating a 4.30% rise. Similarly, the per capita income in 2018-19 was Rs 1.91 lakh and is estimated to be Rs 2.02 lakh for 2019-20. The total revenue receipts estimated for 2020-21 is Rs 42,439 crore, which is 19.53% more than Rs 35,502 crore realized in 2019-20. Through tax, the total revenue realization in 2020-21 (till December 31, 2020) was Rs 7,488 crore which was around 3% more than than Rs 7,210 crore realised till December 2019. Through GST, the government pocketed Rs 6,272 crore till December 2020, which was 6% more than Rs 5,913 crore received till December 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-impact-visible-on-ukhands-economy-tax-collections-industrial-output-and-export-suffers/articleshow/81336623.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||CEA Subramanian addresses students of IIM Kashipur||Rudrapur: IIM Kashipur hosted chief economic advisor K V Subramanian as the guest speaker for the Tejas Series, a webinar initiative, organised by the Corporate Relations Committee. In his address, Subramanian said, "The economic survey outlines how enabling markets and the private sector has created prosperity and ethical wealth creation. The student fraternity needs to understand how the economic survey helps shape the reforms that are taking place in today’s world.” He highlighted three principles for the long-term GDP growth which includes how the monetary and fiscal policy work in tandem to raise both demand and supply, how capital expenditure (Capex) and revenue expenditure (Revex) enable growth without having high inflation, and how multiplier effects are increased when government spending is focused on Capex more than Revex. The CEA also gave intriguing insights derived from the economic survey and the impact of policy responses with respect to pre-Covid levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cea-subramanian-addresses-students-of-iim-kashipur/articleshow/81336616.cms||Aakash Ahuja
March 5, 2021||Kochi||BTech student killed in accident||Kochi: An 18-year-old girl was killed after she got thrown under a private bus following an accident at Pulikkamali near Arakkunnam on Thursday morning. The deceased was identified as Anjaly of Thiruvankulam. The accident happened around 9am when the victim a first-year BTech student at a private engineering college at Arakkunnam was on her way to the college in her scooter to attend her exam. Police said the woman hit another vehicle while overtaking and got thrown under a private bus which was coming from the opposite direction. Though she was rushed to a nearby hospital she succumbed to her injuries on the way and was declared brought dead on arrival. Mulanthuruthy police have registered a case and a probe is on to find the exact cause of the accident. Inspection held at fatal Elamkulam curve: Motor vehicles department (MVD) on Thursday conducted inspections at the deadly Elamkulam curve to decide on the ideal locations to install speed detection cameras. The decision to install cameras was taken in an emergency meeting of the road safety committee on Wednesday after yet another youth died at the spot. At least nine youths have died in the spot in the past six months. MVD officials said that a team of national transportation planning and research centre would conduct an inspection of the spot on Friday. Man held for theft: Ernakulam rural police have arrested kingpin of a racket which used to allegedly pawn vehicles taken on rent. The arrested has been identified as Nithin (32) of Kayamkulam. Police said that he allegedly rented a car belonging to a resident of Nayathodu on June 16, 2019, and then pawned it at Coimbatore. The accused allegedly has five similar cases registered against him at Kayamkulam police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/btech-student-killed-in-accident/articleshow/81335463.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||45-yr-old man found dead||Hyderabad: A 45-year-old unknown man was found dead at Narsing Cloth showroom in LB Nagar X Road on Wednesday night. The victim was clad in yellow T-shirt and brown trousers. There were no external injuries on the body and police suspect that he might have died of ill health. A suspicious death case was registered under section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/45-yr-old-man-found-dead/articleshow/81338086.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||After warm winter in Feb, rain, snowfall to plummet mercury from March 6||Dehradun: After witnessing the hottest February in Uttarakhand’s recorded history, the weather is likely to turn pleasant as the meteorological (Met) department has predicted rain, snowfall and thunderstorm activity from March 6 at many places of the state. According to the weather department officials, “widespread to fairly widespread” rain and snowfall activity is likely to occur from the night of March 6 till March 8. “The western disturbance is going to affect the western Himalayan region from March 6 to March 8. However, the activity will peak on March 7 with widespread rain and thunderstorm at many parts of the state,” said Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre. Snowfall is likely to occur at an altitude of 2,500m-3,000m and above in the hilly districts of Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Rudraprayag, according to the Met office. The Met officials said the temperature, which was settling above normal, will see a drop of a couple of notches following the wet spell. On Thursday, the maximum temperature in Dehradun was recorded at 29.9 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, while the minimum temperature settled at 11 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-warm-winter-in-feb-rain-snowfall-to-plummet-mercury-from-march-6/articleshow/81336634.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 5, 2021||Surat||SMC engineer held taking Rs 15K bribe||Surat: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested an assistant engineer of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000 for approving drainage connections to an apartment building on Thursday. The accused Jignesh Modi was nabbed red-handed from his Rander zone office. The ACB team had laid a trap following a complaint from a plumbing contractor who had got work to provide drainage lines to 120 flats in an apartment building. The contractor had approached Modi as the work required approval of the civic body. On receiving the application from the complainant, Modi demanded Rs 150 per flat which came to around Rs 18,000. After negotiations, Modi agreed for Rs 15,000. Modi asked the complainant to come to the Rander zone office with the money. ACB police inspector A K Chauhan laid a trap under the supervision of ACB assistant director N P Gohil and caught Modi red-handed. “The money was recovered from the accused. We have started search at the residence of the accused to collect details about his wealth,” said an ACB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-engineer-held-taking-rs-15k-bribe/articleshow/81338114.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Pune||Pune: Crooks record video calls to blackmail victims for money||PUNE: A 25-year-old man from Pimpri Chinchwad recently accepted a friend request on his social media account from an unknown girl. After a few chats, he shared his cellphone number with her. The girl then requested him to make a video call to her while he was going to the washroom. The man accepted her request and kept the phone’s camera on. Little did he know his virtual friend would misuse it and blackmail him. The caller demanded Rs50,000 from him for not sharing the clip. The cybercrime cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police have launched an investigation into at least 20 complaints from people regarding unknown caller(s) morphing their pictures after making video calls and blackmailing them for money. The suspects threaten the victims to upload the pictures on social media sites or circulate the same among their relatives if they did not meet the demand for money. Senior inspector Sanjay Tungar of the Pimpri Chinchwad cybercrime cell said, “In the virtual world, the thumb rule is you should not believe the person with whom you are talking to. S/He could be a cybercrook. But most of the complainants made that mistake and blindly believed the person on the other side.” In another incident of blackmailing, a youth accepted the friend request from a woman on the social media. After he shared his cellphone number with her, he received a video call from her. He hung up hurriedly after seeing some obscene activity on the other end. By then, the cybercrook(s) had recorded his image. The suspects morphed the youth’s image with some obscene video and started blackmailing him for money. He said the cybercrime cell had received 80 complaint applications of cheating through social media in the past few months. “Of them, 20 are of blackmailing,” Tungar said. He said the victims of cybercrooks should immediately approach the police. “We have observed that the crooks use these images only for blackmailing,” Tungar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crooks-record-video-calls-to-blackmail-victims-for-money/articleshow/81338098.cms||Mihir Tanksale
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Govt tables two bills related to property tax in urban areas||Gairsain: Urban development minister Madan Kaushik tabled the Uttarakhand (Uttar Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1959) (Amendment), Bill, 2021, and the Uttarakhand (Uttar Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1916) Amendment Bill, 2021, on Thursday. Notably, the Uttarakhand (Uttar Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1959) (Amendment), Bill, 2021, has provisions related to property tax of municipal corporations. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand (Uttar Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1916) Amendment Bill, 2021, is related to property tax of municipal councils/nagar panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-tables-two-bills-related-to-property-tax-in-urban-areas/articleshow/81336625.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Kochi||Excise dept to increase vigil at Perumbavoor||Kochi: Following the seizure of around five tonnes of banned chewable tobacco products at Perumbavoor last week, the excise department has strengthened surveillance and enforcement activities to prevent inflow of these products from other states. Excise officers said that Perumbavoor, which is highly populated with guest labourers, has become a hub of banned tobacco product sales and middlemen arrange retail sales of these products to many areas in central Kerala. Inspections of interstate trucks and trains will be strengthened as smugglers use these modes of transport to bring in huge quantities of the contraband. Excise sources said that special shadow teams would be constituted and deployed in Perumbavoor region to nab dealers and suppliers. Also, the frequency of joint raids will be increased. “Heavy patrolling and shut down of traffic during the lockdown have led to a decline in the inflow of contraband into the district. But cases have increased as restrictions are lifted gradually,” said Ernakulam deputy excise commissioner T A Ashok Kumar. He also said that guest labourers, who return to Kerala from their respective states, are being used as peddlers for smuggling. Excise officials said that lack of stringent rules and minimal punishments encourage more people to venture out into smuggling chewable tobacco products from neighbouring states, where they are not banned. “Not even a single accused has to spend at least one day in the jail and all of them can leave the range office after paying petty fines. Other than remitting a fine amount ranging upto Rs 200 irrespective of the quantity seized, there is no punishment in COTPA cases though tonnes of banned tobacco products are seized from an accused,” said an excise officer. According to statistics from the excise, the number of NDPS cases registered and quantity of contraband seized have increased in Ernakulam excise division in January and February. However, the COTPA cases witnessed a slight decline over the last two months .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/excise-dept-to-increase-vigil-at-perumbavoor/articleshow/81335475.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rs 1 lakh looted from trader at gunpoint||AJMER: In a daring robbery, two motorcycle-borne men looted Rs 1 lakh from a marble trader at gun point in Marble Mandi in Kishangarh. The incident which occurred around 8pm on Wednesday has sent shock waves among the traders. According to police, Jitendra Lodha, a marble trader who lives in JM Colony, sold marble worth Rs 1 lakh to a customer during the day.  He loaded the marble in a truck and was making e-bill. During that time two men with a gun entered his godown. One of them stood as guard outside while the other went inside and demanded money. He threatened Jitendra and checked his cupboard and bag etc. He did not find anything. Then he put the gun on his head and checked his pockets. He found Rs 1 lakh cash and took it away. The duo threatened him of not making any call. They fled soon after. A shocked Jitendra then called marble association president Sudhir Jain who called police. At that time there were many people in the market as it was time for closure and people were doing their last minute work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-1l-looted-from-trader-at-gunpoint/articleshow/81338104.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Udaipur||Udaipur: Scrap dealer held for Rs 14cr GST evasion||UDAIPUR: An Udaipur-based scrap dealer was arrested by the central goods and services tax (CGST) officials on Thursday for alleged evasion of taxes worth Rs 14.13 crore. The department had been looking out for Pawan Sharma, a resident of Govindgarh in Punjab, who had been living in Udaipur for some time now. According to officials, Pawan is proprietor of many firms and purchases scrap from traders in and around Udaipur division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/scrap-dealer-held-for-rs-14cr-gst-evasion/articleshow/81338087.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Delhi||New address for trees: Dwarka residents seek audit||New Delhi: Dwarka residents have questioned the claims of ‘high survival rate’ of trees transplanted for the Dwarka expressway project. They have asked the government to ensure a third-party audit for trees, which were transplanted over the last one year. Diwan Singh, a local activist, says the survival rate is unlikely to be above 50%, owing to poor techniques in uprooting, followed by no maintenance after the transplantation process. “There should be a regular third-party audit for the entire transplantation exercise, from starting phase to one year after transplantation. At present, the figure does not seem likely,” said Singh. Locals have also been opposing the construction of a flyover as part of the expressway project, which will end up at Dwarka’s sectors 22 and 23, citing traffic congestion and air pollution. Dr Asha Sharma, convener of Dwarka Bachao Abhiyaan, says a petition opposing the move has already been filed in the Delhi high court. “They have no permission to fell trees for this flyover and even if trees are transplanted, they will be transplanted far away. These trees are required in the heart of Dwarka, where congestion and air pollution will only increase due to this project,” said Sharma. Members from Dwarka’s Residents Forum (sectors 22 and 23) in October last year had written to National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the Delhi government, asking for assistance and care for around 380 trees, which were transplanted in Dwarka’s Sector-23 district park, as part of the NHAI Dwarka Expressway project. The letter had stated that while the trees, which were transplanted in January 2020, were faring well with 90% growing new leaves, lack of care, watering or providing them essential nutrients through chemical treatments had left several trees with a termite problem and withering leaves. “While initially when the trees were transplanted in the months of January and February 2020, these were doing very well and almost 90% of them had regenerated. At that time, these were also being looked after regularly. But, for over a period of last about two months or so, there is no one looking after them. The pits are dry as these have not been watered since the last rains are over and many have developed a termite problem,” Praveen Dutt, secretary of the forum had stated in his letter. Early last year, the forest and wildlife department had fined NHAI Rs 2.4 crore after nearly 400 out of the 9,435 trees identified for felling, had gone missing. To meet the compensatory plantation, the department had said 90,350 saplings would have to be planted across Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-address-for-trees-dwarka-residents-seek-audit/articleshow/81338160.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Woman, lover held for murder of physically challenged husband in Alwar||ALWAR: Solving the murder case of a 34-year-old man who was physically challenged, the ANEB police station of Alwar on Thursday arrested wife of the deceased and her male companion for the conspiracy and execution. Soon after visiting the crime scene, police was confident about the role of the wife of the deceased and thus she was taken in custody for interrogation. Sanjay was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his home on March 2. “After the murder when we visited the spot, the activities of Laxmi, 30, the wife of the man who was murdered, were a little suspicious. We took her in custody and a woman cop interrogated her sternly,” said a senior police officer on Thursday. It was found that the woman had an affair with Ravindra, who is a cousin of her husband, for the past 15 years. “The woman stated that after the accident of her husband Sanjay, he was bed-ridden and she was not allowed to go outside every now and then. Thus the woman had planned for the murder and with the help of her male companion, she eliminated her husband,” the officer added. After getting corroborating evidences and confession of the woman, police on Thursday arrested Laxmi and Ravindra. Police said Ravindra visited Laxmi in the afternoon on Tuesday and both strangulated the victim. “The matter came to light when Sanjay’s son returned and saw his father bleeding profusely from the ears. His mother was missing from home. Thereafter, the family raised an alarm and intimated us,” the officer added. The couple has two married daughters and a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-lover-held-for-murder-of-physically-challenged-husband/articleshow/81338120.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Indo-Pak war veteran drives auto in Hyderabad for a living, wants the government to allot 2BHK house||HYDERABAD: Despite being a venerated recipient of Star Medal for his contribution in the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, a war veteran is driving an autorickshaw on Hyderabad roads for a living. Poverty, official apathy, financial crisis, Covid-19 pandemic and advancing age have left 71-year-old Sheikh Abdul Kareem crippled, but the ex-serviceman has not lost hope. To keep his family up and running, Kareem drives an auto, which he has been doing for the last six years. The war veteran doesn’t own a home or a even piece of land. He manages to survive in a rented tenement in Rajendranagar with the earnings he makes from running his auto. After having tried his hand as a supervisor, security guard and car driver, the septuagenarian has only an auto to make ends meet. A father of six children, Kareem is presently going through a serious financial crisis. His sons were employed as drivers but Covid-19 hit the family hard and all of them are jobless now. “If the government is considerate and grants us a double bedroom house, we will be forever grateful,” Kareem pleads. He said the ex-servicemen’s associations have petitioned the government about his plight but there has been no response yet. He used to drive a car until the age of 65 transporting software employees in Hi-Tec City. “Because of my age, I was told by the transport owners that I would not be allowed to drive the car,” he told TOI. “I had no other option and I needed money to run my family. That is when I started driving an auto,” he recalled. For a few years, Kareem was in Kuwait where he worked as a supervisor in a private company. Following Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait in 1990, he came back. “But, I never got back my pending wages of Rs 1.2 lakh,” he said. He later worked as a security guard in Hyderabad. Recalling his war days, Kareem said he joined the Boys Army when he was just 14 in 1964. When Kareem’s father who was in the British Army and later served the Indian Army died, some of his father’s friends came to his house in Mangalghat and suggested he join the Boys Army. After three years of training in Bangalore, he was posted to Golconda Artillery as a gunner. After one-year stint in Secunderabad, Kareem was posted to Firozpur for seven years. “We patrolled the borders. It is a matter of pride that I was able to serve the country,” Kareem reminisces. As a radio wireless operator, he was part of the Indian Army backing up the forces carrying a gun. “We won the war but the battle for survival started after 1976 when those recruited through the Boys Army were discharged,” Kareem said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indo-pak-war-veteran-drives-auto-in-city-for-a-living-wants-govt-to-allot-2bhk-house/articleshow/81338129.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court allows re- release of Telugu film V||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday allowed the re-release of Telugu film ‘V’ on streaming platform Amazon Prime after it was informed that the scene in which model-actress Sakshi Malik’s photograph was illicitly used has been deleted. The order by Justice Gautam Patel came after Amazon Prime informed that the film was taken down and the producers moved court for its re-release. Malik, through videoconference, confirmed the deletion was satisfactory and gave her nod to vacating the prohibition on re-release. On Tuesday, Amazon Prime was directed to take down the film on a defamation suit filed by Malik against Venkateshwara Creations Pvt Ltd and V Venkata Ramana Reddy aka Dil Raju. The film, released on September 4, 2020, had used one of her pictures uploaded on Instagram in August 2017 with reference to a “female escort or a commercial sex worker”. Justice Patel also accepted the producers’ undertaking that they will not further release the film with Malik’s photograph on any platform without her express consent. The judge also asked Malik to decide whether she wants to settle the matter or go ahead with the suit. He explained to her the ramifications of a long-drawn trial of a suit and said he could, at best, expedite its hearing. Malik’s advocate Alankar Kirpekar said after the film was released the producers were approached to delete the scene. Only after HC’s order it was deleted within 24 hours. “Coming to court was the last resort,” he said, adding that “the usage of a woman as an object has to be stopped”. “If interim costs are imposed it will send a strong message...There should be no more Sakshi Maliks,” Kirpekar said. Justice Patel agreed that Malik is “perhaps only the latest, and sadly possibly not the last, of a series of women who have constantly been objectified and taken for granted”. Slamming the producers, the judge asked their advocate Akash Menon: “Does your producer...have ladies (sic) in his family? Why didn’t he use their photographs? This is because he knows the context (of its use).” Menon replied that his clients were under a bona fide belief that the creative agency that sent the photograph had her consent. Malik recounted the trauma and embarrassment she suffered since the film’s release. “...Even now I am suffering,” she said, adding that she has lost a lot of work. On March 25, Justice Patel will hear arguments on interim costs and has requested Malik to remain present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-high-court-allows-re-release-of-telugu-film-v/articleshow/81339424.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 5, 2021||Kochi||Draft CZMP: Extent of CRZ area increased to 500m||Thiruvananthapuram: The extent of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) in draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) prepared as per CRZ notification 2019 for three districts, including Thiruvananthapuram, has been changed to 500 metres from high-tide line (HTL) after the National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS) initially fixed CRZ areas as 20m from HTL. NCESS, which prepared the draft CZMP, had to change the CRZ area following the intervention of National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM). KCZMA had in January forwarded the draft CZMPs of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kasaragod to NCSCM for review and advice. As per the agenda note of the latest KCZMA meeting, the director of NCSCM informed that as per the provisions of the CRZ notification 2019, the land area from HTL to 500m on the landward side along the seafront is declared as CRZ. The committee constituted by NCSCM reported that in the draft CZMPs, in many areas in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kasaragod districts, land areas 20m from HTL have been marked as CRZ along the sea front. The committee directed that this has to be corrected as per the provisions of CRZ notification 2019. The director, NCSCM, also suggested that KCZMA may publish the CZMPs for public hearing after making the correction in CRZ area. KCZMA later directed NCESS to demarcate area from HTL to 500m on the landward side along the sea front as CRZ area. It was also directed that the 20m from HTL marked as CRZ area along the seafront has to be changed to 500m from HTL and the CRZ II, CRZ III A & CRZ III B shall be categorized as per the guidelines for updation of CZMP, prepared as per CRZ notification 2011, to align it with CRZ notification 2019. NCESS was directed to retain the 20m from HTL along the backwater islands as CRZ area. NCESS has now drawn 500m from HTL and demarcated as CRZ, treating the whole CRZ area as CRZ II, CRZ IIIA or CRZ IIB as per norms and only the backwater islands have been treated as islands and the CRZ area has been retained with 20m buffer. The direction from NCSCM assumes significance considering how fixing 20m from HTL on the landward side along the seafront would have opened up vulnerable coastal areas for construction purposes and other activities. At present, 500m from HTL is marked as CRZ area as per CRZ 2011 notification. Finalising CZMP is crucial since it will bring CRZ notification 2019 into effect in districts where CZMP based on new notification is approved. The Union government has revised CRZ notification in such a way that it will lead to enhanced activities in the coastal regions aimed at promoting economic growth. One of the salient features in CRZ 2019 notification is the provision which de-freezes Floor space index or Floor area ratio for CRZ-2 urban areas. In CRZ 2011 notification, FSI or FAR had been frozen for CRZ-2 urban areas as per 1991 development control regulation levels. With the new notification de-freezing the same and permitting FSI for construction projects, redevelopment of these areas will be possible. CRZ 2019 notification also affords more opportunities for development in densely populated rural areas. Besides, approval by local authority concerned may be required for self-dwelling units up to a total built up area of 300sq m and recommendations of KCZMA won’t be needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/draft-czmp-extent-of-crz-area-increased-to-500m/articleshow/81335535.cms||Aswin J Kumar
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Man found murdered in Alwar hamlet||ALWAR: A 40-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances while his body was spotted outside a cremation ground at Buteri village under Bansur polices station area on Thursday morning. Police suspected that he was killed by his partners who were involved in illegal mining and some confrontation over loading and unloading of stones from illegal mining could be the reason behind the murder. Panic prevailed at the village on Thursday morning when the villagers spotted the mutilated body of the man identified as Ravindra Singh. Locals denied for the post-mortem and accepting his body until police nabs the assailants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-found-murdered-in-alwar-hamlet/articleshow/81338115.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Sealing panel claims violations in plots for poor, survey ordered||New Delhi: A detailed survey has been ordered to identify violations at more than 22,000 plots allotted under the Indira Gandhi government’s 20-Point Programme in 1980s and the information will be submitted to a special task force dealing with unauthorised construction and sealing, a municipal official said. The three-member monitoring committee on sealing had highlighted in a report to the Supreme Court large-scale violations at these plots allocated between 1981 and 1989 for residential use by economically deprived families. The committee had found commercial facilities such as gyms, showrooms and restaurants, and unauthorised constructions up to three-four floors at many sites and the special task force has asked for the survey by the revenue and civic authorities, another official who attended a related meeting clarified. The committee had reported that “the laudable scheme of the government... in various parts of Delhi has been surreptitiously converted into commercial hubs without any authorities and the authorities concerned have apparently overlooked the scam for reasons best known to them”. It has sought identification of the defaulters behind “such a scam involving hundreds of crores of rupees” and emphasised that “the misuse of precious land in the hands of non-entitled persons has to come to an end”. The special task force has reopened the matter after almost 18 months. Bees Sutriya Karyakram was launched in 1975 and more than 12,500 plots were allocated between 1981 and 1985 while another 9,576 units were allotted between 1985 and 1989. The directorate of panchayat had submitted that 10,583 of these plots were in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealing-panel-claims-violations-in-plots-for-poor-survey-ordered/articleshow/81338245.cms||Paras Singh
March 5, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man kills married daughter for eloping with Dausa lover||JAIPUR: A man allegedly strangled his 20-year-old daughter to death in Dausa on Thursday and later surrendered himself to police. He was enraged with his daughter for not willing to stay with her husband as she was in love with another man in her locality. She was allegedly married forcefully on February 16. According to police, Pinki Kumari was in a relationship with a 22-year-old youth identified as Roshan living in her neighborhood in Dausa. Pinki’s family lives in Ramkund area of Dausa. “The family was against this relationship and got her married to another man on February 16. A day after the marriage, she returned to her maternal home and told her parents that she was against the marriage and won’t be living with her husband. On February 21, when her in-laws and husband came to take her back, she eloped with her male companion,” said Dausa SP Anil Kumar. After the girl eloped, the girl’s father Shankar Lal lodged a case of kidnapping against the youth. An FIR was filed with the mahila police station in Dausa, following which the woman along with her male companion appeared before the Rajasthan High court on February 26 and sought its intervention in giving them some kind of protection. “The court heard the arguments in the presence of the woman’s father. The court ordered police protection for the woman and said that she could stay with the man she wished to. Thereafter, Ashok Nagar police in Jaipur took the two to the house they suggested in Jaipur,” the SP added. On March 1, the male companion brought her to Dausa and the girl started staying there. “Thereafter, the family with whom she was living, lodged a case of kidnap and assault against her father. We launched a massive hunt but she was not found at her father’s home as well,” the police officer added. Finally at 3am on Thursday, Shankar Lal came to Mahila police station and confessed that he had killed his daughter since she was not willing to stay with her husband. “Based on his statements, the police recovered the body of the woman from Lal’s house,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-kills-married-daughter-for-eloping-with-dausa-lover/articleshow/81338168.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Surat||SGCCI to start business counselling centre||Surat: Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) will start a Business Counselling Centre (BCC) to provide guidance to entrepreneurs and industrialists on various subjects related to business. “Every fortnight, various professional experts will give guidance on different subjects. To begin with, former Surat collector J B Vora, will provide guidance regarding land and property on March 10 at 10:30 am. On the same day, experts will talk about copyrights, trademark, ISO 9000, capital market, and share market,” said an SGCCI official, adding that interested participants will require prior registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-to-start-business-counselling-centre/articleshow/81338203.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Chain snatcher involved in 40 offences nabbed by cops||Hyderabad: A notorious chain snatcher was arrested after he committed an offence in Saidabad on Wednesday. Police have recovered 6.5 tola gold from him. The accused, Syed Aslam, was involved in two chain-snatching offences at Saidabad and LB Nagar recently. He was also accused in a scooter theft case. Previously, Aslam was involved in multiple offences, including attempt to murder and rioting in Sangareddy. After Aslam snatched a gold chain of a housewife at Keshav Nagar on March 2, police verified CCTV footage and identified him. Cops nabbed him on March 3 and recovered 6.5 told gold, a scooter, a knife and a cell phone. “Aslam was involved in 40 cases of snatching offences in the city during the past decade,” Joint Commissioner, East Zone, M Ramesh said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chain-snatcher-involved-in-40-offences-nabbed-by-cops/articleshow/81338173.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Dehradun||Loan amount of over Rs 1.3k cr given to around 2.5L people on 0% interest||Dehradun: The Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Sahkartia Kisan Kalyan Yojana, under which a loan is provided on zero percent interest, has benefitted around 2.5 lakh people, including farmers and self-help groups, minister of state Dhan Singh Rawat told the House.He said that 2.43 lakh individuals, including farmers, and 1,822 SHGs have taken a loan of Rs 1,382 crore under the scheme. Out of the total beneficiaries, 29,485 people are from the SC community and 10,813 others are STs. According to the data presented by Dhan Singh Rawat, a total loan amount of Rs 229 crore was disbursed in Nainital, followed by Rs 172 crore in Udham SIngh Nagar, Rs 147 crore in Haridwar, Rs 146 crore in Pithoragarh, Rs 121.74 crore in Almora, Rs 120 crore in Pauri, Rs 88.98 crore in Dehradun, Rs 86 crore in Uttarkashi, Rs 82 crore in Tehri, Rs 76 crore in Champawat, Rs 63 crore in Bageshwar, Rs 28.75 crore in Chamoli, and Rs 16.93 in Rudraprayag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/loan-amount-of-over-rs-1-3k-cr-given-to-around-2-5l-people-on-0-interest/articleshow/81336657.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Take jabs to bed-ridden, start mobile camps at old age homes: Maharashtra to Delhi||The state task force on Covid-19 urged the Union government on Thursday to allow home vaccination of bed-ridden people and those in old age homes. Task force member Dr Shashank Joshi told TOI that the state had sought alternative arrangements like setting up temporary vaccination sites at old age homes and giving vaccine shots at home in its proposals to the Centre after relatives of several elderly people called for easier options to get the jab. He said there were several old age homes and one cannot expect all the residents of such facilities to go to the vaccination sites. “Mobile camps should be conducted at these sites to cover these people,” he said. There were many people who cannot reach the vaccination sites for one reason or the other. “If the Centre wants to adequately cover 60-plus and 45-plus people with co-morbidities, such drives should be conducted in the mop-up rounds at least,” Joshi said. Sunithi M, whose father is bed-ridden with pancreatic cancer, is clueless how she can get him vaccinated. When she called up the health services department, she was told that the government had not issued any guidelines for people like her father. “When the elderly population is being covered, the authorities must think of people like my father,” she said. State immunisation officer D N Patil said as of now, there is no provision for home vaccination in the Union government’s guidelines. The Centre has rolled out the vaccination programme on the election model, where citizens have to be brought to the vaccination sites, like poll booths. “We have no directions yet, but eventually the Centre may consider the proposal for home vaccination after gauging the response of the programme.” Central authorities said the states could put up their suggestions and they would be discussed. “Many states have approached us with loads of suggestions. We have just started with the new phase and eventually new things will be included. As we roped in more private hospitals for the programme, we shall see the response and make changes accordingly to cover the maximum population,” said a health official from Delhi. This phase of vaccination is expected to cover 27 crore people; about 1 crore will be in the state itself. The state task force has also sought vaccination of chemists, a vulnerable population, in this phase in its proposal to the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/take-jabs-to-bed-ridden-start-mobile-camps-at-old-age-homes-state-to-delhi/articleshow/81338227.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ram Mandir donation row: Cong raps BJP||Mumbai: Congress leader Nana Patole created a stir in the state assembly by claiming he had received a complaint from a man saying he was being forced to contribute toward the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. “Who has given people the right to collect this money?” he asked, leading to protests from the Opposition BJP. “Let us have a discussion on the Ram Mandir in the assembly. Those who forcibly extort money will not understand the concept of contributions,” said leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Devendra Fadnavis. Amid sloganeering, the assembly had to be adjourned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ram-mandir-donation-row-cong-raps-bjp/articleshow/81339461.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Agra||Back home after serving 20 years in Agra jail, Vishnu gets warm welcome from old friends & villagers||AGRA: Vishnu Tiwari was 23 years old when he was whisked away in a police jeep, leaving behind parents, three brothers and a lot of good memories. On early Thursday morning, he returned to Silawan village of Lalitpur district after spending 20 years in jail with a heavy heart. The parents and two brothers were long gone, just the younger brother was there. Vishnu broke down on seeing his elderly aunt and the dilapidated house. He regretted not being able to see his parents and two elder brothers who died waiting for his release. But Vishnu, now 43, soon realised that all was not gone. Hundreds of people, mostly his childhood friends, thronged his house to see him and assured their support. He was garlanded and hugged by people reaching from neighboring villages. Talking to TOI over phone, Vishnu said, “I have worked tirelessly in jail, I am not weak. I will soon find some work and will be self-reliant. I want to see my brother Mahadev getting married. I will be grateful if the government provides me with some help. My family members do not even have a ration card. My brother had applied for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna for the reconstruction of our house. Authorities should approve the application if we are eligible. I am very happy that people are accepting me with open arms. I have no grudges against anyone.” Mahadev said, “I am happy that my brother is finally out of jail. But we had to suffer a lot during the last 20 years. Our parents and two brothers died waiting for his release. He was not even provided bail to attend the last rites. We had six acres of farm land. My parents had to sell that in their effort to get Vishnu out of jail. We were ostracized in our own village. I didn’t even get work here. I had to go several kilometres to be hired as a labourer. Now that my brother has been absolved of all charges and released from jail, the attitude of the villagers has changed. Now, we hope to see good days.” Gram Pradhan Prakash Narayan Tripathi said, “I went to meet him, soon after he reached the village. Hundreds of other villagers also showed their respect towards him. We will provide at least 3 acres of the village land to Vishnu for farming. He will be provided with all possible help in rehabilitation. I will personally ensure that Vishnu’s younger brother is married this year.” On September 16, 2000, a woman had accused Vishnu of raping her. According to the villagers, the woman also died a few years back. On January 28 this year, a high court’s division bench declared him not guilty. The court observed that the FIR had been lodged three days late, there were no injuries found on the private parts of the woman “who is said to have been thrashed”, that there “was a motive on the part of complainant that there was a land dispute between the parties” and that it was her husband and father-in-law who had lodged the complaint and not her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/back-home-after-serving-20-years-in-jail-vishnu-gets-warm-welcome-from-old-friends-villagers/articleshow/81335556.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 5, 2021||Jodhpur||Dry run for new traffic system in Jodhpur city||JODHPUR: The city witnessed biggest ever initiative to ease pressure of traffic on the heart-line of the city on Thursday. The administration, along with the JDA, JMC and police, experimented with the looping system dry run for smooth flow of traffic from 9am to 9pm. The experiment will be reviewed by all the stakeholders before arriving at final implementation. The looping system, if found foolproof, will pave the way for self-regulatory traffic and do away with the need for traffic management mechanism like traffic police and signal lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/dry-run-for-new-traffic-system-in-jodhpur-city/articleshow/81338224.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Chennai||Pvt placements via govt job exchange drop by 50% in 2020||Chennai: The number of people who have got jobs in the private sector through the state’s employment exchange reduced by 50% in 2020, data revealed. In 2019, more than 1.05 lakh people were placed in private firms through the exchange. In 2020, it was just a little over 50,000. On the other hand, the number of job seekers registered with the exchange shot up from 11.01 lakh in 2019 to 11.88 lakh in 2020. The register currently has more than 63 lakh registrations, of which more than 35 lakh people are between 19 and 35 years of age, data from the department of employment and training revealed. Senior officials said some registrations have remained in the live registry for decades. “We have to keep updating as many find employment or relocate to other states or pass away. It’s an ongoing process,” the official said, adding that the increase in registration in the employment exchange also included those who re-registered themselves as they couldn’t find employment even after three years of wait. “Placements have reduced because of the pandemic. We couldn’t hold the job fairs,” said the official. To mitigate the issue of unemployment, the department also started a portal to help people with gaining employment in the private sector in June last year. More than 1.16 lakh job seekers across the state registered with the site as against 3,411 employers. Of the total registrations, 19,473 people were employed. A large number of job seekers are graduates and postgraduates. A common complaint from applicants is that that many jobs either paid too little or they were over- qualified for the position. A Soundararajan, president of CITU state committee, said both unemployment and underemployment have the same effect on people. “We have been seeing several instances where degree holders are applying for posts of sweepers and taking major cuts in pay. How is that benefitting them,” he asked, accusing authorities of covering up the unemployment crisis. As per the Periodic Labour Force Survey, the unemployment rate in TN stood at 7.6%, higher than the national rate of 6.1%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pvt-placements-via-govt-job-exchange-drop-by-50-in-2020/articleshow/81333942.cms||Aditi R
March 5, 2021||Chennai||FIR in minister wealth case: 2 Madras HC judges give a split verdict||CHENNAI: In a rare disagreement, a division bench of the Madras high court on Thursday passed a split verdict over filing an FIR for corruption against dairy development minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji, with one judge favouring an FIR and another judge calling it unnecessary. The issue has now been referred to the chief justice for being sent to a third judge. The allegation against the minister is that he had amassed wealth disproportionate to his income starting from his days as vice-president of Tiruthangal town panchayat in Virudhunagar district in 1996. While justice M Sathyanarayanan directed the DVAC to register an FIR, Justice R Hemalatha said she did not find any prima facie case against him warranting an FIR. “Any further action in this case would not serve any useful purpose and it would be only like flogging a dead horse,” she said and dismissed the PIL. In view of the dissenting order the case has now been forwarded to the chief justice for suitable action. It all began in 2013 when on R Mahendran filed a public interest writ petition accusing the minister of having declared that he had no known sources of income and that he was not even an income tax assessee, when he contested the assembly elections in 2011. On the contrary, in the same declaration, the minister claimed to be in possession of several movable and immovable assets, the petitioner alleged. Therefore, he wanted the court to direct the DVAC to register an FIR against the minister based on his complaint and probe the case. During the course of hearing, the DVAC submitted a 754-page ‘preliminary inquiry’ report and gave a clean chit to the minister. It concluded that prima facie no case was made against the minister to register an FIR. Taken aback by the detailed inquiry conducted by the DVAC when the object was only to make a preliminary inquiry to ascertain as to whether any cognizable offence had been made out in the complaint or not, the bench refused to close the plea. The court wondered as to how DVAC could expect the court to drop all proceedings on the basis of an exhaustive investigation conducted without even registering an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fir-in-minister-wealth-case-2-hc-judges-give-a-split-verdict/articleshow/81336701.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Agra||All set to fly to London, African Grey parrot vanishes from owner’s home||Agra: Police in Aligarh received an unusual missing complaint on Wednesday, of a grey African parrot with a red tail. The parrot owner's woes were surmounted by the fact that the bird, which speaks English, calls names and blows whistles, was all set to board a flight to London after completion of documentation work. Confirming it, circle officer Anil Samaniya said the complaint has been registered at Kawarsi police station. The owner has distributed “missing” pamphlets with a picture of her pet. A reward of Rs 5,000 is being offered for correct information about the missing bird. In the pamphlet, the owner has listed the qualities of the pet that has an uncanny talent for accurately mimicking words and phrases. She has stated that it was last spotted in Aligarh's Ramesh Vihar Ramghat road on Tuesday. Talking with TOI, orthopaedic surgeon, Dr SC Varshney, said the pet who responds to the name, “Mithu”, was bought by his daughter Saumya, who presently lives in London with her husband Rajat. Both are software engineers. “Saumya is a bird lover. She had bought the African parrot almost two-and-a-half-years ago, online when she was in Bangalore,” said Varshney. When the couple moved, Mithu was left behind. Back home, Saumya was preparing some documents to take it to London. Saumya is so upset since the parrot went missing that she has not had food for a day, said Varshney, who is ready to do anything to bring the smile back on his daughter’s face. Such is the attachment between his daughter and the African Grey that she never confined her pet in a cage. The bird would fly about freely in the house. When contacted, Saumya’s mother-in-law Saroj Singh, with whom the parrot was living after her son and Saumya moved to London last year in October, said she too shared a deep bond of affection with Mithu. “Mithu used to say ‘I Love You Saroj’ and the day before disappearing she said so,” she said. “We are praying to get her back,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/all-set-to-fly-to-london-african-grey-parrot-vanishes-from-owners-home/articleshow/81335560.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Docs tracking history of illnesses before senior citizens are vaccinated||New Delhi: Even as footfall at Covid vaccination centres has increased of late, doctors are ensuring that the medical history of all beneficiaries is checked before they get the shot. Dr Ajeet Jain, nodal officer for vaccine programme at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in east Delhi, said that when people have doubts concerning their allergies, infections or medicines, we categorically ask them to share all details before going ahead for the vaccination. “A person told me that his mother is allergic to vitamin B. I asked him to get an allergic profile done first to make sure which all vitamins she is allergic too,” he explained. A senior citizen with active tuberculosis was asked to wait for vaccination till he gets cured. “I had issue of high BP and sugar so I shared and discussed all my apprehensions with doctors before going to nursing staff for the vaccination. They attended to my queries and I have no issue after taking the shot,” said Satyawati, 70, a resident of Jyoti Nagar who visited the hospital. Ashok Kumar Arora, 62, and his wife Asha Arora, residents of West Jyoti Nagar, said that they registered themselves via Aarogya Setu on Wednesday and got an appointment for Thursday. “The staff at the hospital were helpful and asked both of us details about any existing diseases or medical issues,” said Arora. Rajiv Gandhi Hospital is, meanwhile, also conducting antibody tests of willing beneficiaries after their vaccination is done. Doctors said that blood samples would be taken in five phases to understand the time taken in developing immunity. “The exercise has been undertaken after receiving the approval of the hospital administration. The samples from different age group, sex and persons with medical backgrounds help us understand how the vaccine works and the time taken in developing immunity in different circumstances,” said Dr Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-tracking-history-of-illnesses-before-senior-citizens-are-vaccinated/articleshow/81338269.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 5, 2021||Thane||Daily case count registers a slight drop in Maharashtra, Mumbai||MUMBAI: A day after the state added over 9,000 Covid-19 cases, it reported daily detections just under the 9,000 mark, though there was a jump in fatalities. A total of 8,998 new cases and 60 fatalities were reported on Thursday, taking the tally to 21,88,183 and toll to 52,340. The state had reported 42 Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday. In Mumbai, the daily case count dropped by 17 over the previous day with 1,104 patients registered on Thursday. The Covid-19 tally and toll in Mumbai now stand at 3.3 lakh cases and 11,492 deaths, respectively. For the second day in a row, the Mumbai region reported over 2,000 cases. The MMR added 2,103 cases and 11 deaths, while the Pune region added 2,086 cases and eight deaths. The highest deaths yet again were reported from the Akola circle, 16. The circle’s daily caseload was 1,479. Active Covid-19 cases continued to rise in both Mumbai and Maharashtra, even though the state registered a slight dip in daily caseload on Thursday. In Maharashtra, there were 85,144 active cases, including 9,041 cases in Mumbai. However, these numbers are a fraction of the worst Covid-19 peak in September 2020. For instance, on September 27, the city had 26,716 cases as against 2.7 lakh cases in Maharashtra. With 6,135 people discharged, the total discharges in the state reached nearly 20.5 lakh. Dr P Prabhudesai, pulmonologist at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra, said the rise in cases are a reflection of opening up after almost a year-long lockdown. “Most patients these days hail from buildings. They stayed home during the lockdown and are only now venturing out, and getting infected,” he said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said although there is a rise in daily cases compared to January, most Covid-19 beds in BM facilities are still vacant. While there are 8,025 oxygen-supported beds in the city, only 2,071 (roughly 25%) are occupied and almost 50% of the ICU beds are vacant. “Most of the people being diagnosed are high-risk contacts of patients, most of whom live in buildings. As they are asymptomatic, they prefer to isolate themselves at home as they have adequate space. Hence, the demand for hospital beds hasn’t risen sharply,” he said . Cases surged to 244 in Kalyan-Dombivli, the highest since mid-February. The tally and toll there were 63,966 cases and 1,205 deaths. There were 139 positive cases from within NMMC areas on Thursday, taking the total Covid-19 count to 55,957 so far. With one death reported on Thursday, the toll rose to 1,124. PCMC areas reported 97 new cases on Thursday, taking the case tally to 30,365. With two deaths reported, the toll reached at 648.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-daily-case-count-registers-a-slight-drop-in-state-city/articleshow/81346194.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 5, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Daily case count registers a slight drop in Maharashtra, Mumbai||MUMBAI: A day after the state added over 9,000 Covid-19 cases, it reported daily detections just under the 9,000 mark, though there was a jump in fatalities. A total of 8,998 new cases and 60 fatalities were reported on Thursday, taking the tally to 21,88,183 and toll to 52,340. The state had reported 42 Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday. In Mumbai, the daily case count dropped by 17 over the previous day with 1,104 patients registered on Thursday. The Covid-19 tally and toll in Mumbai now stand at 3.3 lakh cases and 11,492 deaths, respectively. For the second day in a row, the Mumbai region reported over 2,000 cases. The MMR added 2,103 cases and 11 deaths, while the Pune region added 2,086 cases and eight deaths. The highest deaths yet again were reported from the Akola circle, 16. The circle’s daily caseload was 1,479. Active Covid-19 cases continued to rise in both Mumbai and Maharashtra, even though the state registered a slight dip in daily caseload on Thursday. In Maharashtra, there were 85,144 active cases, including 9,041 cases in Mumbai. However, these numbers are a fraction of the worst Covid-19 peak in September 2020. For instance, on September 27, the city had 26,716 cases as against 2.7 lakh cases in Maharashtra. With 6,135 people discharged, the total discharges in the state reached nearly 20.5 lakh. Dr P Prabhudesai, pulmonologist at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra, said the rise in cases are a reflection of opening up after almost a year-long lockdown. “Most patients these days hail from buildings. They stayed home during the lockdown and are only now venturing out, and getting infected,” he said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said although there is a rise in daily cases compared to January, most Covid-19 beds in BM facilities are still vacant. While there are 8,025 oxygen-supported beds in the city, only 2,071 (roughly 25%) are occupied and almost 50% of the ICU beds are vacant. “Most of the people being diagnosed are high-risk contacts of patients, most of whom live in buildings. As they are asymptomatic, they prefer to isolate themselves at home as they have adequate space. Hence, the demand for hospital beds hasn’t risen sharply,” he said . Cases surged to 244 in Kalyan-Dombivli, the highest since mid-February. The tally and toll there were 63,966 cases and 1,205 deaths. There were 139 positive cases from within NMMC areas on Thursday, taking the total Covid-19 count to 55,957 so far. With one death reported on Thursday, the toll rose to 1,124. PCMC areas reported 97 new cases on Thursday, taking the case tally to 30,365. With two deaths reported, the toll reached at 648.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-daily-case-count-registers-a-slight-drop-in-state-city/articleshow/81346195.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 5, 2021||Delhi||School goes to police over ‘forged’ Covid-19 report||New Delhi: Queen Mary’s School, Tis Hazari on Thursday filed a complaint with police and the education office against the parents whose child tested positive for Covid-19, alleging that the report was forged. On March 1, the government-aided school was closed for a week after parents protested over flouting of the Covid-19 standard operating procedures. However, the student’s mother claimed that she had done her duty by informing the school instead of hiding the information. She said she also had the documents to show to any investigator. The complaint said, “The parent forcefully entered the school premises on 27.02.21 and created a ruckus claiming that her daughter of Class XI had contracted infection due to the negligence of the school, hence tested positive for Covid-19; however the report was still awaited.” Instead of informing the school authorities, she circulated the medical report on the parents’ WhatsApp group “with an intention of instigating them”, it alleged. The school authorities claimed that she had misled the parents’ community by claiming that her daughter had contracted Covid due to the negligence of the school authorities. “As a result of this fake news, on 01.03.21 the parents congregated on the school campus”, prompting its closure for six days. According to Sanjay Solomon, who claims to be an official with the principal, said they had verified the test report with the hospital. “It was found that the said report is fabricated. The actual report was issued in another person’s name and is negative,” he claimed. The mother claimed they had given both hard and soft copies to the school. “I even sent it on WhatsApp to the teachers. My child is sick, I have the doctor’s prescription and will show it to the investigator... The school has done some mistakes and is doing this to cover them.” She alleged that violating the Covid protocols, the school had held a function on February 25 and kept 350 students in the auditorium. “I just want everyone to let us finish the quarantine and then we will join the investigation. My daughter is worried and depressed, who will be responsible for all this?” Solomon claimed he didn’t know about any such function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/school-goes-to-police-over-forged-covid-19-report/articleshow/81338274.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||'Ease of Living' Survey: ‘Living’ satisfactory, but LMC poor performer||LUCKNOW: People consider the living standards in the state capital as satisfactory, but are not happy with the performance of the Lucknow Municipal Corporation. Based on the public feedback, the city has been ranked 26th among 49 cities with 10 lakh and above population in the national “Ease of Living” (EOL) 2020 Survey by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. The city got 55.1% marks out of 100 with the rating “Satisfactory”. This means living in Lucknow is slightly better than other parts of the state, but not as good as Bengaluru, Pune, Ahmedabad, Chennai and Surat which have occupied the top five slots with over 60% marks. Even Raipur, Bhopal, Jodhpur and Jaipur have scored higher than Lucknow. In the EOL survey, people were asked to allot marks on the scale of 100 in four parameters: Quality of life, Economic Ability, Citizens Perception, and Sustainability. In ‘Citizens Perception’, Lucknow’s score is 82.4%, which means Lucknowites have a high opinion about their city — affordable and quality education, quality of drinking water supply, adequacy of public transport, affordable electricity, quality of air and overall cleanliness. However, in terms of ‘Quality of Life’, people have given 55.1% marks — only two percentage points more than the “needs improvement” rating. This means, people appreciate the quality of life the city offers, but want it to be better in terms of safety and security, affordable healthcare, recreational facilities, livelihood opportunities and access to financial services. In “Sustainability” parameter, the city got 54.8% marks, which reflected that people find Lucknow a better place to lead a healthy life and consider services provided by the government organizations as satisfactory, but have a desire for more. In ‘Economic Ability’ parameter, the city has scored just 10.5%, this means people consider that their purchasing power or income is very low. However, in the ‘Municipal Performance’ category, Lucknow has performed poorly and is ranked 33 with 44.7% marks and rating “Needs Improvement”. In the Municipal Performance category, local bodies were assessed on their funding and public investment, planning of projects, service delivery, use of technology and overall governance. LMC scored 58.5% in ‘finance’ parameter, which is considered to be good. This, experts said, could be because LMC adopted new ways of raising revenue such as floating bonds and invested in new Smart City projects such as green electric crematorium. However, in the rest of the parameters, LMC scored below 50%. In ‘service delivery’ parameter, people gave 48.3% marks, which indicates they acknowledge that LMC is moving in the right direction, but not as per expectation, said experts. In ‘Governance’ parameter, the scores are even lower (31%), which many believe is because of public’s resentment towards red tapism in LMC and dissatisfaction towards their corporators. In ‘technology’ parameter, people have given only 23.8% marks. This, experts said, means people are extremely dissatisfied with LMC’s efforts to include technology as its service delivery mechanism such as online grievance redressal, bill payments and mechanised cleaning of streets and garbage collection among others. Municipal commissioner and CEO Smart City Limited, Ajay Dwivedi, said, “I have not seen the results as of now, but we will analyse the outcome and work to improve on those areas which we are lacking.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/living-satisfactory-but-lmc-poor-performer/articleshow/81339450.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||Daily case count registers a slight drop in Maharashtra, Mumbai||MUMBAI: A day after the state added over 9,000 Covid-19 cases, it reported daily detections just under the 9,000 mark, though there was a jump in fatalities. A total of 8,998 new cases and 60 fatalities were reported on Thursday, taking the tally to 21,88,183 and toll to 52,340. The state had reported 42 Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday. In Mumbai, the daily case count dropped by 17 over the previous day with 1,104 patients registered on Thursday. The Covid-19 tally and toll in Mumbai now stand at 3.3 lakh cases and 11,492 deaths, respectively. For the second day in a row, the Mumbai region reported over 2,000 cases. The MMR added 2,103 cases and 11 deaths, while the Pune region added 2,086 cases and eight deaths. The highest deaths yet again were reported from the Akola circle, 16. The circle’s daily caseload was 1,479. Active Covid-19 cases continued to rise in both Mumbai and Maharashtra, even though the state registered a slight dip in daily caseload on Thursday. In Maharashtra, there were 85,144 active cases, including 9,041 cases in Mumbai. However, these numbers are a fraction of the worst Covid-19 peak in September 2020. For instance, on September 27, the city had 26,716 cases as against 2.7 lakh cases in Maharashtra. With 6,135 people discharged, the total discharges in the state reached nearly 20.5 lakh. Dr P Prabhudesai, pulmonologist at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra, said the rise in cases are a reflection of opening up after almost a year-long lockdown. “Most patients these days hail from buildings. They stayed home during the lockdown and are only now venturing out, and getting infected,” he said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said although there is a rise in daily cases compared to January, most Covid-19 beds in BM facilities are still vacant. While there are 8,025 oxygen-supported beds in the city, only 2,071 (roughly 25%) are occupied and almost 50% of the ICU beds are vacant. “Most of the people being diagnosed are high-risk contacts of patients, most of whom live in buildings. As they are asymptomatic, they prefer to isolate themselves at home as they have adequate space. Hence, the demand for hospital beds hasn’t risen sharply,” he said . Cases surged to 244 in Kalyan-Dombivli, the highest since mid-February. The tally and toll there were 63,966 cases and 1,205 deaths. There were 139 positive cases from within NMMC areas on Thursday, taking the total Covid-19 count to 55,957 so far. With one death reported on Thursday, the toll rose to 1,124. PCMC areas reported 97 new cases on Thursday, taking the case tally to 30,365. With two deaths reported, the toll reached at 648.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-daily-case-count-registers-a-slight-drop-in-state-city/articleshow/81338273.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 5, 2021||Surat||Surat police register 27 more cyber-crime FIRs in a day||Surat: Continuing their process of registering complaints related to cyber-crime fraud and online harassment, city police registered 27 more cases on Wednesday. Interestingly, except one complaint of online harassment, the remaining complaints are all related to financial frauds. WHile the complaints had been received a few months ago, cops have registered the FIRs late, which they claim were being done only after preliminary investigation. However, legal experts do not buy the police explanation and claim that investigation is possible even after registering the complaint. Earlier, police registered 32 such complaints on Tuesday, applications of which were received in the past few months. Majority of these complaints relate to financial frauds in which recovery of money was not possible. Under ‘Cyber Aaswasth’ project, police try to recover maximum amount lost in cyber frauds, for which the victims have to alert cops at the earliest possible. If alerted within 24 hours of online financial fraud, cops can get the amount frozen in the account that it has been fraudulently transferred to. Senior lawyer Kirit Panwala said that it is a wrong practice by the police to register complaints late. “Police should register plaints immediately so that such crimes can be prevented. In most cyber-crime cases police are found willing to register complaint only if the accused is already identified,” he alleged. One of the many victims, Rakesh Patil, a Dindoli resident was duped for Rs 4.2 lakh by an accused who promised him a job. The accused neither returned the money nor provided a job. The accused contacted Patil over the phone in September 2020 and started cheating him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-police-register-27-more-cyber-crime-firs-in-a-day/articleshow/81338280.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||LU scraps negative marking in UG entrance||Lucknow: Lucknow University will not deduct marks for wrong answers in its undergraduate entrance test from the new academic session. The varsity will begin its admission process from March 9 based on an entrance test, likely to be held in June, said LU spokesperson, Durgesh Srivastava. Last year, LU had admitted students on around 3,800 UG seats on merit basis due to the pandemic. The entrance test will be multiple choice question based. Students will have to answer 100 questions in 90 minutes and for every correct answer four marks will be awarded but one mark will not be deducted for a wrong answer. LU had introduced negative marking in 2016 when it had re-introduced the entrance test for admission to UG courses after a gap of around a decade. “The decision has been taken for better evaluation and knowledge testing of the students. Fearing the deduction, students didn’t attempt all the questions, hence their overall knowledge was not tested,” said a senior official. The examination will be based on the syllabus class XII. Detailed information about the examination and admission process will be uploaded on the varsity’s website on March 9. The entire process will be online from application to counselling and the only entrance test will be offline, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-scraps-negative-marking-in-ug-entrance/articleshow/81339468.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Delhi||Wake-up call for BJP as its vote share has come down in all 5 wards: AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj on Thursday said BJP’s vote share has decreased in all five municipal wards where byelection was recently held. In a press conference, Bharadwaj said, in Kalyanpuri, AAP’s vote share increased from 33% to 56%, while the vote share of all other parties declined. BJP’s vote share in its stronghold Shalimar Bagh has come down from 48% to 36% and it should serve as a wake-up call for the party. “In 16 booths of Shalimar Bagh’s upscale colonies, BJP’s vote percentage came down from 45 to 40% and AAP’s vote share increased from 35% to 53%,” Bharadwaj said. Business class, which was the traditional voters of the BJP, also shifted to AAP, Bharadwaj claimed. The results of the municipal elections were out on Wednesday. AAP won four seats and Congress one. The BJP, which is currently ruling all the three corporations, drew a blank. “It is considered that the party in power usually wins the byelections as well. By that logic, this is a major setback for the BJP,” Bharadwaj said. In Trilokpuri, AAP’s vote share increased from 35% to 49.9% and Congress’s vote share declined from 16.6% to 1.6%, Bharadwaj said. He added that in Rohini seat, which previously belonged to BSP, the BSP’s vote share has decline from 52% to 6%. “AAP’s vote share has increased from 13% to 46%. In Shalimar Bagh, BJP’s vote share decreased from 48% to 36% and Congress’s from 16% to 12%, while AAP’s vote share increased from 31% to 50%,” said Bharadwaj. Bharadwaj said the BJP failed to provide sanitation and indulged in petty politics, which angered even the traditional vote bank of the party. In another BJP’s stronghold Rohini Sector 24-25, AAP’s vote share has increased from 19% to 42%. Overall, AAP got 45.4% vote share, BJP 28.9% and Congress 20.6% in the 2021 byelection as compared to AAP’s 27.3% in 2017 municipal polls in these five wards, BJP’s 26.9% and Congress’s 17%. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, though AAP won four seats, its traditional vote bank totally rejected it in Chauhan Banger. “For the BJP, the loss of Shalimar Bagh has been a setback, but we will recover the lost ground,” Kapoor said. “AAP’s vote share rose in four wards largely because Congress’s vote share shifted to AAP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wake-up-call-for-bjp-as-its-vote-share-has-come-down-in-all-5-wards-aap/articleshow/81338328.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Lucknow||Discussion on women & law in Amity||Lucknow: Amity Law School’s Lucknow campus organised a discussion on Thursday as part of International Women’s Week. The speakers at the event, titled ‘Choose To Challenge with the Harbingers of Change’, were member general counsel in Ali Yavar Jung National Institute of Hearing Akhilendra Kumar, member of Supreme Court-monitored national inspection and monitoring committee Neelam Singh, advocate and founder of Samadhan Dalit Women Legal Helpline Renu D Singh and advocate Rajat Rajan Singh. “The purpose of the event was to inspire the audience with real-life experiences of our guests who have worked tirelessly towards women welfare. The experiences, particularly with the legal system of the country, offered an engaging opportunity to attendees to acknowledge the struggles and appreciate the contribution of womanhood in society,” said Anupriya Yadav, an organiser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/discussion-on-women-law-in-amity/articleshow/81339475.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ranchi||3 JJ men killed, 2 hurt as Maoist IED explodes in W Singhbhum||Jamshedpur: Three police personnel died and two others sustained serious injuries when Improvised Explosive Device (IED) planted by CPI (Maoist) rebels exploded at Jharjhara forest in Lanji village under Toklo police station area in West Singhbhhum district around 8:45am on Thursday morning. The incident took place when the Jharkhand Jaguar team was patrolling the naxal-affected area about 160km from Jamshedpur. The Jharkhand Jaguar is a special police task force set up to tackle Maoists in the state DIG (Kolhan range) Rajiv Ranjan said a search operation is underway at the site. West Singhbhhum SP, Ajay Linda, recently told TOI that Jharjhara is a hilly forest area bordering Chaibasa, Seraikela and Khunti districts. Senior police and CRPF officials from Ranchi have rushed to Chaibasa to take stock of the ongoing operation against the rebels. Sources said the bodies of the three martyred cops -- constables Kiran Surin, constable Haridwar Shah and head constable Devendra Pandit -- have been shifted to Jharkhand Jaguar headquarters in Ranchi. The injured personnel -- Deep Topno and Niku Oraon -- were airlifted and admitted to a private hospital in the state capital. Reports said one jawan from the CRPF’s 97th Battalion sustained minor injuries, but this was not confirmed by any official sources. Security forces have been conducting search operations is the area for the past fortnight after receiving intelligence about the movement of some senior top Maoist rebels, including zonal commander Maharaj Parmanik, in the Chaibasa-Khunti stretch. On February 7, one CoBRA jawan was injured in a similar explosion in Langi area. On February 20, security forces recovered 21 IEDs from Goilkera. The security forces, led by the district police, were involved in a gun battle with the rebels for four consecutive days from February 7 to February 11, in Langi following which the rebels retreated and police had recovered arms and explosives from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-jj-men-killed-2-hurt-as-maoist-ied-explodes-in-w-singhbhum/articleshow/81337008.cms||B Sridhar
March 5, 2021||Ranchi||State should wake up from slumber, says Jharkhand HC on Gumla murders||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Thursday took suo moto cognizance of a TOI report on March 3 on the murder of five persons of a family, including a five-year-old boy, in Gumla and ordered the DGP, chief secretary and the social welfare secretary to furnish a report in the matter. The court also asked the government to inform about the steps taken to create awareness against witchcraft and superstitious beliefs. Observing that the “state should wake up from its slumber”, a division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad directed the Jharkhand Legal Services Authority to send a team to Gumla and submit a report. The case will be heard next on March 18. On February 23, five of a family — Nikodim Topno (60), Josfina Topno (55), Vincent Topno (35), Silvanti Topno (30) and Albin Topno (5) of Buruhatu Aamtoli village were hacked to death on a false blame that the family practices witchcraft. The investigation also revealed that eight, including Nikuddin’s nephew, connived with 70 others of the village to eliminate the Topno family after a few people and animals had died in the village in the last few months. The killings had taken place after Mathura Topno, the village priest and healer, failed to save the deaths and was prodded to give names of the “evil”. Cornered, Mathura took random names and accused the Topno family of practicing witchcraft. Meanwhile, eight of the accused have been arrested so far in the case while the entire village has been booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-should-wake-up-from-slumber-says-jharkhand-hc-on-gumla-murders/articleshow/81336964.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ranchi||On Day 1, colleges adopt mix of online and offline classes||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government has given its nod to start physical classes for colleges from Thursday but on Day 1, many constituent and affiliated colleges of the University of Ranchi have adopted both offline and online classes to avoid crowding on campus and ensure Covid-19 safety rules. Earlier, the registrar of the university had issued a notification to all constituent and affiliated colleges to open their campus from March 1 after carrying out cleaning and sanitization work for two days. The colleges have also been directed to follow the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines during the classes. However, the Ram Lakhan Singh College here has started offline classes and continued with the live streaming of the classes for those who want to attend them online. College principal Manoj Kumar said, “To ensure social distancing norms, we have adopted a combination of offline and online classes. The classroom proceedings are being telecast live so that the students having proper facilities can join them from their homes. This will reduce the crowding inside the classrooms.” He said students of science, arts and commerce streams are being called at different times of the day it would be difficult to maintain social distancing for all 4,500 students at a time. Similarly, authorities of Marwari College have decided to call their students in batches while conducting the online classes. Principal U C Mehta said, “We have about 27,000 students, including both boys and girls. The campus would be packed if we call all of them at one go.” He further said offline examinations for the fifth semester are on currently and would be followed by third-semester examinations. Mehta added that several hand sanitizing machines have been installed on the campus, which was sanitized by the Ranchi Municipal Corporation and a private agency. Meanwhile, Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University vice-chancellor S N Munda said offline classes were going on smoothly in his institute. said, “We are running the classes in three shifts for our students whose strength is about 10,000.” The Central University of Jharkhand has also decided to start offline classes in a phased manner. Professor Manoj Kumar of the university said, “The research scholars have been called first and they will be followed by post-graduate students, who require laboratory facilities. Other students will be called later on. The students have been advised not to eat from outside the campus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/on-day-1-colleges-adopt-mix-of-online-and-offline-classes/articleshow/81337074.cms||Sanjay Sahay
March 5, 2021||Ranchi||More pvt hosps in Ranchi start vax drive||Ranchi: In order to improve the vaccination coverage among senior citizens and people with co-morbidities aged 45 years and above, the Ranchi district administration has roped in 24 more private hospitals to administer the jabs from Thursday. The development comes a day after Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad held a meeting with representatives of private hospitals and authorised them to start vaccinations at their respective facilities at a fixed charge of Rs 250 per dose per person. According to an official release from the Ranchi district administration, four state-run healthcare facilities along with 24 private hospitals will conduct vaccinations in the city. The four state-run healthcare facilities are Ranchi district hospital, Rims, community health centre (CHC) in Doranda and Central Hospital, CCL Gandhinagar. The 24 private hospitals which have started vaccination include Alam Hill View, Healthpoint, Pulse, Maa Rampyari, Advanced Diagnostic Centre, Medica Hospital and Ranchi Urology centre in Bariatu. City trust and Devkamal on Ratu Road, Jagannath Hospital on Radium Road, Promise Healthcare centre and Harmu hospital in Harmu, Raj Hospital on Main Road, Kanke General Hospital, Dwarka Hospital in Mahilong, Medanta Hospital in Irba, Paras Hospital in Dhurwa, Rinchi Hospital on Itki Road, Samford Hospital in Kokar, Sentevita Hospital on H B Seva Sadan in Upper Bazar, Samar Hospital in Hatia, Abdur Razzak Ansari Cancer Hospital in Ormanjhi. Talking to TOI, Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said: “We have increased the vaccination centres across the length and breadth of the city so that no elderly should face any inconvenience due to overcrowding at any centre.” Meanwhile, the district administration also released the prescribed format which is required for people aged 45 to 59 to receive their vaccine shots.“We have issued the GOI format which enlists 20 co-morbidities. All beneficiaries in the 45-59 age group are advised to get the certificate completed and then visit their nearest centre,” Ranjan added. When contacted, a health department official in Ranchi said that a total of 1,934 beneficiaries above 60 years have been vaccinated, while only 243 with co-morbidities have taken the vaccine since March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/more-pvt-hosps-in-ranchi-start-vax-drive/articleshow/81337020.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 5, 2021||Vadodara||Three sentenced to life for killing man who sought wages||Vadodara: A sessions court in Chhota Udepur on Thursday sentenced three farmers to life imprisonment for killing a man in 2018 for asking wages for the work he had done at the farm. The court of principal district judge P V Shrivastava also ordered the three convicts Magan Rathwa, Bhanta Rathwa and Karshan Rathwa to pay a fine of Rs 30,000, which will be given to the victim Sartan Rathwa’s widow. According to case details, Sartan was called by the Bhanta to his house in January 2018 to collect wages for tilling Bhanta’s farm using his tractor. Sartan’s wife Jinki too had followed him. But when Sartan went inside the house, Bhanta shut the door. Bhanta asked the other two convicts to kill Sartan for demanding money for the work he had done. Mahan held Sartan as Bhanta hacked him with an axe. Magan and Karshan too hit Sartan following which he became unconscious. Meanwhile, Jinki went and got Sartan’s brother Pravin to Bhanta’s house. Sartan was taken to a health centre and referred to SSG Hospital in Vadodara where he succumbed.Bhanta, Magan and Karshan were arrested after Pravin lodged a complaint against them. During the trial, the court upheld the evidence submitted by assistant government pleader J B Purani and the deposition of witnesses who testified against the trio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-sentenced-to-life-for-killing-man-who-sought-wages/articleshow/81335850.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Ranchi||21-year-old ‘raped in captivity by 60 men’ in Seraikela||Jamshedpur: A 21-year-old girl lodged a police complaint on Thursday saying she was raped multiple times for about a month in captivity at a "deserted" garage by nearly 60 people in Kanderbera of Seraikela-Kharsawan district. In her complaint with the Chandil police station of the district, the girl said she is from Pursudih in Jamshedpur. She also said she was injected with drugs by her tormentors and often beat her up if she refused. She escaped early on Thursday on the pretext of attending to nature's call and reached a roadside eatery on the Ranchi-Jamshedpur stretch of NH-33, from where the workers help her contact the police. Chandil police station officer-in-charge Sanoj Kumar Chaudhary said the girl is weak and not being able to speak properly. They have launched an investigation into the incident soon after receiving her complaint, he said. "Police visited the garage but found it open and not deserted. The girl is also not very clear how or when she was abducted," the officer said. Chaudhary added, "She has injury marks on several parts of her body. After proper medical aid, she will be shifted to MGM hospital for a check-up."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/21-year-old-raped-in-captivity-by-60-men-in-seraikela/articleshow/81337138.cms||B Sridhar
March 5, 2021||Rajkot||Man promised Rs 4k FASTag balance, duped of Rs 90,000||Rajkot: Cyber criminals lured a Porbandar man with Rs 4,000 added balance in his fastag wallet, and before he could understand the trick, they duped him of Rs 90,000. However, based on his plaint, cyber police was successful in getting the amount refunded. According to police, Bhanu Chavda, a driver, filed a complaint that he lost Rs 90,000 through phone pay app. Chavda told cops he got a call from unknown number telling him that he will get a balance of Rs 4,000 in his fastag wallet if he followed a link they will send him. As told, Chavda clicked on it to get the amount and soon washed his hands off Rs 15,000 from his account. When Chavda called on the number to get back his deducted amount, the caller asked him to follow another link and soon, Rs 75,000 got debited from his account. “Chavda did not know what data he shared with the caller, but we immediately traced a payment gateway and asked it to freeze the fund,” said police sub inspector Subhash Odedara. Cops are yet to get the account details of the fraudster, but the payment gateway confirmed that Chavda will get his money back. The police will arrest the accused once they get all the relevant details. “In such cases, we first focus on getting back the stolen amount. Sometimes we can arrest the accused, but often such money transfers go to many accounts which makes it difficult to trace,” Odedara explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-promised-rs-4k-fastag-balance-duped-of-rs-90000/articleshow/81336516.cms||---
March 5, 2021||India||Connectivity will be key in India-Bangladesh ties: S Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: Connectivity was the focal theme for foreign minister S Jaishankar as he pushed greater ties with Bangladesh and Iran through the Chabahar port on Thursday. Addressing a joint press conference with his Bangladeshi counterpart, A K Abdul Momen in Dhaka where he has gone to prepare for PM Narendra Modi’s visit on March 26, Jaishankar told journalists that the game changer in the bilateral relationship would be increasing connectivity between the two countries. Meanwhile, addressing the Maritime Summit on ‘Chabahar Day’ five years after the signing of the tripartite agreement on the establishment of a Trilateral Transport and Transit Corridor, Jaishankar said India has proposed including the Chabahar port as part of the International North South Transport Corridor (INSTC), as well as expanding it to include Afghanistan and Uzbekistan. “The significance of our ties lies in your centrality for our ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy and your growing relevance for our ‘Act East’ policy,” Jaishankar said in Dhaka. The government emphasised the importance of Chabahar port by dedicating a programme for it. He said India sent 75,000 tonnes of wheat as humanitarian food assistance to Afghanistan in 2020 via Chabahar and assisted Iran in fighting its worst-ever locust invasion by supplying 25 tonnes of Malathion in June 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/connectivity-will-be-key-in-india-bangladesh-ties-s-jaishankar/articleshow/81340414.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Goa||Govt to tender Tuem electronic city plots, infra being readied: Sawant||PANAJI: The state government will soon tender plots at the IT Electronic System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) Park at Tuem, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday. Sawant, who held a review meeting with IT minister Jennifer Monserrate on the Tuem electronic city, said that infrastructure at the electronic city is getting completed and that the “government is committed towards setting it up”. Department officials said that a power sub-station, compound wall and an overhead water reservoir are being constructed. The proposed administrative building and water supply connections are yet to be taken up. The electronic city will come up in close to 6 lakh sqm at a cost of Rs 161.3 crore. The Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) has already given the final approval for the greenfield project and has promised a grant-in-aid of Rs 73.8 crore. The Centre has already released the first instalment of 12.4 crore, which is 16.85% of the grant-in-aid sanctioned by MeitY. The state government has also transferred an amount of Rs 14.7 crore as a proportionate contribution. Though the state cabinet has approved a land allotment policy for the electronic manufacturing cluster (EMC) at Tuem village in Pernem taluka, the special purpose vehicle that will help set up and administer the ESDM park has yet to be set up, said department of information technology officials. The policy will empower the cabinet to decide on allotment of land for big or mega projects without auction, on a case-to-case basis, upon the recommendation of a screening committee. “As per the proposed policy, allotment of plots for purposes other than for industrial use shall be done through auction, wherein plots, sheds, godowns or built-up space would be allotted on a lease basis to the highest bidder,” the cabinet note stated. “Allotment of land for big or mega projects without auction can be taken up for cabinet approval on a case-to-case basis, on recommendation of a screening committee.” The Goa government is developing the EMC at Tuem to address future demands for IT infrastructure. It is envisaged that the park will provide a steady supply of employment opportunities besides being specifically geared towards the needs of the IT and electronics system design and manufacturing (ESDM) sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-tender-tuem-electronic-city-plots-infra-being-readied-sawant/articleshow/81339492.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Goa||CM: Democratic process restored by SC order||Panaji: Reacting to the Supreme Court’s decision to stay the high court decision to cancel elections in five municipalities over reservation of wards, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that “now, the democratic process has been restored”. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said, “I welcome the decision of the Supreme Court as it is in the direction to restore democracy.” When asked if the high court order was a setback to the government, the chief minister said, “We are trying to establish democracy.” Advocate general Devidas Pangam had said that one of the grounds of appeal is that “the courts cannot stall the democratic process like this”. He had also said that as per Article 243 ZG of the Constitution, there is a complete bar on courts interfering in the election process. On Monday, the high court had noted that the respective municipal councils’ term had come to an end and that they are under the control of a body of administrators, and that the state election commission (SEC) had granted extensions on two occasions with the outer line stipulated to be April 15, 2021. In the appeal before the Supreme Court, Pangam had said that a point has been raised that elected representatives should hold positions in municipal councils, and that the civic bodies cannot be run by administrators. Advocate general Devidas Pangam had said that one of the grounds of appeal is that “the courts cannot stall the democratic process like this”. He had also said that as per the Constitution, there is a complete bar on courts interfering in the election process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-democratic-process-restored-by-sc-order/articleshow/81339530.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Goa||GFP: SEC has ‘overreached’ court order||Margao: Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai on Thursday, reacting to the re-scheduling of the elections to five municipal councils by the State Election Commission (SEC) following the Supreme Court granting interim stay to the high court of Bomay at Goa order, termed it as “overreaching” the supreme court order by the Commission. “To my best understanding, changing of election schedule by SEC amounts to overreaching SC order by SEC,” Sardesai said. He said that as the Supreme Court has temporarily stayed the high court order for completion of pleadings, “SEC couldn’t have overreached the Supreme Court order by announcing an altogether new schedule when the Supreme Court is seized of the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-sec-has-overreached-court-order/articleshow/81339539.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Goa||Adhere to HC’s reservation directives on polls, says Cong||Panaji: While the Supreme Court (SC) paved the way for the state government to go ahead with the municipal elections, Congress on Thursday urged the State Election Commission (SEC) and the directorate of municipal administration (DMA) to rectify errors in the reservation process before going ahead with the elections for the 11 municipal councils across the state. State Congress president Girish Chodankar wrote to the state election commissioner and the director of municipal administration asking them not to proceed with the elections to the Valpoi, Pernem and Cuncolim municipalities till reservations are in place as per Constitutional norms. “It is therefore requested of your offices to strictly adhere to the order dated March 1 passed by the high court and to hold the elections to the Valpoi and Pernem municipalities in accordance with the interpretation given and directives laid down in the order,” said Chodankar. He asked the two authorities to ensure that the people’s Constitutional rights are enforced in letter and spirit. Chodankar’s letter is likely to have little effect as the SC on Thursday stayed the high court of Bombay at Goa’s order cancelling elections in five municipalities over reservation of wards. SC, which is expected to give its final verdict on March 9, has permitted elections to be held as scheduled on March 20. The BJP-led state government had challenged the HC order in the apex court. HC had said that there has to be strict adherence to the mandate of the law as enshrined in Section 9 and 10 of the Goa Municipalities Act, 1968 and Article 243 (T) of the Constitution while conducting civic polls. “The high court has laid down that not less than 33% of the seats have to be reserved for women. In the course of the judgment the high court has referred to the Pernem and Valpoi municipalities where 10 seats are available for elections and only three seats are reserved for women, which amounts to a total reservation of only 30%, when in fact four seats should have been reserved for women. Same is the case in the Cuncolim municipality,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/adhere-to-hcs-reservation-directives-on-polls-says-cong/articleshow/81339552.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||Admin mulls easing near-lockdown norms||Nagpur: Citizens in West Vidarbha districts, where lockdown-like restrictions were imposed since February last week, are now becoming restless to get back to normalcy. Due to the pressure from people, the administration plans to come out with some kind of relaxations in movements in Akola, Amravati, Buldhana and Washim districts. In Yavatmal, the district collector has decided to wait for a day to two more to decide whether to continue strict restrictions or not. “After meeting with delegations of shopkeepers, we have decided to let all kinds of businesses run from March 5 onwards. But they have to follow some rules,” said Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar. Earlier, only essential shops were allowed to remain open from 9am to 3pm in Akola, Murtijapur and Akot cities. “Now, all shops may remain open from 9am to 5pm daily. But, shopkeepers, helpers and all engaged in shops need to undergo RT-PCR tests and only Covid-19 negative people will be allowed in markets,” said Papalkar. Akola district had reported 1,960 new cases of Covid-19 between February 1 and 20. However, after that, a sudden surge was reported. The district reported 1,531 cases in next five days, and lockdown-like restrictions were imposed. During last 10 days of restrictions, the district has reported 3,122 cases, which is a little respite. The district collector said that the rise in cases cannot be linked to rise in infections. “We have increased tests in last 10 days. More number of new cases are coming out due to increase in tests. This is good for the district. We have separated and isolated the infected persons. Now, new chains will be avoided and infections will go down,” he said while clarifying his decision to offer some relaxation. In Akola, hotels and restaurants are still not allowed to entertain guests. Only home delivery or parcel service is allowed. But, Buldhana has allowed restaurants to have 50% customers during day time (from 9am to 5pm). In Washim, district collector has allowed people to hold religious events at home on the occasion of Gajanan Maharaj Prakat Din on Friday, but mass feasts are not allowed. In Amravati, district collector Shailesh Naval has hinted at unlocking things in a phased manner from March 8. Praising people for supporting the lockdown and acting judiciously during this period, Naval said that the lockdown will not be extended after March 8 but eased in a phased manner with restrictions. RELAXATIONS ON CARDS AMRAVATI: Lockdown will not be extended after March 8 but eased in phased manner AKOLA: All shops, even non-essentials, to remain open from 9am to 5pm from March 5 BULDHANA: Hotel, restaurants open from 9am to 5pm with 50% capacity; after that, parcels only WASHIM: People can organize religious events on Gajanan Maharaj Prakat Din at home, not at temples YAVATMAL: Admin to decide today whether to impose more restrictions in Yavatmal city or not||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/admin-mulls-easing-near-lockdown-norms/articleshow/81336821.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 5, 2021||Goa||‘Heavens will not fall, wait for SC’s final order’||Panaji: Anticipating that the state government would move quickly after the apex court stayed high court order on cancellation of elections to five municipal councils, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat Thursday morning had demanded that the state election commission (SEC) and the directorate of municipal administration (MDA) must wait till the Supreme Court (SC) passes the final order on reservation of wards in five municipalities instead of going ahead with the election process. He also said that the judiciary is an “important pillar of democracy” and it is important for the SEC to wait for the final verdict before holding the civic polls. “The Supreme Court has fixed the hearing for March 9 for disposal and the heavens will not fall if the state election commission shows some patience and waits for the final order of the apex court,” said Kamat. In the evening, SEC decided to hold elections to the 5 councils on March 21. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavens-will-not-fall-wait-for-scs-final-order/articleshow/81339580.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Goa||GCCI asks govt to address IT sector and manufacturing needs in Budget||PANAJI: With manufacturing and tourism emerging as the mainstays of Goa’s economy, the state government needs to make adequate budgetary provisions to address the needs of the existing industries while also offering incentives to attract new investments, said Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) while outlining what the industry wants to see in the state budget. While urging the government to improve infrastructure for the industry, GCCI has called for common effluent treatment plants, common hazardous waste treatment and disposal facilities, common fire fighting systems at every industrial estate, a new bridge at Borim, truck terminals at industrial estates and better water and power distribution systems. GCCI has also called for rationalisation of taxes and simplified compliances. “The industry, reeling under the impact of a long drawn global economic crisis, has further suffered due to the pandemic and is depending upon the government to extend some tax incentives and improvements in infrastructure,” GCCI president Manoj Caculo said. Caculo said that the government must offer fresh incentives to attract industries, encourage commercial production and generate investments. “We suggest that a three to five member task force, under the chairmanship of the chief minister be set up to assess the problems faced by the existing units in Goa and also to assess possibilities of reviving the closed units,” he said. GCCI has also recommended that a task force be set up to allot the industrial land that Goa Industrial Development Corporation has repossessed from the SEZ promoters. The industry body has outlined steps to support the tourism sector and has called on the government to allow renewal of licence fees for five years, reduction in compliances, improvement in public transport and taxi services, and immediate implementation of the Goa Tourism Board. While recommending soft loans for owners to convert their heritage homes into homestays, GCCI has also urged the government to crackdown on unregistered hotels and homestays so that the state does not lose revenue. The industry body has also said that landing charges for international charter flights need to be waived off or supported by the state through a budgetary allocation. GCCI’s budget recommendations include steps to support the agriculture sector, real estate industry, mining and other key sectors. The recommendations also flayed the government’s apathy towards the IT sector and urged it to take course corrective measures to implement policies and attract new IT companies to Goa. “Over the last 20 years we have seen three IT policies being announced, but none of them have been implemented. While the policies had a bonanza of benefits none of the IT companies in Goa have accrued any benefits from the policies,” GCCI’s budget proposal said. “While the IT industry is a green industry and with considerable employment potential for the right skilled people, Goa government’s attitude towards this has been lackadaisical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcci-asks-govt-to-address-it-sector-and-manufacturing-needs-in-budget/articleshow/81339584.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||NHAI cut 1.84L trees, planted 5.68L, greens say it is short by 10.67L trees||Nagpur: In the last 19 years, the 10 project implementation units (PIUs) under the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have developed over 2,455km of roads, for which 1.84 lakh trees were felled in the state. Information for 2001-2020 received under the RTI Act by city green activist Jaydeep Das revealed that NHAI chopped more than 1.82 lakh trees for road widening and planted over 5.68 lakh trees, three times more than what was cut, in lieu of the felled ones. According to Das, considering the Indian Road Congress (IRC)-2009 norms of planting 666 trees per km, NHAI should have planted more than 16.35 lakh trees instead of 5.68 lakh. “This is a shortfall of over 10.67 lakh trees. The number would be more if the IRC-SP-21 guidelines, which ask to plant 999 trees per kilometre, are considered,” says Das. The RTI pertains to NHAI regional office, which looks after PIUs at Nagpur I & II, Washim, Nanded, Yavatmal, Aurangabad, Chandrapur, Dhulia, Jalgaon, and Amravati. On the statistics, NHAI regional officer Rajeev Agrawal says, “The data must be based on how many kilometres of roads were developed, trees cut and planted. However, a similar question should be raised with the forest department, how many trees it planted towards compensatory afforestation for road development, and what is the status. This piece of information must not be part of the RTI, I suppose.” However, Das said, “Plantations by forest department are done in case forest land is diverted for highway development. For example, NH-7, where forest land was diverted and compensatory afforestation was done in South Umred. For routine road development and tree felling, NHAI has to plant trees on the roadside.” One of the queries to all the PIUs was the survival status of the trees planted. However, Das said, “Only two PIUs, Nagpur-I and Nagpur-II, gave details of survival while other PIUs did not supply information.” TOI has already reported on March 3, how survival figures by Nagpur-I unit were fudged. The RTI activist asked, “If the NHAI plants so many trees, why is there no greenery or trees along the highways.” Tree plantation expert Shrikant Deshpande says, “The plantation survival is poor because SOP is not being followed. Another reason is that contractors are not masters in tree plantation, NHAI offers a meagre rate of Rs1,700 per sapling for three-year maintenance. Whereas, actual maintenance cost comes to Rs3,500. Hence, contractors are not interested in tree plantation.” Environment lawyer Manish Jeswani suggested NHAI should appoint separate agency like National Highway Tree Plantation Authority to exclusively take up plantation works under a separate project director. Other reasons for plantation failure are grazing, fire, poor quality pits, lack of watering, poor maintenance. The authority should forfeit EMD if dead plants are not replaced. Jeswani said the MoRTH in August 2015 has come out a policy on eco-friendly highways for reducing adverse effects of air and noise pollution, soil erosion, and to provide much-needed shade during summer months. However, trees are not seen along the roads, and mortality rates are high. The MoRTH also decided that I% of the civil work cost should be added separately while arriving at the total project cost (TPC) of highways being developed on EPC/BOT mode. However, only NHAI would be able to tell what happened to this money, which was to be utilized under the ‘Green Highways Fund’. THE NUMBER GAME * PIUs: 10 * ROADS: 2455KM * TREES CUT: 1,84,317 * TREES PLANTED: 5,68,398 * NEEDED TO BE PLANTED: 16,35,712 * SHORTFALL: 10,67,314||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nhai-cut-1-84l-trees-planted-5-68l-greens-say-it-is-short-by-10-67l-trees/articleshow/81336900.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 5, 2021||India||Bail for Nodeep co-accused Shiv Kumar||NEW DELHI: Labour activist Shiv Kumar, a co-accused in the three cases filed by Haryana Police against fellow activist Nodeep Kaur, was granted bail by a Rohtak court on Thursday. According to the plea filed by his father in the HC, Shiv Kumar was picked up on January 16 and tortured. However, he was shown to have been arrested on January 23 and remanded for 7 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bail-for-nodeep-co-accused-shiv-kumar/articleshow/81340447.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Goa||Crime branch seizes 10kg ganja, 2 held||PANAJI: The crime branch of Goa police seized 10kg of ganja and arrested two persons in two separate raids conducted over three days in both districts of the state. Police said that on receiving information that two persons, one each in South and North Goa, had allegedly brought the drugs into the state, two separate teams of crime branch personnel were constituted to carry out the raids in both districts On March 1, the crime branch team arrested 38-year-old Rajesh alias Raju Devar, resident of Quepem, after over five kg of ganja was found in his possession at Margao. On interrogation, it was found that the accused had procured the narcotic for the purpose of sale locally and to tourists in South Goa. In another raid conducted on March 4, the crime branch team arrested Pandurang Pakhare, 47, hailing from Ahmednagar-Maharashtra, after he was caught at the Mapusa bus stand with over four kg of ganja. Pakhare told the police that he had brought the ganja for sale in North Goa, to tourists and locals. Two separate first information reports (FIR) have been registered. During the last few days the police have come down heavily on the narcotics trade in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crime-branch-seizes-10kg-ganja-2-held/articleshow/81339603.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||NMC extends vax timings till 10pm, 5 more centres added||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday extended vaccination timings till 10pm at all inoculation centres, added two new ones, and took a slew of measures to prevent crowding and inconvenience to beneficiaries. TOI has been highlighting the issues faced by citizens during vaccination. The measures are likely to expedite the otherwise slow processes seen in the last few days at NMC centres. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that three different queues will be in place at the centres and vaccination would be done in two shifts now. “Operational issues may pose challenges at some places but orders have been given to extend the timings. Two more centres are planned to start from Friday,” he said. One queue would be exclusively for healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), whose second dose is due, the other will be for registered age-appropriate group and third for walk ins. NMC has readied two vaccination centres — Mahdibagh UPHC and Railway Hospital at DRM’s office on Kingsway. NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said the two new centres would reflect in the Co-Win 2.0 app and slots up to 10pm must also reflect in a day or two. The civic body also added three more private hospitals taking the total to 29. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said paid vaccination centres at private hospitals can function 24x7. “We are encouraging them to run vaccination without any time restriction. But they are facing staff issues due to different workload,” he said. Dr Chilkar said vaccination would go up to 10pm at NMC’s centre. “It will depend on other centres how they manage and by when they are able to start,” he said. Citing the latest measures, Radhakrishnan ruled out restarting free of cost vaccination at private hospitals for HCWs and FLWs. Private hospitals, which were administering vaccine to HCWs and FLWs, were perplexed at NMC move to stop the drive at their centres. On Thursday, civic officials didn’t issue any order but called up the hospital administrations and informed that second doses won’t be given to them. Hospitals called the abrupt discontinuation as backtracking by the government and civic administration. They said ultimately the government wants HCWs and FLWs to pay. Many of the second dose beneficiaries are from the same hospitals which started paid vaccination for age-appropriate groups. Doctors said they were clueless if they should send their HCWs and FLWs to government centres, which consumes whole day, or ask them to stay back for catering to senior citizens. The minicipal commissioner said HCWs and FLWs can come to government centres. “We had sent a proposal for starting paid vaccination at those hospitals which were chosen for vaccination of HCWs and FLWs,” he said. Earlier, Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) met Radhakrishnan and divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar. VHA president Dr Ashok Arbat and convener Dr Anup Marar told them that many private hospitals are ready to function either as free vaccination centres under NMC or paid centres so that the beneficiaries can spread over and there is at least one vaccination centre in a one km radius. What has changed Vaccination timing in two shifts — from 8am to 3pm and 3pm to 10pm at all centres. Not all may do it immediately but gradually will follow it Three queues at all government centres. One for HCWs/FLWs, second for registered age-appropriate group and third for walk-ins Data entry operator with laptops to man the counters for different queues Two new centres at Mahdibagh UPHC and Railway Hospital at DRM’s office. Like to start by 12noon on Friday Three more paid private hospitals NMC sends proposal to restart vaccination at 10 private hospitals which were stopped on Monday Private ones asked to run vaccination drive 24x7||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-extends-vax-timings-till-10pm-5-more-centres-added/articleshow/81336929.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 5, 2021||Goa||Int’l business network pushes for job creation||PANAJI: Offering inputs for the upcoming state budget, business network International (BNI), Goa has asked the government to focus on creating employment by pushing for growth in local entrepreneurship. BNI has offered short as well as medium and long-term suggestions that are aimed at encouraging local entrepreneurs. As part of the short-term suggestions, BNI has called for a mechanism to ensure government contracts and purchases from Goan vendors, extension of the employment subsidy scheme to services retail sectors which is currently applicable for manufacturing MSME’s. Another suggestion was the creation of artificial reefs which could help improve fish production, plug-n-play facilities for MSMEs and startups, and support for medical and health tourism. BNI has also recommended that government infrastructure should be utilized for skill development in sports. The BNI team executive director Rajkumar Kamat, who along with Rasik Naik, Manoj Patil, Ashfak Shah, Rita Mody Joshi and Cdr. Skandan Warrier presented the budget suggestions. In the medium-term, the state should setup two medium-sized industrial units in each district for light engineering and a creative hub, said BNI Goa. The network also suggested that in the long-term, the state should be developed into a multi-modal logistic hub. The BNI team said that the CM was “quite receptive” to the suggestions. Sawant reportedly asked the team to submit more details on the suggestion for creating artificial reefs for fish production, development of plug-n-play facilities for startups and MSMEs through public-private-partnership among other initiatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/intl-business-network-pushes-for-job-creation/articleshow/81339652.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Goa||Backing candidates in personal capacity, not rebel, says Utpal||PANAJI: Denying that he was a BJP rebel where elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) were concerned, Utpal, son of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, on Thursday said he was merely supporting individual candidates in his personal capacity. He also said he had conveyed certain objections towards the CCP polls to BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade. Utpal was reacting to posts circulating on social media platforms that termed him a rebel. “I do not know who is circulating these posts. It is either those who do not want Parrikar’s name in politics, or those who want Parrikar to be on their side,” he said. “If I wanted to become a rebel, I would have done so when BJP denied me a ticket during the Panaji byelection (in May 2019). I am the only person here who will not become a rebel, because those who were denied a ticket in the last bypoll have switched sides and contested the elections. I take the word ‘rebellion’ very seriously.” On February 28, TOI had reported that there has been a growing murmur that Utpal and Parrikar’s protege, former Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker, may support aspiring candidates who have been loyal to the party and to the former CM, but have not been given tickets by Panaji BJP MLA Atanasio ‘Monserrate. These are likely to contest as independents. Utpal said his move was part of the groundwork he had begun ahead of the next assembly elections even as he maintained that he would announce whether he would be contesting the 2022 polls “at the right time”. He said he has urged the people of Panaji to vote keeping the future of their city in mind. “I am no one to tell them. I leave it to their collective wisdom,” he said. “Some candidates who I have not supported have kicked off their campaigns claiming that they have my backing,” Utpal said while disclosing that people who hadn’t worked for BJP over the past 20 years have been approaching him for support. He said that he hasn’t backed a full panel but only some candidates, and added that he hasn’t publicised his support for them. “As the elections are not being held on party lines, I can support them on a personal level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/backing-candidates-in-personal-capacity-not-rebel-says-utpal/articleshow/81339686.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Vadodara||Final rites of three deceased performed by kin, neighbours||Vadodara: The scene outside SSG Hospital morgue was heart rending with grieving relatives and shocked neighbours gathering to perform the final rites of the three deceased including Narendra Soni, his daughter Riya and 3-year-old grandson Parth. Six members of the Soni family had attempted mass suicide at their rented home in Swati Society on New Sama road on Wednesday evening, of whom three survived the bid. Narendra’s relatives who live in Nizampura as well the family of his daughter-in-law Urvashi arrived from Petlad for the funeral. With their house under lock, the final journey of the three deceased had to be taken from SSG Hospital to Khaswadi crematorium in Karelibaug. Residents of Swati Society too joined in large numbers. Meanwhile, cops arrived at the SSG hospital late on Thursday evening to record Narendra’s son Bhavin’s statement. Bhavin, his mother Deepti and wife Urvashi were shifted to the state-run hospital from a private hospital on Wednesday night. “We will be investigating all aspects, but more clarity can be achieved once Bhavin speaks,” said inspector P D Parmar of Sama police station. He added that Deepti and Urvashi’s health deteriorated on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/final-rites-of-three-deceased-performed-by-kin-neighbours/articleshow/81335976.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Goa||Govt changes rules, allows GPSC to promote PSIs to PIs||PANAJI: The state government has changed the rules to allow Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) to promote police sub-inspectors (PSI) to the post of police inspectors (PI). Earlier, the Police Establishment Board used to conduct promotions of PSIs. At present, GPSC carries out promotions of PI and deputy superintendent of police (DySP). This is the first time the government has asked GSPC to promote PSIs to PIs, GPSC chairman Jose Manuel Noronha said. The state government said that after the completion of the two-year probation and five years of regular service, PSIs should be promoted to the post of PI. The state government has not taken any decision on the proposal of Goa police to amend the existing PSI recruitment rules so that assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) with minimum two years of regular service could be promoted as PSIs. There are around 530 PSI posts in Goa police, out of which 50% are promotional vacancies. The decision to propose the amendment has been approved by the Police Establishment Board. Superintendent of police (HQ) Arvind Gawas, in a letter to the home department, had stated that the Police Establishment Board desires to reduce the requirement of regular service for an ASI’s promotion as PSI from the existing five years of regular service, to two years in the feeder grade. Presently, 125 vacant PSI posts have to be filled by promotion. As there are no eligible ASIs with five years of regular service, all the 125 PSI posts to be filled by promotion are lying vacant. Goa police attached the copies of existing recruitment rules for the post and recruitment rules of feeder grade, soft copies, etc for amendment of existing recruitment rules for the post of sub-inspector in the police department, with the present proposal. The ASIs are already drawing PSI salaries, so if they are promoted there won’t be any financial liability for the government, a senior officer said. “If an ASI is promoted, then more PSIs can be deployed at a police station for investigation,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-changes-rules-allows-gpsc-to-promote-psis-to-pis/articleshow/81339698.cms||---
March 5, 2021||India||Probe agencies given complete freedom: BJP||NEW DELHI: Reacting to Congress’s remarks on income tax raids on a few Bollywood personalities, BJP on Thursday maintained that the Modi government has given complete freedom to probe agencies for whom no one is a star or a celebrity. “Everybody now gets the same treatment while it is in Congress’s character to bend laws to help certain people and spare even criminals if they sing praises of the Gandhi family,” BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said at a presser. Earlier, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, using Hindi idioms ‘ungliyon pe nachana’, ‘bheegi billi banna’ and ‘Khisiyani billi khamba noche’, had tweeted their meanings by saying that the I-T department dances to the tune of the government, the media is slavish to the regime and the government orders raids on those supporting the protesting farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/probe-agencies-given-complete-freedom-bjp/articleshow/81340471.cms||---
March 5, 2021||India||Rules focus on self-regulation, not censorship, says Prakash Javadekar||NEW DELHI: The government has come out with a progressive institutional mechanism for OTT platforms after several rounds of consultations with the stress on self-regulation, I&B minister Prakash Javadekar told representatives of various OTT platforms during an interaction on Thursday. Speaking with representatives of Alt Balaji, Hotstar, Amazon Prime, Netflix, Jio, Zee5, Viacom18, Shemaroo and MxPlayer, among others, Javadekar said he had received representations from cinema and TV industries that while cinema and TV were regulated, there were no regulations for OTT platforms, a concern that led the ministry to develop a level playing field with the idea of self-regulation. Javadekar also said he was happy to see that many OTT platforms had welcomed the newly-minted digital media rules. In a statement, the I&B ministry said Javadekar informed industry representatives about provisions of the new digital media rules. He also said the ministry would issue a format for this soon, while adding that the rules focus on self-classification of content rather than any form of government censorship. He added OTT platforms were expected to develop an effective grievance redress mechanism. He also clarified that there would be no government appointee on the self-regulating body and the government would set up an inter-departmental committee to look into complaints that remain unresolved at the self-regulatory level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rules-focus-on-self-regulation-not-censorship-says-prakash-javadekar/articleshow/81340479.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Rajkot||Container making fails to impress Bhavnagar bizmen||Rajkot: Owners of re-rolling mills and ship breaking units in Bhavnagar are not finding the shipping container-making project a very lucrative business as had been projected by the shipping ministry a few months ago. Rising steel prices and lack of technical knowledge are found to be the major impediments in the project which, otherwise, demands huge investment. India is facing severe shortage of containers for the past few months, while 90 percent shipping containers in the international market comes from China. This shortage gave the shipping ministry the idea to incubate Bhavnagar as a hub of container manufacturing looking at the readily available steel labour as well as proximity to the port. However, continuing hike in prices of steel, a raw material for container manufacturing, has upset the prospects of the local industrialists. Bhavnagar-based industrialist Chintan Kanakiya who was interested in the project and had also researched extensively on it said that steel prices rose by 45 to 50 percent in the past one year. “A fully automated project requires investment of Rs 100 crore. China sells a 20 feet container for price that is much lesser than our manufacturing cost. And, this cost is excluding GST and our profit. How can anybody take the risk of investing such a huge amount without ensuring project viability?” Kanakiya asked, adding that manufacturers also need huge land parcels to open the container manufacturing units. Manufacturers claim they have to obtain several international certificates including tonnage, road line, construction drawing among many others for which many do not have any idea about how to obtain them. “We need a technical advisor company to guide us in manufacturing international standard containers. There is no company in India that can provide us with this service and the government needs to intervene to assist the Bhavnagar cluster,” he added. Pradyuman Patel, who is making one container, on a trial basis to check costs, said, “I am manufacturing just one sample to understand the cost and procedure. Though I am really interested in this business, but there is no point if we can’t compete in the international market after all that huge investment.” The shipping ministry in December 2020 had appointed a coordination committee comprising members of trade and industry and ministry officials which had been tasked with studying the feasibility of manufacturing containers in Bhavnagar. In January, a buyer and manufacturer meeting was also held under the banner of Saurashtra Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) where some buyers evinced interest in buying locally made containers if these met the international standards. Kirit Soni, president of SCCI and a member of the committee, said, “I have come to know about the hurdles and we are planning a meeting of committee members and other stakeholders next week. Thereafter we will submit a report to the ministry with our suggestion which will clear the picture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/container-making-fails-to-impress-bhavnagar-bizmen/articleshow/81336542.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
March 5, 2021||Nagpur||Army’s in-service guns suffer two barrel bursts||Nagpur: Two separate accidents in a row have marred the Army’s old workhorse — 105mm artillery guns. One of the mishaps happened at Akhnoor, which is a forward base in Jammu and Kashmir. The second took place in Pokhran in Rajasthan, said sources. The accidents took place in a gap of a week. It has been learnt that the guns have suffered barrel hits (bursts). This means shell bursts inside the barrel or comes out damaging a part of the barrel. There are reports of casualties taking place too. Source said the guns in Akhnoor and Pokhran were being used by the Army and Border Security Force (BSF), respectively. The firings in both the incidents were not part of any trials. This is because the guns and the shells have already been established and under use for decades. Such an accident in an in-service gun has caused concern. Sources say the shelf life of the shells needs to be looked into during post-accident examination as using old shell can lead to misfire. The probe may look into details of the gun’s maintenance also. The 105mm guns have range of 18km to 19km, and are staple weapon of the artillery. It is also the first indigenized systems of the artillery. There are two versions — 105 Indian Field Gun (IFG) and 105 Light Field Gun (LFG). IFG is the first version which was later upgraded into the lighter one — LFG. These are made at Gun Carriage Factory (GCF), Jabalpur, and Field Gun Factory, Kanpur. These come under the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). The shells are manufactured at ordnance factories in Ambajhari and Chandrapur. While the gun has been damaged in Akhnoor incident, in Pokhran it has been learnt that the shell had ejected out of the barrel, but burst at a short distance. Both incidents are being probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/armys-in-service-guns-suffer-two-barrel-bursts/articleshow/81343808.cms||Shishir Arya
March 5, 2021||Vadodara||If Maharashtra delays, bullet train Gujarat leg may start first||VADODARA: If land acquisition for the ambitious Ahmedabad-Mumbai Bullet Train is inordinately delayed, chances are that the high-speed train will run on 352 km between Ahmedabad and Vapi. Achal Khare, managing director of National High-Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL), which is implementing the project, said on Thursday that this possibility cannot be ruled out. “We are also exploring this option,” Khare said in a virtual interaction with reporters Even as 95% land acquisition work for the 352 km stretch in Gujarat has been completed, the same in Maharashtra for 156 km is just around 23%. The NHSRCL has acquired 95 per cent of the land for the 352 km stretch of the project in Gujarat, but has been able to acquire only 23 per cent of land for the 156 km stretch in Maharashtra. The remaining 5% in Gujarat will be acquired by mid-June. "If we are able to acquire about 70% to 80 % land in the next three months, we can start the entire project together," he said. The project is, however, set to miss the 2023 deadline as the Covid-19 pandemic had stopped all the work. “Last one year has practically gone (without work) due to Covid-19 pandemic. Certain issues related to land acquisition in Maharashtra have also affected the timeline of the project,” said Khare. The civil works for the project in the state will take four years to complete after issuing tenders. “The time duration of the biggest tender is four years. All civil works should be over by the third quarter of 2024. We will also try to complete other works related to electrification soon after that,” he said. Out of eight high-speed rail (HSR) stations to be constructed in Gujarat, work for five stations have already been awarded while that of Ahmedabad, Sabarmati and Vadodara HSR along with one stretch of the viaduct is yet to be awarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/if-maha-delays-bullet-train-gujarat-leg-may-start-first/articleshow/81336024.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Mumbai||No truth in Jalgaon strip & dance claim: Home minister Anil Deshmukh||MUMBAI: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday that a four-member committee had found no truth in allegations that women from a Jalgaon shelter home had been forced to dance naked before policemen. He said the complainant’s husband had told the committee that she was mentally unstable. The allegation had rocked the state assembly on Wednesday, and the minister had responded by saying that an all-woman four-member panel had been constituted to investigate the matter. “The panel recorded the statements of 17 inmates,” he said. Women just did garba, no cop was present: MinDeshmukh said in the assembly that 17 Ashadeep hostel inmates and 41 witnesses had been questioned and the panel had found that there was no truth to the allegations. He said that on February 20, an entertainment programme was held for the inmates of the shelter home, where they read out poetry and danced garba. “One of the women who was doing the garba felt uncomfortable and removed her gown. No policeman was present at the event and they are not allowed inside the shelter home,” he said, adding there was no video showing the women dancing in front of policemen. Women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur said it was a case of fake news published in a newspaper and it had unfairly tarnished the image of the shelter home. BJP MLA Shweta Mahale had raised the Jalgaon issue in the assembly. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said: “We are all concerned when anything happens to the women in the state, but I would request legislators to conduct some checks before raising these issues.” Leader of the opposition in the assembly Devendra Fadnavis said that another incident had surfaced in Osmanabad where a woman had committed suicide after alleging that she had been raped at gunpoint by a policeman. Pawar said the government would inquire and take action if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-truth-in-jalgaon-strip-dance-claim-home-minister-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/81340503.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 5, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Parties face rebel woes in Vizianagaram||Visakhapatnam: After scrutiny and withdrawal, 189 candidates remained in the fray for the 50 wards in Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation. YSRC and TDP are facing rebel menace in the first elections to be held for VMC. Both parties have fielded candidates in all the 50 wards while BJP is in the fray only in 18 wards. A total of 140 candidates withdrew their nominations on Tuesday and Wednesday. Others in the fray are Congress (16), Jana Sena (12), BSP (4), CPM (1) and 38 independents. Many local YSRC leaders had filed nominations as independents in 15 wards. YSRC leader Avanapu Vikram, his mother and wife filed nominations as independents but later all of them withdrew their nominations. The mayor post is reserved for woman (BC) candidates. YSRC has not yet announced its mayoral candidate. TDP local leaders, too, have filed nominations without the party nod. Further, rebels are giving a tough time to political parties in Visakhapatnam as well. Rebels may play a decisive role in 30–40 wards in GVMC limits which are slated to see a tough contest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/parties-face-rebel-woes-in-vizianagaram/articleshow/81336481.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 5, 2021||Vadodara||Central team in Vadodara||Vadodara: A team from the centre visited the city to check the preparedness for battling Covid-19. The team visited the SSG Hospital,an urban health centre and areas that had been declared as containment zones. According to officials, this was the fourth visit by such a team since the pandemic began. This time around, the team also focussed on apprising itself regarding the vaccination process in the city. The Covid-19 cases reported in the city and district have shown a marginal rise over the last couple of weeks. On Thursday, 46 new Covid-19cases were reported in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/central-team-in-vadodara/articleshow/81336916.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||No RTC buses to ply till 1 pm today due to state bandh||Amaravati: Extending solidarity to the state bandh called by trade unions in protest against the privatization of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP-RINL), the state government has decided not to ply APSRTC buses on Friday. Transport minister Perni Venkatramaiah (Nani) said the government is against the privatisation of the steel plant. Speaking to the media in the secretariat on Thursday, Nani said the government has decided not to operate the APSRTC buses till 1 pm to extend its sympathy to the cause. He, however, said they would operate buses from the afternoon as they did not want normal life to be paralysed due to the bandh. He appealed to APSRTC staff to sport black badges and participate in protest programmes at bus stations. “Although we agree with the contention that doing business is not the headache of governments, we can’t put everything in the hands of the private sector since we are concerned about public welfare,” said Nani. He said the Centre should try to understand this aspect and protect VSP. He said the chief minister had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on how to protect VSP as a PSU by suggesting a slew of measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-rtc-buses-to-ply-till-1-pm-today-due-to-state-bandh/articleshow/81336519.cms||Samdani MN
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||HC cancels junior civil judge exam||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Thursday cancelled the junior civil judge (JCJ) examination and directed the registry to issue a fresh notification. Disposing a batch of petitions moved challenging the mandatory clause of having minimum three years of experience for appearing in JCJ eligibility test, the court observed that the mandatory clause is unconstitutional and must be removed. The recruitment notification for JCJs with the mandatory three-year experience clause for practicing advocates was issued in 2019. After a number of petitions were filed challenging the mandatory clause, the high court passed an interim order allowing all aspirants to write the exam but also directed not to announce the results of those not having less than three years of experience. However, recruitment was not done as the matter was pending before the court. While the batch of petitions remain in pending for final adjudication, another notification was issued in 2020 and another batch of petitions was filed challenging the compulsory experience clause. The petitioners argued that the mandatory experience clause brought in the form of an executive order by the government is unconstitutional and also in violation of Supreme Court judgment. They also relied on a Telangana high court judgement which struck down a similar GO. The high court, which finally disposed all petitions by setting aside the mandatory experience clause, directed the registry to cancel the 2020 notification and issue a fresh one as the main examination is yet to be held. When it came to 2019 exam, the HC directed to consider results of all candidates for recruitment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-cancels-junior-civil-judge-exam/articleshow/81336551.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||When will polls to agricultural societies be held, HC asks govt||Vijayawada: The AP high court on Thursday expressed displeasure over delay in conducting elections to primary agricultural credit societies in the state. Hearing a batch of petitions challenging the inaction of the government on the PACS elections issue and appointing person in-charges in place of elected bodies, the HC bench headed by Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C Praveen Kumar observed that conducting elections within the specified period is a constitutional mandate which cannot be postponed indefinitely. The government informed the court that the time period of PACS expired in June 2018, and orders were issued for extension of time period thrice.  A GO was issued in July 2019, exempting all PACS from clause 16(a) of section 115-D of Cooperative Societies Act which mandates holding election within six months of the expiry of time period. The court warned the government that necessary orders would be issued if it did not respond to address the issue. Constitution is over and above everything else and everyone should abide by it, the bench said. Directing the government to inform it after finalising elections to PACS, the HC posted the matter for further hearing to March 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/when-will-polls-to-agricultural-societies-be-held-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/81336584.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Civic polls: YSRC wins 570 out of 578 unanimous wards||VIJAYAWADA: The state election commission (SEC) on Thursday announced the list of unanimously elected councillors across the state. A total of 578 wards out of 2,794 wards were declared unanimous as only one person remained in fray. Altogether 20.68% of seats were declared unanimous across Andhra Pradesh. YSRC won the majority of unanimous seats, 570. Five TDP candidates, two independents and one BJP candidate got elected unanimously. The ruling party in the state won a large number of councillor seats in East Godavari district. Around 15 YSRC candidates from Tuni, 10 candidates from Ramachandrapuram, six councillors from Amalapuram municipality were declared unanimous. Altogether 23 YSRC councillors from Naidupet in Nellore district were elected unanimously. Opposition parties in the state condemned the unanimous election of a huge number of YSRC councillors. “Failure of SEC is clearly visible in conducting municipal elections. YSRC threatened our candidates and made forceful withdrawals. Despite our complaints, there is no action from the SEC,” said TDP leader Varla Ramiah. Jana Sena alleged that YSRC candidates forced their candidates to withdraw nominations. YSRC denied the allegations made by opposition parties. “Welfare and development activities of the state government gave us a huge number of unanimous seats. Opposition parties are afraid of contesting elections. They are simply making baseless allegations. We will clean sweep all municipalities and corporations,” said municipal minister Botcha Satyanarayana. Meanwhile, the SEC on Thursday cancelled the election process at the 7th ward of Tirupati after it received a complaint from candidate M Vijaya Lakshmi that someone had allegedly withdrawn the candidate’s nominations using forged documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/civic-polls-ysrc-wins-570-out-of-578-unanimous-wards/articleshow/81336591.cms||Venu Lanka
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Anganwadi centres in AP to turn into pre-schools||Vijayawada: Anganwadi centres in the state will be converted into pre-primary schools from this academic year. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday directed officials to make arrangements for the conversion before the start of the academic year. The chief minister, who reviewed Nadu-Nedu programme for anganwadi centres, was informed by officials that 44,119 anganwadi centres have been taken up for renovation under the programme. The anganwadi centres have already received 16 out of 26 teaching aids and the remaining 10 teaching aids will be distributed within a month, officials said. Jagan asked officials to provide English-Telugu dictionary in schools and ensure that students learn the meaning of a new word every day. The chief minister also sought a similar programme for anganwadi centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/anganwadi-centres-in-ap-to-turn-into-pre-schools/articleshow/81336610.cms||Gopi Dara
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||MLC seats: YSRC set for unanimous wins||Vijayawada: All six nominees of YSRC filed their nominations for MLC seats from the assembly quota on Thursday, the last day of filing nominations. Opposition TDP, which has only 23 MLAs, did not file any nominations, making it unanimous for the ruling party. The six candidates met chief minister and party chief Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy at his Tadepalli camp office in the morning and received the party’s B forms before filing their nominations. Former minister C Ramachandraiah, senior leader Duvvada Srinivas, sitting MLC and retired IPS officer Shaik Mohammad Iqbal, young leaders Balli Kalyan Chakravarthi and Challa Bhageeradha Reddy thanked the chief minister for nominating them to the legislative council. Srinivas had lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Srikakulam constituency, while Kalyan and Bhageeradha were given tickets on compassionate grounds after the death of Tirupati MP Balli Durgaprasad and MLC Challa Ramakrishna Reddy. Ramachandraiah, who served as Rajya Sabha member in the past and was also a minister, is tipped to be the next chairman of the council after the retirement of TDP’s M A Shariff on May 24. He is also being considered for the post of leader of the House, YSRC has decided to support Progressive Democratic Forum candidates Boddu Nageswara Rao (Godavari districts) and Shaik Sabjee (Krishna-Guntur) for the two MLC seats under teachers’ constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mlc-seats-ysrc-set-for-unanimous-wins/articleshow/81336620.cms||Gopi Dara
March 5, 2021||Vijayawada||State govt offers sops for women employees||Vijayawada: The state government has decided to celebrate the International Women’s Day on a grand note on March 8. Candle rallies would be organised across the state on March 7 while two woman constables from each wing would be felicitated. The government has also decided to announce a special day off for all women working in the police department on March 8. Women who have downloaded Disha app will get a 10% discount on new mobile phones at selected shopping malls on the day. The government will also organise annual health check-up for anganwadi employees. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has agreed to give additional five casual leaves to female employees and also announced Rs 5 lakh cash benefit to non-gazetted women employees. The government will also sign a MoU to ensure sanitary pads are made available in YSR Cheyutha shops at more affordable price compared to open market. Women across the state can also take up manufacturing of sanitary pads and market them through Hindustan Lever. The government will lay special focus on training of girls of Plus-1 and Plus-2 to prepare for competitive exams. The chief minister directed officials to set up hoardings with details of Disha initiatives for publicity in junior colleges and other higher educational institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-govt-offers-sops-for-women-employees/articleshow/81336629.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Back in school, kids suffer from short attention span, lack of confidence||Kolkata: The kids that have returned to classrooms are not the same that schools had sent home last March as the country went into a pandemic-induced lockdown. There is a visible slowness in their movements, their sitting posture needs immediate correction, they have short attention span, need frequent breaks, are unable to look the teachers in the eye and lack confidence to take two- or three-hour written tests and their handwriting is almost illegible. Teachers say the stress of “coming to school” is visible in the kids. By the time they sit down for exams, they look drained. They are found rubbing their eyes, frequently putting their heads down on desks, asking permission to visit the washroom repeatedly and suffering cramps from sitting. Alarmed schools are now holding counselling and interactive sessions despite the pressure of pre-board exams (for classes X and XII) to bring the children “back to life” and get used to the “old way” of classes. “The kids are coming prepared for their exams but are unable to sit comfortably through the duration of the test. They are clammy and shifty, unable to cope with the stress of coming out of their comfort zone after 11 months,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal of Loreto Convent, Entally. Many schools have asked teachers to chat informally with the students to get them to relax before they start writing their papers. They are also being allowed to take short breaks to take off their masks, drink water, take deep breaths and then re-start. Short attention span is a major cause of concern, say schools. According to teachers, it was a common practice during online classes to switch off cameras and lou-nge around. Now, sitting in one place under the gaze of a teacher/examiner is proving to be a problem. Kids have confided that they would often use their gadgets to chat or play games while classes were on. “The shift from online to physical classes will not be easy for the kids. Handwriting is the worst-affected because they had got used to a system where screenshots were taken as soon as teachers shared the screen. So the habit of taking notes is also gone,” said Richard Gasper, principal of St Augustine’s School. “Time management will come back with practice as will their writing skill. Even after exams are over we will continue with counselling and writing practice,” said Indrani Chattopadhyay, vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park. “The kids are fumbling with lab apparatus because of lack of practice and we were prepared for this. The teachers are almost handholding the children and we are hopeful that they will find their footing with extra practice,” she said. Psychiatrist J R Ram said the behavioural change was bound to happen. “Children had become used to a comfort zone and shifted their eyes from one screen to another continuously. This has wired them differently but it is a temporary impact. They can be weaned out of it in the physical space of the school. Informal time needs to be spent between teachers and students beyond the frame of academics. Kids are adaptable and will soon be out of this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/back-in-school-kids-suffer-from-short-attention-span-lack-of-confidence/articleshow/81339581.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||EC readies 3-tier security||Kolkata: The Election Commission has chalked out a three-tier security ring around polling booths to ensure there are no malpractices. It has already announced that civic volunteers cannot be deployed 72 hours prior to polling and till 24 hours after. The EC is looking into two complaints — one against the additional OC of Tollygunge police station filed by the Left, alleging circulation of politically motivated messages, and the other against Birbhum Trinamool Congress president Anubrata Mondal by Vote Karmi Aikya Mancha, which has claimed the leader made derogatory comments against central forces. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ec-readies-3-tier-security/articleshow/81338915.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 5, 2021||Ranchi||Guruji Kitchen to be launched soon||Ranchi: On Wednesday, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon in an unexpected gesture praised the erstwhile BJP government for the Mukhyamantri Daal Bhat Yojana — an initiative to cater nutritious food to the people of the state. However, he also announced to change name of the scheme to Guruji Kitchen. Supporters of JMM patriarch Shibu Soren fondly call him Guruji. Oraon on Wednesday had said, “A few years ago, I had visited the Mukhyamantri Dal Bhat Kendras in remote places of Gumla and Lohardaga districts. I ate at these centres a couple of times. They served rice, pulses and vegetables. The quality of the meal was good and hence, we decided to strengthen the scheme and open more centres in Jharkhand under the name Guruji kitchen.” At present, there are 377 Dal Bhat Kendras across 24 districts of the state. Of them, 11 operate as night centres. These centres, operated by self-help groups, feed people rice, pulses and vegetables with grams and soya chunks at Rs 5 a plate. Rice is supplied to these SHGs at Rs 1 per kilogram while the district administration procures pulses, fuel and other items through open tenders. These centres usually feed between 50 and 200 people each day. Shibu, an incumbent MP and a former chief minister of Jharkhand, is also fondly addressed as Dishom Guru by JMM functionaries and his followers. On Thursday, when TOI inquired about a formal launch date of Guruji Kitchen, Arun Kumar Singh, secretary of the state food, civil supplies and public distribution department said it will be launched in the new financial year. When asked about the budgetary allocations for the same, Singh said, “Funds allocated for the Mukhyamantri Dal Bhat Yojana will be used for the new scheme. In FY 2019-2020, the erstwhile Raghubar Das government had allocated Rs 70 crore for the schemes.” While the existing centres will remain, the government, through the new scheme, will increase their numbers and strengthen the infrastructure and improve the hygiene of the existing ones. “Meals will be served at Rs 5 a plate, but the nutrient value of food will be improved,” Oraon had said. Launched in 2011 by former chief minister Arjun Munda, the scheme was strengthened during the tenure of Das (2014-2019). In urban areas, non-profit organisations were roped in under the scheme to provide hygienic meals on wheels at Rs 10 a plate. In the 2019 poll canvassing, Raghubar Das had announced to start Mukhyamantri Canteen Yojana if voted to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/guruji-kitchen-to-be-launched-soon/articleshow/81336415.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 5, 2021||Ranchi||More paddy procurement centres to come up on need basis: CM||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday assured the lawmakers on the floor of the House during the ongoing budget session that the government will set up more paddy procurement centres across the state. Responding to a starred question asked by JMM’s Chaibasa legislator Dipak Birua on whether there are ample paddy procurement centres across the blocks, Soren said, “Our government is sensitive towards the farmers. I will direct all deputy commissioners to set up such centres over and above the existing ones on a need basis.” Earlier in the day, BJP disrupted the Question Hour and Zero Hour by descending into the well to press for a debate on illegal stone quarrying and sand mining across Jharkhand. The opposition members began their protests after Speaker Rabindranath Mahto overruled an adjournment motion moved by BJP's Jamua MLA Kedra Hazar over the issue. Later, Mahto agreed to convene a meeting of the business advisory committee after BJP MLA Neelkanth Singh Munda and JMM legislator Stephen Marandi sought the debate to end the logjam. “It is humiliating to see that the proceedings of the House are underway while opposition MLAs are sitting in the well to press for their demands and are being ignored,” Munda said before the session was adjourned for lunch. The House resumed after the lunch break, only to be adjourned for 40 minutes for the committee meeting, to end the impasse. When the session resumed, BJP’s Bhawanathpur MLA Bhanu Pratap Shahi raised the incident of the IED blast in West Singhbhum, which killed three policemen and injured two others. “It is a matter of grave concern that terror activities have increased since this government assumed power. It makes us wonder whether any these terror groups enjoy the protection of the government,” Shahi remarked, leading to an uproar from the treasury bench. The House then took up the debate on the budget, which was tabled on Wednesday by finance minister Rameshwar Oraon. Praising the budget, Stephen Marandi called it a document that attempts to fulfil the aspirations of the state’s people. BJP’s chief whip and Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan, however, termed the budget proposals as an eyewash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/more-paddy-procurement-centres-to-come-up-on-need-basis-cm/articleshow/81336470.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 5, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Couple dwarfs height, hitches in matrimony||RAJKOT: Match-making may be a heavenly affair, but marriages are definitely earthy matters. While for some, it may be cakewalk, others may have to walk long for the cake, literally. And so it was for Rafique Mansuri, a 32-year-old man from Amreli and Madina Banu, a Gir Somnath district resident, who found marriage to be indeed a very tall issue. Reason being their stunted height. Rafique’s height never increased beyond one-and-half feet, while Madina Banu never went beyond two feet. Mansuri had almost given up on finding a perfect partner for himself, until providence guarded its secret well for three decades. And as they say, all’s well if it ends well, the duo solemnized their wedding on March 2 in a simple ceremony much to their families’ delight. While the families kept the guest list short, curious wedding crashers made it the most talked-about affair in entire Jafrabad taluka of Amreli. Rafique has his own paan shop in Timbi village of Jafrabad and also helps his father repair electronics appliances. “My son earns enough money and is self-made, but we were always worried about finding him a suitable girl,” said Rafique’s father Kasam Mansuri, adding that their quest literally spanned years of search. “We happily came to know about Banu of Fatsar village of Gir Gadhada taluka,” said Rafique’s friend Madni Naya. The two families met and the prospective couple too liked each other and so, the marriage was fixed for March 2, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-couple-dwarfs-all-height-complications-in-happy-matrimony/articleshow/81336582.cms||---
March 5, 2021||Kolkata||Echoing slogan, TMC likely to bank on women candidates||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress is likely to field nearly double the number of women candidates than the 41 it had fielded in the 2016 assembly polls to make its campaign slogan — Bangla Nijer Meye Ke Chae (Bengal wants its own daughter) — resonate. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to announce the candidate list on Friday, the same day of the week she had announced the candidate list in the 2011 and 2016 assembly polls. It is also largely expected that she will lead a rally in Kolkata on International Women’s Day on March 8. As many as 49% of West Bengal’s 7.3 crore votes are women. The Trinamool candidate list in 2016 had featured 70 new faces. Apart from 45 women candidates, that list had 57 minority faces. In 2011, when Trinamool was in an alliance with Congress, it had announced 228 candidates, including 31 women and 45 minority faces. “In 2011 and 2016, the party had around 14-15% women candidates. We believe it will be over 30% this time,” a senior leader said. Officially, Trinamool dismissed these as speculations. “The 12-member election committee has endorsed CM Mamata Banerjee to decide the final candidate list. Till she formally announces, everything is rumour and speculation. We have no comment on it,” party MP Saugata Roy said on Thursday. He is a party poll panel member. According to Trinamool insiders, the list is likely to give a wide representation to apolitical candidates drawn from Tollywood and the arts fraternity. A couple of sportspersons, including cricketer Manoj Tiwary, are also in the running to make the cut. With all eyes on Tolly stars, it is largely expected Raj Chakraborty, Soham Chakraborty, Saayoni Ghosh and June Maliah may figure on the list, with some even suggesting that Raj may be fielded from his North 24 Parganas home town and Soham from Midnapore. But these could not be independently confirmed. Trinamool has already declared that octogenarian and ailing MLAs will not be fielded. Defections have also left several seats vacant. Senior party leaders indicated the replacements could be party faithfuls and young leaders with public acceptance. “The candidate list will be a culmination of a year-long process in which feedback was taken from various channels – party’s field workers and people. The findings have been shared with the party leadership,” said a leader. In Kolkata, all eyes will be on Bhowanipore, CM Banerjee’s assembly seat. It is largely expected she will contest only in Nandigram, but Banerjee had publicly stated in her January Nandigram meeting that she may contest from both Bhowanipore and Nandigram. Indications are if Banerjee wins both, she may vacate Bhowanipore and remain a Nandigram MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/echoing-slogan-tmc-likely-to-bank-on-women-candidates/articleshow/81339120.cms||---
