March 6, 2021||Chennai||New-found interest in books bring many to Chennai’s annual book fair||The book fair at the YMCA grounds in Nandanam is an annual affair, which usually happens in January, closer to Pongal holidays. This time, Chennaiites thought they would almost miss out on the annual event because of the pandemic. Though a bit late this year, the book fair seems to have brought a cheer to book lovers in the city. “We thought the footfall would be low. But to our surprise, people are coming and buying books just like how it was earlier,” says K Nagarajan, vice president of the Booksellers and Publishers Association of South India (BAPASI). Interestingly, there are many new book lovers who drop in to buy books, says Nagarajan, “Earlier, people would come with the names of certain books in mind. They come, pick up those books and leave. But this year, we are seeing many people spending time here, going through books on display and buying whatever they like. I think, during the lockdown, many people picked up the habit of reading. Now, it has become part of their daily routine. Despite the boom in digital content, people are still buying books. Physical book sales won’t get hit because of e-books, especially in the case of Tamil books,” says Nagarajan. Jayashree Krishnan, a young banking professional, says, “I picked up the habit of reading during the lockdown. Till then, I didn’t have time to read books. Or at least, I didn’t take that effort to find time to read. Now, it’s part of my daily routine. No matter how busy I am, I find time to read every day. I read a lot of spiritual books and that habit has brought a great difference to my lifestyle. Since reading is a habit that I picked up recently, this was the first time I visited the book fair in the city and it was a great experience,” signs off Jayashree with a smile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-found-interest-in-books-bring-many-to-chennais-annual-book-fair/articleshow/81351601.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata eateries help employees hit by low tipping post COVID||It’s been almost a year since life came to a standstill after the announcement of the national lockdown. While many restaurants succumbed to the pressure, others reopened after unlock and endured losses for months while waiting for crowds to return. By now, footfalls at most places are back to pre-COVID days, but patrons are wary of paying tips like before, what with added burden resulting from job and salary cuts, rise in sanitisation charges and fuel price hike. This has prompted city restaurateurs to come to the rescue of their employees for whom tips serve as a major component of their income. Tips reduce to half of pre-COVID days On Valentine’s Day – one of the busiest occasions for city restaurants after the lockdown – a Patuli-based Chinese restaurant recorded sales worth`2 lakh, but the total amount of tips collected was less than `400. While this may have been a one-off incident, most city restaurants are complaining that customers are no longer generous with their tips to waiters and most of them are getting only half of what they used to get in February last year. Debaditya Chaudhury, the owner of two Chinese and Mughlai restaurant chains in the city, said that while the footfall has reached almost the exact figure as before, the collected tip amount is as low as 40%. Similarly, the waiters of a dhaba chain and one of the iconic pubs on Park Street are struggling to get back to their previous numbers in terms of tips. NC Das from the pub told us, “Though it is a variable, tips are a big source of the waiters’ monthly income. At least that was the case till before the lockdown.” Agreeing to Das, Dibyajyoti Chaudhuri, the head of brand and communication of a Ballygunge-based Bengali restaurant which has seen a 50% decline in tips, said, “Tips depend on the discretion of the guests and the restaurants cannot make a rule on that. So, if the guests are not in a mood to tip, we will have to accept that.” Sanitisation, fuel prices, salary & job cuts burden customers Sanitisation, fuel prices, salary & job cuts burden customers According to international standards, one should tip at least 10% of the bill to the waiter. But in Kolkata, it was no more than 2.5-5%. After the pandemic, it has gone way below that. Explaining the reason behind it, Anjana Dutta, the owner of the Patuli restaurant, said, “Eating out at least twice or thrice a month was common for the general public before COVID. But the pandemic caused many people to lose their jobs or endure pay cuts, which is why they do not like to indulge as much as before,” she added. Another reason for tips to go down is the increase in sanitisation charges. Several restaurants add that to the bill, leaving customers with no choice but to spend more. Debaditya, whose restaurants used to levy such charges, said, “After shelling extra bucks for sanitisation, the customers are not willing to tip well.” Besides, the recent fuel price hike has also added to the burden of common people. Restaurant owners help Most restaurants pay fixed salaries to their employees and tips are an incentive that they get. So, no restaurant is legally bound to pay waiters extra for the decline in tips. To stay afloat after the lockdown, several restaurants even cut their employees’ salaries. But now that the footfalls have started to go back to pre-COVID days, a few restaurants are extending a helping hand to their employees. Anjana, for instance, has started providing two extra meals to her workers. “It may not be a huge help. But in these times of adversity, something is better than nothing,” she said. Debaditya has started giving a special allowance to his team. Milan Dutta from a chain of dhabas in the city said that they have come up with a special incentive programme for their waiters. “Suppose when we introduce a new dish, if a waiter can sell that to a customer, he gets some money,” he explained. On an average, each restaurant collects tips worth `15,000 to `40,000 per month, depending on the location and season. The money collected through tips is divided among the waiters and the managers. “At our restaurant, the tip is around `2,000 for the waiters and `4,000 for the managers. Since it is not a part of our salary, I usually save it to buy something important or expensive at the end of the year,” said Subrata Bagchi, who waits on tables at a Mughlai joint. For Prabir Raha, a food-delivery personnel-turned-waiter at Anjana’s restaurant, the two free meals a day are helping him save a few bucks. “Earlier, I used to bring my lunch from home. But now I don’t need to, so I am saving some money there. In the present situation, every penny counts,” he added. Vaccine keeps hopes alive Atif Ahmad, a waiter at a Park Street pub, had to return to his home in Balasore, Odisha, during the lockdown and came back to rejoin work in July. “The difference in tipping has been evident ever since the pub reopened. But I’m just glad that this place didn’t shut down like many other establishments in the city. With the vaccine here, I’m hopeful that the old days will come back soon,” said Atif. Recounting a special incident, he added, “After drinking, people tend to tip generously. Last Puja, a guest tipped me `2,000. Of course, the money was divided amongst us, but it still made our evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-eateries-help-employees-hit-by-low-tipping-post-covid/articleshow/81354990.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
March 6, 2021||World||Pak Army chief, ISI chief should not have met Imran Khan after Senate 'battering': Maryam Nawaz||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan opposition leader Maryam Nawaz on Friday said the country's military leadership "should not have been seen" with Prime Minister Imran Khan, a day after he suffered an embarrassing upset in the Senate election. Speaking to reporters in Islamabad, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) vice president accused Imran Khan of dragging the institutions into politics after he met with Army Chief Qamar Javed Bajwa, Dawn reported. Bajwa had met Imran at Prime Minister House on Thursday. Director-General of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Lt Gen Faiz Hameed was also present during the meeting. The Army has long been blamed for controlling the government in Pakistan. No statement on the meeting was issued by the Prime Minister's Office, which normally gives out press releases on such interactions. However, Dawn reported that people were quick to link the meeting to the latest political developments in the country following the Senate elections in which the ruling coalition suffered an upset on the seat for the federal capital where Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh lost to the joint opposition candidate Yousuf Raza Gilani. The defeat has forced the Prime Minister to seek a vote of confidence from the National Assembly. Speaking about the meeting today, Maryam said that Imran Khan had called and met the heads of institutions in the lawns of PM House "on the day he suffered a humiliating defeat [and] his members expressed a lack of confidence in him and voted against him". "Is he not dragging the institutions into politics?" she said of the premier. Addressing the military leadership, she said: "You should not have been seen sitting with Imran Khan at any cost a day after he suffered a battering [and] faced the people's and public representatives' wrath, when he (Imran) was busy in machinations and rigging." In a close vote, former Prime Minister Gilani of the opposition Pakistan People's Party (PPP) defeated Shaikh, who currently serves as the country's finance minister, by 169 to 164 votes, according to unofficial results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-army-chief-isi-chief-should-not-have-met-imran-khan-after-senate-battering-maryam-nawaz/articleshow/81355695.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Business||Muthoot Finance chairman MG George passes away||KOCHI: MG George Muthoot, the chairman of Muthoot Finance which is the largest gold loan NBFC in the country, passed away this evening in his New Delhi home after a fall, according to the family. The 71-year-old Muthoot was for long based in the National Capital even though his diversified group that runs over 20 businesses from gold loans to securities, realty estate to infrastructure, hospitals to hospitality and education, is headquartered in Kochi making it one of the largest business houses in the state. The company had not issued any statement till the filing of the story and its spokesperson could not be reached for confirmation. Mathai George George Muthoot was born in November 1949 in Kozhencherry in the present day Pathanamthitta district of Kerala as the son of M George Muthoot, who began the finance business and as the grandson of Muthoot Ninan Mathai, the group founder. After graduating from the Manipal Institute of Technology with a degree in mechanical engineering, Muthoot joined the family business as an office assistant and in 1979 he became the managing director and group chairman in February 1993. In the early 1980s, the large family broke up and the family empire was divided between the cousin brothers and this led to the creation of Muthoot Pappachen Group, another diversified group in the state which runs rival gold loan company Muthoot Fincorp. The Muthoot Group's flagship Muthoot Finance had a loan book of close to Rs 56,000 crore in the December 2020 quarter. The group has grown manifold under him--when he took over it had just 31 branches but has over 5,550 branches across the country and outside today and the group. Muthoot leaves behind wife Sara George and two sons. While eldest son George M George is the executive director of the group, the youngest son Alexander George is the director of the group and the second son Paul Muthoot George was murdered in 2009. He was also a lay trustee of the powerful Orthodox Church in the state and was also a member of the national executive committee of Ficci and headed the Ficci Kerala council. Forbes Asia listed him as the 44th richest Indian in 2020 with close to USD5 billion assets and the richest Keralite.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/muthoot-finance-chairman-mg-george-passes-away/articleshow/81355821.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Youth arrested, arms recovered in Jammu’s Reasi||JAMMU: J&K Police on Friday arrested a 21-year-old youth from Reasi district’s Mahore and recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition, sent by Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Khobaib (originally from Doda and now based in Pakistan), from a hideout based on information obtained from the youth. IGP (Jammu Zone) Mukesh Singh said the accused, Reyaz Ahmed, a resident of Kundedhan Chassana, was arrested based on a specific tip-off. “During interrogation in the presence of Mahore executive magistrate, Reyaz revealed he had hidden a cache of arms and ammunition at a hideout located between Makhidhar and upper Shikari bridge in Mahore,” he added. Accordingly, a joint team of the Army and J&K Police launched a search operation in the area and recovered two UBGL/MGL grenades, one Chinese grenade, two No. 36 grenades, one RPG ammunition, three mortar bombs, 2kg gunpowder, 250g explosives, 30 INSAS rounds, 20 sniper rifle rounds and 30 AK-47 rounds. The cache of arms and ammunition was to be delivered to someone from Gool in Ramban district. “Khobaib has been continuously trying to send in money and arms in Jammu region besides trying to revive terror activities in the Chenab valley by recruiting youth for the outfit,” the IGP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/youth-arrested-arms-recovered-in-jammus-reasi/articleshow/81355919.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
March 6, 2021||India||Mirwaiz continues to be in house detention: Hurriyat||SRINAGAR: Two days after J&K authorities reportedly released the chairman of the moderate faction of All Parties Hurriyat Conference, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, from house detention, APHC on Friday said their leader continues to be under house arrest notwithstanding the announcement. Mirwaiz, like many other J&K politicians, was put under house arrest in August 2019 when the Centre scrapped the special status of the erstwhile state. Issuing a statement, APHC said: “Government authorities went back on their decision… Late last (Thursday) night, police officials visited the Mirwaiz’s residence (at Nigeen in Srinagar’s Hazratbal area) to convey to him that he continues to be under house arrest, and will not be allowed to go to Jamia Masjid for Friday prayers and Majlis waz-o-tableeg.” Later, talking to TOI, Mirwaiz said: “Authorities deployed additional forces outside my house on Friday morning to prevent me from going to Jamia Masjid for Friday sermons.” He described the action of the government as unwarranted and dictatorial as initially he was given to understand that he would be released and later was prevented from moving outside his house. “Recently, the minister of state for home affairs had categorically stated in Parliament that no one in J&K is under house arrest. If that is so, why does the Mirwaiz continue to be detained,” Hurriyat asked in its statement. It said that this “imperious decision” of the authorities has hurt the sentiments of people and further aggrieved them “as they were eagerly awaiting the Mirwaiz’s release from arbitrary house arrest”. Meanwhile, several people were injured in sporadic incidents of stone pelting around Jamia Masjid in Nowhatta after Friday prayers. Police had to resort to cane charge and even used teargas shells to disperse the mob, reports said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mirwaiz-continues-to-be-in-house-detention-hurriyat/articleshow/81355940.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 6, 2021||World||Pakistan election panel rejects Imran’s allegation of corruption in senate polls||ISLAMABAD: The Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) on Friday rejected the narrative of Prime Minister Imran Khan and his cabinet members that the electoral body was responsible for protecting corrupt people by holding the recent senate polls with secret ballots. The statement was issued by the ECP a day after Imran questioned the body’s transparency in a televised address to the nation, saying that corruption took place under the commission’s nose. “It is a shocking matter that under the same staff in the same election under the same roof on the same day, what they won is acceptable and what they lost is unacceptable. Is this not an open contradiction?” the commission questioned, adding: “The ECP rejects this.” “The post-election responses we received through the media are disheartening especially what a few federal cabinet members and specifically what the honourable Prime Minister of Pakistan said in his yesterday’s [Thursday] address,” added the ECP. The commission stressed that the senate elections were conducted in accordance with the law and the constitution, adding that the law could not be ignored or violated to please anyone. Every political party and politician should have the courage to accept defeat, it said. The electoral body said that if someone disagreed with the ECP’s results, they should take the constitutional course and come forward with evidence. “Do not resort to mudslinging at national institutions,” the statement read. The anti-government Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) — the alliance of a dozen opposition parties — pulled off a spectacular upset in the senate polls on March 3 as former prime minister and Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) stalwart Yousuf Raza Gilani outvoted finance minister and ruling party’s candidate Abdul Hafeez Sheikh by a slim margin of five votes on the Senate’s general seat for Islamabad. The National Assembly was the electoral college for the contest. Gilani bagged 169 votes against 164 of his rival, while seven votes were rejected. The poll results forced the PM to seek a vote of trust from the National Assembly, for which a session of parliament has been summoned on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-election-panel-rejects-imrans-allegation-of-corruption-in-senate-polls/articleshow/81355979.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 6, 2021||---||AIADMK gives BJP Kanniyakumari LS & 20 MLA seats||CHENNAI: After several rounds of talks, the BJP late on Friday sealed a pact with the ruling AIADMK, settling for 20 MLA seats and Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat in the polls to be held on April 6.  AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam, joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami, BJP general secretary and TN in-charge C T Ravi and state president of the BJP, L Murugan, had signed the pact dated March 5. Earlier in the day, the AIADMK released its first list of six candidates, fielding the CM and his deputy from their home turf — Edappadi and Bodinaikkanur. After BJP’s poll strategist and Union minister Amit Shah held nearly three-hour talks with AIADMK leaders EPS and OPS last Saturday, Union minister and TN election in-charge G Kishan Reddy and state BJP leaders held multiple rounds of negotiations with the ruling party. The deal was delayed due to a purported disagreement over sharing of some constituencies in the western belt, particularly in Coimbatore district, between both the parties. “AIADMK will extend full cooperation in all the 20 constituencies to be fought by the BJP in the assembly poll and the Kanyakumari bypoll,” AIADMK leaders declared in the agreement. AIADMK has already allocated 23 seats to one of its ally, PMK, while it continues to hold talks with other smaller parties, including Vijayakanth’s DMDK. Watch Tamil Nadu assembly polls 2021: AIADMK-BJP seat sharing pact sealed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/aiadmk-gives-bjp-kanniyakumari-ls-20-mla-seats/articleshow/81356402.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 6, 2021||India||AIADMK gives BJP Kanniyakumari LS & 20 MLA seats||CHENNAI: After several rounds of talks, the BJP late on Friday sealed a pact with the ruling AIADMK, settling for 20 MLA seats and Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat in the polls to be held on April 6.  AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam, joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami, BJP general secretary and TN in-charge C T Ravi and state president of the BJP, L Murugan, had signed the pact dated March 5. Earlier in the day, the AIADMK released its first list of six candidates, fielding the CM and his deputy from their home turf — Edappadi and Bodinaikkanur. After BJP’s poll strategist and Union minister Amit Shah held nearly three-hour talks with AIADMK leaders EPS and OPS last Saturday, Union minister and TN election in-charge G Kishan Reddy and state BJP leaders held multiple rounds of negotiations with the ruling party. The deal was delayed due to a purported disagreement over sharing of some constituencies in the western belt, particularly in Coimbatore district, between both the parties. “AIADMK will extend full cooperation in all the 20 constituencies to be fought by the BJP in the assembly poll and the Kanyakumari bypoll,” AIADMK leaders declared in the agreement. AIADMK has already allocated 23 seats to one of its ally, PMK, while it continues to hold talks with other smaller parties, including Vijayakanth’s DMDK. Watch Tamil Nadu assembly polls 2021: AIADMK-BJP seat sharing pact sealed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aiadmk-gives-bjp-kanniyakumari-ls-20-mla-seats/articleshow/81356436.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 6, 2021||Goa||FC Goa stay in the hunt with fighting 2-2 draw against Mumbai||Margao:FC Goa extended their unbeaten record in the Indian Super League (ISL) to 14 games with a fighting 2-2 draw against Mumbai City FC in the first leg semifinal at the Nehru stadium in Fatorda on Friday. When the teams last met, there were six goals, late drama and plenty of entertainment, but no winner. At the end of 90 minutes at Fatorda, there was very little to separate the teams as they left everything to fight for in the second leg on Monday. Igor Angulo (20th) and Saviour Gama (59th) gave Goa the lead twice, only for Mumbai to fight back with goals from Hugo Boumous (38th) and Mourtada Fall (62nd), both of whom were wearing Goa colours during last season’s semifinal. Goa would be the happier of the two teams, and were probably looking at this result, never mind what coach Juan Ferrando would say. Without two influential foreigners – Ivan Gonzalez and Alberto Noguera – there were just four foreign players on the field and a bad situation turned worse when right-back Seriton Fernandes had to be stretchered off the field. His place was taken by debutant Leander D’Cunha. Mumbai, the league champions, smelt blood right at the start with coach Sergio Lobera fielding an all-attacking team that had Boumous, Adam Le Fondre and Bartholomew Ogbeche, who between them have 21 goals and 10 assists this season. It were Goa, though, who drew first blood. Mumbai had survived a close penalty call earlier in the game with referee Pranjal Banerjee least interested. The referee, though, had no hesitation in pointing at the spot when Mandar Rao Desai – out of place at right back -- brought down the irrepressible Jorge Ortiz, quite a handful for the opponents to handle. Angulo stepped up for penalty duty and sent goalkeeper Amrinder Singh the wrong way for his 14th goal, now joint leader in the race for the Golden Boot. Mumbai had decent chances but either Ogbeche misfired from close or goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh rose to the occasion. Mumbai got the equaliser through a quick free-kick taken by Ahmed Jahouh. Hugo got on to the end of that ball and made his way towards the goal. The French attacker was lucky to have got the ball after hitting Gama, and he made Goa pay with a classy finish from just outside the box. Goa took the lead for the second time just before the hour mark. As Gama moved the ball on the left flank, no Mumbai player closed him down. The left-back took that invitation and surprised Amrinder with a grounder that crashed into the net. Mumbai hit back less than two minutes later. Again, from a familiar route. It was Jahouh who floated the ball and an unmarked Fall did the rest with a calm header. Both teams pressed for the winner, but knowing there are still 90 minutes left to be played, held themselves back. Lobera, surprisingly, didn’t make any substitution. Goa were up in arms at the fag end when Fall ended up with a dangerous challenge on Princeton Rebello. The referee flashed the yellow, drawing a furious reaction from the Goans, who believed it should have been a red card for a foul that left the midfielder with a fractured toe. Fall, just like Mumbai, can now fight another day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-stay-in-the-hunt-with-fighting-2-2-draw-against-mumbai/articleshow/81356448.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s women bikers have a mission on wheels||When it comes to making a change in society, some people walk the talk and, well, some ride it. Meet a group of women bikers from Mumbai who did just that recently. In the run-up to International Women's Day on March 8, they embarked on a special 100-km ride to Vasai Fort to help get rid of trash and other pollutants there. However, this is not the first time they are riding on a mission like this, they have done several biking trails with a cause. We caught up with them as they were all set to vroom away on their motorcycles. ‘Vasai Fort clean-up ride was our way to mark International Women’s Day’During the trail to the fortDr Aparna Bandodkar (L) and Abhinaya Natarjan (R)Around more than a dozen participants — all dressed up in their biking gear of leather jackets, boots, jeans, bandanas and glares — set off from Goregaon in the early hours. Aparna Bandodkar, a Andheri-based dentist, spearheaded the ride. She shares, “We usually celebrate International Women’s Day with just a themed ride like a breakfast ride. But this time we wanted to go beyond the cliched rides and take up a different initiative. We shortlisted Vasai Fort as we know how badly it has been littered. People go there on a picnic or simply, hang out there and end up leaving remnants of their visit everywhere. It has become very dirty. Eating junk food is one thing, but turning your home and areas into a junkyard is something else! What’s more, birds, animals like cows and dogs ingest the rubbish thrown around and they fall ill. We decided to get into action and do something about it.” She adds, “It didn’t take long to get everyone to join in on the clean-up as we love any excuse to get onto our bikes.” Dimple Singh is also part of the group. When she’s not working in healthcare, you will find the Kandivali-based resident riding on the gorgeous snowy trails in Himachal. She also never misses an opportunity to ride for a cause. “I’ve previously done rides to save the earth, for beach clean-ups and now, I am a part of this Vasai Fort clean-up ride. In two hours, we picked up so much trash, used glass and plastic bottles, masks, paper, glasses and other items. It was an eye-opener. Why can’t people use dustbins to discard their rubbish instead of causing health hazards?" She adds, "We even moved onto a nearby road and began to clean that as well. What we did was just a tip of the iceberg. We should keep doing such activities as it’s up to us to keep our city clean.” ‘It’s great to see our women biking community growing in this city’More women are becoming part of the biking fraternity todayWith the COVID situation throwing a curb on travel, biking makes for a safe way to get outdoors for the growing community of the women bikers in the city. Joyce Parker, a flight attendant and biker from Mira Road, shares, “I do the annual Indian Army ride at Mira Road on August 15 and one for breast cancer awareness at Trichy. That apart, we also go off-roading to Tansa Lake and Aamby Valley. In fact, we are also looking forward to the tree-plantation ride this Sunday at a village ahead of Lonavala. Our women biking community is growing and that’s great to see. Freedom lies in being bold and choosing to do what you love and that's what we do.” Abhinaya Natarajan, sustainable living exponent, is also part of several women biking groups. She reveals, “This is happening not just in Mumbai, but everywhere. Our bikers’ group is like a family, we discuss things as we are from different fields and share life’s highs and lows. It also feels so empowering to ride together; so often we have people stop, stare and admire us as we pass them on the road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-women-bikers-have-a-mission-on-wheels/articleshow/81354795.cms||Ismat Tahseen
March 6, 2021||Goa||I-League: Churchill Bros on track with Fredsan’s late winner||Churchill Brothers FC once again showed character and fighting spirit in their dramatic 2-1 win over Real Kashmir FC in the first of their five I-League final phase games at the Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata on Friday. Top scorer Luka Majcen scored his eighth goal of the season to put Churchill ahead before the break. However, Cameroonian striker Lukman Adefemi equalised for Kashmir before the hour mark with an exquisite finish. When it looked like the teams were settling for a draw, substitute Fredsan Marshall came up with a long ranger in the dying minutes that gave Churchill an important win. Churchill not only extended their unbeaten run to 11 matches but also stretched their lead at the top of the table to six points. They moved to 25 points while Kashmir remained with 17 points and dropped to fifth spot. Churchill started strongly in the opening minutes with Luka and Clayvin Zuniga trying to create space. They did show intent, but were denied by goalkeeper Anuj Kumar. Kashmir started with only Lukman upfront and hardly created anything meaningful. Churchill’s defensive pairing of Keenan Almeida and Joseph Clemente did not have much to worry in the absence of Lebanese centre-back Hamza Kheir. It was the Kashmir defence that lost concentration before the break as Zohib Amiri’s lapse allowed Majcen space and time to slot in past the helpless goalkeeper. Kashmir regrouped and looked organised in the second half. They were unlucky in the 53rd minute when Chesterpaul Lyngdoh had thought he had equalised, but the referee ruled it out for a foul. Moments later, Pratesh Shirodkar provided a perfect cross that met Mason Robertson’s header but Churchill keeper Shilton Paul tipped the ball to safety. Clemente then came up with a crucial goalline save to deny Danish Farooq but there was no denying Kashmir the equaliser in the 67th minute when Lukman guided Pratesh’s well-measured cross past Shilton. Kashmir were buoyed with the equaliser and looked dangerous again when Lukman got hold of the ball in the box. But this time the forward ballooned over from an ideal position. Coach Fernando Varela made a double change with six minutes left, introducing Fredsan and Israil Gurung. The move paid off in added time when captain Bazie Armand found Fredsan in the centre. With Kashmir’s defence tracking back, the Churchill midfielder unleashed a powerful left-foot grounder that stunned the rival goalkeeper and brought cheers to the Goan camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-league-churchill-bros-on-track-with-fredsans-late-winner/articleshow/81356601.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
March 6, 2021||India||Indian farmer shot dead in firing by Nepal cops||PILIBHIT: An Indian farmer was shot dead and another critically injured when Nepal police opened fire along the international border in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday evening. While the farmers’ families said they had only been sowing the season’s sugarcane crop, Nepal police reportedly said they were “smuggling drugs into the country”. The body of the farmer, who was shot, is yet to be handed over by Nepal, where an autopsy will be conducted. It was around 7pm on Thursday that four men — Govinda Singh, 26; Gurmej Singh, 30; Resham Singh, 22, and Pappu Singh, 26 — were in the sugarcane fields of Bhoomi Dan village along the India-Nepal border in UP’s Pilibhit. “They were sowing the fresh crop when cops from the other side started firing at them. They ran for their lives,” Govinda’s father Gurdev Singh said. “Between border pillars 38 and 39, on no man’s land, my son was shot dead.” Gurmej, too, was shot. He has been admitted to King George’s Medical College in Lucknow in a critical state with injuries to his abdomen and right leg. “They were well within Indian territory,” his father Kashmir Singh said. The two others, Resham and Pappu, were not injured and are being questioned by the police. Nepal police, however, had a different narrative. “Nepal police officials told us that the four Indians were carrying drugs. When intercepted, they opened fire first — about 200m inside Nepal’s territory — and were shot at in retaliation and self-defence,” Pilibhit SP Jai Prakash Yadav said. When asked whether any drugs were seized, Yadav said his Nepalese counterpart would send him a report on this later. “I do not have information about this at the moment.” Yadav was among the officials, including ADG (Bareilly zone) Avinash Chandar, Pilibhit district magistrate Pulkit Khare, SSB 49th Battalion and Intelligence Bureau officials who held an emergency meeting with Nepalese officials at SSB’s Kamalapuri border post on Friday afternoon. Part of the Nepalese delegation were Kanchanpur district magistrate Ram Prakash, SP Uma Prasad Chaturvedi and commandant of the Armed Police Force of Nepal Virendra Kumar. “The talks were held in a cordial atmosphere… The Nepalese officials have assured us that action will be taken only after a fair investigation… To ensure such incidents do not recur, some modalities have been fixed. A WhatsApp group has been created for officials. SSB, Armed Police Force of Nepal, UP Police, Nepal Police, forest officials on both sides and delegates of the DMs will start joint foot patrolling,” ADG Chandar said. “Following a proposal from our side, Nepal may send a joint team of their officials and citizens to India to answer questions Indian locals, families of the deceased and the injured, and Indian officials may have.” At Bhoomi Dan, along the border, one company of Police Armed Constabulary and forces from five police stations have been deployed. This comes nine months after another Indian national was gunned down near the Nepal border in Bihar’s Sitamarhi. At that point, as in Pilibhit, there is no fencing along the border. SSB had said at the time that the firing had happened “deep inside Nepalese territory”. The Sitamarhi SP had added that the case was a “fallout of local issues”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-farmer-shot-dead-in-firing-by-nepal-cops/articleshow/81356990.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 6, 2021||India||As talks stall, govt links east Ladakh pullback to peace at all friction points||NEW DELHI: Amid signs that talks between India and China on disengagement at other friction points had stalled, India on Thursday said there would be no de-escalation of forces in eastern Ladakh until there was disengagement in all friction areas. “It is our expectation that the Chinese side will work with us, both through the WMCC and senior commanders’ meetings, to ensure that disengagement in the remaining areas is completed at the earliest,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. This, he added, “would allow” both sides to “consider de-escalation of forces in eastern Ladakh as that alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity”. As before, India emphasised that “progress in the bilateral relationship” would happen only when there was peace on the border. After the first round of disengagement on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso, which saw the creation of a ‘buffer’ zone which would not be patrolled, talks between the two sides to negotiate a disengagement in Dogra-Hot Springs appear to be going nowhere. The last meeting of the military commanders led to a stalemate of sorts. Ultimately, India wants to restore its patrolling rights in the Depsang plains where Chinese troops have prevented Indians from going up to Patrolling Points 10 to 13. The MEA spokesperson said foreign minister S Jaishankar, in his conversation with his counterpart Wang Yi, “had emphasised that with the completion of disengagement in the Pangong Lake area, the two sides should now move quickly to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh”. “A prolongation of the existing situation is not in the interest of either side,” Srivastava added. Another WMCC meeting between the two sides has not yet happened as a follow-up to the senior commanders’ meeting. “The senior commanders in their last meeting (on February 20) had noted that the disengagement in Pangong Lake area was a significant step forward and it provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues along the LAC in the western sector,” Srivastava said. The slowdown in the disengagement comes after Indian military commanders said China had withdrawn without a win. Many others have said that the creation of a buffer zone itself could be seen as a success for China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-talks-stall-govt-links-east-ladakh-pullback-to-peace-at-all-friction-points/articleshow/81357293.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Delhi riots: HC seeks cops’ affidavit on leak of chargesheet||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court said on Friday that an offence of criminal breach of trust or theft was made out after contents of a chargesheet were leaked before the court took cognizance in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots last year. “When the court has not taken cognizance, how did it come out? If it comes in the media, it is proved that your property has been passed on,” Justice Mukta Gupta observed, asking the police commissioner to file an affidavit explaining the leak. Justice Gupta said if a police officer had leaked the contents of the chargesheet, it amounted to abuse of power. And if the chargesheet was taken from someone entrusted with it, then it was a case of theft. “Fix responsibility on whomsoever is responsible. It is a proved allegation (of leakage) once it comes in the media. It no longer remains an allegation now. You have to find out who has done it,” the court told the counsel for the police, while hearing a plea by jailed Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha alleging misconduct by police officials in leaking his disclosure statement, recorded by the probe agency during the investigation, to the media. Advocate Amit Mahajan, representing Delhi Police, maintained that the contents of the supplementary chargesheet were not leaked to the media by the police. He said the responsibility cannot be fixed on police as they have not leaked it. But the high court was not impressed and pointed out that it was a property in the hands of a police officer, and “if your officer has leaked it, it’s abuse of power, (and) if for sanction this was entrusted to someone else, it’s criminal breach of trust, and if the media has taken it away, then it’s a theft. So, in any case, an offence is made out.” Appearing for Tanha, advocate Siddharth Aggarwal said even as HC had put the police under scanner for leaking his client’s confessional statement, the contents of a supplementary chargesheet recently filed in the trial court, including portions of the documents, were with the media the very next day, even as the accused waited for a copy. The lawyer informed the high court that even the trial court had expressed its displeasure at the media for reporting exact contents of the chargesheet even before cognisance was taken. Taking a serious view, Justice Gupta said the earlier order was clear that there would not be any media briefing till the charges are framed. “You file an additional affidavit, we will see what action has to be taken. We will see if they can do indirectly what they can’t do directly,” the judge told Mahajan, cautioning that “don't do the inquiry as done by you earlier in case of a vigilance probe,” and listed the matter for further hearing on March 25. The high court had earlier pulled up the police over its vigilance inquiry report, conducted on the allegation of leaking to the media confessional statement of Tanha. Tanha’s counsel submitted that apart from examining the question as to the steps taken by the police regarding the leak of documents, a cognisable offence has also been committed and it is necessary to take proper action. He had contended that the action of the media houses – a private news channel and a website – in placing such documents in the media violated the programme code and sought time to file a written statement in this regard. The plea has also sought a direction to the media houses to take down the sensitive/confidential information leaked to them by the officials of Delhi Police. HC has already directed one of the media houses to file an affidavit disclosing the name of the source from whom the journalist concerned got the documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-riots-hc-seeks-cops-affidavit-on-leak-of-chargesheet/articleshow/81357519.cms||Abhinav Garg
March 6, 2021||India||R-Day protest: Court grants bail to 19-year-old||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Friday granted bail to a 19-year-old student accused of being part of a mob that allegedly assaulted policemen during the January 26 tractor rally in the capital. While observing that the “acts of the protesters/rioters cannot be condoned”, additional sessions judge Samar Vishal took into consideration the age of Sumit — he is pursuing a two-year diploma course in Rohtak — his “clean antecedents” and the period of incarceration, deeming it fit to release him on bail. “The guilt or innocence of the applicant is a matter of trial and nothing can be said about it, at this stage,” the judge said. “The applicant is a young boy of 19 years. No previous criminal involvement is reported against him”. The court noted that of the 20 accused persons arrested in the case, 19 had already been released on bail. Judge Vishal further observed that the right to protest means right to peaceful protest and not to resort to violence of any kind even on provocation. When the court enquired with the prosecutor if the accused (Sumit) was seen in any video footage committing violence at the spot, he replied in the negative. The court also directed Sumit to not leave the country without its prior permission and to surrender his passport at the police station within one week from his release. He was also directed to physically mark his attendance at the local police station every 15 days and drop the pin on the Google Map to ensure that his location was available to the investigating officer. Sumit’s counsels argued that he had been falsely implicated in the matter. The state through the prosecutor alleged Sumit was part of the mob which on January 26, 2021, assaulted police officers near Nangloi Chowk and obstructed them from discharging their official duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/r-day-protest-court-grants-bail-to-19-year-old/articleshow/81357642.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Ex-TMC MP Mithun Chakraborty to star in PM show?||KOLKATA: Speculations are rife over the possibility of actor Mithun Chakraborty joining PM Narendra Modi on the dais at BJP’s mega show at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Kolkata on Sunday. Even as BJP seniors remained tight-lipped and would like to leave it to the actor like they did for BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, BJP state vice-president Arjun Singh said, “If Mithun Chakraborty comes, it’ll be good, both for Bengal and for the party. People will be happy if they see him sharing dais with the PM.” The actor has got the invitation for the rally. Bengal BJP minder Kailash Vijayvargiya parried questions over the participation of “celebrities” in the rally. “Modiji himself is a celebrity,” he said. A guessing game over Chakraborty joining BJP has been going on since February after RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat paid a visit to the actor’s Madh Island residence and spoke for over an hour. Chakraborty was a Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP in 2013. But he quit in 2015 after courting controversy for receiving money as the brand ambassador of a ponzi firm. The actor returned the entire money to the investigating agency and went back to Mumbai. The 70-year-old has fans in Bengal not just for his films. He is known for his philanthropic projects, even for the deprived. His old associates still recall the help they got from ‘Dada’ when they had hit the wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-tmc-mp-mithun-chakraborty-to-star-in-pm-show/articleshow/81358038.cms||---
March 6, 2021||---||Ex-TMC MP Mithun Chakraborty to star in PM show?||KOLKATA: Speculations are rife over the possibility of actor Mithun Chakraborty joining PM Narendra Modi on the dais at BJP’s mega show at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Kolkata on Sunday. Even as BJP seniors remained tight-lipped and would like to leave it to the actor like they did for BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, BJP state vice-president Arjun Singh said, “If Mithun Chakraborty comes, it’ll be good, both for Bengal and for the party. People will be happy if they see him sharing dais with the PM.” The actor has got the invitation for the rally. Bengal BJP minder Kailash Vijayvargiya parried questions over the participation of “celebrities” in the rally. “Modiji himself is a celebrity,” he said. A guessing game over Chakraborty joining BJP has been going on since February after RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat paid a visit to the actor’s Madh Island residence and spoke for over an hour. Chakraborty was a Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP in 2013. But he quit in 2015 after courting controversy for receiving money as the brand ambassador of a ponzi firm. The actor returned the entire money to the investigating agency and went back to Mumbai. The 70-year-old has fans in Bengal not just for his films. He is known for his philanthropic projects, even for the deprived. His old associates still recall the help they got from ‘Dada’ when they had hit the wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ex-tmc-mp-mithun-chakraborty-to-star-in-pm-show/articleshow/81358036.cms||---
March 6, 2021||---||Mamata Banerjee lands in ex-aide Suvendu’s fief for bigger political battle||NANDIGRAM: “Ami katha dile, katha rakhi,” said Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Friday, pointing out that she would keep her word and contest from Nandigram. Mamata will leave for Nandigram on March 9 and file her nomination at Haldia SDO office at 3.30pm the next day. The CM has again turned to Nandigram — where her battle against land acquisition had propelled her into office a decade ago — to fight a bigger battle to stop a religious binary from reshaping the political landscape there. The import of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘jihadi’ in political discourse are fraught with far-reaching implications in an assembly segment where nearly one-third of its 2.1 lakh voters are minorities. Read AlsoBengal polls: For first time in three decades, Didi moves out of her denKOLKATA: For the last three decades, Mamata Banerjee has never fought an election away from Bhowanipore. From 1991-2011, she was a Kolkata (South) MP, which includes Bhowanipore, and from 2011 she has been Bhowanipore’s MLA. The poll bond was severed on Friday. “If need be I will again contest fromMamata’s decision to contest from Nandigram to offset Suvendu Adhikari’s defection was a strategic move, said political observers. Nandigram comprises Nandigram-1 and Nandigram-2 blocks. The epicentre of the anti-land acquisition movement was the minority-dominated Nandigram-1. The majority-dominated Nandigram-2 watched the flames from afar. The core TMC brass, led by Abu Sufian and Abu Taher, have homes in Nandigram-1. It is this divide Adhikari has been trying to play on. Nandigram needed a figure of stature to rise above this divide, said observers. TMC is not taking any chances. Till Thursday night, at least two senior ministers were in Nandigram, taking stock of preparations. Party secretary Subrata Bakshi has been frequenting Nandigram. Purnendu Bose and MP Dola Sen will campaign there till the election on April 1. The party is also scouting for a home for Mamata there. “Nandigram has become synonymous with TMC. Suvendu held the baton there. Now that he has defected, party workers had become directionless. The CM’s decision is a bold move,” said a political analyst. A senior Trinamool functionary said, “This also queers Suvendu’s claim that the Trinamool brass is Kolkata-centric, with little or no representation in the party’s core committees — and even the cabinet— from the districts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/mamata-banerjee-lands-in-ex-aide-suvendus-fief-for-bigger-political-battle/articleshow/81358175.cms||Suman Mondal
March 6, 2021||India||Mamata Banerjee lands in ex-aide Suvendu’s fief for bigger political battle||NANDIGRAM: “Ami katha dile, katha rakhi,” said Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Friday, pointing out that she would keep her word and contest from Nandigram. Mamata will leave for Nandigram on March 9 and file her nomination at Haldia SDO office at 3.30pm the next day. The CM has again turned to Nandigram — where her battle against land acquisition had propelled her into office a decade ago — to fight a bigger battle to stop a religious binary from reshaping the political landscape there. The import of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘jihadi’ in political discourse are fraught with far-reaching implications in an assembly segment where nearly one-third of its 2.1 lakh voters are minorities. Read AlsoBengal polls: For first time in three decades, Didi moves out of her denKOLKATA: For the last three decades, Mamata Banerjee has never fought an election away from Bhowanipore. From 1991-2011, she was a Kolkata (South) MP, which includes Bhowanipore, and from 2011 she has been Bhowanipore’s MLA. The poll bond was severed on Friday. “If need be I will again contest fromMamata’s decision to contest from Nandigram to offset Suvendu Adhikari’s defection was a strategic move, said political observers. Nandigram comprises Nandigram-1 and Nandigram-2 blocks. The epicentre of the anti-land acquisition movement was the minority-dominated Nandigram-1. The majority-dominated Nandigram-2 watched the flames from afar. The core TMC brass, led by Abu Sufian and Abu Taher, have homes in Nandigram-1. It is this divide Adhikari has been trying to play on. Nandigram needed a figure of stature to rise above this divide, said observers. TMC is not taking any chances. Till Thursday night, at least two senior ministers were in Nandigram, taking stock of preparations. Party secretary Subrata Bakshi has been frequenting Nandigram. Purnendu Bose and MP Dola Sen will campaign there till the election on April 1. The party is also scouting for a home for Mamata there. “Nandigram has become synonymous with TMC. Suvendu held the baton there. Now that he has defected, party workers had become directionless. The CM’s decision is a bold move,” said a political analyst. A senior Trinamool functionary said, “This also queers Suvendu’s claim that the Trinamool brass is Kolkata-centric, with little or no representation in the party’s core committees — and even the cabinet— from the districts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mamata-banerjee-lands-in-ex-aide-suvendus-fief-for-bigger-political-battle/articleshow/81358185.cms||Suman Mondal
March 6, 2021||India||Bengal polls: For first time in three decades, Didi moves out of her den||KOLKATA: For the last three decades, Mamata Banerjee has never fought an election away from Bhowanipore. From 1991-2011, she was a Kolkata (South) MP, which includes Bhowanipore, and from 2011 she has been Bhowanipore’s MLA. The poll bond was severed on Friday. “If need be I will again contest from here. But whether I contest from here or not, Bhowanipore will always be within my grasp,” she said. State power minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay will now fill in for Banerjee in Bhowanipore, to which the CM added, “I will always be here and keep a watch.” It was also three decades back in 1991 that she was attacked at the Hazra crossing while leading a Congress rally, and her head fractured. “I had campaigned with a fractured head, injured. People had reposed their faith in me always. I fought and won eight elections from here,” Banerjee said. Read AlsoMamata Banerjee lands in ex-aide Suvendu’s fief for bigger political battleNANDIGRAM: “Ami katha dile, katha rakhi,” said Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Friday, pointing out that she would keep her word and contest from Nandigram. Mamata will leave for Nandigram on March 9 and file her nomination at Haldia SDO office at 3.30pm the next day. The CM has again turned toThe decision not to contest from Bhowanipore was to blunt BJP barbs at her asking her to declare which seat she will represent. Endorsing Chattopadhyay, Banerjee said, “His home is here. He played in a local club here.” But the Bhowanipore that has hand-held Banerjee — a gritty local girl — and helped her grow in political stature from a Union minister to the CM of Bengal, is fast changing. The over 2-lakh-strong electorate now has around a 60% non-Bengali population. The changing demographics is also coinciding with a changing vote pattern since the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, when it started embracing BJP. In 2014, for the first time in decades, a different political script panned out in Bhowanipore — Trinamool Congress trailed a BJP candidate by 185 votes. In the three-year phase from 2011-2014, BJP’s votes had swelled from 5,078 to 47,465. This lead was erased by TMC in all subsequent polls — the 2015 Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections, the 2016 assembly polls and the 2019 LS contest — but the party’s plummeting win-margins indicated that the changing trend wasn’t a one-off. Incidentally, even in the elections Banerjee contested, her vote-share dropped. In the 2011 bypolls, she had got around 77% of votes. In 2016, this fell to around 48%. In the 2019 LS polls, TMC led by a meagre 3,168 votes. The dipping vote-share over the past decade has also dragged in an element of uncertainty in this old south Kolkata neighbourhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-polls-for-first-time-in-three-decades-didi-moves-out-of-her-den/articleshow/81358225.cms||Saibal Sen
March 6, 2021||---||Bengal polls: For first time in three decades, Didi moves out of her den||KOLKATA: For the last three decades, Mamata Banerjee has never fought an election away from Bhowanipore. From 1991-2011, she was a Kolkata (South) MP, which includes Bhowanipore, and from 2011 she has been Bhowanipore’s MLA. The poll bond was severed on Friday. “If need be I will again contest from here. But whether I contest from here or not, Bhowanipore will always be within my grasp,” she said. State power minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay will now fill in for Banerjee in Bhowanipore, to which the CM added, “I will always be here and keep a watch.” It was also three decades back in 1991 that she was attacked at the Hazra crossing while leading a Congress rally, and her head fractured. “I had campaigned with a fractured head, injured. People had reposed their faith in me always. I fought and won eight elections from here,” Banerjee said. Read AlsoMamata Banerjee lands in ex-aide Suvendu’s fief for bigger political battleNANDIGRAM: “Ami katha dile, katha rakhi,” said Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Friday, pointing out that she would keep her word and contest from Nandigram. Mamata will leave for Nandigram on March 9 and file her nomination at Haldia SDO office at 3.30pm the next day. The CM has again turned toThe decision not to contest from Bhowanipore was to blunt BJP barbs at her asking her to declare which seat she will represent. Endorsing Chattopadhyay, Banerjee said, “His home is here. He played in a local club here.” But the Bhowanipore that has hand-held Banerjee — a gritty local girl — and helped her grow in political stature from a Union minister to the CM of Bengal, is fast changing. The over 2-lakh-strong electorate now has around a 60% non-Bengali population. The changing demographics is also coinciding with a changing vote pattern since the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, when it started embracing BJP. In 2014, for the first time in decades, a different political script panned out in Bhowanipore — Trinamool Congress trailed a BJP candidate by 185 votes. In the three-year phase from 2011-2014, BJP’s votes had swelled from 5,078 to 47,465. This lead was erased by TMC in all subsequent polls — the 2015 Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections, the 2016 assembly polls and the 2019 LS contest — but the party’s plummeting win-margins indicated that the changing trend wasn’t a one-off. Incidentally, even in the elections Banerjee contested, her vote-share dropped. In the 2011 bypolls, she had got around 77% of votes. In 2016, this fell to around 48%. In the 2019 LS polls, TMC led by a meagre 3,168 votes. The dipping vote-share over the past decade has also dragged in an element of uncertainty in this old south Kolkata neighbourhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/bengal-polls-for-first-time-in-three-decades-didi-moves-out-of-her-den/articleshow/81358132.cms||Saibal Sen
March 6, 2021||India||Over 1.9 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered across India||NEW DELHI: The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered crossed 1.9 crore on Friday evening, the 49th day of the vaccination drive and data shared by the Centre shows that more than 10.34 lakh vaccine doses were administered till 7pm. The vaccination drive began on January 16 and frontline workers were brought into its ambit from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. A total of 1,90,40,175 shots had been given till Friday evening as per provisional data. So far, 68,96,529 healthcare workers have taken the first dose and 32,94,612 have been administered the second dose. The figures for frontline workers are 62,94,755 (first dose) and 1,23,191 (second dose). As far as citizens aged 60 and above are concerned, 21,17,862 beneficiaries have been given the first dose while 3,13,226 people aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities have received the first dose. Of the 10,34,672 vaccine doses given till Friday evening, 8,25,537 beneficiaries were given the first dose and 2,09,135 healthcare workers and frontline workers received their second dose as per the provisional report. Among the over 10.34 lakh beneficiaries, there were 5,00,942 elderly and 77,325 above 45 years with co-morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-1-9-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-across-india/articleshow/81358378.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Cruel men don’t deserve relief: Supreme Court on dowry case||NEW DELHI: In what appeared to be a course correction from its "will you marry her" question that drew flak from women activists, a Supreme Court bench headed by CJI S A Bobde on Friday denied anticipatory bail to a husband accused of dowry harassment, sternly observing that "cruel men" don't deserve relief. The comment was significant as though the husband appeared to have a good case for relief, the CJI-led bench decided to go purely by the woman’s allegations. The husband claimed the accusations were a response to his police complaint about nude photographs of his wife being shared by another man. This happened when the couple was estranged, he said. The husband's counsel said the woman had shared hundreds of her nude photographs with the other man during the period of estrangement in her own marriage and that the allegations of dowry harassment, when not a single penny was taken or demanded as dowry, were one-sided. The bench dismissed the husband’s anticipatory bail plea and said, "If she has shared her nude pictures with someone else, you can divorce her. But you cannot treat her with cruelty." When the husband's counsel said custodial interrogation was not needed as the FIR was one-sided, the bench of CJI Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, "Allegations in an FIR are always one-sided. We have never seen an FIR which is jointly filed by the complainant and the accused." The husband now faces arrest. His parents, who too were accused by his wife of dowry harassment, were granted anticipatory bail by a Rajasthan court. The bench’s decision came after Justice Bobde's "will you marry her" query to a man, accused of rape by a woman years after they had sexual relations, evoked protests from women’s groups and political leaders. The "will you marry her" query had come in the context of that case and required a reading of the entire case file. The incident pertained to 2014-15 when the boy, who could then be 16-17 years old, had sexual intercourse with a minor girl, who was his distant relative. The initial liaison was without contraceptives and later with the use of birth control, the woman said in her complaint. She also said the sexual relationship was under coercion and that she had gone to the police station with her mother to complain. However, when the boy's mother promised through a notarised affidavit, signed by the girl’s mother too, that the boy would marry her on attaining majority, no complaint was made. When the girl attained marriageable age, she learned that the man was not keen on keeping the promise to marry her and filed a complaint with police. The man moved the trial court, which looked into the facts and circumstances of the case and relationship and granted anticipatory bail. It was in the context of the girl refraining from filing a complaint on the basis of the promise of marriage that the CJI-led bench had asked the boy whether he was still ready to marry her. But when the man said he could not as he was already married, the CJI-led bench castigated him and said he could not be granted anticipatory bail for a crime that included seduction and exploitation of a minor girl. It asked him to seek regular bail from the trial court while protecting him from arrest for four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cruel-men-dont-deserve-relief-supreme-court-on-dowry-case/articleshow/81358396.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 6, 2021||India||Left-Congress-ISF yet to decide who will fight from Nandigram||KOLKATA: Sanyukta Morcha partners Left, Congress and Indian Secular Front (ISF) on Friday announced the seat-sharing formula for 56 seats that will vote in the first two phases. However, the Morcha is undecided on who will contest the crucial Nandigram seat and three other constituencies. “Nandigram has become a high-voltage seat now,” Left Front chairman Biman Bose said soon after Mamata Banerjee announced that she would fight from the constituency.  BJP is likely to field Suvendu Adhikari from there. Bose announced that Congress will contest 10 of the 56 seats, ISF another five and Left 41. Former Bengal Congress president Pradip Bhattacharya and ISF president Shimul Soren endorsed the formula. Of the three Morcha partners, only Left Front announced names for the 41 seats it will contest.  The seat-sharing reveals that Left and Congress have “sacrificed” a few reservedcategory seats for ISF. Besides Nandigram, the Morcha is yet to make up its mind on Egra and Pingla in Purba Midnapore and Daspur in Paschim Midnapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/left-congress-isf-yet-to-decide-who-will-fight-from-nandigram/articleshow/81358448.cms||---
March 6, 2021||---||Left-Congress-ISF yet to decide who will fight from Nandigram||KOLKATA: Sanyukta Morcha partners Left, Congress and Indian Secular Front (ISF) on Friday announced the seat-sharing formula for 56 seats that will vote in the first two phases. However, the Morcha is undecided on who will contest the crucial Nandigram seat and three other constituencies. “Nandigram has become a high-voltage seat now,” Left Front chairman Biman Bose said soon after Mamata Banerjee announced that she would fight from the constituency.  BJP is likely to field Suvendu Adhikari from there. Bose announced that Congress will contest 10 of the 56 seats, ISF another five and Left 41. Former Bengal Congress president Pradip Bhattacharya and ISF president Shimul Soren endorsed the formula. Of the three Morcha partners, only Left Front announced names for the 41 seats it will contest.  The seat-sharing reveals that Left and Congress have “sacrificed” a few reservedcategory seats for ISF. Besides Nandigram, the Morcha is yet to make up its mind on Egra and Pingla in Purba Midnapore and Daspur in Paschim Midnapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/left-congress-isf-yet-to-decide-who-will-fight-from-nandigram/articleshow/81358295.cms||---
March 6, 2021||---||Election Commission defends its officer against TMC||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Friday stepped forward to defend its officer in charge of West Bengal, deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain, against allegations of bias levelled by Trinamool Congress, saying that it had full faith in his integrity and fairness. Reacting to TMC’s complaint lodged with the West Bengal chief electoral officer (CEO) questioning Jain’s neutrality in the upcoming polls — which was forwarded by the CEO to the commission — the poll watchdog said in a statement: “The commission would like to categorically state that all our deputy election commissioners and other officials posted in the EC headquarters and/or working in the field are discharging their duties strictly as per the Constitution of India and the various rules regarding the conduct of elections. There could be an odd exception here or there in which case EC takes corrective action immediately. “In the immediate case, the commission has full faith in the integrity and fairness of Sudeep Jain, DEC. Unfortunately, it is not for the first time that a concerted campaign is mounted against senior officers of the commission on the eve of/during the process of elections.” As regards allegations by TMC regarding two decisions taken by Jain during the 2019 polls, when too he was DEC in charge of West Bengal, the EC clarified that “both these decisions were taken by the commission in the interest of holding free, fair and peaceful elections and implemented by the district election machinery under supervision of DEC, chief electoral officer, police nodal officer and other senior officials concerned”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/election-commission-defends-its-officer-against-tmc/articleshow/81358464.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Election Commission defends its officer against TMC||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Friday stepped forward to defend its officer in charge of West Bengal, deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain, against allegations of bias levelled by Trinamool Congress, saying that it had full faith in his integrity and fairness. Reacting to TMC’s complaint lodged with the West Bengal chief electoral officer (CEO) questioning Jain’s neutrality in the upcoming polls — which was forwarded by the CEO to the commission — the poll watchdog said in a statement: “The commission would like to categorically state that all our deputy election commissioners and other officials posted in the EC headquarters and/or working in the field are discharging their duties strictly as per the Constitution of India and the various rules regarding the conduct of elections. There could be an odd exception here or there in which case EC takes corrective action immediately. “In the immediate case, the commission has full faith in the integrity and fairness of Sudeep Jain, DEC. Unfortunately, it is not for the first time that a concerted campaign is mounted against senior officers of the commission on the eve of/during the process of elections.” As regards allegations by TMC regarding two decisions taken by Jain during the 2019 polls, when too he was DEC in charge of West Bengal, the EC clarified that “both these decisions were taken by the commission in the interest of holding free, fair and peaceful elections and implemented by the district election machinery under supervision of DEC, chief electoral officer, police nodal officer and other senior officials concerned”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/election-commission-defends-its-officer-against-tmc/articleshow/81358466.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||In poll-bound Kerala, Customs links CM, Speaker to gold scam||KOCHI: The Customs on Friday informed the Kerala high court that Swapna Suresh — key accused in gold and currency smuggling through diplomatic channel — had revealed the role of CM Pinarayi Vijayan, speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and three cabinet ministers in the smuggling racket on November 25 last year. She had also said these in statements recorded under Section 164 CrPc and Section 108 of the Customs Act, the court was told. Sumit Kumar, commissioner of Customs (Preventive), submitted a statement in this regard in response to a petition filed by the Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services challenging a lower court’s order for granting effective protection to Swapna on her complaint of receiving a death threat in jail against revealing names of high-profile persons. “It is submitted that the 1st respondent (Swapna) has made shocking revelations about the chief minister’s close connections with the previous consul general of UAE and the illegal monetary transactions carried out. She also stated with clarity about smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of the Hon’ble CM and the Hon’ble speaker with the help of the consulate. She has also clearly stated about the improper and illegal activities of the 3 Hon’ble ministers of the state cabinet,” the Customs statement said.  The CPM said BJP had lost its senses on the realisation that LDF was set for a comeback. The party secretariat said in a statement that the Customs submission showed that BJP could go to any extent for power. “The customs is trying out-of-the-way tricks to defame CM Pinarayi Vijayan and the LDF government,” LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala sought the resignation of the CM, saying he had lost his moral authority to continue. BJP state president K Surendran said the revelations has put the government in a deep crisis at the time of polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-poll-bound-kerala-customs-links-cm-speaker-to-gold-scam/articleshow/81358503.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Assam assembly polls: Himanta Biswa Sarma's name on BJP list, buzz over CM post||GUWAHATI: BJP on Friday announced that Himanta Biswa Sarma will contest the assembly elections in Assam from his constituency Jalukbari. This gave the debate over the chief minister’s post a new lease of life. Much to the surprise of everyone, BJP’s list, which was to be have names of candidates only for the first and second phases of elections, included Sarma’s name along with that of state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass, whose constituencies will go to the polls in the third phase. Read AlsoAssam assembly polls 2021: BJP releases first list of 70 candidatesBJP on Friday released the first list of 70 candidates for the 126 seat Assam assembly which goes to poll on March 27. BJP's alliance partners, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) will be contesting on 26 seats while United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) will contest on eight seats. CM Sarbananda Sonowal willAmong the 70 named by the party, almost all (67) are Himanta’s pick. He, Sonowal and Dass are natural choices of the party. A few weeks ago, Sarma had publicly announced that he had written to Dass expressing his unwillingness to contest assembly elections “on personal grounds”. He had, however, added a line in his letter that he would obey the party’s instructions. Read AlsoKey Assam ally dumps BJP, joins Congress blocAfter being the key alliance partner in the BJP-led Assam government for the last five years, the Hagrama Mohilary-led Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) joined the Congress-led grand alliance on Saturday in an attempt to oust the saffron party from Dispur.Soon after Sarma’s announcement, speculations began about his shift to New Delhi and induction in the Union ministry. There was also talk that he was not ready to settle for a minister’s berth again and so would keep himself away from government responsibilities. “Every BJP worker has to follow the party’s decision and one cannot function with his or her personal choices,” he said but remained non-committal about the chief ministerial candidate, stating that when a government was already in office, a candidate need not be announced. Six years ago, Sarma had quit Congress to join BJP after unsuccessfully contesting then CM Tarun Gogoi’s leadership. Much before the campaign for the 2016 polls, PM Narendra Modi announced that Sonowal would be the chief minister of the first BJP government in the state and dashed Sarma’s hopes of claiming the top post. But since then, Sarma has not only handled important departments, including finance, health, education and later public works, but expanded his influence beyond Assam’s geographical borders to plant the BJP flag in all the other NE states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/himanta-biswa-sarmas-name-on-bjp-list-buzz-over-cm-post/articleshow/81358534.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 6, 2021||---||Assam assembly polls: Himanta Biswa Sarma's name on BJP list, buzz over CM post||GUWAHATI: BJP on Friday announced that Himanta Biswa Sarma will contest the assembly elections in Assam from his constituency Jalukbari. This gave the debate over the chief minister’s post a new lease of life. Much to the surprise of everyone, BJP’s list, which was to be have names of candidates only for the first and second phases of elections, included Sarma’s name along with that of state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass, whose constituencies will go to the polls in the third phase. Read AlsoAssam assembly polls 2021: BJP releases first list of 70 candidatesBJP on Friday released the first list of 70 candidates for the 126 seat Assam assembly which goes to poll on March 27. BJP's alliance partners, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) will be contesting on 26 seats while United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) will contest on eight seats. CM Sarbananda Sonowal willAmong the 70 named by the party, almost all (67) are Himanta’s pick. He, Sonowal and Dass are natural choices of the party. A few weeks ago, Sarma had publicly announced that he had written to Dass expressing his unwillingness to contest assembly elections “on personal grounds”. He had, however, added a line in his letter that he would obey the party’s instructions. Read AlsoKey Assam ally dumps BJP, joins Congress blocAfter being the key alliance partner in the BJP-led Assam government for the last five years, the Hagrama Mohilary-led Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) joined the Congress-led grand alliance on Saturday in an attempt to oust the saffron party from Dispur.Soon after Sarma’s announcement, speculations began about his shift to New Delhi and induction in the Union ministry. There was also talk that he was not ready to settle for a minister’s berth again and so would keep himself away from government responsibilities. “Every BJP worker has to follow the party’s decision and one cannot function with his or her personal choices,” he said but remained non-committal about the chief ministerial candidate, stating that when a government was already in office, a candidate need not be announced. Six years ago, Sarma had quit Congress to join BJP after unsuccessfully contesting then CM Tarun Gogoi’s leadership. Much before the campaign for the 2016 polls, PM Narendra Modi announced that Sonowal would be the chief minister of the first BJP government in the state and dashed Sarma’s hopes of claiming the top post. But since then, Sarma has not only handled important departments, including finance, health, education and later public works, but expanded his influence beyond Assam’s geographical borders to plant the BJP flag in all the other NE states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/assam/himanta-biswa-sarmas-name-on-bjp-list-buzz-over-cm-post/articleshow/81358518.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 6, 2021||India||G-23 ready to campaign for Congress||NEW DELHI: Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday said he and his colleagues would campaign for the party in the five election-bound states, signalling a temporary halt to the public gatherings kickstarted by the dissidents in Jammu last week. Speaking to reporters, Azad said, “I and my colleagues will campaign for the party in the states as per the demand of the organisation as well as individual candidates.” He added that campaigning for a Congress victory would be the priority for the next two months. Azad, who has been in the Congress’s ‘star campaigner’ list for four decades, said demand from candidates for specific leaders was higher than the public rallies sought by the party since candidates assess local needs of their constituencies. It is now to be seen if the G-23 leaders, especially Azad, figure in the star campaigners’ lists for the five states. The announcement implies that the dissidents will not follow up for now on the public gathering in Jammu where Kapil Sibal and Anand Sharma expressed concern that Congress was weakening by the day. They, along with Manish Tewari, had also demanded that Azad be used by the party in the challenging times while regretting that he was allowed to retire from Parliament. What further raised hackles in party circles was Azad’s reported praise of PM Modi at another public rally in Jammu. However, sources close to Azad said he did not praise Modi but only mentioned him in a context in which he had actually praised himself for not being shy of his poor, rural roots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/g-23-ready-to-campaign-for-congress/articleshow/81358568.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Our forces more resolute in response now, says Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: India’s “proactive and resolute responses” led to the troop disengagement with China on both sides of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh as well as the fresh ceasefire agreement with Pakistan, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday. Addressing the combined commanders’ conference at Kevadia in Gujarat, Singh also expressed hope that the ongoing diplomatic and military talks with China would head in a positive direction in resolving remaining friction points. India will “wait and watch” to ascertain if Pakistan was serious about observing the ceasefire this time, he said. “Our ability to secure India’s territorial integrity and sovereignty from external threats and internal challenges have been strengthened in the recent years. Our armed forces today are proactive and more resolute in their response,” he added. During the conference, to be addressed by PM Narendra Modi on Saturday, Singh spoke on the defence and security of the nation, emerging nature of military threats, the critical role of armed forces in meeting these challenges and the nature of warfare in the future. India’s interests, he said, were defined by the elements of national integration, sovereignty, sociology-economic development, conservation of our values and a peaceful and harmonious region and the world at large. Noting that the government was committed to defence reforms, he stressed the need to increase “jointness” in the armed forces to build an integrated war-fighting machinery. The minister reviewed progress in the proposed creation of two new unified tri-Service commands in the shape of the ‘functional’ Air Defence Command (ADC) and the ‘geographical’ Maritime Theatre Command (MTC) this year. The ADC and MTC will be followed by creation of theatre commands for the land borders with China and Pakistan as part of the country’s biggest-ever military restructuring plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/our-forces-more-resolute-in-response-now-says-rajnath-singh/articleshow/81358586.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Massive rockslide triggered Chamoli flood, says report||NEW DELHI: A flash flood in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand that ravaged through the valleys of the Rishi Ganga, Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers last month was triggered by a massive rockslide just below Ronti peak and the energy of the fall melted the ice creating the source of flood, said scientific findings of an intergovernmental body, International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD). The findings, released on Friday, said the energy of the fall of about 22 million cubic metres of rock mixed with ice and snow “remobilised the debris and ice on the valley floor deposited by previous events, pushed the stream water and created an excessive flood wave”. Referring to images from Maxar portal accessed through the USAID SERVIR programme, the ICIMOD researchers found that the rockslide had an approximate width of 550 metres at the upper edge at 5,500 metres above sea level. Noting that the event was definitely not caused by a ‘glacial lake outburst flood’ (GLOF) as there were no significant glacial lakes in the area, the report said a couple of days prior to the February 7 event, a strong western disturbance resulted in heavy precipitation in the area, which increased the flood magnitude downstream. The Kathmandu-based ICIMOD has eight member countries, including India, Nepal and China, on board which is considered as the most authoritative voice of scientists in the Hindu Kush Himalayan (HKH) region. At least 70 people have been confirmed dead and another 134 persons reported missing in the disastrous incident that also swept away the unfinished Tapovan Vishnugad Hydropower Project and inflicted substantial damage on the Rishi Ganga Hydropower Project in the ecologically fragile region. The findings of a team of seven ICIMOD researchers, led by climate change specialist Arun Bhakta Shrestha, observed that infrastructure in the flood path, particularly hydropower projects, exacerbated the impact of the flood. About the link of the incident with climate change, the ICIMOD said, “While a hazard event like the flood at Chamoli cannot be directly attributed to climatic changes, the increased thaw-freeze cycle of permafrost could have partially contributed to the event.” On the factors which could have triggered the rockslide, the report referred to a strong western disturbance that passed across Kashmir and northwest India from 4 to 6 February. “It was fully charged with convective instability that may have contributed to the heavy precipitation… Numerical simulation of some of the attributes have been carried out which depict strong evidence of heavy precipitation contributing to high flows downstream,” it said. Recommending comprehensive monitoring of mountain environments, the report suggested that infrastructure development in fragile mountain environments should consider a sustainability framework, including environmental sustainability. Noting that infrastructure such as roads and hydropower projects are rapidly penetrating mountain landscapes, the report said, “The interplay between natural hazards with human settlements and infrastructure is an important aspect, which can significantly escalate the impacts of events like the Chamoli flood. “Disaster risk management therefore needs to incorporate a multi-hazard risk assessment approach. In the aftermath of recent disaster events, the role of infrastructure, especially hydropower and its interplay with natural hazards has emerged as a topic of strong debate." Watch Massive rockslide just below Ronti peak triggered Chamoli flood: Report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/massive-rockslide-triggered-chamoli-flood-says-report/articleshow/81358592.cms||Vishwa Mohan
March 6, 2021||India||Sweden PM pitches Gripen fighters in meet with Modi||NEW DELHI: Sweden made a determined pitch to sell the Gripen fighter aircraft to India, during a virtual summit on Thursday between prime minister Narendra Modi and his Swedish counterpart Stefan Lofven. In an exclusive conversation with TOI after the summit, Stefan Lofven said the Swedish government was “100 per cent behind the offer” by Saab to India. “I have just told Prime Minister Modi that the government is 100 per cent behind this, we believe this is one of the best fighter aircraft there is in the world. Not only that, we also know Saab offers huge potential for technology transfer. Because PM Modi is very keen on Make in India.” This is the first time the Swedish prime minister himself backed the Saab offer, throwing the weight of the government behind it. Giving the example of Brazil, Lofven said, “they (Saab) have transferred knowledge and technology so that gradually Brazil is now developing its own capacity to produce and maintain fighter aircraft. So Brazil will become a new production country. India is being offered the same possibility. This is an exclusive offer to India. But it's up to India. We fully respect their process.” Climate change, sustainable cities and smart transportation, all under the umbrella of green development featured in the virtual summit held today. Lofven said, “We are developing a number of projects. One is sustainable cities, and that is for both India and Sweden. We had thought of it as a future project, but the future is here and now. Given that we both need it, we can offer technology and knowhow. In smart cities, we discussed the importance of transportation — we can transport people as well as goods and it needs to be climate-friendly. So too in aviation — India has huge ambitions to grow its aviation sector, but wants to do it in a climate friendly manner. In Sweden we have the competence that we can share.” The summit saw the two sides sign several agreements — MOU between Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Luftfartsverket (LFV Air Navigation Services of Sweden) concerning Aviation Knowledge Exchange and Technical Transfer Programme; MOU between International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) and Finansinspectionen (Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority) for mutual cooperation to enhance cross-border participation and promote knowledge sharing. Briefing journalists after the summit, Vikas Swaroop, secretary (west) in MEA said “relations between India and Sweden are based on shared values of democracy, rule of law, pluralism, equality, freedom of speech, and respect for human rights. They reaffirmed their strong commitment to work for multilateralism, rules-based international order, counter-terrorism, peace and security.” He said Prime Minister Lofven announced Sweden’s decision to join the International Solar Alliance. “Welcoming the decision, Prime Minister Modi stated that Sweden’s expertise and experience in clean and renewable technologies would contribute significantly to the Solar Alliance and our collective efforts to meet the challenge of climate change.” Lofven told TOI, the post-Covid world would need a different perspective. “We need to build back better and build back greener, keeping climate change in mind. So the circular economy has become important. When we build back, we’re not going back to what was. We need to build something better. All our efforts to strengthen and get back economic growth, we need to have clear climate headlines.” The two leaders also discussed the developments in Myanmar, Lofven said. “We’re very concerned about the developments there in recent weeks. We also had a good dialogue on the UN and our mutual interest in peace and security, and we strongly believe in multilateral cooperation at least in these times. I appreciated the conversation.”  Swaroop said India was monitoring the situation “closely”. India and Sweden have agreed to restart dialogue between the two national security advisers of both countries and cooperation between the two national security councils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sweden-pm-pitches-gripen-fighters-in-meet-with-modi/articleshow/81358596.cms||Indrani Bagchi
March 6, 2021||India||Modi may meet Quad leaders in virtual summit this month||NEW DELHI: A summit meeting of “Quad” leaders — India, US, Japan, Australia — may be held as soon as this month, though there was no official confirmation from the MEA when questioned. The keenness of the new Joe Biden administration to take the Quad to the next level has already been established. Australian PM Scott Morrison was quoted by ‘Bloomberg’ as saying on Friday, “This will become a feature of Indo-Pacific engagement,” The Australian PM said. “It will be four leaders, four countries, working together constructively for the peace, prosperity and stability of the Indo-Pacific.” The summit is expected to be in virtual mode. Last month the third meeting of Quad foreign ministers was held where the new US administration signalled the direction of the US’ China policy. US media reports said the White House has scheduled a Quad summit meeting which would come about after Biden has spoken individually to all other members of the grouping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-may-meet-quad-leaders-in-virtual-summit-this-month/articleshow/81358606.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||HDK: Karnataka minister's ‘video’ leaked after Rs 5 crore deal went awry||MYSURU: Former CM HD Kumaraswamy claimed on Friday that blackmailers had demanded Rs 5 crore from former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi before releasing an alleged video recording of him. “I have credible information that a Rs 5 crore deal was struck. The video was leaked after the deal went awry. The police should investigate and arrest the blackmailers,” the JD(S) member said. Jarkiholi quit as the water resources minister on Wednesday after activist Dinesh Kallahalli filed a complaint accusing him of sexually exploiting a woman after promising her a job at Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited. Kumaraswamy said many activists had claimed about possessing sex CDs of politicians and that such people should be investigated and booked for blackmail and extortion. He sought action against Kallahalli, alleging that he was pretending to be the woman’s saviour while working at someone’s behest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hdk-karnataka-ministers-video-leaked-after-rs-5-crore-deal-went-awry/articleshow/81358646.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||24 years on, Capt’s mom moves SC to get him freed from Pakistan jail||NEW DELHI: A distressed 81-year-old mother on Friday sought the Supreme Court's intervention to end her emotionally excruciating wait for 24 years for release of her son Capt Sanjit, who went missing in 1997 while on a reconnaissance mission at Indo-Pak border, declared dead by Army and later found lodged in Pakistan's Kot Lakhpat Jail. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian were visibly moved as Kamla Bhattacharjee's counsel Saurabh Mishra narrated her agonising 24 year journey through hope and despair since the disappearance of Captain Sanjit of Gorkha Rifles Regiment in April 1997 while on reconnaissance patrol duty at Rann of Kutch area along with lance Naik Ram Bahadur Thapa. The bench sought responses from ministries of external affairs and defence as the petitioner accused the government of forgetting its bravehearts and not moving the International Court of Justice for release of her son. While issuing notice, the CJI said, "he knows many such families whose sons, some from Indian Air Force, who are missing in similar manner and are feared to be lodged in Pakistani Jails." Bhattacharjee was informed on April 20, 1997 about her son going missing from the border area while on duty. Three days later, she was informed that he has been apprehended by Pakistan Rangers from the international border. In 2004, the ministry of defence informed her that Capt Sanjit is presumed dead, which was on the basis of Indian Evidence Act provision that permitted such presumption if the whereabouts of a missing man was not known for seven years. Even then President Pranab Mukherjee on February 2, 2005, paid condolences for the death of the petitioner's son. As hopes ebbed with passage of time, petitioner received information that her son is lodged in Kot Lakhpat jail, also known as Central Jail, Lahore. Petitioner's attempts to stir the defence ministry to re-engage in efforts for release of Capt Sanjit proved futile. She was informed on May 31, 2010, by Maj Gen A K Bakshi, military secretary to the President, that the case of Capt Sanjit was handed over to the President. "In the letter, it was informed that her son's name had been added to the existing missing prisoners of war list, also known as 'Missing 54'. Maj Gen Bakshi informed that the issue of missing defence personnel was taken up with pakistani authorities at the highest level several times since 1997, including 'during Agra Summit in July 2001'," Bhattacharjee said. Awaiting the return of Sanjit, his father died on November 28 last year. "The petitioner herself at 81 years of age is yearning for one sight of her son," her petition narrated. The anguish gave way to angry disappointment as she said, "the government appears to have disowned the missing bravehearts and have demonstrated high degree of negligence in conducting a result-oriented search for Capt Sanjit."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/24-years-on-capts-mom-moves-sc-to-get-him-freed-from-pakistan-jail/articleshow/81358656.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 6, 2021||India||Why trans, gay and female sex workers can't be blood donors: PIL||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday sought responses from the Centre, National Blood Transfusion Council and National AIDS Control Organisation on a PIL by a queer activist challenging the constitutional validity of a 2017 decision to preclude transgenders, gay and female sex workers from donating blood by categorising them in high risk group. Petitioner Thangjam Santa Singh, known in Manipur as 'Nupi Maanbi' for being a transgender and queer activist, through senior advocate Jayna Kothari told a bench of Chief justice S A Bobde, and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that despite the apex court decriminalising the sexual preferences of LGBTQ community, the members of the community continue to be ostracised by being bracketed in the 'high-risk' category and denied equal opportunity to donate blood and contriute to society. SC issued notices to the Union health ministry, NBTC and NACO but refused to entertain Kothari's request for a stay on the operation of the circular. The CJI-led bench said, "these are issues to be decided by the medical experts. We will not pass any interim order without understanding the logic behind the decision." Singh through advocate Anindita Pujari said, "The exclusion of transgender persons, men having sex with men and female sex workers from being blood donors and permanently prohibiting them from donating blood solely on the basis of their gender identity and sexual orientation is completely arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory and also unscientific." The exclusion was ordered by terming them as high-risk category of people who could be afflicted with Hepatitis B/C and/or HIV/AIDS. The petitioner said, "Permanently excluding them from donating blood and categorising them as high-risk only on the basis of their gender identity and sexual orientation is violative of their right to be treated equally as other blood donors... it is nothing but negative stereotyping of people who could be equal in contributing towards society." The 2017 circular said that blood donors should be free from any disease transmissible by blood transfusion, as far as can be determined by history and examination. "The donor shall not be a person considered 'at risk' for HIV, Hepatitis b or C infections (transgender, men who have sex with men, female sex workers, injecting drug users, persons with multiple sex partners or any other high risk as determined by the medical officer deciding fitness to donate blood)," the circular stated. The PIL petitioner said, "all blood units that are collected from donors are tested for infectious diseases including Hepatitis B/C and HIV/AIDS and hence permanently excluding them from donating blood and categorising them as high-risk only on the basis of gender identity and sexual orientation is violative of their right to be treated equally as other blood donors." "The prohibition of transgender persons, MSM and femalse sex workers is due to assumptions based on negative stereotypes which amounts to discrimination under Article 14 and 15 of the Constitution and they are denied equal dignity under Article 14 as they are deemed less worthy and subordinatein social participation and healthcare," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pil-why-cant-gays-transgenders-be-blood-donors/articleshow/81358671.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 6, 2021||India||Stick to duties: Rijiju replies to tweet by Taapsee’s boyfriend||NEW DELHI: Olympics silver medalist shuttler Mathias Boe from Denmark, also Taapsee Pannu’s boyfriend, tweeted to Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju on the I-T raids. The post drew a terse reaction from Rijiju on Friday. Mathias is currently coaching Indian players at the Swiss Open. “Finding myself in a bit of turmoil. Representing India for the first time as a coach for some great athletes, meanwhile I-T department is raiding Taapsee’s houses back home, putting unnecessary stress on her family, especially her parents.. @KirenRijiju please do something,” Mathias tweeted around 8pm on Thursday, while tagging Rijiju. Rijiju replied to Mathias hours later. “Law of the land is supreme and we must abide by that. The subject matter is beyond yours and my domain. We must stick to our professional duties in the best interest of Indian sports,” he wrote. Mathias was reacting to the raids on the properties of Taapsee and filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, both critics of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stick-to-duties-rijiju-replies-to-tweet-by-taapsees-boyfriend/articleshow/81358693.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||Hit by fire, city co gets gift of million-Euro machine from Italian bizman||Nagpur: City furniture company Spacewood Group, whose operations were hampered due to a major fire two months ago, has received rare gestures of magnanimity from an Italian company it works with regularly, and some Indian companies. Spacewood has got a complete machinery line, worth a million Euros, free of cost from its foreign vendor, while the Indian firms have leased it units and land at nominal rates. Spacewood, the first company in the country to have attracted FDI in the furniture sector, is headed by first generation entrepreneurs Kirit Joshi and Vivek Deshpande. In December, a major fire damaged the machinery at Spacewood’s plant in Hingna industrial estate. The company has raised a claim of Rs125 crore with its insurer New India Assurance. Meanwhile, 70-year-old Italian businessman Silvio Montagner, whose company Krono Systems also runs a furniture business in Italy, has shipped his state-of-the-art pressing line unit to India for Spacewood. This has been given absolutely free. “Montagner has dispatched a hi-tech pressing line, which would cost not less than Rs5 crore or a million Euros if we had to buy a new one,” said Joshi. “An old machine was lying unused with Krono, which has been sent to us. It is in transit,” he said. Jagjeet Singh, the Asian business in-charge of Krono Systems, said they have been dealing with Spacewood since a decade. Both the companies have stood by each other in times of difficulty, he said. “As a goodwill we decided to ship the machine lying with us to Spacewood. We had two such lines. Since one was lying idle, we thought why not give it to Spacewood instead. This is part of the goodwill between the two companies. Even Spacewood has been helpful to us in India,” he told TOI over WhatsApp call from Italy. Even the old machine would have easily fetched 3 lakh Euros, said Singh. Joshi said even Spacewood looks forward to reciprocating the gesture in the coming days. At a time when others in the same business may take advantage, Spacewood has received much hand-holding from other units in India too. This has helped it retain its 800 strong workforce. “Since we had to continue with production, the company decided to lease other facilities. Companies offered their units at a very nominal rate. These include Pune’s Rawat Industries and Vaidya Industries of Nagpur,” said Joshi. “Another Nagpur businessman, Mehrazbhai, offered his lamination line as a goodwill gesture,” Joshi said. With this, the company has been able to reach 80% of its pre-fire sales, and by July end it may regain the original volume, he said. Spacewood is planning to invest another Rs100 crore in next one year. This may also come in the form of FDI, either through equity mode or external commercial borrowings, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hit-by-fire-city-co-gets-gift-of-million-euro-machine-from-italian-bizman/articleshow/81356523.cms||Shishir Arya
March 6, 2021||Patna||11k inoculated, 38 test Covid +ve in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 11,750 senior citizens and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities took Covid-19 vaccine shots in the state on Friday. With this, 31,198 people in these two categories have so far been vaccinated in the state since March 1. On Friday, 10,025 senior citizens and 1,725 above the age of 45 years with comorbidities were inoculated. According to a rough estimate of the health department, at least 1.25 crore people in these two categories would have to be vaccinated in the state in the third phase, including nearly 1.09 crore senior citizens. So far, only 0.25% of the total beneficiaries have received their first dose of vaccine shots in the new phase. Apart from the priority group, 3,720 others took their first dose and 17,092 healthcare workers got their second dose of the vaccine on Friday. As per the State Health Society, 6,17,277 people have taken their first dose in the state since the launch of the drive on January 16. Also, 1,57,803 healthcare workers have received their second dose. The State Health Society said no adverse events following immunization (AEFI) cases were reported on Friday. So far, 91 AEFI cases have been reported in the state. Meanwhile, 38 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s Covid tally has increased to 2,62,706. However, with 2,60,821 recoveries, there was 339 active cases in the state on Friday. Also, 44 people recuperated from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 99.28%. Officially, one death was reported on Friday and the victim was from Jehanabad. The state’s Covid toll has now increased to 1,544. Meanwhile, two more people have succumbed to the virus at AIIMS-Patna – a 65-year-old woman from Kesariya village in East Champaran and a 78-year-old man from Jorja locality in Darbhanga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/11k-inoculated-38-test-covid-ve-in-bihar/articleshow/81354078.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Patna||Universities to get librarians soon: Bihar minister||PATNA: State education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said in the legislative council on Friday that the government would form a committee to devise ways for filling the vacant posts of librarians in different universities. The minister was replying to a question raised by CPI MLC Sanjay Kumar Singh regarding delay in appointment of librarians in postgraduate departments and constituent colleges of B R Ambedkar Bihar University (BRABU). He said of the 42 colleges in under BRABU, just five have librarians. MLC Sanjeev Shyam Singh raised the issue of student credit card benefit not being provided to those opting for BEd courses. He also raised the issue of appointment of Veer Kunwar Singh University vice-chancellor in “wrong ways”. He said an investigation regarding financial corruption was going on againt the VC in Lucknow University and the information was even sent to governor’s secretariat in Bihar. The minister said a committee headed vice-chancellors of Lalit Narayan Mithila University and BRABU has been formed by the governor to investigate the matter. Another MLC, Sanjeev Kumar Singh, raised the issue of remuneration not being given to teachers for evaluation by State Council of Education Research and Training. To this, Choudhary said the government was directly sending money into teachers’ bank accounts. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said of the 88172 government and aided schools, 31,670 do not have fire-fighting equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/universities-to-get-librarians-soon-minister/articleshow/81354117.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 6, 2021||Patna||Get your vaccine shot, head to selfie point||PATNA: Posing with a mask is a passe. Taking a selfie after a vaccine shot is the in thing. Not only doctors and other frontline workers even senior citizens were seen taking selfies after walking out of the vaccination centres, indicating the growing feeling of self-confidence in people, including those above 60, in the vaccines. The secretary of pensioners society of Darbhanga, 83-year-old Krishndev Thakur proudly posed for a photo after getting the first dose of the vaccine at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on Tuesday. Thakur said he would motivate all pensioners to walk to their nearest vaccination centres and take a shot as a shield against the virus. The PMCH superintendent Dr IS Thakur said 455 people were immunised Tuesday. “People of 60 plus age group from far off areas of Patna are calling every day with a request to arrange their vaccination by offline registration,“ he said. Thakur said clicking a selfie after vaccination has become a common feature now and it showed the increasing public interest in the Indian vaccines being given for immunisation. The Paras HMRI hospital has even created a selfie point to make the vaccination memorable. Regional director Dr Talat Halim said, “We set up the selfie point as a return gift to people who walk in for a shot of life there “. He said hospital staff have also been directed to help people take their photos after getting the vaccine. The ongoing vaccination drive is fast gathering momentum, and a large number of people of the two categories, 60 plus and 45 with comorbidities, are reaching the vaccination centres. The beneficiaries include both registered online and walking with their Aadhaar cards for on-spot registration. Others approach the officials through phone calls and seek guidance. “ Doctor madam, mujhe corona ka teeka dilwa digiye... kaun paper lekar aana hai.. are the type of calls which I receive from many every day," said the deputy director of the Gardanibagh government hospital Dr Manjula Rani. Altogether 270 people were vaccinated there on Tuesday. It included the second dose to health workers and Anganwadi workers. Manjula said more and more people were eager for taking the vaccines. At Mahaveer Cancer Sansthan over a hundred doctors, including superintendent Dr LB Singh, and health workers took the second dose and others of 60 plus of age the first dose of the vaccine on Tuesday. “Senior citizens are taking the vaccination in a festive mood with a feeling of confidence," Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/get-your-vaccine-shot-head-to-selfie-point/articleshow/81354094.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Patna||Customer satisfaction: Gaya airport best in eastern region||GAYA: Gaya airport has topped in eastern region and bagged third position in the country in the second round of customer satisfaction index (CSI) survey conducted by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) between July and December last year. Only the Udaipur and Madurai airports are ahead of Gaya airport in the survey. Of the 50 airports surveyed by the AAI, Gaya secured 4.78 points on a five-point scale. Udaipur and Madurai secured 4.84 and 4.8 points, respectively. Average score of all the 50 airports is 4.43. Officials at Gaya airport were elated over the good ranking. “It is all-time high score in the history of Gaya airport. The rating was done on 33 parameters in less than 20-lakh passenger category,” Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar said. He added, “The parameters included ground transportation, parking facilities, waiting time in check-in queue, security inspection, passport or personal ID inspection, courtsey and helpfulness of check-in staff/security staff/inspection staff, speed of baggage delivery, internet access, Wi-Fi, feeling of being safe and secure, ease of finding your way through airport, flight information screens, restaurant facilities, cleanliness and availability of ATMs. The airport director said during the lockdown last year, scheduled international flights were suspended but 172 flights from Dubai, Kuwait, Sharjah, Jedah, Doha, London, Bangkok, Dhaka, Colombo, Abudhabi, Bishkek, Kiev, Ras-al-Kahima and Muskat were operated under ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ between April 22 and October 22. “As many as 25,882 passengers of Bihar and Jharkhand had arrived at Gaya airport from these countries. Also, 1,082 stranded passengers of Myanmar, Vietnam, Thailand and Laoswere had left for their countries from the airport,” Dilip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/customer-satisfaction-gaya-airport-best-in-eastern-region/articleshow/81354033.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Patna||Man kills nephew over land dispute||AURANGABAD: One Meeku Singh alias Manikant Singh, a contractor, was allegedly shot dead by his uncle and cousins over a land dispute at Kunda village under the Aurangabad Mufassil police station area on Friday. Meeku’s brother Rinku Singh said the former had a land dispute with his uncle Pravesh Singh and his sons Santosh Singh, Sujit Singh and Ajay Singh. Rinku said Meeku was attacked in his farm. Aurangabad SDPO Anup Kumar said an FIR had been lodged against Pravesh and his sons. “Raids are being conducted to arrest the four accused,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-nephew-over-land-dispute/articleshow/81353882.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||Dalhousie street-food vendors get hygiene training to ensure post-pandemic biz boost||Kolkata: Two hundred and fifty street food vendors who operate in the Dalhousie Square locality underwent a four-day quality and safety training to raise the bar and inspire confidence among a larger customer base. ‘Office para’, as the Dalhousie-Esplanade locality is popularly known, offers a wide variety of street food that includes snacks, like jhalmuri, kachauri, jalebi, tele bhaja, chaat, dahi vada, chilla and momo, meals, like noodles, chilli chicken, idli-dosa, litti-chokha, roti-tadka and biryani. While the food is tasty and served hot, there have been concerns over hygiene and quality among a section of people due to the shabbiness of the stalls and the way they conduct business. Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry (BCC&I), one of the country’s oldest business chambers that has been in existence since 1833 and has been witness to the evolution of Dalhousie Square over two centuries, decided to step in last year after film-maker Arindam Sil, the chairperson of the film music and media committee at the chamber, pointed out that the heritage zone of Dalhousie could be promoted as a cultural and street food hub after office hours, particularly during weekends. But before that, the vendors there needed a complete makeover. “We have grand plans to position Dalhousie Square on the street food map of India. The pandemic has upset the plans, but we have conducted the second training and hope to hold a food carnival around December if the situation remains under control,” said Sil. Exide Industries, that has adopted the programme as a CSR initiative, is also keen to see the heritage Dalhousie area emerge as a cultural and street food hub. “The office para goes into slumber after dusk. It can then then into a carnival street with sumptuous street food served against the backdrop of illuminated colonial heritage buildings. One can organize heritage walks and even a son et lumière. After all, the area is replete with history and was once the seat of power in India,” said Exide vice-president Jitendra Kumar. While 150 vendors had been trained in February 2020, the programme enlisted 250 vendors this year and trained them on how to conduct business in a hygienic and safe manner. “The training was on hygiene, food safety, presentation, culinary skills, fire safety, waste management and continued focus on sanitisation, given the pandemic,” said BCC&I deputy director Sukanya Bose. Meena Devi, who serves litti-chokha to 200-250 customers daily on weekdays, said the workshop helped her understand the concerns of customers. “Wearing an apron and polythene gloves while serving and washing the utensils with hot water and soap can make a lot of difference,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dalhousie-street-food-vendors-get-hygiene-training-to-ensure-post-pandemic-biz-boost/articleshow/81356359.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 6, 2021||Business||Karvy moves HC against demat a/c sale||Partha.Sinha@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Karvy Stock Broking (KSBL) has moved the Bombay high court against the Sebi-initiated move to auction the troubled broker’s demat accounts to compensate its clients for the loss they suffered following its default in November 2019. In the auction last month, India Infoline Securities (IIFL) was the successful winner for KSBL’s demat accounts and Axis Securities for trading accounts. In a communication to its clients, KSBL said that the court had its first hearing on Thursday and another is scheduled on March 11. “In the said writ petition, KSBL has made the stock exchanges, depositories and successful bidders as parties,” the email from KSBL to its clients said. A KSBL official as well as sources in the broking industry confirmed the writ petition to TOI. In February, stock exchanges and depositories had put all the demat and trading accounts of KSBL for other brokers to bid for. The money collected from the auction will be paid to KSBL’s clients to compensate them for the loss they suffered since November 2019. Over several years, KSBL had transferred the shares from its clients’ demat accounts into its own accounts, used those shares to borrow money from lenders, but failed to return those shares to its clients. Since December 2019, KSBL’s trading terminals on the NSE and BSE were closed under Sebi orders, which had left a large number of the brokers’ clients without any access to funds, securities or both, which were in the custody of the broker then. Following an investigation by the NSE, the broker was later declared a defaulter by the exchange and also by the BSE. In November 2020, NSE said that it had distributed Rs 2,300 crore to about 2.4 lakh KSBL investors as compensation. The recent decision by the bourses and depositories to auction KSBL’s demat and trading accounts to other brokers was part of the plan to compensate its clients who are yet to be fully paid their dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/karvy-moves-hc-against-demat-a/c-sale/articleshow/81356372.cms||Partha Sinha
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||In Cov yr, IIM-C placements end on high note||Kolkata: With the highest salary of Rs 80 lakh offered by a foreign recruiter and over Rs 60 lakh by a domestic recruiter, in a process conducted on the virtual mode, IIM-C ended the final placements on a positive note. The high points offset the fact that the pandemic-induced slowdown saw companies hiring conservatively. There was a growth in the average salary offer, too, compared to last year — it jumped up by Rs 2 lakh to Rs 29 lakh. The process had 172 companies participating, which made 520 offers to 467 students. The consulting sector emerged as the top recruiter with 149 students (32%) opting for them. Accenture Strategy and The Boston Consulting Group were the top recruiters while Kepler-Cannon and Arthur D. Little were among the prominent first-time recruiters in this sector. The next block of big recruitment was done by top investment banking, asset management and private equity venture capital firms, resulting in about 19% placements. Goldman Sachs and Bank of America were the top two recruiters by numbers in this sector. General management and marketing roles came down to 15% from last year’s 30%. Big names, like Hindustan Unilever, Procter & Gamble, ITC, Vedanta, Adani Group and Reliance India Limited, hired in smaller numbers. New recruiting companies in this sector were Boehringer Ingelheim and Xiaomi. Major software services and e-commerce platforms recruited big this time. Microsoft, Amazon, Flipkart, Paytm and others recruited 111 students — 24% of the batch. Navi Technologies was a first-time recruiter. Students said they had been worried about placements because of the pandemic, but now were more than happy. “Such placements for the whole batch feel surreal,” said Vinaya Patil, a student. “Achieving 100% placement in a time such as now is a true testament to the value of the IIM Calcutta experience and I thank the recruiters for their trust,” said Anju Seth, director of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-cov-yr-iim-c-placements-end-on-high-note/articleshow/81356334.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Driver error behind Araku ghat road bus accident: Transport dept||Visakhapatnam: Weeks after the bus driver claimed brake failure as the reason behind the fatal accident near Damuku on Araku ghat road in Vizag Agency that claimed four lives and injured another 23, the Road Transport Authority (RTA) after inspecting the vehicle ruled out brake failure and made it clear that negligence on the part of the driver in handling the braking system led to the accident. RTA officials also observed that the driver failed to notice the braking system and to manage the situation while manoeuvring the steep curve. It will be recalled that four persons were killed and 23 others from Telangana injured after a tourist bus plunged into a gorge over 80 feet deep below the ghat road in between Damuku and Tyda villages under Ananthagiri police station limits in Vizag Agency on the night of February 12. The driver of the bus G Srisailam had claimed that he lost control over the bus due to the failure of brakes at the hairpin bend and he took the decision to stop the bus by ramming into a retaining wall on the right side of the road. The bus crashed through the wall and plunged into a gorge. Trees on the side of the gorge arrested the fall of the bus to the bottom. Deputy transport commissioner, Vizag, GC Raja Ratnam said that the private transport agency had neglected the maintenance of the vehicle and was knowingly plying it with a poor braking system. Nor had the private transport agency changed the brake pads in time, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/driver-error-behind-araku-ghat-road-bus-accident-transport-dept/articleshow/81354191.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||‘TDP will be a closed chapter after ULB polls’||Visakhapatnam: Rajya Sabha MP and YSRC national general secretary V Vijayasai Reddy said the TDP’s chapter in the state would be closed after urban local bodies elections. It would not get a single municipality and its failure in the panchayat elections will be repeated in the ZPTC and MPTC elections, Vijayasai Reddy said. Speaking to media persons here on Friday, the MP said YSRC would turn Vizag into an encroachment-free city. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who works without heed to caste or religion, would distribute 1.9 lakh houses in the city, he said. Meanwhile, addressing the public in Pendurthi and Visakha West assembly constituencies on Friday, Naidu claimed that property tax would be enhanced by 15% if the public voted for YSRC. Bringing up the Centre’s proposal to privatise Vizag Steel Plant, Naidu said, “I opposed the privatisation of Vizag Steel Plant during Prime Minister Vajpayee’s tenure. Now, YSRC is playing games with Vizag Steel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-will-be-a-closed-chapter-after-ulb-polls/articleshow/81354303.cms||Siva G
March 6, 2021||Vijayawada||AP reports 124 new Covid cases, one death||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 124 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,90,441. The toll increased to 7,172 as one more patient succumbed to the virus in Anantapur district. As many as 94 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. There are currently 900 active cases with 8,82,369 cumulative recoveries and 7,172 deaths. Chittoor reported 30 new cases, followed by Krishna (18), Guntur (16), Visakhapatnam (13), East Godavari (13), and Anantapur (10). The remaining districts posted single-digit case numbers. The state has also improved its daily testing numbers in the last one week due to steady surge in cases. Around 51,660 samples were tested on Friday to detect the 124 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.25%. Nearly 48,000 out of the 51,660 tests were done through RT-PCR mechanism. The overall positivity rate stands at 6.3%. Of the 16,838 cases reported since Thursday in the country, 84% are from Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, MP and Delhi. AP is one of 20 states and Union territories with less than 1,000 active cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-reports-124-new-covid-cases-one-death/articleshow/81354162.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Patna||Godown used to store smuggled liquor turned into police station||PATNA: For the first time in the state, a police station would start functioning fully from a large campus confiscated for storing smuggled liquor. The step also sends a strong message to liquor smugglers in the state. The process is on to shift the Bypass police station in Patna from its present makeshift location to the premises with a prebuilt structure. The station is likely to become fully functional within four months. The new premises is an eight kattha (5,760 sqft) plot consisting of a large concrete godown and a periphery wall. This is likely the largest police station premises in the whole state. Over 61,000 litres of smuggled IMLF, worth more than Rs 5 crore, were seized in the godown during a raid on January 31. This was the biggest consignment of smuggled liquor seized after the imposition of prohibition in the state. State police ADG (headquarters), Jitendra Kumar, said on Friday that shifting of the Bypass police station to the confiscated property under The Prohibition and Excise Act (Amendment) 2018 is a first-of-its-kind step in Bihar. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the proposal to shift the police station was put up during a meeting with divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, IG (central range) Sanjay Singh and Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh. “As Bypass police station didn’t have its land and the godown was just next to it, thus the idea to shift the station came up. The confiscation order has already been passed by the DM,” he said. The SSP said the home department has also granted permission for operating the police station from the confiscated premises. "The godown alone is built on a four kattha plot. The rest of the area is vacant and would be used for parking and keeping seized vehicles," Bypass police station SHO Sanjeev Sinha said. “The area is spacious in comparison to the present makeshift infrastructure, which got a better look due to Prakash Parv celebrated four years back in Patna,” he said. Sinha said barracks are being constructed for housing constables inside the godown. “SHO room, maal-khana, visitors’ room and all other required infrastructure for a police station would be constructed,” he said. Sinha said the entire police station would completely start functioning from the new campus within four months. “The private land is in the name of one Dinanath Mahto. However, it was leased for commercial use without following norms. Mahto’s son Avinash Mahto is accused in the liquor recovery case,” he said. The SHO further said out of the 12 people who are named accused in the case, 10 are behind bars and two are evading arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/godown-used-to-store-smuggled-liquor-turned-into-police-station/articleshow/81355436.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat:67 cops to guard Dalit’s marriage||PALANPUR: Following a spate of attacks on Dalit marriage processions in the last one year in north Gujarat, a college lecturer in a village of Sabarkantha has sought police protection to ensure that the most important day of his life passes off uneventfully on Saturday. Sabarkantha superintendent of police (SP), Neeraj Badgujar said the lecturer Naresh Vankar has been given protection as a special case. “One deputy SP, five sub-inspectors, one inspector and 60 constables will be deployed to ensure peace,” said deputy SP Dinesh Chauhan told TOI.  “There is no such tension in the village and it has never had any history of caste violence,” he said. Vankar, a resident of Bhajpura village who teaches in Idar commerce college, said, “My marriage procession will go all around the village including the main market. I requested police protection and it has been given.” Bhajpura has a population of about 800 and there are 30 households of Dalits in the village. Village sarpanch Kalpesh Patel, however, expressed surprise at Vankar’s demand. “It’s a simple marriage procession. There is no objection in the village.” However, Patel added that it would be better if the procession is carried out between 3pm to 6pm considering the rush of people going to fetch milk at the nearby dairy plant. Earlier, upper caste members have taken serious objection to Dalit grooms riding a horse in their wedding processions, leading to clashes, in some villages of Sabarkantha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/67-policemen-to-guard-dalit-lecturers-baraat/articleshow/81353984.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Varanasi||City hosp holds research on recovered Covid patients||Prayagraj: The department of Pulmonary Medicine, MLN Medical College (Prayagraj) has conducted a Covid research analysis on 100 recovered Covid patients, confirmed by a negative RT-PCR test. The category of patients was divided into mild/moderate and severe/critical groups. Their clinical sign and symptoms and blood biochemical markers were also analyzed. Dr Tariq Mahmood, Prof and Head of the Department of Pulmonary Medicine MLN Medical college( Prayagraj) told TOI, “Of these patients, 60 had one or more co-morbidities." He added that Diabetes (60%) and hypertension (35%) were the most common coexisting conditions, COPD (Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) was also found in 27 % of cases, Bronchial Asthma in 21% of the cases and chronic kidney disease found in 9% of cases. Dr Tariq further added that the severity of the Covid-19 symptoms was also divided into three categories. In the first category, under the mild group, 27% of patients had breathlessness on exertion requiring intermittent moist oxygen support with a face mask or nasal prongs. In the second category under the moderate group, 63 % of the patients had breathlessness at rest and required high flow oxygen devices. In the third category under the severe group, 10 % of the patients were on BiPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) support at the time of transfer in the ward and required further BiPAP support for saturation maintenance. Dr Tariq said that the second and third group patients had moderate to a high degree of involvement of lung parenchyma and pneumonia, consequently developing into lung fibrosis, i.e. the Post Covid complication of lung and that affects the oxygenation and decline in SpO2 ( oxygen saturation). These groups of patients needed anti-fibrotic along with other treatment and high oxygen to improve oxygenation. “Our study also showed that 88% of the patients had marked weakness, 30% patients also complained of lethargy and 47% showed sleeplessness and forgetfulness was reported by 20% of the patients” revealed Dr Tariq. “In the study, all the recovered Covid-19 patients had raised various inflammatory markers e.g. 87% had increased D-Dimer, 65 % had increased Serum. Ferritin and 83 % had raised Serum. LDH levels, 71% patients had raised ESR, 67% patients had raised CRP, 64% patients had raised S. Procalcitonin level, 31% showed raised SGOT and SGPT, 33 % showed raised PT-INR levels and 42% had raised urea and creatinine levels. Dr Niraj Kumar Singh, Junior Resident, Dept. of Pulmonary Medicine MLN Medical College (Prayagraj) said that Lymphopenia found in 76% of patients and 59% had deranged serum sodium and potassium levels. Higher the inflammatory markers, more severe was the disease and poor was the prognosis. All the serious patients had a very high level of inflammatory markers in terms of D-Dimer, Serum LDH, Serum ferritin and have altered coagulation profile in terms of deranged PT/INR, he added. Patients were managed according to their severity and co-morbidities present and were put on mechanical support (ventilators) along with the drugs and supplemental oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/city-hosp-holds-research-on-recovered-covid-patients/articleshow/81369046.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||Pune still leads state in industry and IT||Pune: The 2020-21 Economic Survey of Maharashtra has revealed that the Pune region still leads the state in terms of industrial output and employment, in both large-and small-scale industries, with production largely back to pre-pandemic levels. The survey, however, showed a “worrisome” drop in priority credit allocation for micro, small and medium scale (MSME) industries till September 2020, with only about one-third of the available credit actually availed during that period. According to the survey, the Pune division led the state in special economic zones, the number of industrial units (both large-and small scale) and the number of IT hubs. The report said around 23 lakh jobs were generated in the industrial units in the region, over most of the past decade. The survey, however, revealed that despite MSMEs being eligible for priority sector lending of around Rs 2.48 lakh crore in 2020-21, only around Rs 90,000 crore was actually availed of till September. “This is indeed worrisome for the MSME sector, but the only hope is that since the figures are up to September 2020, there has been substantial pickup in the six months following that, ending in March,” said a regional industry observer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-still-leads-state-in-industry-and-it/articleshow/81356510.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||Half the sky, from Kashmir to Kerala, on IIEST campus||Kolkata: Ahead of Women’s Day, two woman faculty members are joining IIEST from other states, realizing a long-time dream of the institute to induct women faculty members from outside. IIEST turned seven years old on Friday, since it was BE College earlier, followed by BESU, and the joining of the two women made it special, authorities said. Both women are Muslims and say that they are looking forward to working in progressive Bengal. Kaushar Jobeer is coming all the way from Kashmir and Shanujas V from Kerala. While the former is joining the department of food and nutrition, the latter will be a management faculty. There are, at the moment, 56 women in the 270-strong IIEST faculty. The number will now go up to 58. The total number of sanctioned posts is 303 and the institute plans to strive to encourage more women from different states to join. “We need to increase the number of women faculty and are consciously working towards that,” said director Partha Sarathi Chakrabarti. “We are a national institution now and we need to have a healthy representation among both the faculty and students,” he said. The institute has arranged for accommodation for both women. While Jobeer reached the campus on Friday and is excited to be a part of the 165-year-old institute (considering the BE College legacy), Shanujas is arriving on Monday. She will be accompanied by her family. “All my life, I have stayed in Kerala and now, finally, I have got an opportunity to work in another state which is known for its culture, progressive outlook and women’s lib,” she said, adding that her arrival on Women’s Day is significant. Shanujas, who has got her degrees from University of Kerala, will be living on campus with her children while her entrepreneur husband will be shuttling between her home state and the Shibpur campus. Jobeer is, however, not new to the state since she had done her PhD in food and nutrition from IIT Kharagpur. “I have experienced Bengal and wanted to linger on. Yes, I am leaving far-off Kashmir to settle in Bengal and that yearning for home will be there, but I am thrilled to join this campus with a rich legacy,” Jobeer said. Being a nutrition specialist, her job will make it possible for her to explore Bengali cuisine, its history and significance, she said. “We had a Kashmir to Kanyakumari dream. Luckily, the joining of these two women from the two extremes of the country has made that possible,” Chakrabarti said. Jawaharlal Nehru had visited the campus in 1957 and after paying his tribute to the landmark institute had said that he was surprised that there was no woman student on campus. The first woman graduate of the campus, Ila Majumdar, had graduated in 1951, much before Nehru’s visit. The next woman student came in the 70s, said assistant registrar Bibhor Das, who has penned the history of the campus. The first woman teacher of the institute joined in 1978. Manju Halder was a faculty of the architecture department, from where she graduated in 1972. After graduating, she went on to study town planning at IIT Kharagpur. She did her PhD thesis on heritage conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/half-the-sky-from-kashmir-to-kerala-on-iiest-campus/articleshow/81356374.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Since inception in ’05, GVMC takes giant strides in growth||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation has gone from strength to strength since the city was upgraded to the GVMC in 2005. From a Rs 1,600 crore budget in 2008-09, it has come a long way to prepare a budget of Rs 4,171 crore for this fiscal. Ahead of municipal polls on March 10, TOI looked into the progress the civic body has made in the last 15 years. However, the corporation’s revenue has not improved on par with demand for infrastructure creation. The civic body had to leverage external funding under various central and state government schemes such as Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), Smart Cities Mission, Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), finance commission grants and World Bank Asian Development Bank aid to make over the city. JNNURM, launched by the Union government in 2005 stands out among other schemes. Under JNNURM alone, about Rs 2,100 crore worth of works have been taken up in the city. Projects under JNNURM include underground drainage system, construction of 14,000 housing units at a cost of Rs 450 crore, augmentation of drinking water supply to 32 peripheral areas and Gajuwaka, development of bus rapid transit system (BRTS) network with about Rs 450 crore, water supply network improvement in the old city, storm water drain improvement and Asilmetta flyover. After Cyclone Hudhud devastated the city in 2014, several disaster management projects such as beachfront restoration and development and Kailasagiri renovation were taken up with World Bank funding. In the last five years, the Vizag Smart City project has spurred further growth. The Greater Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation Limited—a special purpose vehicle floated by the GVMC to execute the smart city project—proposed various projects worth Rs 1,000 crore. The project gave a facelift to several schools, parks and public places, apart from creating infrastructure such as smart roads, round-the-clock water supply and solar street lights. Learning lessons from Hudhud, top priority was accorded to disaster prevention, planning and management in the Smart City project. The civic body set up the City Operations Centre at a cost of Rs 150 crore. The recent 15th Finance Commission report recommended a Rs 1,400 crore grant to Vizag city. Grants will be utilised for provisioning of core infrastructure like roads, water supply, power distribution, underground drainage and essential buildings. The proposal to set up the executive capital in Vizag is expected to give an additional boost to growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/since-inception-in-05-gvmc-takes-giant-strides-in-growth/articleshow/81354103.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 6, 2021||Patna||PU starts PG classes||PATNA: Classes of first semester students of all the postgraduate departments of Patna University (PU) commenced under Covid-19 protocol on Friday. The attendance in most of the departments was moderate as classes resumed after more than a year. “Classes in our department started on Monday itself as the department had already conducted an induction meet and notified commencement of classes from March 1. As the number of students is well within limit and there is sufficient space in the department to ensure physical distancing in classrooms, classes for all students are being held simultaneously,” said PU Hindi department head Tarun Kumar. Kumar further said that the process of admission is still going on as admission under quota seats is yet to be finalized. Moreover, the department has also requested the PU authorities to order for filling up the vacant seats reserved for PU students from eligible applicants from other universities. “Only 38 students passing honours examinations from PU have taken admission against 64 seats meant for them and the remaining 28 seats are lying vacant,”he said. In geology department, classes commenced on Friday even as the induction meet of newly-admitted students had been held on Monday itself. The attendance of students on the first day of offline classes was nearly 50%. All the precautions against the pandemic are being adopted in the department for safety of students, said department head Atul Aditya Pandey. “PG classes in the law department have also commenced in full swing,” said Patna Law College teacher Salem Jawed. Meanwhile, the last date for submission of applications for allotment of hostels for PG students has been extended till March 10 on the demand of students. Some students’ representatives had earlier urged the PU authorities to extend the date as the process of admission to PG classes has not been completed, said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha. He pointed out that in allotment of hostel accommodation, priority would be given to students who have got higher marks and who are from far-off places. Besides, fair representation would be given to meritorious applicants from all subjects. “The applicants would have to submit affidavits to the dean’s office, hostel superintendent and the local police station with regard to their good conduct at the time of allotment of seats in hostels,” Jha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-starts-pg-classes/articleshow/81354147.cms||B K Mishra
March 6, 2021||Patna||‘Reduce power tariff by 15%’||PATNA: Bihar Industries Association (BIA) has requested Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BERC) to reduce the electricity tariff by 15% in 2021-22, so that “honest bill paying consumers are not penalized because of the failure of the electricity companies to control theft and improve billing and collection”. The request was made on Thursday during a hearing on annual tariff petitions filed by the two power distribution companies (discoms) of energy department before the BERC. The final tariff order is likely to be issued by BERC by the end of this month and will be effective from April 1. As per their legal obligations, the North Bihar Power Distribution Co. Ltd (NBPDCL) and South Bihar Power Distribution Co. Ltd (SBPDCL), along with two power transmission companies and a state load despatch centre, have filed their annual tariff petition. To ensure public participation and increase public awareness, BERC conducted public hearings at Gaya on February 28, Muzaffarpur on March 2 and Patna on March 3 and 4. “An amount of about Rs2400 crore was found to be surplus for FY 2017-18. It was found that the same has not been carried forward in the books, thus depriving consumers of their rightful dues. Further, transmission and distribution (T&D) losses were capped at 15%, but the distribution companies have made higher losses at 43% and included these extra charges in the proposed tariff for FY 2021-22,” said BIA secretary Anil Kumar Sinha. “Also, the entire revenue has not been shown and the deficit in billing and collection is sought to be passed on to the consumers. Because of inclusion of all these charges, tariff was increasing by 10% for all consumers,” he added.  The BIA pointed out that industrial and High Tension (HT) consumers are still bearing heavy extra burden due to cross subsidy, thus making them uncompetitive and sick. BIA vice-president Sanjay Bhartiya, former vice-president Subhash Patwari and co-chairman of its energy committee Basudeo Prasad participated in the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/reduce-power-tariff-by-15/articleshow/81354195.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nashik||6-year-old girl escapes leopard attack with minor injuries||Nashik: A 6-year-old girl narrowly escaped a leopard attacked in the Igatpuri taluka of Nashik district on Tuesday evening. The child, accompanied by her grandmother, was on her way home from the market at 7.30 pm when the incident took place at Devachiwadi at Khed village. Forest officials said the girl was walking a few steps ahead of her grandmother when the leopard pounced on her. However, her grandmother was quick to react and started screaming. Startled, the leopard fled. the child suffered minor injures in the neck area. “The woman and the child were returning home. The leopard was hiding nearby and pounced on the child. She survived the attack as her grandmother came to rescue screaming,” said Ramesh Dhomse, an official of the forest department. Forest officials said the girl was admitted to a private hospital and her condition is stable. The officials visited the spot after local residents villagers informed them. The presence of big cats in the area has sparked panic among the villagers. As a part of the precautionary measure, the forest department has erected two cages to trap the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-year-old-girl-escapes-leopard-attack-with-minor-injuries/articleshow/81344286.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 6, 2021||Kolhapur||6 startup up ideas get nod for execution||Kolhapur: Six startup ideas have been finalised jointly by IIT Kanpur and Kolhapur Incubation Centre (KIC), which will be executed in Kolhapur city to address civic concerns. The ‘Startup Mission’ was launched in January virtually by eminent scientist Raghunath Mashelkar. During the launch, commissioner of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) Kadambari Balkawade had stated that the concerns related to public transport, pollution, drinking water and recycling of waste water need to be resolved through innovative ideas. The KIC, which is a venture of D Y Patil Group, is working with the KMC to draw solutions for civic issues. Among the six shortlisted ideas is a lake cleaning and rejuvanation technology developed by a Pune-based startup. The technology can by used for cleaning large water bodies in Kolhapur city such as the Rankala Lake, Kotitirth Lake etc. The second shortlisted idea is of waterless and odourless urinals. The public urinals in Kolhapur city are not maintained because of short supply of water. Moreover, the setting up of urinals is opposed at several places by locals due to the strong stench. The idea will help resolve both the concerns. District guardian minister Satej Patil said, “We are looking forward to work with these startup ideas. We will make all necessary financial and logistical arrangements to the innovators to try their ideas in Kolhapur.” During the launch of the initiative, Patil had said the funds for innovative schemes granted through district planning and development council (DPDC) would be utilised to execute these ideas. The other ideas shortlisted includes real-time monitoring of air quality control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-startup-up-ideas-get-nod-for-execution/articleshow/81353381.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Patna||21-yr-old girl hurt in celebratory firing||Ara: A 21-year-old girl, Uma Bharti, was injured in celebratory firing during a birthday party at Shaligram Singh Ka Tola village under the Barahra police station area in Bhojpur district on Thursday night. Uma, a student of BA Part-I student, received two gunshot injuries and was rushed to Ara Sadar hospital. She was later referred to the Patna Medical College and Hospital for better treatment. Uma’s grandfather Shiddheshwar Yadav said music was being played on loudspeaker and people were dancing at the birthday party of a two-year-old girl when someone fired as mark of celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/21-yr-old-girl-hurt-in-celebratory-firing/articleshow/81353751.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Business||NHB fines Indiabulls Hsg Fin Rs 21L||TNN Mumbai: In a corporate announcement, Indiabulls Housing Finance said that the National Housing Bank has imposed a penalty of Rs 20.6 lakh on the private lender. The penalty followed a special audit of the lender’s books spanning three financial years. “The penalty has been imposed for instances of non-compliance in operational matters,” Indiabulls said in its statement. The company has cited guidelines under five circulars against which a penalty had been imposed. Shares of the company ended nearly 5% down at Rs 231 by close of Friday’s trade on the BSE. At current prices, its market cap is Rs 10,699 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nhb-fines-indiabulls-hsg-fin-rs-21l/articleshow/81356012.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Patna||‘New Education Policy to be a game changer’||PATNA: Educationists and academics from across the country and abroad deliberated on the ‘Role of Teachers in New Education Policy’ (NEP) in a seminar organized by Nalanda University (NU) in collaboration with Niti Aayog and Bharat Shikshan Mandal (BSM) on Friday. NU vice-chancellor Sunaina Singh stressed on the need for globalization of Indian education system and claimed that NEP is a “game changer for our education system”. “The focus of NEP is to provide practical, solution-oriented knowledge to all as it aims to build multidisciplinary institutions in the country for everyone,” she said. Prof Singh reiterated her vision for rebuilding NU into a global knowledge hub. She mentioned how NU is ahead in spearheading some new initiatives, such as cafeteria model, interdisciplinary academic programmes, industry focused curriculum and internships to enhance students’ experience and employability in the job space. She also talked about faculty’s responsibility in the light of new education policy and they must come outside their silos to enhance interaction with industry and academia. “There is a two-way learning between student and teacher and that is enhanced by giving and receiving at both the ends,” Prof Singh said. BSM national vice-president and former dean of School of Management at Pondicherry University, Prof R Prabhakar Arya explained the importance of NEP. “The responsibility of a university is extended to its neighbourhoods. The essence of the Bhartiyata is the hallmark of NEP,” he said. Prof S P Raj, distinguished professor at Whitman School of Management, Syracuse University, New York (US) said India’s NEP provides ample opportunities for Indian universities to engage with global institutions of repute. “As the emphasis is on development of interdisciplinary, job-oriented programmes for students, the role of teachers is extremely important. Higher education plays a significant role in economic and social well-being of a nation and preparing youth to not only to earn their living but also making this planet a happy space. The role of teachers in raising such students who work for both economic development of the nation and social well-being of communities is extremely crucial,” he said. He added: “Faculty members can ensure professional success of the students by inculcating in them the skills, knowledge-base and value system that not only help them generate employment but also make them a better human being.” Earlier, Shailendra Singh, chief coordinator, Dakshin Bihar Prant, BSM, introduced the objectives of the seminar. Sandeep Sanaki of BSM explained the importance of research foundations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-education-policy-to-be-a-game-changer/articleshow/81354327.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Patna||Bangladeshi woman in prison despite serving jail term||PATNA/BIHARSHARIF: A Bangladeshi woman, who was a victim of illegal trafficking, is in Biharsharif jail in Nalanda despite completing her one-year imprisonment term on January 22. Riya Afreen Rupa, a resident of Khalispur at Khulna in Bangladesh, was sentenced to one year’s imprisonment with a fine of Rs500 by a fast-track court in Nalanda. However, she could not be released due to the lack of a female detention centre and not communicating to Bangladeshi government about her. The woman was found straying at Ahiyapur roundabout under Noorsarai police station in Nalanda on December 5, 2019 without any valid document. She was trafficked to India in the name of providing a job, but abandoned later. When contacted, IG (prisons and correctional services) Mithilesh Mishra said on Friday that anyone sent to jail for violation of The Passport Act is sent to detention centre after completion of the sentence period. “Such people are handed over only to government authorities of the countries concerned for their safe deportation. Only Purnia jail has a detention centre, but only for males. It would be a security risk to send a female to that centre,” Mishra said. “As it has come to my knowledge, necessary action would be taken for the deportation of the woman as soon as possible,” he said. The IG said a letter would be written to the state home department in this regard soon. “As per the procedure, the home department would further write to the Union ministry of home affairs, which would communicate it to the ministry of external affairs to contact the Bangladeshi government,” he explained. Biharsharif jail superintendent Prabhat said he had already made official communication to Purnia central jail authorities for housing the woman until her deportation, but they expressed their inability as the centre is only for males.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bangladeshi-woman-in-prison-despite-serving-jail-term/articleshow/81354262.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Deposit official mobiles till end of civic polls: HC to volunteers||Vijayawada: A division bench of the high court on Friday modified the single judge order suspending the state election commission’s restrictions on usage of mobile phones given by the state government to ward volunteers. To ensure there is no misuse of data related to voters in the municipal elections, the court ordered the mobile phones of volunteers to be deposited with an officer nominated by municipal commissioners of the respective urban local bodies. The SEC had moved an appeal petition and requested the court to take up hearing on urgent basis during the lunch motion. However, as the bench was preoccupied with other matters, the request for lunch motion was not granted. The SEC then moved a house motion given the urgency of the matter. Justice Joymalya Bagchi and Justice U Durga Prasad Rao heard the petition on Friday evening. Arguing on behalf of SEC, senior counsel B Adinarayana Rao said it had imposed a reasonable restriction on usage of mobile phones supplied by the government as the instruments contain data related to voters. He said the decision was taken after receiving complaints during the just-concluded panchayat polls and also after the start of process for the ensuing municipal elections. Rao further argued that the SEC never intended to prevent volunteers from discharging their normal duties but only wanted to prevent misuse of voter data to ensure free and fair elections. The HC bench asked as to how taking away the phones of volunteers would ensure they will not influence the voters. Rao said it is the duty of the police to ensure that volunteers do not indulge in such activities but preventing them access to voter data till elections are over can bring in some extent of transparency. Conduct of free, fair and impartial elections is a constitutional obligation and at the same time the services by the volunteers should not get affected by the SEC’s restrictions, the court observed. In view of achieving both purposes, the bench suggested to hand over the phones to an officer designated by the respective municipal commissioners. However, the volunteers can use the phones whenever necessary as part of discharge of their normal duties but only under the supervision of the designated officer, the high court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/deposit-official-mobiles-till-end-of-civic-polls-hc-to-volunteers/articleshow/81354286.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 6, 2021||Business||Reliance Industries to cover Covid-19 vaccination cost of staff||MUMBAi: India’s largest company in terms of market value, Reliance Industries (RIL), will bear the Covid-19 vaccination cost for its employees and their immediate family members, it said on Friday. RIL joins the growing list of companies covering vaccination costs for its people and their dependents. RIL has 1.95 lakh employees in India. In an e-mail to its staff, RIL’s non-executive director Nita Ambani urged them to register for the government’s vaccination programme and that the company will bear the full cost of the vaccination for them, their spouses, parents and vaccine-eligible aged children. “You and your family’s safety and well-being is our responsibility,” Ambani said. Coronavirus: Live updatesRIL’s vaccination programme will cover employees of its oil-to-chemicals, retail, telecom and other units of the $87-billion enterprise. The country’s vaccination programme has ramped up after it expanded coverage to citizens above the age of 45, including those with comorbidities. Vaccines administered at public health centres are free, while private facilities cannot charge more than Rs 250 per dose. “In our Reliance Family Day 2020 message, Mukesh and I personally assured you that as soon as any approved Covid-19 vaccine is available in India, we will do our best to plan early vaccination for all Reliance employees and family members,” Ambani wrote. “We remain committed to this goal and to contributing to our nation’s collective ability to end the coronavirus pandemic as soon as possible.” India has approved two vaccines-Covishield and Covaxin, which is developed by local player Bharat Biotech. India’s leading direct selling FMCG company Amway too said that it will sponsor Covid vaccinations for all its employees and their families. “We extended employee benefits to covering the expenses arising on account of Covid 19 treatment under the company’s existing employee mediclaim in addition to conducting a voluntary and optional Covid test camp and home collection for all employees and their families and all contractual staff. The company’s initiative to sponsor Covid 19 vaccine expenses has been launched to extend further support to our employees and aid the government’s efforts to combat and contain the pandemic that has affected us globally,” said Amway India CEO Anshu Budhraja. The $1-billion home textile player Trident also said that it will provide free Covid vaccines to its 14,000 employees and to their family members. Its employees are spread across the country, particularly in Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-to-cover-vax-cost-of-staff/articleshow/81356348.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Varanasi||Committed to ‘New Gorakhpur’ with jobs, development: CM Yogi Adityanath||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said that development creates the identity of any region and his government is committed to taking Uttar Pradesh to new heights. Highlighting his vision of ‘New Gorakhpur’, the CM inaugurated nine development projects (Rs 76.4 crore) and laid the foundation of 16 others (Rs 54.2 crore) worth around Rs 131 crore during a programme at Mahant Digvijaynath Park. Yogi said that generating employment was the priority of his government and added that he would not only remain restricted to providing basic amenities to people but would take steps to take UP on the path of development. He also distributed beneficiary certificates to street vendors. “At least four lakh people have been given government jobs. Due to rapid investment, over 35 lakh youth have been provided jobs in private sector and lakhs of employment opportunities were created in MSME sector,” he said. “When smoke will rise from fertilizer factory, Gorakhpur will be seen shining in the picture of ‘New India’. The fertilizer factory which was closed in 1990 will be made operational by July 2021. Farmers will get good quality fertilizer at low rate. It will create direct and indirect job opportunities. Young people will be imparted training for skill development,” he added. “A plastic park with around 100 manufacturing units will be set up in Gorakhpur where 2,500 people will get direct employment. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the first-ever toy festival and the establishment of a plastic park will bring revolution in the field of toy industry. Pipraich sugar mill with the capacity of crushing 50,000 quintal sugarcane per day will also help in doubling the income of farmers,” he said. “Lord Ram returned to Ayodhya from Lanka by ‘Pushpak Viman’. Today, every citizen can fly from one country to another. Earlier, there was not a single air service from Gorakhpur but today there are flights to eight major cities including Mumbai and Delhi. Soon, international air service will start from Kushinagar,” he said. “Earlier, there was only one route from Gorakhpur to Lucknow. After the availability of Link Expressway, the distance can be covered in just three hours. With four-lane roads, journey from Gorakhpur to Nepal can be completed in just one and a half hours,” he pointed out. Attacking the opposition, the CM said the welfare of villages and poor and medical facilities were not on the agenda of previous governments. “After coming to power, we provided electricity to every village of the state,” he added. “From 1977 to 2017, more than 1,500 children died of encephalitis every year in Gorakhpur and Basti divisions. After the formation of BJP government in the state, the spread of encephalitis has been effectively controlled,” the CM said. “AIIMS will be ready in Gorakhpur by the end of 2021. For best treatment facility till the time AIIMS starts functioning, the PM has gifted a superspecialty block at medical college. Soon Ayush University will also be established in Gorakhpur,” he added. Yogi said anarchy and misery were the hallmark of Gorakhpur but the ‘New Gorakhpur’ had immense possibilities in the tourism. “UP offers rich potential for rural, religious and ecotourism. The upcoming zoo at Gorakhpur will attract tourists and create employment opportunities. The government took all measures to develop Ramgarhtal Lake into a world-class tourism centre,” he added. The CM said special events would be held in every district on International Women’s Day (March 8) and added that vacant quota of ration shops would be filled through allotment to women self-help groups. He said an action plan would be prepared at nagar panchayat level for management of street vendors and also directed officials to formulate a plan for construction of cow shelters in every nyay panchayat. He said his government was providing Rs 900 per month to every person who desires to look after cows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-govt-committed-to-new-gorakhpurwith-jobs-infra-devpt-projects-cm/articleshow/81354431.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Goa||Cultured chonak trial at ICAR yields tasty, promising results||PANAJI: Trial has been initiated for aquaculture of the high commercial value fish seabass - chonak as it is locally called – at Old Goa-based ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute (CCARI). In this pilot project, the conventionally marine fish species is being cultured in a freshwater open pond inside the institute’s campus. “With proper management, fish farmers can harvest one tonne of fish on an average by rearing 1,000 seeds through this new technology,” ICAR-CCARI director, EB Chakurkar said. Though harvest is still a couple months away, scientists have already performed a taste test of the first few samples. They claim the freshwater grown seabass tastes no different from its marine counterpart. Fisheries scientists, GKB Sreekanth and Trivesh Mayekar are the investigators for the project, monitoring the daily growth and development of the fish. “Seabass can survive in fresh water, salt water and brackish water. We have compared the taste with the saltwater variety and there is no difference between the two,” Sreekanth said. The project took off in July and complete harvest is expected to be in two to three months. Instead of artificial floating pellet feed, the fish are fed with forage fish such as tilapia, dandia, vittatus and pittol that are local indigenous fish. This, the scientists said, helps in saving production cost while also avoiding cannibalism, thus getting better growth of seabass. “By providing proper feed and water quality management, we can expect the cultured seabass to be of better growth and survival rate compared to the marine ones. The main objective here is to culture seabass in fresh water for a year which will yield better returns than shrimp,” Mayekar said. The initiative will pave a way for fish farmers in Goa to grow this high-value fish as an alternative species for shrimp aquaculture and earn better prices from its huge demand in domestic and foreign markets, Mayekar said. Following the final harvest, the institute plans to train fish farmers in Goa in culturing the species. The project, however, will first be carried out over two-year to gauge the pros and cons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cultured-chonak-trial-at-icar-yields-tasty-promising-results/articleshow/81357446.cms||Nida Sayed
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata schools plan early practicals to avoid polls, JEE||KOLKATA: City schools have been told by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations to break up the batches in small groups of 10-12 for the ISC science practicals due to the Covid situation. A meeting of the city’s ISC convenors and the Council was held on Friday where laboratory practicals came up for discussion in a major way. While many city schools said that they have decided to complete the laboratory practical examinations for ISC within the third week of April, there were some that pointed out that they will not be able to complete the tests in April because their schools have been taken over for the election process. The Council has reiterated that schools can hold their practical examinations till May 31 and institutes that have been taken over for election duty need not panic. However, most schools in Kolkata will complete the practicals before the city goes to polls on April 26 and 29. Schools have also been told that each group should be given a different question paper. Though questions will be framed by the individual schools in consultation with the school heads, a broad framework will be sent by the Council. Laboratory practicals carry 30 marks in each science paper. But the election dates are not the only concern for determining datesfor practicals — the third block of JEE Mains exams have been scheduled from April 27-30. The Council has only fixed two dates, April 8 and 9, when schools have to hold their home science and computer science practicals. This year, no other dates have been fixed and schools have been given the freedom to fix their own slots in consultation with the local external examiners. “Immediately after we finish with computer science and home science, we will have our science practicals. We hope to finish much before the elections in the city and the JEE Mains third block,” said Seema Sapru, principal, Heritage School. This was echoed by Sonali Sen of DPS Ruby Park, who said that all practicals will be over well before the fourth week of April. A meeting was held on Friday with the local examiners at South City International to finalize the dates. “We want to finish early so that students can then concentrate on their written exams,” said principal John Bagul. Some schools, like St Paul’s Mission School, will conduct the tests very early. According to principal Sanchita Biswas, their practical exams will be held from April 6 to 10. “Both our schools on AJC Bose Road and Ripon Street have been taken over as polling centres. So we will have to complete early,” said principal of St Augustine Richard Gasper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-plan-early-practicals-to-avoid-polls-jee/articleshow/81356327.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||Frauds create fake Facebook account in Kolkata cop’s name||KOLKATA: A police officer has fallen victim to cyber fraud after a fake Facebook profile was created in his name and then a message seeking help was sent to his contacts. The officer, who was alerted about the message, has taken to social media to warn people that the profile and the plea were fake. “Friends, one fraudster has created a fake ID with my picture and is asking for money, making excuses of hospitalization and other things. Please note that asking money from friends using fake ID is an old cyber fraud trick. Let’s not be fooled,” the officer wrote. The fake account used the photograph of the police officer and the Lalbazar police headquarters. In the past few months, several cops and government officials have had such fake social media accounts created in their names. In nearly all the instances, attempts were made to demand money from acquaintances. These cases were filed under sections 43, 66, 66C of the Information Technology Act, 2000 along with IPC sections pertaining to cheating. Police said that they have already contacted Facebook and sought leads to identify the user in this particular case. Among the other victims were a deputy IG, a serving commissioner of a police commissionerate and three superintendents of police. At present, at least four different cyber cells in north and south Bengal have registered cases of cheating and forgery. A few cops from Kolkata Police Port and north divisions, too, had been targeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/frauds-create-fake-fb-a/c-in-cops-name/articleshow/81356307.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 6, 2021||Business||Hyderabad company MTAR Tech’s IPO subscribed 201 times||MUMBAI: The Rs 600-crore IPO for MTAR Technologies, a Hyderabad-based precision engineering solutions company, which closed on Friday, was subscribed 201 times, making it the fifth most subscribed offer since 2000. The company collected in the IPO about Rs 84,000 crore against shares worth Rs 417 crore that was on offer during the bidding process, official data showed. The institutional part in the IPO was subscribed almost 165 times. Non-institutional investors’ portion, also called high net worth individuals, was subscribed over 650 times and the retail portion over 28 times. This was the highest ever subscription to an IPO of size of over Rs 200 crore and one of the highest ever in the manufacturing sector, merchant bankers said. Given the strong subscription figure that was recorded from day 1 of the IPO, the grey market premium for MTAR Tech shares have been rising. On Friday evening it was in the Rs 530-535 per share range. Since the absence of about three months — between mid-March and mid-June last year when IPOs had completely dried up due to the Covid-related nationwide lockdowns — such offers have made a strong comeback. Happiest Minds Technologies IPO, which came in June 2020, was subscribed 151 times. Several other IPOs have also been subscribed about 150 times or more as merchant bankers advised promoters to price the offers attractively. Most of the companies that went public also had strong fundamentals, which too helped attract a large number of investors, market players said. The strong subscription figure for MTAR Tech IPO also shows how a former top venture capitalist made huge money. Mathew Cyriac, an ex-Blackstone India honcho, whose entities Fabmohur Advisors and Solidus Advisors had acquired over a third in the company in 2017 for about Rs 39 per share, sold a part of the stake in the IPO, likely to be priced at Rs 575 per share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hbad-co-mtar-techs-ipo-subscribed-201x/articleshow/81356531.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Parties to go neck-and-neck in Bobbili||Visakhapatnam: As Bobbili municipality in Vizianagaram readies to go to polls, improvement of basic civic infrastructure on its outskirts, laying of roads, drainage system in all colonies and improved water supply to wards are the common agenda for the ruling YSRC and opposition TDP. After the scrutiny and withdrawal of candidatures, 79 candidates are in the fray in 30 out of a total 31 wards. One YSRC candidate has been unanimously elected. While YSRC is contesting from the 30 divisions, TDP is in the fray in 28 segments, Jana Sena in six, Congress and CPI in two each, and BJP and CPI(M) in one each. Nine independent candidates are contesting the elections. Scion of Bobbili, RVSKK Ranga Rao, known as Baby Nayana, of TDP will be taking the fight to the YSRC top rung to retain the municipality with TDP. In the recent panchayat elections, Baby Nayana won 45 of 110 panchayats. While some local observers say the YSRC is likely to win in more wards this time, others are hopeful that Baby Nayana and other TDP leaders will give a tough fight to the YSRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/parties-to-go-neck-and-neck-in-bobbili/articleshow/81354227.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 6, 2021||Patna||500 upper caste people join JD(U)||PATNA: At least 500 people from different upper castes joined the ruling JD(U) here on Friday, five days after RCP Singh-led party constituted a ‘Savarn Cell’, an exclusive unit for the members of different upper castes, within the organization. “JD(U) is the first political party in the country to constitute upper caste cell,” party’s leader in the Lok Sabha and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh said at a ‘Milan Samaroh’ held here. Earlier on February 28, the JD(U), through a party notification, created a ‘Savarn cell’ within the organization and appointed Nitish Kumar Vimal alias Nitish Tantan as its first president, causing a murmuring among rival political parties. “After its debacle in the 2020 assembly polls, the JD(U) is trying its best to lure the members of upper castes, who, by and large, vote for the BJP, towards its fold. The creation of upper caste is part of its strategy to regain the support of the group,” a political analyst said. In Bihar, Brahmin, Bhumihar, Rajput, Kayasth (among Hindu) and few castes from Muslim community come under the category of upper castes. Welcoming the new members, party president R C P Singh said the JD(U) is an organization which takes the people of all castes, groups and religion along with it. Reacting to the development, RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said, “As the RJD has appointed an upper caste leader, Jagdanand Singh, as the party’s state president, it has caused a panic among the JD(U) leadership. In the last assembly polls in Bihar, majority of people hailing from the upper castes voted in favour of the RJD.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/500-upper-caste-people-join-jdu/articleshow/81354047.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nashik||Wholesale onion prices fall 25% at Lasalgaon||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions has come down by 25% — from Rs 2,551 per quintal on Wednesday to Rs 1,900 Friday — owing to rise in supply at Lasalgaon APMC. “The arrival of fresh onions has increased in Madhya Pradesh and other onion growing belts. These states supply onions to Delhi and other parts of North India. This has reduced the demand for the onions from Nashik,” an APMC official said Moreover, the arrival of onions has also gone up from 5,000 quintal per day to 12,000 quintal during the last couple of weeks. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices at Lasalgaon on Friday were recorded at Rs 700 and Rs 2,112 per quintal, respectively. Currently, both late kharif and summer onions are arriving in the market. The arrival of late kharif onions has increased at large and it is expected to continue for the next two weeks. The arrival of summer onions has also started, but in a very low quantity. Out of the daily arrival of 12,000 quintal of onions, the summer onions comprise only around 900 quintal. The late kharif onions have a shelf life of only one month due to which the farmers have no option but to sell the produce at the prevailing market rates. On the contrary, the shelf life of summer onions is over six months and farmers prefer storing summer onions with a hope of getting a better price at a later stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wholesale-onion-prices-fall-25-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/81353376.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 6, 2021||Business||With spike in gilt yields, FD rates inch up too||MUMBAI: Even as yields on gilts rise and borrowers hold back on their fresh bond issues, banks are reducing rates on home loans. ICICI Bank is the latest to cut home loan rates to 6.7%, which is only about 0.5% higher that the government’s cost of borrowing. But there are hints of upward pressure on interest rate with some banks and NBFCs hiking fixed deposit (FD) rates. Consider this: The spread between home loan rates and government borrowing rates has narrowed to the lowest in history with yields on the 10-year bond rising to 6.23%, which is currently less than 50 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) below the best home loan rate. Of late, yields on bonds have risen globally after the US Federal Reserve chairman said he did not see the need for intervention and inflation could rise as the economy revives. On Friday in India, the yield on the 10-year benchmark rose to 6.26% intraday — nearly an 11-month high. And as the RBI and bond traders are involved in a tug-of-war on yields, in Friday’s weekly bond auction, gilts worth about Rs 19,400 crore of the total Rs 32,000 crore on offer devolved on primary dealers, RBI data showed. Alarmed by the increase in bond yields, Indian Railways Finance Corporation and National Cooperative Development Corporation cancelled bond issues. However, even as bond yields surged, ICICI Bank joined SBI, Kotak and HDFC in cutting home loan rates. The private lender said that it has reduced rates on home loans of up to Rs 75 lakh to 6.7%, and 6.75% for above Rs 75 lakh. “We see resurgence in demand from consumers, who want to buy homes for their own consumption in the past few months,” said ICICI Bank head (secured assets) Ravi Narayanan. Anticipating growing demand for credit, some lenders are offering better returns to depositors. Bajaj Finance is one of the few issuers which have recently tweaked interest rates on FDs. It now offers returns up to 7.25% for senior citizens. HDFC and PNB too have raised deposit rates recently. While an increase in returns is good for senior citizens as well as those saving for their retirement through EPFO, it could hurt equity markets. “Bond markets have started showing nervousness about sharply rising commodity prices, especially crude. The equity rally, which started in April 2020, has broad underlying assumptions of easy liquidity plus large fiscal stimulus without significant uptick in inflation. Rising yields may queer the pitch and trigger a selloff in global equities,” said Quantum Mutual Fund’s fund manager Nilesh Shetty. The positive in the macro fund is on the foreign exchange front. Hitherto, the RBI had been under pressure to buy dollars. “The trade deficit is edging back up to pre-pandemic levels. The resultant shrinkage in the balance of payments surplus in 2021 could mean that the RBI may not have to buy as many dollars, providing it some degrees of freedom as it juggles between its objectives on inflation, the rupee, and bond yields,” said HSBC India chief India economist Pranjul Bhandari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/with-spike-in-gilt-yields-fd-rates-inch-up-too/articleshow/81356445.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Business||Sanitisers not medicament, to face 18% GST: Tax body||TNN Mumbai: The Karnataka bench of the GST Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) has held in its recent order that hand sanitisers are not a medicament. As a result, these would be subject to a GST levy at 18%. Wipro Enterprises, which manufactures consumer products such as soaps, toiletries and bulbs, began to produce and market hand sanitisers on a large scale in the backdrop of the pandemic. The company is part of the Wipro Group, which is also known for being one of the tech giants in India. In June last year, it approached the AAR to determine the appropriate classification of hand sanitisers and hence the GST rate. It submitted that the product which contained 95% ethyl alcohol and had obtained a drug licence should be classified under chapter heading 3004. This chapter covers medicaments having a therapeutic or prophylactic value. Referring to various court decisions, it pointed out that hair oil used for killing lice, or iodine cleaning solutions had been regarded as medicaments. However, the AAR bench observed in its recent order that hand sanitisers cannot be called a therapeutic agent as they do not treat a disease already prevalent in a patient. Second, this product cannot be considered as prophylactic goods either as it is not specific to any disease but is an alternative to soap. Further, it cannot be compared with polio drops or Covaxin. Thus, it is not a medicament and would be subject to 18% GST. Incidentally in July last year (after the date of filing of the AAR application by Wipro Enterprises), the finance ministry had clarified that sanitisers are disinfectants like soaps, anti-bacterial liquids and Dettol, which all attract duty at the standard rate of 18% under the GST regime. TOI had earlier reported on a ruling by the Goa-bench of the AAR which had also held alcohol-based hand sanitisers manufactured by a local company would be subject to 18% GST levy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sanitisers-not-medicament-to-face-18-gst-tax-body/articleshow/81356309.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Business||Lenders to Bhushan Power clear JSW Steel’s Rs 19,000-crore plan||MUMBAI: Lenders to Bhushan Power have accepted JSW Steel’s Rs 19,350-crore resolution plan for the stressed asset. They have also agreed to refund the money in case of an adverse order by the Supreme Court (SC) in relation to the litigations filed by Bhushan Power’s founder against JSW. The lenders’ agreement is in line with the apex court’s last March order that said if JSW makes the payment for Bhushan Power and loses the case, then the lenders will have to return the entire amount to the company. JSW will be depositing the sum in an escrow account managed by a leading PSU bank over the next two weeks. JSW Steel declined to comment on the report. If the Bhushan Power deal concludes successfully, then JSW will be ahead of Tata Steel in terms of production capacity in India. Rival Tata Steel had acquired Bhushan Steel (which was promoted by Bhushan Power founder’s brother) through the bankruptcy route in 2018. Three applications — two filed by Bhushan Power founder Sanjay Singhal against JSW and one filed by the enforcement directorate (ED) against an NCLAT order — are pending before the SC. Singhal has opposed JSW’s deal on the ground that the latter was a joint venture partner for a coal mine permit and a related party of Bhushan Power is barred from bidding for a stressed asset under bankruptcy rules. This, however, was dismissed by the NCLAT after it found that the partnership was formed based on government criterion for allocation of coal blocks and there were three partners including a PSU in the JV. Singhal has challenged the NCLAT order in the SC. He has also challenged another NCLAT order that allowed JSW to retain Bhushan Power’s profits earned during the insolvency proceedings before the SC. Singhal wanted the earnings to go to Bhushan Power’s lenders. Bhushan Power has seen positive operating profit throughout the proceedings on the back of robust metal prices. Besides Singhal, the ED has also challenged an NCLAT order that exempted Bhushan Power from all criminal acts done by its founder after it becomes a part of JSW. The ED had seized Bhushan Power’s assets in connection with a money laundering probe against Singhal. So, until the SC gives its verdict, uncertainty looms over the JSW-Bhushan Power deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lenders-to-bhushan-power-clear-jsw-steels-rs-19k-cr-plan/articleshow/81356124.cms||Reeba Zachariah
March 6, 2021||Surat||Naidu calls for better healthcare for villagers||Surat: Making a clarion call for bridging the urban-rural disparity in the health infrastructure, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday appealed to the private sector to take it as a mission and expand their footprint beyond cities and provide affordable healthcare to all the people. He also suggested the governments to partner proactively with the private sector to take modern medical facilities to rural areas, particularly the remote regions. Speaking at the foundation laying of the Nirali Multispecialty Hospital in Navsari, Naidu said that Covid-19 taught a valuable lesson on the importance of good health and that a good healthcare system can stimulate economic development in a region. “Good health is an asset to the individual, the community, and society at large,” he said, while commending the philanthropic efforts of AM Naik in serving the people of the region. Naidu also underlined the need to create greater awareness on mental health issues and referred to the WHO estimate of 2019 that 7.5% of Indians were affected by mental health disorders and that the pandemic’s impact on mental health is yet to be estimated fully. “More than anything else, we must show a willingness to talk about mental health,” he said. Recalling the historic movements of Dandi March and Bardoli Satyagraha, Naidu said these reminded us of the power of Atma Shakti and Atma Nirbharta and also as examples of peaceful means to achieve desired goals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/naidu-calls-for-better-healthcare-for-villagers/articleshow/81354109.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Vijayawada||HC adjourns hearing on ZPTC, MPTC polls||Vijayawada: Hearing on a batch of petitions challenging the proceedings issued by the state election commission to conduct enquiries into complaints received from contestants in ZPTC and MPTC elections have been posted to Monday. The high court adjourned hearing on the petitions as the SEC is yet to file counter affidavits. A number of petitions have been filed challenging the SEC’s orders to collectors to look into complaints of forceful withdrawals and preventing of filing nominations by candidates. Those who are poised to be elected unanimous moved the court against the SEC’s ‘arbitrary’ and ‘unconstitutional’ decision. The Jana Sena moved a petition seeking directions to the SEC to issue fresh notification for ZPTC and MPTC elections. The party said that the election commissioner wrote to the Union government mentioning the forced unanimous elections due to the violence that took place during the filing of nominations. The court had earlier passed interim orders in favour of the petitioners till it completed the hearing. The SEC apologised to the court for not filing the counter affidavit and requested the bench to hear the matter in the afternoon session. The court, while allowing the SEC to file the counter, said the matter will be heard on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-adjourns-hearing-on-zptc-mptc-polls/articleshow/81354119.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Business||From peak of Rs 56k in Aug, gold plunges to near Rs 43k||TNN Mumbai: After a strong run that had lasted about nine months, gold in India is on a slide with its price during intraday trade on Friday nearing the Rs 43,000-per-10-gram level. From a high of Rs 56,310 recorded in August, the price is now down 21%. This means gold has technically entered the bear territory. The slide in gold rates here came due to a sharp drop in its price in the international markets, which fell below the $1,700-per-ounce (Oz) mark on Thursday — a nearly nine-month low level. From its all-time peak at $2,010 last August, it has now lost 15%. Analysts feel that it could slide below the $1,500 level before it stabilises. The drop in gold prices came on the back of a strong dollar, which was due to the rising bond yields in the world’s largest economy. With investors pouring money into US government bonds to earn higher yields, the attractiveness of the yellow metal as a safe haven diminished a bit, and hence the slide in its price, analysts said. Apart from demand factor, the price of gold in India depends on the international pricing and the rupee-dollar exchange rate since it is a globally traded commodity. Of late, dollar has been strengthening against most major currencies. The rupee-dollar rate has been hovering around the 73-to-a-dollar mark for the last few months. In the last couple of weeks, the rupee has broken below the 73-mark and on Friday closed at 73.03. While some analysts see gold sliding to the $1,500 level, others feel there is going to be a tug-of-war between global central banks, which will try to rein in rising yields, and investors who would expect it to rise. This would eventually decide the price of gold, analysts said. According to Hitesh Jain of Yes Securities, although gold prices have tumbled recently in the wake of the surge in sovereign yields, the latter would not rise sustainably since governments do not favour higher yields on their accumulated gigantic debt. “There is a prevalent divide between markets and central banks, wherein markets are pricing higher inflation and growth, while central banks remain accommodative and dovish. We assume that central banks will eventually rein in the yields with their asset purchases and also help their respective governments in keeping the borrowing costs low,” Jain wrote in a note. “On gold price trajectory, we still remain bullish considering the unprecedented government stimulus, bloated central bank balance sheets and burgeoning sovereign debt.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/from-peak-of-rs-56k-in-aug-gold-plunges-to-near-rs-43k/articleshow/81356633.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||‘City airport, PMPML record dip in footfall’||Pune: The city airport recorded more than 10% drop in passenger traffic in 2020 as compared to 2019, the economic survey released by the state government stated on Friday. In 2019, the airport registered 88.19 lakh passengers, which dipped to 79.27 lakh in 2020. In the case of cargo transport, the airport recorded a dip of more than 85% as against the previous year. In 2019, the airport transported 2.86 lakh metric tonne cargo which reduced to just 37,645 metric tonnes last year. In public transport, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) had an average of 1,972 buses plying per day in 2019 which dropped to 1,383 in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-airport-pmpml-record-dip-in-footfall/articleshow/81356539.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 6, 2021||Pune||Pune: Construction worker’s body found near Wakad bridge||PUNE: The decomposed body of a 37-year-old construction worker was found along the service road of the ever-busy Katraj-Dehu Road bypass close to Wakad bridge on Friday morning. The Hinjewadi police identified the deceased as Andappa alias Adam Bhimappa. “The victim was working at a construction site near Bhumkar Chowk,” said inspector Ajay Jogdand of the Hinjewadi police station. Jogdand said the body of the construction worker was beyond recognition. “A copy of the Aadhaar card of the victim was found in the pocket of the man’s trousers. The document helped us to ascertain his identity,” the officer said. A source said the deceased construction worker was known to be an alcoholic. Confirming the same, the officer said the investigation undertaken by the police revealed that the victim almost always remained under the influence of alcohol, particularly after the death of his wife. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of the construction worker’s death,” Jogdand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-workers-body-found-near-wakad-bridge/articleshow/81355287.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Varanasi||2 cops suspended in Chandaulifor links with liquor smugglers||Varanasi: An audio clip exposing involvement of cops posted at Kandwa police station in Chandauli district in facilitating liquor smugglers to cross border for entering Bihar, a dry state, with liquor consignments went viral and resulted in suspension of two police constables while 20 others were attached to police lines. SP Chandauli Amit Kumar raided the Kandwa police station on Friday night, paraded all the staff. After questioning the entire staff of police station and collecting information, the SP ordered suspension of two constables and attached 20 others to police lines for fair investigation. Talking to TOI on Saturday, Kumar said, “CO Naugarh has been asked to probe the matter and submit report within 15 days. Further action would be taken accordingly.” “We have sent replacement for the 22 cops of Kandwa police station against whom action has been taken,” he added. In the 2.43-minute audio clip that went viral, a constable is heard giving guarantee to the liquor smuggler of extending all help even in taking consignment through Kandwa on daily basis. The liquor smuggler seeks assurance from the constable to cross the UP border safely with 15 boxes of liquor worth Rs one lakh. In reply, the constable tells the route through which he would help him cross the border, and further takes guarantee for a safe passage from Kandwa police station jurisdiction even if the smuggler carries liquor to Bihar daily. A complete ban on liquor was imposed in Bihar in 2016. SP Chandauli said, “Stern legal action will be taken against the smugglers as well as the cops found guilty. They will be booked under Gangster Act.” Meanwhile, Kotwali police in Ballia district arrested two smugglers Sonu Kumar and Dhanji Rajbhar and seized a consignment of 310 boxes full of liquor bottles worth Rs 16 lakh. SP Ballia Vipin Tada said, “They were caught while trying to cross Janeshwar Mishra bridge for entering Bihar with a liquor laden van. During questioning, they revealed their hideout that was raided from where more stock of liquor was seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/2-cops-suspended-in-chandaulifor-links-with-liquor-smugglers/articleshow/81369195.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bank peon who got ATM code, stole Rs 1.2L, held||Mumbai: A 33-year-old peon at the Mira Road branch of a scheduled bank was arrested for allegedly stealing cash from its ATM last month. Bank officials had registered a case of theft on February 20 after Rs 1.2 lakh was found missing from the ATM hours after it was refilled by a private agency. As per procedure, the ATM is out of service during cash-refilling. Cassettes holding the currency are removed and loaded with notes. The amount loaded is recorded and the ATM is put back into service. The cash refilled and that withdrawn by customers did not match, alerting bank officers. As the machine was not tampered with, bank officers suspected an insider. Naya Nagar police examined CCTV footage but found those using the ATM were masked due to Covid-19. A bank peon matched images captured. On questioning, it emerged he obtained the security code of the ATM. Police are not ruling out the involvement of more than one person, including cash-loading agency staff. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bank-peon-who-got-atm-code-stole-rs-1-2l-held/articleshow/81356592.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kolhapur||2 Mumbai youths arrested for attacking cop||Kolhapur: Two youths from Mumbai, who were arrested by the Shahuwadi police in Kolhapur district, tried to flee after attacking police personnel on Wednesday evening. Both, however, were arrested after a brief chase. Fresh offences were registered against 20-year-old Baithul Abdul Rehman Shaikh and Aalam Abbir Shaikh, both residents of Kurla in Mumbai. Police hawaldar Chintamani Wambale was injured in the head in the attack by the duo. Wambale has been admitted to the Malkapur hospital. Police said Baithul and Aalam were stopped by the police on Tuesday evening on the Kolhapur-Ratnagiri road as they were found driving a vehicle under the influence of alcohol. Both were brought to the Shahuwadi police station when they abused the police personnel and damaged the furniture. They were then arrested. Police were taking the duo to produce them before the court on Wednesday noon, when Baithul pretended that he had chest pain and collapsed. Hawaldar Wambale tried to pick Baithul up. But Wambale was attacked with a piece of tile by Baithul. The two youths then ran away. Aalam was tracked down by the police within 15 minutes. Police then combed the area with the help of residents and Baitul was also spotted hiding in a farm. A local girl had spotted him and had alerted the police. Baithul and Aalam have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-mumbai-youths-arrested-for-attacking-cop/articleshow/81344297.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Shivraj orders probe into another Vyapam ‘recruitment scam’||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday ordered an inquiry into another suspected recruitment scam in an exam conducted by Vyapam. The alleged irregularities have been detected in the recruitment exam for agriculture extension officers and senior agricultural development officers, conducted by Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board or Vyapam as it is commonly known, on February 10-11. It is alleged that 10 students from the same locality and community were ranked as toppers while their past school and college academic records don’t match this. There are far too many ‘coincidences’ to be ignored, say sources. For instance, each of them ticked a wrong option in the exam that was mistakenly shown as right by Vyapam in the answersheet uploaded on its website, say sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shivraj-orders-probe-into-another-vyapam-recruitment-scam/articleshow/81358695.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nashik||FDA acts against five medical practitioners||Nashik: The Food and Drugs’ Administration (FDA), Nashik division, has started taking action against unauthorized medical practitioners, who are carrying and prescribing allopathic medicine to the patients coming to them without having the requisite knowledge. Last month, five such medical practitioners were identified in the district. While three are from Nandgaon taluka, one is from Nashik taluka and another is from Satpur area in Nashik city. Joint director of FDA (drugs), Nashik, Madhuri Pawar said, “The report about the concerned medical practitioners has been sent to the district-level committee which will decide the future course of action.” “These medical practitioners are unqualified but provide allopathy treatment to patients coming to them. Such people stock large quantities of allopathy medicines and treat patients, including giving injections. This is like playing with the lives of the patients. Hence, action was taken after receiving secret information from a civilian,” said Pawar. Among these doctors, one had done a correspondence diploma course in herbal medicine and others had a diploma in electropathy alternative medicine and naturopathy. None of them had. the requisite qualifications of treating patients with allopathy medicines. Pawar said the drugs department had also conducted a special drive in December under the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisement) Act, 1954, in which raids were conducted at three places and medicine worth over Rs 12 lakh was seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fda-acts-against-five-medical-practitioners/articleshow/81353398.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Govt to enact strict law to deal with love jihad: Jadeja||Gandhinagar: Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja said in the Gujarat assembly on Friday that after the remarkable victory for his party in the local body polls, the BJP is now in power in 90% of Gujarat’s geographical area. He was speaking on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address in the assembly. The minister also spoke about Aisha, who committed suicide at the Sabarmati riverfront. “The girl lived in my constituency. Her father stays at Vatva. I called and spoke to him. I also spoke to police officers and asked them to take strictest possible action against the culprits,” said Jadeja. Commenting on stringent laws being enforced, he said, “Whether it is Aisha or Asha, the government will enact strict laws to deal with love jihad and check crimes against women.”Jadeja said the people have been repeatedly endorsing the BJP’s development plank, and have been rejecting the Congress party’s policy of appeasement. He said the discerning voters of Gujarat have given a sharp rebuff to the Congress’ attempt to incite youth and disturb peace in the guise of reservation stir in 2015. “If this trend continues, it will be difficult for the Congress to survive in Gujarat,” he said.Commenting on renaming of the world’s largest cricket stadium after PM Narendra Modi, Jadeja said the cricket stadium is only a part of the proposed 215-acre Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave. “The Congress neglected Sardar Patel. It was under the leadership of PM Modi that the world’s tallest statue of Sardar Patel was built. Today more people visit the Statue of Unity than the Taj Mahal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-enact-strict-law-to-deal-with-love-jihad-jadeja/articleshow/81356588.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Goa||Goa IPB to be integrated with nat’l investment clearance cell||Panaji: By April-end, the Goa Investment Promotion Board (IPB) will be integrated with the Centre’s single window system for clearances and approvals in the country, becoming one of the first six states to do so. The integration of Goa IPB with the National Investment Clearance Cell, which will facilitate clearances at central and state level, will allow investors and industrial units to directly apply with the central government if they wish to start business operations in the state. Though the central government departments and the state governments have brought in single window clearances for investments, investors still need to visit multiple platforms to gather information and obtain approvals. The Narendra Modi-led government has begun working on a centralised single window system for clearances and approvals of industry through a centralised investment clearance cell, where Goa has been selected as one of the six states for the first phase. The centralised investment clearance cell will provide end-to-end facilitation support, including pre-investment advisory, information related to land banks and ensure that approvals are given in a time-bound manner, officials said. “We have a single window system which is being integrated with the national single window system which is being developed by the government of India as part of the investment clearance cell. Goa is one of the few states chosen for integration and it is only matter of time when any investor who wants to invest in any state can through the national portal be able to directly send his application and apply for Goa also,” industries secretary J Ashok Kumar said. According to central government officials, the investment clearance cell is being planned as a “one-stop digital platform” to obtain all requisite central and state approvals required to start business operations. A GIS-enabled digital land bank has already been developed under the Industrial Information System (IIS) with six states being taken up in the first phase which was launched in August last year. The six states are Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Odisha and Goa. These same states will be part of the centralised investment clearance cell in the first phase. “We have a common application form for all the industries and once applied, all clearances will be given and the investor does not have to approach each and every department for clearances. This seamless and time-bound approvals will be ensured through the single window system,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-ipb-to-be-integrated-with-natl-investment-clearance-cell/articleshow/81358060.cms||Newton Sequeira
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||19,427 children in Ahmedabad admitted via RTE||GANDHINAGAR: In reply to a written question in the Gujarat assembly, state government informed that 19,427 students of economically backward families from Ahmedabad city have been granted admission under the Right to Education Act in the past two years. Jamalpur MLA Imran Khedawala sought details about the number of children who had been granted admission under RTE act in the past two years. He also sought data on the number of children who had been denied admission under the RTE act for the same period, and the cost incurred by the government during the said period. In his written reply, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said that 11,085 students were granted admission under RTE Act in 2019-20 and 8,409 students were granted admission under RTE in 2020-21. The minister said that in 2019-20, 224 students were denied admission under RTE Act while in 2020-21, 3,302 students were denied admission under RTE Act in Ahmedabad city. The government, in its reply, said that a sum of Rs 76 crore has been spent for education of children under the RTE Act in Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/19427-children-in-city-admitted-via-rte/articleshow/81356600.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Nanded police bust gang of bike thieves, recover 33 vehicles||Aurangabad: Nanded police have busted a gang of thieves and seized 33 bikes that they had stolen from different parts of the state. Superintendent of police, Nanded, Pramodkumar Shewale said the accused took to crime for making some easy money. The gang members would steal the bike only from those places which did not have CCTV cameras that helped them evade arrest for over a year. “They would hide the bikes for a few days before changing its number plate and selling it off at throwaway prices,” said Shewale. This is the second major detection by the local crime branch of Nanded police. Iinspector Dwarkadas Chikhlikar said prior to this detection, 62 stolen bikes were seized and 22 people were arrested for either stealing, selling or even purchasing the stolen bikes. In addition to this, spare parts of about 100 different bikes were also seized from suspected bike lifters and six accused were arrested. “The bike lifters either sell off stolen bikes at throwaway prices or they disassemble it completely and sell the spare parts to mechanics and used vehicle dealers,” said Chikhlikar.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-police-bust-gang-of-bike-thieves-recover-33-vehicles/articleshow/81353407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Fourth phase of ‘Sujalam Sufalam Yojana’ from April 1||Gandhinagar: The state government on Friday asked the water resources department to undertake the fourth phase of ‘Sujalam Sufalam Water Yojana’ from April 1 to May 31.Under the programme, various works such as deepening of lakes, de-silting and repairing of existing water bodies, cleaning, repairing and maintenance of water canals, cleaning of rivers, ponds and others to revive the rivers will be undertaken. As many as 16,170 lakes have been cleaned and deepened since SSWY began in 2018. In addition, de-silting of 8,107 check-dams 462 reservoirs has been undertaken. Repairing of 2,239 check-dams, construction of 568 new lakes and 1,079 new check-dams has also been completed over the past three years.As a result of these works, the water harvesting capacity of the state has increased by 42,064 lakh cubic feet in the last three years, claimed the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fourth-phase-of-sujalam-sufalam-yojana-from-april-1/articleshow/81356618.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Law will always support girls,make use of it, says CJ Kohli||Hyderabad: Instilling a sense of confidence among girls staying in state-run homes in Hyderabad and Warangal, Telangana’s first woman Chief Justice Hima Kohli interacted with them in a virtual mode and assured them that law will always support them. “Don’t ever lose faith in yourself. Hard work is the sole principle,” she said during the interaction organised by state legal services authority (SLSA) and women and child welfare department in connection with International Women’s Day. She appreciated the resolve of conjoined twins — Veena and Vani — who expressed a desire to complete chartered accountancy course and be counted as CAs.  As state homes are meant for those who do not have proper familial support, the CJ told inmates of these houses that achievements of children coming from such backgrounds acquire great significance. SLSA member-secretary Anupama Chakravarthy, women and child welfare department’s special secretary Divya Devarajan and others participated in the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/law-will-always-support-girlsmake-use-of-it-says-cj-kohli/articleshow/81355297.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ludhiana||7 students & 4 teachers among 105 +ve for virus||Ludhiana: As many as 105 residents tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. They included seven students and four teachers.As per the local media bulletin, the disease claimed the life of a Jalandhar patient at a city hospital. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar the district toll tally stood at 1,034 and that of outsiders has risen to 514.To date 6,84,099 persons have been tested.Of the 105 new cases, 33 were from flu corner, 14 from OPD, 24 contacts of positive patients, 18 through tracing process, two health workers, and two severe acute respiratory infection cases.Besides, seven students (one each of a government multipurpose school and a private school in BRS Nagar, 3 college students, two kids of Government Smart School in Halwara) and four teachers (three of a school in Jamalpur and one of a government school in Kot Mangal Singh), too, have contracted the virus. As many as 22 outsiders also tested positive.The local health department officials said the district case count was 27,578 and that of outsiders 4,312.So far, 25,832 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.66% of the total cases.There are 712 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,404.On Friday, 184 persons were quarantined and 4,066 samples collected.Ten patients, including seven Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/7-students-4-teachers-among-105-ve-for-virus/articleshow/81354076.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Sarpanch held for taking Rs 13 lakh bribe||Hyderabad: ACB sleuths trapped Ch Vinod Goud, sarpanch of Manneguda panchayat in Vikarabad district, when he demanded and accepted Rs 13 lakh bribe from a complainant on Friday. Vinod Goud was caught red-handed by ACB sleuths near a temple in Bandlaguda when he took Rs 13 lakh from the complainant, Mohammed Sajid Basha of Mallepally. “Basha is an employee of Mujahid Alam Khan. The bribe was demanded to allow Basha to continue his employer’s shop construction work at Manneguda,” said an ACB official. The accused has been arrested and will be produced before the court for judicial remand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sarpanch-held-for-taking-rs-13-lakh-bribe/articleshow/81355290.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Varanasi||Trainee officers get insight of GI products at LBSNA||Varanasi: The exquisite silk weaves from Varanasi and traditional wooden toys fascinated the trainee administrative officers at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie when they came across with the nitty-gritty of these GI (Geographical Indication) tagged handicrafts during the two-day GI Mahotsav held on Thursday and Friday. The event was organised by the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED), Ministry of Tribal Affairs in partnership with the Ministry of Culture at the LBSNAA for the trainee administrative officers. The event aimed to give the officers an overview into the world of artisans, design and GI products of the country. The event was also attended by two tribal artisans and a GI expert from Varanasi. While the artisans Brijbhan Maravi and Vinod Kumar displayed their GI-tagged handicrafts at the fest, the GI expert Dr Rajani Kant gave an insight of the GI to the trainee officers during the plenary talks covering topics ranging from legal implications of GI, artistic and design collaborations with GI crafts. “Our stall displayed famed Banarasi sari, suit, dupatta and wooden toys,” Brijbhan told TOI over phone on Friday. Brijbhan, who is the secretary of a Varanasi based tribal organisation Tribal Research and Development Institute, registered with the TRIFED, said that the trainee officers keenly wanted to know about the benefit of GI certification of the goods. “They enquired about the process of GI certification of out products, and its prospects,” said Brijbhan. “It was a unique and purposeful programme of the TRIFED and cultural ministry to acquaint the budding bureaucrats with the exclusiveness of GI goods of the country,” said the GI expert Dr Rajani Kant of Human Welfare Association, who is instrumental in getting GI tags to a number of products of Varanasi and surrounding districts. He said that the trainee officers were told about the identification of prospective GI goods, process of getting GI certification and post GI initiatives for the promotion of certified goods. “There were 51 stalls of GI products from across the country at the fest including Varanasi’s stall, the only stall from Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Dr Kant said that the exhibition of GI textiles showcased a wide range of saris connected to GI textile such as Banarasi Brocade, Patan Patola, Uppada Jamdani, Kalamkari, Paithani, Kota Doria, Pochampally bringing alive the exquisite weaving and design traditions of India. Before taking part in GI Mahotsav, the tribal artisans had also displayed their skill at the for-night-long ‘Aadi Mahotsav’ of TRIFED at New Delhi that concluded on February 15. “We had displayed the exquisite collection of Banarasi silk saris as well as the traditional wooden toys at Aadi Mahotsav,” said Vinod. Brijbhan said that according to the 2011 census, the population of Gond tribe in Varanasi district is 28,000, and around 300 of them are skilled artisans.“While most tribal people in Varanasi are engaged in menial occupation like daily wage workers and farm labourers, some of them have mastered themselves in sari weaving and handicrafts like wooden toys and soft stone work,” said Brijbhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/trainee-officers-get-insight-of-gi-products-at-lbsna/articleshow/81355308.cms||Binay Singh
March 6, 2021||Ludhiana||City gets state’s first intellectual property rights facilitation centre||Ludhiana: In a good news for the local industry, the Central government has approved an Intellectual Property Rights Facilitation Centre (IPRFC) for Ludhiana. The centre will spread awareness about intellectual property rights among entrepreneurs, especially those connected with micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). Though the government has sanctioned the centre for the city’s business body, Auto Parts’ Manufacturers’ Association (APMA), it will offer services to all other sectors as well in filing for patents, copyrights, trademarks, and industrial designs.GS Kahlon, APMA president, said, “This will be the first IPRFC of Punjab that will help and train businessmen about intellectual property rights (IPR). The main role of this centre will be to take measures for protecting ideas and business strategies and assist MSMEs in technology upgrade and enhance their competitiveness and also educate them about effective utilisation of IPR tools. Government has officially communicated about sanctioning of the IPRFC, other details will follow soon.”Gurpreet Singh, a member of the MSME Board of India, said the IPRFC would work for all types of industries, including auto, cycle, tractor and sewing machine parts, machine tools, agricultural implements and hosiery, among others. “Its functioning will not be limited to Ludhiana alone. There are several benefits of having an IPRFC in the city as these centres are authorised to organise interactive seminars and workshops for spreading IPR awareness. Financial assistance is provided for organising these programmes, which otherwise are costly affairs. The centre will offer pre-filing services, prior art search, preliminary patentability assessment, patent filing support with provisional specification and advice for international filing.” An auto parts’ manufacturer, Daljit Singh, said, “Throughout the country, there are thousands of businessmen who have benefitted from IPRFCs. These centres specialise in providing assistance for various IPR services, like patent, copyright, trademark, industrial designs, geographical indications and general consultations, that have become an important part of business. Now with our own IPRFC at Ludhiana, we can save money and time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-gets-states-first-intellectual-property-rights-facilitation-centre/articleshow/81354085.cms||Mohit Behl
March 6, 2021||Kanpur||DAV College Prof suspended foralleged molestation of student||Kanpur: A professor of Dayanand Anglo-Vedic (DAV) College has been suspended on charges of molesting a girl student in public. The college management board has started investigating the matter following the complaint of the girl, that was received by its office on Friday. An emergency meeting was convened by the secretary of the management board, Dr Nagendra Swarup, the same day where the suspension of the accused professor of the Military Science department was ordered with immediate effect, a DAV statement said. The board has given the responsibility to the principal Mahila College (Kidwainagar), governed by DAV management, to complete the probe into the matter as soon as possible and submit its report for initiating final action, it said. On Friday, a girl student had lodged a complaint against a professor of the Military Science department with the DAV college management alleging that he molested her in public on Monday. “The complainant stated that she had come to attend her class on Monday morning, when the professor passed some lewd remarks on her and later touched her inappropriately,” informed a senior member of the board. Subsequently, the girl reported the matter to the DAV management board after which an emergency meeting was convened and a decision to suspend the accused professor was taken on Friday, he added. “It was not for the first time that the professor molested her. She told the management that she was upset for the past few years due to the alleged misbehaviour of the professor. The student in her statement alleged that the teacher used to harass her often by passing indecent remarks and touching her inappropriately,” he said adding, the board has immediately removed the professor from teaching responsibilities. Senior members of the board said that such incidents might damage the image and the prestige of the reputed college and suggested stern action against the guilty person. “There is a zero-tolerance policy against any deviant behaviour and if the charges against the professor will be proved, he will face termination from job,” said Dr Nagendra Swarup, secretary, DAV College management board while talking to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dav-college-prof-suspended-foralleged-molestation-of-student/articleshow/81354481.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Allahabad||Former MP Dhananjay Singh surrenders in Prayagraj court||Prayagraj: Mafia-turned-politician and former MP Dhananjay Singh, who is wanted in a murder case of Lucknow, surrendered before the MP and MLA court of Allahabad district court in connection with an old criminal case on Friday. He surrendered at 12 noon. Singh surrendered in a criminal case registered against him at Khuthan police station of Jaunpur district in 2017 in which he was already on bail. He surrendered after the surety of the bail bond of this case withdrew his consent from the bail bond. As soon as the surety withdrew his consent from the bail bond, the MP and MLA court took former MP into judicial custody and subsequently sent him to Naini Central Jail in pursuance thereof after around an hour. The court fixed April 1 for the next hearing of this case. The Lucknow police had on March 4 declared a reward of Rs. 25,000 on Singh, the former BSP MP from Jaunpur who is absconding on charges of conspiring in the Ajit Singh murder case in Vibhutikhand locality of Lucknow. Ajit Singh, a gangster and former block pramukh of Mau district, was shot dead on January 6. After the warrant was issued, the Lucknow police was conducting raids in search of the former MP, who has been absconding since 15 February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/former-mp-dhananjay-singh-surrenders-in-prayagraj-court/articleshow/81354554.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Developer duped of Rs 1cr in 4th case over Bandra plot||Mumbai: An unidentified man has been booked for duping a city-based developer of Rs1.1 crore after he promised to strike a deal for the 8,100 sq ft Dondhi bungalow worth Rs150 crore at Bandra Bandstand located near Shahrukh Khan’s home Mannat, but siphoned off the money instead. Wadhwa Residency Pvt Ltd paid token money to the accused last year after he reportedly showed a fake death certificate of the owner and property card documents giving power of attorney to a certain Satish Dhanuka, who he claimed was known to him. Bandra Kurla Complex police registered the FIR on February 25 after Navin Makhija, director of Wadhwa Residency, learnt several others had been duped of crores in the past in deals involving sale of the plot. The case has now been transferred to the economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai police. No arrest has been made so far. This is the fourth time a cheating and land grab case has been registered for the same bungalow plot that belonged to Dr Farooque Dondhi, who passed away in 2006. In a will left with his lawyer, Vijay Desai, Dondhi has stated the property should be converted into a hospital for the poor through a trust.Makhija did not respond to TOI’s calls and text messages on Friday. “Makhija has complained that the accused told him he could help him get the plot for a good price. Makhija paid Rs1.1 crore token money. However, the accused kept delaying the procedure for purchase of the plot. Makhija filed a complaint after he came across news articles revealing the plot had been used to dupe several others too,” said a police officer.In January, EOW had booked three persons—Shapoor Irani, realty consultant Mahesh Alimchandani and J K Nathani—in another case. EOW officials said Alimchandani is an expert in forging documents and has been arrested in the past. A petition filed by Irani claiming to be executor of Dondhi’s will is pending in Bombay high court. Dondhi’s lawyer, Desai, has filed a complaint stating Irani has submitted fake documents through his lawyer, Nathani.In 2014, a former Bandra resident, Farooq Motiwala, had also falsely claimed he had bought the bungalow from Dondhi’s siblings. He was arrested in 2016. Motiwala had allegedly submitted a forged sale and registration agreement. A Bandra-based builder, Suresh Jain, had also claimed rights to the property. The EOW probe then showed that Jain, an accused in another land grab case, had told the police that his father Sohanlal had bought the property from Dondhi in 1967 for Rs 60,000. He, too, had produced fake agreements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-developer-duped-of-rs-1cr-in-4th-case-over-bandra-plot/articleshow/81358121.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Chicken shop owner, aide thrash and shoot at realtor||ROAD RAGELudhiana: In a case of road rage, a chicken shop owner and his accomplice, who is yet to be identified, allegedly thrashed a 30-year-old realtor and opened fire on him near Ishmeet Chowk in Model Town late on Thursday night.The bullet pierced through the windshield of the car and hit Kanav Thapar, a resident of Green Field, on left arm.The police have arrested main accused Parminder Singh, 36, of Parbhat Nagar who owns a chicken shop near Samrala Chowk. The cops have recovered .32 bore licensed revolver from his possession. The CCTV cameras installed near the spot have captured the accused running after Kanav’s car and firing at him. Kanav said, “I had gone to Ishmeet Chowk to buy dinner and have it in car. After some time, Parminder came there in his sedan. While I was having dinner, he started honking, asking me to remove my car from the spot. When I told him to wait, he started arguing with me. As I drove a few metres away, he ran his sedan into my car. When I objected, he and his accomplice came inside my car and thrashed me.” Kanav pushed them out and drove away. “But, Parminder started running behind my car. As I slowed down, he came in front of my car and opened fire at me,” he added. Kanav did not stop and drove to his house. His father took him to a hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said Parminder was arrested on Friday morning from his house. A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was lodged against the accused. “We are looking into the role of his accomplice and will take appropriate action against him,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chicken-shop-owner-aide-thrash-and-shoot-at-realtor/articleshow/81354081.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Let me file addl docus to prove innocence’||Hyderabad: Stating that the central government is the competent authority in according iron ore mining leases, senior IAS officer Y Srilakshmi approached the Telangana high court on Friday, urging it to allow her to file additional documents to prove her innocence in the Obulapuram mining case. “These documents will show that I did not resort to cheating, criminal breach of trust, conspiracy, etc., as was alleged, but would show that I discharged my duties in tune with the mandate of the law. I have no nexus with the other accused in the case,” she said in her plea. Srilakshmi is facing charges as an accused in the case of illegal mining of iron ore by Obulapuram Mining Company belonging to former Karnataka minister and mining baron Gali Janardhan Reddy. The IAS officer from AP filed a plea in the HC six years ago, urging the court to quash the CBI case against her and filed an interim application now in the same plea praying the court to allow her to file additional documents to disprove the allegations the CBI had made in its chargesheet against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/let-me-file-addl-docus-to-prove-innocence/articleshow/81355307.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Senior citizen’s ‘killer’ needed cash to repay loan taken for ill dad||Kalyan: Four days after a senior citizen from Kalyan was found murdered at her residence, a conservancy worker on contract with Kalyan-Dombivli municipality has been arrested for the crime. The police said that the accused, Vijendra Thackeray alias Vasu (35), planned to rob the woman as he needed to repay loans he had taken for his father’s medical treatment. On February 28, the body of Hansaben Thakkar (71) was found with the throat slit. She lived alone. Things around the house were found in order, leading the police to conclude that the killer was known to her.Thackeray, whose father had undergone surgery, had borrowed money for his father’s treatment. The father of two was unable to repay Rs 1.5 lakh, said assistant commissioner of police Anil Powar. Thackeray, who was part of a conservancy team that picks up garbage from residential localities, had come in contact with Thakkar. “He learnt that she lived alone,” said additional commissioner of police Dattatrey Karale. Karale added that before robbing Thakkar, Thackeray had visited her place over five or six days. On the evening of February 28, he went over to the house. As Thakkar knew him, she let him in. “He demanded she give him money, and she refused. That is when he killed her,” said Karale.He failed to find any valuables in the house as Thakkar used to keep them at the house of her two daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-senior-citizens-killer-needed-cash-to-repay-loan-taken-for-ill-dad/articleshow/81356663.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 6, 2021||Pune||Cost ‘hurdle’ to reduce slope from Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge||Pune: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) seems to be in two minds about reducing the slope from the Katraj tunnel to the accident-prone Navale Bridge along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass due to the cost factor. On Thursday, Pune district collector Rajesh Deskmukh reviewed the work to improve the stretch following a report provided by New Delhi-based NGO SaveLIFE Foundation. The transport department had told the NGO in January to conduct an audit and submit a report on the factors leading to the accidents along the bypass, particularly near Navale bridge. Officials of different agencies, including NHAI, attended the meeting with the collector. “The NHAI officials said they were in two minds about reducing the slope from the Katraj tunnel because the cost factor will be very high,” said a Regional Transport Office (RTO) official, who was present at the meeting.The official told TOI that the collector has told all officials to visit the site in the first week of April. “They have t check the work done by the NHAI and police to curb the accidents, as suggested in the NGO’s report. Each department will submit an independent report to the collector following the visit,” he said. NHAI officials in Pune did not respond to phone calls to seek their version till the time of going to press. “The collector has also told the Pune Municipal Corporation to plan an underpass from Jambulwadi to Wadgaon,” another RTO official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cost-hurdle-to-reduce-slope-from-katraj-tunnel-to-navale-bridge/articleshow/81355309.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Need Centre’s assistance to resolve water problems in Rajasthan: Minister B D Kalla||JAIPUR: Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) minister B D Kalla kept focusing on getting more financial help from the Centre in the ongoing water project in Rajasthan and asked the Opposition to work in co-operation with the state government. Replying to various questions raised by the Opposition in the Assembly session on Friday, Kalla said majority of the water problems of desert state Rajasthan will be resolved if the Centre will assist them in Jal Jeevan Mission and give national project status to Eastern Rajasthan Canal Project (ERCP). “Rajasthan is a water scarce area where till 2013, we used to get 100% central assistance in drinking water schemes. This time, in Jal Jeevan Mission, 45% share of Centre, 45% state and 10% villagers have to pay. However, in BJP-run states, more than 90% assistance is given by the Centre. If the state government doesn’t get central assistance, then we have to spend Rs 2 lakh crore on Jal Jeevan Mission and if we get the support, then only Rs 20,000 crore. So, it is important for us to request the central government,” said Kalla in the Assembly. Talking about the ERCP project, which is worth Rs 37,000 crore and is the second most expensive project after Barmer refinery, Kalla requested the Opposition to cajole the Union government in giving this a national project status. He said that if this project is given National status, then13 districts of the state will be beneficial. “Rajasthan is a water deficit state and centres assistance is necessary in all. Even to join Brahmani river with Bisalpur huge investment is necessary which Rajasthan cannot do it alone,” said Kalla. While announcing the achievement of the state government, Kalla said the state government has established 932 RO plants, water quality centres in every district, installed solar water system. He even discussed various water pipeline construction projects that are under way in various parts of the state and said that very soon these projects will be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/need-centres-assistance-to-resolve-water-problems-in-raj-kalla/articleshow/81355299.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Over Rs 1,500cr spent on cow protection: Min||Jaipur: Urban development minister Shanti Dhariwal said in the assembly on Friday that Rs 1,511.31 crore have been spent on cow protection during the tenure of the present government.He said that this expenditure has been incurred from the amount received from cow protection surcharge on sale of stamps and VAT on liquor.In response to a question of MLA Dharma Narayan Joshi, the minister said that funds are allocated as soon as the demand comes from gaushalas. “During previous government (2015-2018), the actual expenditure was substantially lower than the amount received from surcharge.”Earlier, Dhariwal said in written reply to the question that the state government has received Rs 1,242.56 crore from surcharge on stamp duty from 2015-2016 to 2020-2021. The revenue received from surcharge on VAT payable on the sale of liquor from 2018-2019 to 2020-2021 is Rs 1,017.8 crore. In this way, the total amount received from surcharge is Rs 2,259.64 crore.He said out of the amount received from surcharge, Rs 1,500.46 crore have been spent on gaushala assistance, Rs 3.44 crore on gaushala development work, Rs 20 lakh on Gaushala Biogas Participation Scheme, Rs 7.20 crore rupees on Nandishala Jansanabhagya Yojana. In this way the total expenditure amount is Rs 1,511.31 crore. The government had about Rs 752 crore left with it now for the welfare of cows, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-rs-1500cr-spent-on-cow-protection-min/articleshow/81355310.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Police arrest 18 people, seize 66 hukkas in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Jaipur police arrested 18 people in connection with running illegal hukka bars in a special operation under 13 police stations on Friday. The police raided 18 such bars to seize 66 hukkas, 46 chilams, 46 pipes and 25 different flavours. The operation was carried out under the supervision of Jaipur police commissioner Anand Srivastava by several police teams in a bid to curb the practice of illegal bars in the city. Vaishali Nagar police station has carried out four such operations which were the highest among all police stations. The operation was planned by the Jaipur police based on the inputs that several restaurants and bars are providing hukka service to their clients. Some of them were providing a specially designated place hidden from the public view while others were offering in open. The arrested accused were primarily managers and helpers who were caught red-handed from the spot. Police said that they will continue the operation and are likely to raid more such places. The consumption of hukkah is banned in the state following the health department advisory that it can lead to serious health hazards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-arrest-18-persons-seize-66-hukkas-from-city/articleshow/81355305.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Lucknow||Ghaziabad firm lays claim on bag containing Rs 1.40 crore||Kanpur:Eighteen days after a trolley bag containing Rs 1.40 crore was found abandoned in the pantry of Swatantrata Senani Express at Kanpur Central railway station, a Ghaziabad-based private company, which provides outsourcing services to telecom companies, has approached GRP, Kanpur Central to claim the money. The trolley was recovered by the GRP on February 16. Later, the GRP handed over the money to the Income Tax department, before apprising the senior Kanpur Central railway authorities. GRP Inspector Ram Mohan Rai, said, “A private company of Ghaziabad that provides outsourcing services to telecom sector in the UP East region through a letter has approached us and made a claim on the money recovered from the pantry of Jai Nagar bound-Swatantrata Senani Express at the Kanpur Central railway station on February 16. In the letter, they had informed GRP Kanpur Central that the abandoned money was the salary of its workers supposed to be disbursed at it’s head office in Lucknow.” Inspector Rai further told TOI, “Now, the company with an assurance of providing proof to support its claim wants to take the money back. However, as the money is now in the possession of the IT department, we have apprised IT officials about the claim letter. Further investigations would now be made by the IT department.” To recall, the staff of the pantry had found the bag and subsequently informed the railway authorities about the matter after the train arrived at the Kanpur Central. Subsequently, the bag was received by a class four railway employee following an anonymous phone call at Railway Control. The railway authorities brought the matter to the knowledge of the GRP and RPF. Later, they had conducted scanning of the bag and it came to fore that it contained currency notes. A search operation was conducted to look for any suspicious person, but in vain. The GRP and railway authorities counted the notes in denominations of Rs 500 and 100 and it amounted to Rs 1.40 crore, which was further handed over to the IT department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ghaziabad-firm-lays-claim-on-bag-containing-rs-1-40-crore/articleshow/81354477.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 6, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Godman’ arrested for raping, killing 22-yr-old||Ludhiana: A 22-year-old woman, who went missing on February 26, was found murdered in a field at Pakhowal Road on Thursday night. The police on Friday arrested a self-styled godman, who allegedly raped and strangled her. The accused has been identified as Sanbodh Das, 35, of LIG flats in Dugri. He runs an ashram from a one-room accommodation in Phullanwal Enclave. A native of Uttarakhand, Das has been living in Punjab since 1991. On February 26, the woman left her house without telling anyone and did not return. Her cellphone, too, was switched off. The family lodged a missing complaint and an FIR was lodged against unidentified accused under sections 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the IPC. Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said, “Call details showed that the woman had made the last call to Das. During questioning, he denied talking to the woman. Her cellphone location and other evidence, however, pointed out that she had gone to meet Das on the day.” “When Das was questioned again, he confessed to his crime. He said the woman’s parents met him days ago. After losing her job during lockdown, the woman approached him. She wanted a remedy so that she could get a new job. That day around 1pm, her friend dropped her outside Das’ ashram and left. Finding her alone, Das raped her and thereafter strangled her,” Verma added.Division 5 SHO sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh said, “Das killed the woman around 2pm. He stuffed her body in a gunny bag and sat by it for four hours. He also switched off her mobile phone. Around 7pm, he loaded the gunny bag on his bike and dumped it in a field at Pakhowal Road. We have recovered the woman’s cellphone from the ashram. The woman was ambitious and wanted to have a good career. Her father is a vendor and she wanted to support her family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/godman-arrested-for-raping-killing-22-yr-old/articleshow/81354090.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Biotechnology University and University of Edinburgh ink MoA||Gandhinagar: In order to create a strong biotechnology ecosystem in the state, a memorandum of association (MoA) has been signed on Friday between Gujarat Biotechnology University and the University of Edinburgh in the presence of chief minister Vijay Rupani and virtual presence of British high commissioner to India. The MoA exchange ceremony was joined online by the British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, vice-chancellor of University of Edinburgh, professor Peter Mathieson & principal scientific advisor to the government of India, K Raghavan. The MoA was exchanged between Hareet Shukla, secretary, science and technology and British deputy high commissioner for Gujarat and Rajasthan, Peter Cook. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-biotechnology-university-and-university-of-edinburgh-ink-moa/articleshow/81356636.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Long wait for jabs, complain frontline workers||TNN Ludhiana: Many persons lining up for vaccination, mostly frontline workers, are complaining of having to wait for long despite getting themselves registered at the civil hospital. Health department officials admitted of glitches in the Co-Win portal, but also said that the system ran smoothly on Friday. Sumit, a municipal corporation worker, said he and many frontline workers had gone to the civil hospital to get themselves vaccinated earlier too, but could not get it. So on Friday, they went again and only after mediapersons reached there, the authorities jabbed them, he added. Among the group was an elderly person, who complained of not being vaccinated at the centre set up at mother and child hospital in civil hospital. Seventy-year-old Suresh Kumar said he was registered two days ago, but was not vaccinated. He added that then he, along with other persons, gathered outside the vaccination centre and pressed the authorities, following which they were finally immunised. The authorities, however, refuted the allegations. District immunisation officer (DIO) Dr Kiran Gill said, “It is not in my knowledge. The process was quite smooth on Friday.” The health officer said people have to be patient for the exercise to go smoothly. She said she has talked to the senior medical officer of the municipal corporation, who advised that the people be divided and sent to vaccination centres nearest to their residences or workplace. “For example, if someone is working on Chandigarh Road, he can go to community health centre, Vardhman,” the officer added. The district immunisation officer said on Friday, they had 42 jab sessions in the district and 182 were vaccinated at the civil hospital.An officer involved in the vaccination process, on the condition of anonymity, said there were glitches in the Co-Win application and they give time and date slots to frontline and healthcare workers after a day or two after checking availability of vaccines and other logistics. The officer said they were vaccinating a large number of senior citizens and those above 45 years of age with co-morbidities, so the requirement of injections was high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/long-wait-for-jabs-complain-frontline-workers/articleshow/81354101.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kanpur||Kaur: With new faces, India set to perform better against SA||Kanpur: Vice-captain of the Indian women’s cricket team Harman Preet Kaur has hoped that her side, consisting of some new faces, would perform better and use the opportunity of playing one-day and T-20 matches against visiting South Africa from March 7 as preparation for the forthcoming one-day World Cup. Addressing media persons in a virtual press conference in Lucknow, Kaur said the visiting South African team is a well-settled team and is performing very well since the last couple of years. Against them, Indian team was appearing after a one-year layout. One-year break was enough time for Indian players as they were away from cricket. “But we are lucky that after a break we are facing a strong team and hopefully this series would help us in settling the team and remove our shortcomings in preparation for future series and World Cup,” she added. Replying to a question about new faces in the squad, the Indian vice-captain said, “New players must have the talent and they always give energy and positivity to the team. Their presence put senior players under pressure to perform better.” Kaur stated that she had not played domestic cricket for a long time, therefore, she could not make any comment on new faces. However, at nets they showed their potential and impressed. “During nets we are trying various combinations for the first match and in the series we would try more combinations to pick a strong team for the World Cup and other series,” she said, adding that the players had not played together since long and pre-match period members were establishing co-ordination and availing the opportunity. When her attention was drawn that she was going to play her 100th one-day match, Kaur in a surprised tone thanked the reporter for reminding her and commented that “Harman Preet Kaur is lucky” . “It would give me new energy and encouragement to play better and more matches,” she added. Talking about her 10-year-old cricket journey, Kaur said in this period she had witnessed various ups and down and learned a lot. “Now I am sharing my experiences with team members so that they could overcome those conditions. Ups and downs are part of life but as a player I have always enjoyed cricket. If someone enjoys cricket then most of the time he/she performs very well,” the Indian vice-captain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kaur-with-new-faces-india-set-to-perform-better-against-sa/articleshow/81354498.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Speaker and minister spar over loan conditions||Jaipur: Speaker C P Joshi and UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal on Friday sparred over revising terms of loans from Asian Development Bank (ADB) for local bodies.Dhariwal, while replying to a question on unmotorable roads due to digging work carried out for laying sewer lines, said most of the works were being carried out under RUIDP schemes in the local bodies with loans from ADB as the state government do not have the money.He was replying to a question by BJP MLA from Beawar, Shanker Singh Rawat. The MLA complained that the lines were dug in the middle of the road and the mechanized digging work had damaged the whole road, but the contractor repaired only the portion where the digging work was done.The minister informed that as per the term of the agreement with ADB, the contractor will repair only the portion where digging work was carried out and rest had to be done by the respective municipality.Speaker Joshi then intervened saying municipalities do not have the resources to carry out repair works, and people are suffering. He said the government must revise terms of the agreement with ADB for such loans.The minister then retorted that the state government needs loan and not the other way around. So, the state had to accept their terms and conditions.The argument between the irrepressible minister and the speaker was cheered by the opposition. Speaker then clarified that he was speaking for all as it is a common problem in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/speaker-and-minister-spar-over-loan-conditions/articleshow/81355314.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||Several trees gutted in forest fire at Wagholi hill||PUNE: A large number of trees, many of which were full grown, were gutted in a forest fire on Thursday afternoon at Wagholi hill. The trees had been planted in 2016 by senior citizens, school and college youngsters as well as other citizens. The Green Sunrise Hill Foundation, a collective of IT and other professionals and citizens, had undertaken the greenery initiative. A water pipeline, linking a nearby society to the hills to help water the plants, was also damaged in the fire. Members of the foundation said earmarking a fire separation line could have controlled or restricted the spread of fire. They demanded that the forest department enhance patrolling to keep a tab on the activities of people visiting the hill. Pune’s deputy conservator of forests Rahul Patil and his team visited the site to assess the situation. “It is difficult to ascertain the exact cause of the fire Our officials are investigating the matter. About two hectare of a total 65 hectare area has been gutted in the fire. A variety of trees including ayurvedic plants have been destroyed,” Patil told TOI. Chandrakant Naktode, who established the collective, said, “The hill was totally barren when we started the greenery initiative. Our members worked hard on their holidays, quite often involving their families. It had become a go to place for many of us. It was unfortunate to see our trees burning in front of us on Thursday and we could do little about it. Our water pipeline too has been damaged in the fire.” Surya Rana, a member of the foundation, said, “The forest department should enhance day and night patrolling on the hill to prevent such an incident. All our hard work over five years is gone within a few hours. We have decided to appoint two security guards to keep a watch on visitors going to the hill.” Horticulturist Kishor Ambekar said, “We had planted almost 50 variety of Indian trees to maintain apt ecosystem on the hill. This had also attracted birds to the hills over the years. Many residents, including senior citizens, would visit the area to look after every nook and corner. We had maintained the area but now all our hard work has been wasted because of the fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/several-trees-gutted-in-forest-fire-at-wagholi-hill/articleshow/81355318.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 6, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Elderly keep spirits high, queue up to combat virus||LUCKNOW: Joining the fight against Covid-19 with vigour, the elderly, including the ones suffering from critical diseases, made a beeline at vaccination centres since early Friday morning. While some came on their own, others were escorted by their children and grandchildren. Rameshwari Devi (95) stepped out of her house for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year. She was accompanied by her son and daughter-in-law to the centre at RMLIMS. “My family persuaded me to take the vaccine as cases have started rising again,” she said. Madhu Gungesh (72), who has been suffering from Parkinson’s disease for the last four years, was brought to RMLIMS by her family on a wheelchair. Her husband, ex-DGP Jagjit Singh Gungesh (73), also took the shot. “I had a bypass surgery 10 years ago. By taking this vaccine, I will beat coronavirus too,” he said. Former judge of the high court, Justice Shiv Charan Sharma (74), who had a bypass surgery in 2009, also survived Covid-19 after getting infected in October last year. “This vaccine will protect me from reinfection,” he said. His wife Santosh (69) also took the shot. DIG (special enquiry) Shalabh Mathur took an hour’s break from duty to bring his parents, SB Mathur (76) and Uma Mathur (72), for vaccination. Besides protection from Covid-19, an additional motivation for Chandra Pal (62) and Deepmala (63) was that after getting vaccinated they might be able to travel to the US to visit their children whom they have not met for two years. “We hope that after completing the course, we will be able to travel in May,” they said. Former veterinary doctor, Dr RS Gangwar (90), who has Alzheimer’s and has damaged cornea in both the eyes, took the vaccine at SPM Civil Hospital. “I cannot remember many things due to the disease but vaccination at such an age is a new thing. I hope I will remember this,” he said with a smile. His wife, Urmila Gangwar (89), also took the jab. The couple were accompanied by their son, Dharmendra Singh Gangwar, who is additional secretary and financial advisor in the ministry of health and family welfare. Anuradha Tiwari accompanied her grandparents, Vidya Sagar Tiwari (70) and Bhagirathi Devi (68), to the centre. “My granddaughter registered us online, booked a cab and brought us here,” said Tiwari. Shail Kumar Chaturvedi (66) and his wife Anita Chaturvedi (60), who survived Covid-19 last year, took the shots at Veerangana Jhalkari Bai Women and Child Hospital. The couple said they took the vaccine so that they didn’t have to undergo the trauma again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/elderly-keep-spirits-high-queue-up-to-combat-virus/articleshow/81358111.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||No data on child malnutrition as anganwadis shut||Gandhinagar: The state government stated in the assembly on Friday that it was not in a position to provide data on malnutrition among children, as anganwadis have been ordered to stay closed since March 16, 2020, because of the pandemic. A few MLAs, in written questions, had sought figures relating to malnutrition among children in their districts. The MLAs had also sought data on the number of children suffering from severe malnutrition, and whether there was an increase or decrease in cases of malnutrition in children. In a written reply, the minister for women and child development said anganwadis were closed since March 16, 2020, and weight of children could not be measured. As a result, comparative data on malnutrition among children cannot be provided. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-data-on-child-malnutrition-as-anganwadis-shut/articleshow/81356664.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Month on, beggar arrested for killing woman in Kanganwal||Ludhiana: About a month after a woman was found murdered in Sahnewal, the police on Friday claimed to have solved the case with the arrest of a beggar.Police said accused Monu Ram of Uttarakhand and deceased Radha, 25, were in a relationship. Monu’s affair with another woman, Sonia, led to the murder. All three were homeless and beggars.The body of Radha, who was strangulated with her muffler, was found at a plot in Kanganwal, Sahnewal, on February 8. Joint commissioner of police (rural) Sachin Gupta said, “It was difficult to identify the body as Radha was homeless. A beggar told that the body was of Radha, who too was an almswoman and stayed near Jagraon bridge. After her identification, we started tracing the accused and nabbed him.” During questioning, Monu said he had been in a relationship with Radha for the past four years. “Monu was booked in a theft case a few months ago after which he went into hiding. When Monu returned recently, Radha learned about his affair with Sonia and objected to it,” Gupta added. Additional deputy commissioner of police-II Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “When Manu refused to end his affair with Sonia, Radha threatened to get him arrested in the theft case. On the night of February 7, Manu, Sonia and Radha consumed drugs and went to a vacant plot in Kanganwal. There, Manu fought with Sonia and she left. Manu then strangled Radha with her muffler and escaped. Hours later, he told Sonia about it out of fear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/month-on-beggar-arrested-for-killing-woman-in-kanganwal/articleshow/81354097.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur losing its shape due to encroachment: UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal||JAIPUR: The Walled City area has been damaged and encroached upon by residents due to which the original design of the area has been partially lost, said UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal in the Assembly on Friday. He said the alterations include changes in the exterior and additional floors constructed illegally. Based on the drone survey and manual survey conducted in 2019, over 3,130 buildings were identified in the entire Walled City area which were tampered with in one way or the other, said the minister. He said this was due to decades of illegal construction, encroachment and alterations. He said 739 such residents have been served notices by the municipal corporation since January 2019. Due to Covid-19, action has not yet been taken against the violators. From January 2019 to February 2021, 11 works have been completed under the Smart City Project in the Walled City area at a cost of Rs 55.37 crore and works costing Rs 387.90 crore are in progress, he said. Dhariwal said third party quality testing of works under the Smart City Project has also been conducted. In addition, an amount of Rs 2 crore has been sanctioned by the Amber Development and Management Authority (ADMA), for the maintenance and repair of monuments. JMC, Heritage has also completed 95 out of 126 sanctioned works worth Rs 28.46 crore and the remaining work is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heritage-city-losing-its-shape-due-to-encroachment-minister/articleshow/81355311.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Daily Covid cases top 18,000, Maharashtra count hits over 10,000||Daily Covid-19 cases in the country surged past the 18,000 mark on Friday for the first time in 55 days since January 9, even as Maharashtra added more than 10,000 fresh infections, the highest since October 17. India recorded 18,278 new cases and 109 deaths due to the coronavirus on Friday, as per TOI's data collated from state governments. As the pandemic continues to surge in several states, the seven-day rolling average of daily cases in the country crossed the 16,000 mark to 16,028, rising for the 19th day running. Maharashtra reported a four-and-a-half-month-high of 10,216 new cases, with Mumbai accounting for 1,173. Fifty three deaths were recorded in the state in the past 24 hours. While Maharashtra continued to account for a lion's share of national cases and fatalities, numbers were rising in several other states. Apart from Maharashtra and Kerala (2,776 fresh cases), four states added more than 500 new infections to their tallies. These were Punjab (808), Karnataka (677), Tamil Nadu (543) and Gujarat (515). While Punjab numbers had dipped slightly from Thursday’s count of 1,074, the other three states registered their highest single-day counts since January. Of Karnataka’s 677 cases, the highest since January 23, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 444. Delhi reported 312 cases, a 47-day high in the capital, and three deaths. In MP, 457 new infections were detected. This was the highest single-day tally of cases in the state since January 12. Bengal too posted its highest number of cases, 255, since January 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-covid-cases-top-18000-maharashtra-count-hits-over-10000/articleshow/81358708.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
March 6, 2021||Ludhiana||7 Covid patients from dist on ventilators, highest since Dec||Ludhiana: In an indication of things getting serious on Covid-19 front in the district, the number of patients from Ludhiana on ventilators has reached the highest since December. The health department had started providing the data on it on September 25 last year.As per its latest data, seven Ludhianvis were on ventilators on Friday and six a day before. This is for the first time after December last that the number has crossed five. In January and February, not more than three Ludhiana patients were on ventilators. The figure was four on March 3 before rising to the present value. On September 25 last, 21 patients from Ludhiana were on respirators. At the time, there were 147 ventilators, including four of the government at CMCH, in hospitals here.On September 26 last, the figure was 23 and 19 by October 2.On October 15, 2020, there were eight Ludhiana patients on ventilators, four on October 31, eight on November 3, seven on November 13, and two on November 30. The figure was mostly below five in December.The health department officials say spike in Covid-19 cases has led to the increase in the number of the district patients on ventilators. “As many patients report late for treatment, they have to be put on ventilators. Residents must get themselves tested immediately after they notice symptoms so that they can be treated in time before getting seriously ill. Besides, everyone must follow the pandemic guidelines,” says a health department officer.None required supportOn January 7, 8, 10, 13, 14, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31, there were no patients of Ludhiana on ventilator. The next month, such days were February 7, 15, 21, 22, 23 and 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/7-covid-patients-from-dist-on-ventilators-highest-since-dec/articleshow/81354098.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 6, 2021||Delhi||One of 2 golden retriever pups in midst of row dies||New Delhi: In an unfortunate development, one of the two golden retriever puppies caught in a custody litigation has died. This came to the court’s notice on Friday when it also learnt that its direction to an animal welfare group to transfer the custody of the two puppies to their legal owner had not been complied with. NGO People for Animals had taken in the canines alleging that businessman Anand Kumar Mohatta had treated the animals with cruelty. The NGO had argued that his neglect had led to the pets suffering from the canine parvovirus disease. After hearing Mohatta’s response that he treated the two dogs as his own children, additional sessions judge Anil Antil held on February 25 that the custody of the two pets should be reinstated to the businessman, who is the “legal owner of the golden retriever dogs”. Earlier, a magistrate’s court had upheld the NGO’s action on account of the poor health of the golden retrievers and directed Mohatta to appear in court on April 14. In turn, Mohatta challenged the magistrate’s court order through counsels Tarun Rana and Rohin Oza, claiming that the NGO had illegally entered his premises with the cops in “total disregard of rules” and without search warrants. On March 3, Mohatta went back to the court with a contempt plea alleging that People for Animals had not complied with the February 25 order. On Friday, when the matter came up for hearing, police confirmed that despite seeking the custody of the dogs from Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centres (SGACC) twice, on February 26 and March 1, the puppies weren’t handed over. The police’s status report, which was taken on record by judge Antil, stated the dogs had been admitted to a facility called Pet’s and Vet’s for specialised treatment and care. According to the cops, the care centre said that only when the medical bills amounting to Rs 1.7 lakh up to March 1 were cleared would the animals be handed over. SGACC’s counsel contested the police report. The death of one of the pups occurred during treatment there, the court was further informed, and SGACC was ready to hand over the pets to the owner. Subsequently, the court was informed that the body of the deceased pup and the surviving one had been relinquished to Mohatta. Lawyer Rana, however, expressed reservations at the treatment meted out to the pups and sought the medical examination of the surviving one and the post-mortem of the other at the Directorate of Animal Husbandry veterinary hospital. The court, after considering the plea of Mohatta's counsel, ordered, “In the interest of justice, the investigating officer is directed to get the pets medically examined as per the observation noted from the referred hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/one-of-2-golden-retriever-pups-in-midst-of-row-dies/articleshow/81356685.cms||Aamir Khan
March 6, 2021||Allahabad||Now, VCs can recruit non-teaching staff: Dinesh Sharma||Revised Prayagraj: Vice-chancellors (VCs) will now be able to recruit non-teaching employees in state universities across Uttar Pradesh as the state government has decided to increase the jurisdiction of the VCs, said deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma. Speaking as the special guest at the third convocation of Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) State University here on Friday, he said that till now the recruitment of employees in the universities of the state was done through Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Services Selection Commission, but now it could be done by VCs. He also said that soon notification to this effect will be issued. The DyCM said that a new education services commission will be set up in the state soon. Following this, the basic, secondary and higher education commissions will be merged into one. He also said that until the new commission is formed, recruitment institutions will continue to do their work. Sharma further said that under the New Education Policy, 70 percent of the curriculum of 70 universities will be common while the rest 30% has to be prepared by the respective university. All the universities and their affiliated colleges have been asked to set up an innovation hub, digital library, virtual lab and academic data bank. For this, a target has been set for 2025. With the help of the department of the differently abled persons, unique labs for the differently abled would be set up. Earlier, delivering her presidential address, the Chancellor of the state university and Governor Anandiben Patel said that all the universities of the state should cooperate in making the country self-reliant as this is the key to creating a developed nation. The governor further said that students need to have skills to build a self-reliant India. Education from a young age should be such that it could make the student employed as this would make the youth better prepared for the future. In the presence of the chief guest, minister of skill development and entrepreneurship Mahendra Nath Pandey and distinguished guest DyCM Sharma, the governor awarded the prestigious Chancellor’s Gold Medal to Jayati Srivastava, a student of KP Higher Education Institute at Jhalwa, Prayagraj and Anushka Srivastava of the College of Science and Technology located at the Saraswati Vidya Mandir, Pratapgrah. Addressing the young achievers, she said that the goal of life should always be clear. Because of this, you will not be able to deviate from the path of success. “Success will be achieved only when the goal is clear and work hard. It is said that attaining university degree is not the perfection of education. Rather, the sanctity of our behaviour and conduct that occurs every day in social life is the carrier of its entirety,” said Patel. Praising the city and its rich legacy, she said that this holy confluence of Ganges, Yamuna and Saraswati, has been the land of many saints, sages, mahatmas, academics, administrators, scholars, philanthropists, social workers and many others who have sacrificed themselves for the society since the early times. “Lord Vishnu is the founder of this holy city. Prayag is the birthplace of Soma, Varuna and Prajapati and Maharishi Bharadwaj taught more than 10,000 disciples, residing in Prayagraj around 5000 BC. As the centre of knowledge, the number of students continued to grow in this city of knowledge. Accordingly, Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) State University was established,” she added. The ceremony witnessed degrees being awarded to a whopping 1,18,064 students who have completed their respective course. The degree winners include 55,544 males and 62,520 females with the fair sex members amounting to 52.95 per cent of the total passing out students. Also, 41 gold medals were also awarded in the ceremony. Of these, 31 gold medals (75.61 per cent) were awarded to female students while 10 being bagged by male students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/now-vcs-can-recruit-non-teaching-staff-dinesh-sharma/articleshow/81354588.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kanpur||Three killed in Banda after sand mound collapses||Jhansi: Three labourers got buried in sand and died after a sand mound collapsed during mining in Pailani area of Banda district on Friday. Hundreds of villagers protested by blocking the state highway by keeping the bodies and demanded compensation. They alleged gross irregularities in safety measures followed by the mine owners. All the three were rushed to CHC where they were declared dead. The deceased have been identified as Mahesh, Bunty and Chiriya of village Kakkua. The relatives of the deceased and villagers blocked the state highway and demanded compensation along with strict action against the mine owners for their gross negligence in following the safety measures. Senior administrative and police officials rushed to the accident site to take note of the situation. Additional SP Banda, Mahendra Pratap Singh said that the police is investigating the matter and will take action accordingly. Police had to take huge efforts to disperse the protesting mob from the road and clear the traffic chaos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-killed-in-banda-after-sand-mound-collapses/articleshow/81354509.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kolhapur||Gang of five planning dacoity held in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Rajarampuri police in Kolhapur have arrested a gang of five people, who were allegedly preparing to commit dacoity. A policeman was injured in the incident. A revolver, live cartridges, a sword and other equipment were seized from the accused. Acting on a tip-off that a gang was going by car to commit a dacoity, police laid a trap near the Cyber Chowk. The gang was arrested after a brief chase. Investigation revealed that the accused had come from Kalamba jail after meeting a friend. They were planning to commit dacoity in a bungalow in Jawahar Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/gang-of-five-planning-dacoity-held-in-kolhapur/articleshow/81344332.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Soon in assembly, bill to cut red tape, lay simplified procedures||Chandigarh: The Punjab council of ministers on Friday approved the Punjab anti-red tape bill for tabling in the ongoing budget session of legislative assembly. The legislation, as the name suggests, is aimed at eliminating red tape and promote effective administration of public affairs. The bill has been approved to improve delivery of services and ease of doing business. It contains provisions to reduce cost and burden of compliances on citizens and businesses, through simplified, trust-based procedures that would expedite processes. It will help provide measures for simplification of government processes, re-engineering government systems, reduction of compliance burden and removal of external intermediaries to bring a system which would promise to serve its citizens and business. The cabinet also gave a go-ahead to introducing the Punjab Abadi Deh (Record of Right) Bill, 2021, in the ongoing budget session of the legislative assembly. The step has been taken to help the state government compile record of rights of properties within the Lal Lakir (boundary) of villages for the purpose of implementing Mission Lal Lakir, with the cooperation of the central government under its Svamitva Scheme, and also to deal with issues arising out of the rights accruing out of these properties. This legislation would also facilitate villagers or owners of land to monetise property rights and avail benefits provided by government departments, institutions and banks. At the time of settlement and consolidation of agricultural land in the state, the abadi in the village was placed within the lal lakir. No record of rights was prepared for the area within the lal lakir. Possession has been considered as the ruling point for the ownership of any land within the lal lakir. The state cabinet also approved amendment to Section 2 of Punjab Village Common Land (Regulation) Act, 1961, to safeguard vacant lands within abadi deh or lal lakir or gorah deh from illegal encroachment by inserting section 2(g)(1) and sub-section 4(a) after section 2(g)(4). The cabinet also approved the bifurcation of the common cadre of the departments of health and family welfare and medical education and research. It would help in prompt resolution of disputes arising out of the establishment matters between these two departments through separation of controlling authority and rules of both the departments. Punjab also cabinet gave a go-ahead to upgrading two engineering colleges to state-level universities. The relevant bills will be tabled in the ongoing budget session. After the enactment of bills, Shaheed Bhagat Singh State Technical Campus, Ferozepur, and Beant College of Engineering and Technology, Gurdaspur, would be upgraded as Shaheed Bhagat Singh State University, Ferozepur, and Sardar Beant Singh State University, Gurdaspur, respectively. This would enable both institutes to start multidisciplinary courses with existing infrastructure, as per the needs of surrounding areas, besides improving their financial position. Finance department has approved a grant of Rs 45 crore for the next three years for each of the two proposed universities Besides, the council of ministers also gave approval to release a payment of Rs 36.7 crore to the Punjab Agro Foodgrains Corporation (PAFC) on account of the administrative charges for the work done by it during rabi marketing season (RMS) 2019-20. State agencies which procured foodgrains (wheat and paddy) on behalf of the central government are paid administrative charges at the rate of 2.5% of the minimum support price (MSP) of paddy during kharif marketing season (KMS). These administrative charges are disbursed when paddy is shelled and rice is delivered to the Food Corporation of India. These funds are used by state agencies during the year for post procurement expenses, including custody and maintenance, and upkeep of stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/soon-in-assembly-bill-to-cut-red-tape-lay-simplified-procedures/articleshow/81356904.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Goa||Cong tells SEC to suspend civic polls till SC order||Panaji: The Congress on Friday demanded that the State Election Commission (SEC) suspend the municipal election process till the Supreme Court deliberates and decides on the legality of the entire process. The Congress also said that the election process cannot be conducted as per the “whims and fancies” of the SEC and the ruling dispensation. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that the Supreme Court has only stayed the directives of the Bombay High Court and not ordered the resumption of the election process. He argued that the Supreme Court’s order, which was given on March 4, is applicable only for the Sanguem municipality. “It is therefore requested of your esteemed office to accord due respect to the process of law and suspend the farcical exercise of election process till the myriad legal points in issue are deliberated and finally decided by the Supreme Court,” said Chodankar. Chodankar said that the civic poll process cannot be halted and then restarted and if stopped, then the entire process has to be initiated all over again. The high court of Bombay at Goa on March 1 quashed the reservation exercise for the municipal councils and had asked the state government to restart the election process for five municipal councils. The Supreme Court had stayed the order prompting the state election commission to go ahead with the municipal elections. “The process if so completed will not be free and fair conduct of elections as there is a substantial amount of confusion, turmoil and uncertainty as well as loss of opportunity to the aspiring candidates and the electorate in general,” Chodankar said. The Congress also appeared to suggest that the SEC is not independent and acting fairly. “With the law secretary having been appointed to hold charge as the state election commissioner, it is but natural that given the sordid manner in which the announcement of the elections was done, the SEC is not functioning as an independent authority, but behaving like a stooge of the government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-tells-sec-to-suspend-civic-polls-till-sc-order/articleshow/81356727.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Bypolls: 29 disqualified from contesting polls||Jaipur: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has issued a list of 29 names who have been disqualified from contesting assembly and general elections in Rajasthan. All these candidates have been disqualified for a period of three years. The candidates were disqualified for their failure to lodge an account of election expenses during the last assembly polls in 2018 and Lok Sabha elections in 2019.The candidates have been disqualified under Section 10 A of the Representation of People Act, 1951. Under this, if the Election Commission is satisfied that a person— (i) has failed to lodge an account of election expenses within the time and in the manner required by or under the Act and (ii)has no good reason or justification for the failure – it shall declare him to be disqualified and any such person shall be disqualified for a period of three years from the date of the order.Among those who contested the last Lok Sabha polls include Gulab Singh, Rinku Meena, Hanumanram, Badree Lal, Bhagwan Sahay, Ankur Sharma, Tejveer Singh, Mukesh Kumar and Prem Lata. Those who contested the last assembly elections are: Mithu Singh, Usha Rathore, Krishan Kumar, Bhima Singh, Dileep Sharma, Abdul Aziz, Anand Yadav, Omprakash Gurjar, Kuldeep Sharma, Meera Bai, Bal Kishan, Yogesh, Rajveer Singh, Mishri Koli, Ladusingh, Mohammed Ali, Amarsingh, Devaram, Nanda Devi and Budharam Vishnoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bypolls-29-disqualified-from-contesting-polls/articleshow/81355317.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||313 lion deaths in Gir sanctuary in 2 years||GANDHINAGAR: The death of 313 lions in the Gir sanctuary in the years 2019 and 2020 figured prominently in the proceedings of the Gujarat assembly on Friday, as the state government provided figures of lion deaths in the Gir sanctuary. Opposition party MLAs demanded to know the reasons for such a high number of deaths of lions in the sanctuary. In the discussion, state forests minister Ganpat Vasava said that between 2015 and 2020, there has been a 29% increase in the number of lions in the sanctuary because of successful conservation efforts of the state government. Apart from seeking details on the number of lions, lionesses and cubs which have died in the past two years, Lathi MLA Virji Thummar also asked what steps have been taken by the government to prevent deaths of the lions because of unnatural causes. Providing figures, the forests minister said that of the 71 lions which died in the two-year period, 69 died of natural causes and two died of other causes. A total of 90 lionesses dies in 2019 and 2020, of which 77 died because of natural causes while 13 died because of other causes. Among cubs, 144 died because of natural causes and 8 died as a result of other causes, adding up to a total of 152 cub deaths in two years. Thummar alleged that carcasses of animals were being thrown in forest areas of the Gir sanctuary and lions were dying after consuming these. In reply, minister Vasava said the allegations will be probed and action will be taken if they are found to be true.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/313-lion-deaths-in-gir-in-2-yrs/articleshow/81356722.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Goa||CCP polls: BJP drops spokesperson for backing independents||PANAJI: BJP on Friday cracked the whip against Dattaprasad Naik and removed him as party spokesperson, after Naik lent his support to some independent candidates against the BJP Panaji panel floated by MLA Atanasio Monserrate for the CCP elections. In view of the reconstitution of the responsibilities, you are hereby relieved as the spokesperson of the BJP Goa Pradesh,” BJP’s state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade stated in a letter to Naik. A senior BJP leader said that action is taken against Naik since he spoke against the chief minister Pramod Sawant, party president Tanavade and organising secretary Satish Dhond. Sources said that there is resentment among BJP workers from Panaji constituency and also those who have been working for the party against the Monserrates in the Taleigao part of CCP’s jurisdiction, as they feel the BJP leadership has “succumbed” to the diktats of the Panaji MLA who joined the party in May 2019. These workers are angry as the senior leaders, who in the run-up to the May 2019 bypolls had in speeches at election meetings stated that women in Panaji would be unsafe if Atanasio is elected, are now backing the Panaji MLA at the cost of the cadre. It is pertinent to note that Naik’s wife Shital, who is state president of BJP Mahila Morcha has been denied a ticket, although she was a CCP corporator earlier. Also, in 2017, Naik had contested against Atanasio’s wife Jennifer from Taleigao. Jennifer is presently the revenue minister. A political observer said that some aspirants, including those who were councillors earlier and had been close to former Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker - a close aide of then chief minister Manohar Parrikar, do not figure in the Monserrate-BJP list. Kuncalienker and Parrikar’s son Utpal were seen with a long-time BJP worker while he was filing his nomination as an independent on Wednesday. A day later, Utpal held a press briefing to clarify that he is not a BJP rebel and that he was merely supporting individual candidates in his personal capacity. “There are many politicians here who have money and muscle power but I have only the goodwill of the people of Panaji and to save that goodwill. They (some candidates) have come to meet me, and I have met them,” Utpal said on Thursday. A senior BJP leader said that Naik is working against candidates of BJP-supported panel and he has been seen going with them while they were filing their nomination papers. On February 28, TOI had reported that there has been a growing murmur that Utpal and Parrikar’s protege, Kuncalienker, may support aspiring candidates who have been loyal to the party and to the former chief minister, but have not been given tickets by BJP’s Panaji MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-polls-bjp-drops-spokesperson-for-backing-independents/articleshow/81358251.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||51 new cases recorded, 2 new deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Friday recorded 51 new cases of the coronavirus, two deaths and 35 recoveries. The tally of cases in the state is now 97,285 and the death toll 1,694. The number of recoveries has risen to 9,3629. Also, 19,531 beneficiaries were vaccinates in 205 sessions on Friday. Of this, 18,500 persons were above 60 years of age and 894 were between 45-59 years and had comorbidities. With this, a total of 47,405 people have now received the first dose of the vaccine. Meanwhile, governor Baby Rani Maurya and state BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat received their first doses of Covid-19 vaccine at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/51-new-cases-recorded-2-new-deaths/articleshow/81354115.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||No lokpal in any varsity, admits govt||Gandhinagar: The state government admitted in the ongoing budget session of the Gujarat assembly that appointments of lokpal (students’ ombudsman) have not been made in universities of Gujarat. Based on directions from the University Grants Commission (UGC), the state government had appointed a search committee on January 31, 2020 to appoint lokpals in universities. Patan MLA Kiritkumar Patel sought to know whether any lokpal has been appointed in universities of the state. Patel also asked that as of December 31, 2020, what is the status of the plan to appoint lokpals in universities and by when the process of appointing lokpals will be completed. In his written reply, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama admitted that universities do not have lokpals as yet and the matter is still under consideration of the search committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-lokpal-in-any-varsity-admits-govt/articleshow/81356692.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||PMC seeks guidelines on holding exams for Std I-VII||Pune: With over 55% students studying without internet access in schools governed by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), concerns are being raised on how their term-end examinations would be conducted this session. Conducting online examinations does not seem to be a viable option for a majority of students due to lack of resources. Offline examination too seems to be a bit hard due to the rising Covid-19 cases in the city. Officials said that they have now written to the state government asking for guidelines on how to go about the examinations.Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said, “Students in civic schools come from economically weaker sections of the society so only about 45% students have access to online education. Hence, conducting an online examination is not possible. We have written to the state government asking for guidelines on how to conduct the exam of students in these circumstances.”Shubhangi Chavan, deputy education officer at PMC, said that the department is also looking at how to undertake other aspects of assessment as they are supposed to follow a continuous comprehensive model of evaluation.“We have about 1 lakh students in PMC schools studying in classes from 1 to XII. We have already trained teachers to conduct exams via Google platforms, etc. For students without internet access or mobile phones, we have given worksheets to all schools to be handed to students. Now, as per RTE, students cannot be failed till Std VIII and the assessment is also not entirely based on term-end examination. Since no classes were held and even online education has not been accessed by every student, marks given to projects, class observation, practicals, oral exams, etc are also not available. Hence, we have asked the state to provide guidelines,” said Chavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-seeks-guidelines-on-holding-exams-for-std-i-vii/articleshow/81355355.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress MP, 11 others convicted in 2015 protocol violation case||HYDERABAD: The special sessions court for MLA and MP cases in Nampally on Friday convicted Bhuvanagiri MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy in a 2015 protocol violation case registered in Nalgonda. The court punished the Congress MP by levying a fine of Rs 4,200. This is the second case in which this court has convicted a public representative recently. Special court judge ChVRR Varaprasad convicted Venkat Reddy and 11 others. Two others were acquitted in the case. Venkat Reddy, who was then a Congress MLA, violated protocol during the inauguration of a revenue divisional officer (RDO) office. The office was supposed to be inaugurated by minister G Jagadish Reddy, but Venkat Reddy inaugurated it in violation of the protocol.  Nalgonda II Town police registered a case against Venkat Reddy and made him the prime accused in the case. The court convicted the MP under IPC sections of unlawful assembly and directed him to pay a fine of Rs 3,000, under trespass section of IPC and imposed Rs 1,000 penalty and for causing nuisance and told to pay a fine of Rs 200. The case was registered against Venkat Reddy and 13 others based on a complaint filed by RDO E Venkat Reddy. During the trial, additional public prosecutor G Narayana produced the prosecution witnesses. Ever since the special court was set up in Telangana to take up cases against MLAs and MPs, this was the second instance when a public representative had been convicted. Last month, BJP MLA T Raja Singh was convicted by the court in a case of assaulting police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-mp-11-others-convicted-in-2015-protocol-violation-case/articleshow/81355344.cms||Srinath Vudali
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||SHRC seeks report on Dausa woman’s murder by dad||Jaipur: The state human rights commission (SHRC) has sought a factual report on the gruesome incident of the murder of a woman by her father for eloping with a Dalit, despite the high court giving protection to the couple. Justice Mahesh Chandra Sharma, member of the commission, while taking cognizance of newspaper reports, asked the DGP, IG Jaipur range, collector and district police superintendent, Dausa, to conduct an impartial inquiry and submit the report on March 30 to the commission. According to reports, Shanker Lal, a fruit and vegetable vendor, had married off his daughter Pinki Saini forcibly on February 16 but Pinki, who was in love with a Dalit boy, left her husband in three days and stared living with her lover. They approached the high court seeking protection fearing reprisal from the family and the court ordered to provide protection to the couple. Shanker Lal, along with some people, reached her lover’s house and forcibly took her away on March 1 and strangled her to death and surrendered at the police station on March 3. ‘No further action on rejection of committees’ Jaipur: The state government on Friday gave an undertaking in the high court that no further action will be taken on the rejection of the committees of the Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater, by the local bodies department. The government gave the undertaking during the hearing of a petition by mayor Saumya Gujjar who had challenged the decision of the local bodies department. The court had then posted the matter for next hearing on March 15. Acting on the ‘note of dissent’ sent by the JMC Greater commissioner on the formation of working committees in the corporation, state government had rejected the proposal of 27 out of 28 working committees. In the JMC Greater board meeting held on January 28, it decided to form 27 committees and one executive committee. According to the rules of the Rajasthan Municipality Act, 2009, the board can form only 21 committees and prior permission for the rest must be taken from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shrc-seeks-report-on-dausa-womans-murder-by-dad/articleshow/81355323.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Mines dept gets Rs 70cr from auction of 131 blocks||Jaipur: The state mines department has received revenues of Rs 70 crore from the auction of 131 blocks of minor minerals. The e-auctions were held for three days between March 2 and 4.A seniopr official of the department said that thedepartment is set to conduct another batch of auctions starting from March 23 to 26. About 202 blocks in 14 districts will be offered for auctions.Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, mines and petroleum,said, “E-auctions bring in transparency, ease of allotment and better pricediscovery for the state. The small blocks will also help local economy as itwill create new employment opportunities.”The 14 districts where the mines would be auctioned include Nagore, Rajsamand, Bundi, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Dungarpur, Jalore, Sirohi, and Chittorgarh among others. Sharma said that two plots each in Bharatpur, Baran and Bundi have been reserved for M-sand. “The entrepreneurs who can set up M-sand plantwill allowed to participate in the bidding for the blocks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mines-dept-gets-rs-70cr-from-auction-of-131-blocks/articleshow/81355328.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||At Rs 1.76 lakh crore, Maharashtra revenue till December was 50% of target||MUMBAI: The extent to which the pandemic and the lockdown crippled the state is revealed in Maharashtra’s economic survey that forecasts a negative growth rate of -8% for 2020-21. This is a historic low for the state and a huge slide from 2019 when the revised economic growth rate was 5%. The survey also projects a decline in the state’s per capita income. The Indian economy is also expected to grow at -8% in 2020-21. The parallel with the state’s growth rate is not surprising since Maharashtra contributes the highest share to the nation’s nominal GDP at 14.2%. The only sector set to show positive growth is agriculture and allied services, expected to grow by 11.7%, almost twice the 6.1% in 2019-20. This sector benefited from a plentiful monsoon and exemption from lockdown restrictions. The industrial sector is expected to contract 11.3% compared to 0.2% growth last year and services sector at -9%, down from 8.3%.  Within industry, manufacturing and construction were the sectors hardest hit in 2020-21, with the survey forecasting growth of -11.8% and -14.6% respectively. In 2019-20, manufacturing had growth of -1% and construction 1.7%. Services sector was affected mainly because of the “hard impact of the pandemic on trade, repairs, hotel & restaurants and the transport sector,” the survey says. Although agriculture is set to show dramatic growth, its impact in computation of economic activity is limited. It accounts for 11.7% of Gross State Value Added. Industry accounts for 32.6% and services 55.7%. Fall in economic activity is also reflected in other parameters. Nominal GSDP is set to decline by Rs 1.56 lakh crore in 2020-21, from Rs 28.2 lakh crore in 2019-20 to Rs 26.6 lakh crore in 2020-21. Per capita income is set to fall to Rs 1.9 lakh in 2020-21 from Rs 2 lakh in 2019-20. In 2019, Maharashtra was ranked fifth in per capita income, behind Haryana, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The survey also shows how revenue collection has been impacted. Actual revenue received by the state in April-Dec 2020 was Rs 1.76 lakh crore, 50% of the annual target. “This is a very worrying situation. We have suffered a pandemic but the government must have a plan to restore economic growth in the state. After all, this state has the highest contribution to the country’s GDP,” said BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar. The state’s debt is expected to be Rs 5.2 lakh crore for 2020-21, 19.6% of GSDP and within fiscal limits, says the survey. FDI inflows to the state in April-Sept 2021 were Rs 27,143 crore, lower than to Gujarat (Rs 1.19 lakh crore) and Karnataka (Rs 27,458 crore). However, between April 2000 and Sept 2020, the state attracted Rs 8 lakh crore of FDI, the highest in the country. In terms of projects, Maharashtra accounts for highest number of approved industrial projects between Aug 1991 and Oct 2020. Its 20,909 projects account for 18% share in the country. However, investments generated are lower than Gujarat and Karnataka. Its share of investments is 10.7%, that of Gujarat is 14.9% and Karnataka is 11.2%. Exports from Maharashtra have also declined during the pandemic. Exports from the state dropped from Rs 5 lakh crore in 2018-19 to Rs 4.6 lakh crore in 2019-20. Figures for April-Sept 2020-21 are Rs 1.72 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-rs-1-76l-cr-state-revenue-till-dec-was-50-of-target/articleshow/81358151.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Govt agrees to the demands of sarpanch sangh, releases Rs 1,100 crore under SFC||Jaipur: The state government on Friday agreed to the demands of the Sarpanch Sangh and also released Rs 1,100 crore, which was due under the 5th State Finance Commission (SFC).Sarpanch sangh president Bansidhar Gadwal said, “The officials of the department have assured us that our 20-point demand will be fulfilled, but no order has been issued yet.” He said a statement will be issued to end the protest only after the issuance of the order.Among all the demands of the Sangh, release of Rs 2,964.31 crore under 5th SFC for the year 2019-20 was the prominent one. “Against the proposal made to the finance department, in addition to Rs 1,456 crore released earlier, the remaining amount of 1,100 crore has been released on Friday as per the recommendation of the 5th SFC,” read a statement issued by rural development and panchayati raj department.“We will wait till Saturday for the government to issue the order in this regard. Or else, we will gherao the assembly on March 8,” he said. In a meeting held under the chairmanship of Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), rural development and panchayati raj department, Rohit Kumar Singh, the Sarpanch Sangh members raised all their issues.Singh also assured to consider the proposal for improvement in the laboratory testing system at the panchayat samiti level to improve the quality of construction works. It was also decided to fill the vacant posts of Village Development Officer (VDOs) in newly-formed gram panchayats and other gram panchayats. Singh assured them that advertisement in this regard will be issued by the Rajasthan Staff Selection Board soon.In the meeting, it was decided to send a proposal to the finance department after administrative approval to increase the allowance of sarpanchs to Rs 15,000 per month and raise the allowances of ward panchs and members of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members.BoxProcurement of wheat to begin on March 15Jaipur: The procurement of wheat on minimum support price (MSP), for the Rabi marketing year 2021-22, will begin from March 15. Wheat will be procured through Food Corporation of India (FCI), Nafed, Rajfed and other agencies. Secretary, food and civil supplies department, Naveen Jain informed that 350 procurement centers have been set up in the state for the convenience of farmers. An online system will also be available for the purchase of wheat this time for which the registration of farmers will start from March 12. Farmers can call toll-free number 1800-180-6001 to get any information.Online modules to monitor maintenance workJaipur: Principal Secretary, PWD, Rajesh Yadav, on Friday said that an online module will be developed through National Informatics Center (NIC) to monitor the maintenance of buildings that fall under the jurisdiction of PWD. Similarly, a software-based online module will be made to monitor the maintenance of roads. Two committees will be formed to develop the modules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-agrees-to-the-demands-of-sarpanch-sangh-releases-rs-1100-crore-under-sfc/articleshow/81355352.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Staffer finds Rs 1 lakh gold bangle at Ahmedabad airport, returns to owner||AHMEDABAD: It wasn’t until Alisha (name changed) reached home from the Ahmedabad airport that she realised that her gold bangle worth more than Rs 1 lakh was missing. Even as she dialled the airport number, she had little hope of getting it back. After all, in these times when most everyone has been hit financially due to Covid pandemic, who would return such a find? Imagine her surprise then, when the airport authorities affirmed they had her bangle. Their housekeeping employee, Archana Dikondwar, had found it lying on the floor and submitted it to the airport officials. Alisha had landed at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport from Pune on Friday morning. “The passenger said she had mistakenly dropped the bangle while taking off the PPE kit she was wearing on board the Indigo flight from Pune. She realised it was missing once she reached home,” said a source at the airport. Meanwhile, Archana, a 35-year-old who works in the housekeeping department at the airport, spotted the bangle lying at the thermal checking point on the ground-floor of the arrivals side of the domestic terminal around 11.30 am. She submitted the piece of jewellery to the terminal manager. “When airport authorities received a call from the passenger, they confirmed they had found the bangle. The passenger returned to the airport to collect it. She wanted to meet and thank Archana. However, she had left for home from her work shift,” said the source. Archana has been employed at the airport since the past four months. She is a contractual employee hired by an agency that works at the city airport. It is learnt that the passenger left a cash reward for her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/staffer-finds-rs-1l-gold-bangle-at-airport-returns-to-owner/articleshow/81355371.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Speaker suspends 10 SAD MLAs as disruptions mar Punjab CM’s speech||CHANDIGARH: Ten MLAs of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) were on Friday suspended for the rest of the budget session of the Punjab assembly for disrupting the proceedings of the House during Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s speech on the governor’s address. Marshals evicted the suspended MLAs from the House after Speaker Rana KP Singh named and suspended them. Before that, he had to adjourn the House twice. The unruly scenes began soon after the chief minister began with his speech. AAP MLAs were the first to come to the well of the House and raise slogans, wanting time to raise the issue of alleged transport mafia in Sunam. A group of Congress MLAs, including Navtej Singh Cheema and Kulbir Singh Zira, surrounded the chief minister as the AAP MLAs continued to protest. On the speaker’s insistence, the AAP MLAs finally returned to their seats. However, when Amarinder referred to the Congress’ win in the recent polls, SAD MLAs got up from their seats, referring to three FIRs lodged during the polls. They too came to the well of the House. AAP MLAs too joined the protest against CM’s claims of fulfilled promises. The united opposition continued to raise slogans. There was pandemonium in the House as a group of Congress MLAs too tried to take on the united opposition by SAD and AAP. They mocked the AAP leaders for joining hands with Akalis, besides calling them “Team B of BJP”. The speaker adjourned the House for 15 minutes as there was no sign of the opposition settling down to let the CM resume his speech. When the House resumed, SAD MLAs again began protesting, this time on the issue of power tariff and trooped to the well of the House to shout slogans. The SAD MLAs demanded a clarification from the government on the power issue as SAD MLA N K Sharma alleged that during Covid period, traders were given power bills on average. However, the speaker told the protesting SAD legislators that they had raised an issue and they did not have to disrupt the House. “What message do you want to give to the world... that you won’t allow the House to function? Listen to the CM, there cannot be a clarification on every issue,” the speaker said. However, the SAD staged a walk-out. Amarinder resumed his speech with the issue of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. SAD MLAs returned when the CM referred to SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s old video on social media supporting the farm ordinances. SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia retorted, “The facts will not change if the CM wants to mislead. Where were Sonia and Rahul Gandhi where there was voting on the farm bills?” There were heated exchanges between SAD and Congress MLAs and SAD leaders again came to the well of the House. The Congress MLAs too flashed placards with pictures of gangsters. Before suspending the SAD MLAs, the speaker also took note of Congress MLAs who had come forward. Navtej Cheema was flashing Sukhbir Singh Badal’s letter to the CM where he had allegedly supported the farm ordinances. When the House was adjourned for the second time, the SAD MLAs sat on the floor as the marshals requested them to leave the House. After some resistance, they were escorted out by the marshals. However, one of the SAD MLAs Pawan Kumar Tinu made a futile attempt to come back to the House. An official of the Punjab Assembly confirmed that ten SAD MLAs had been named and suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/speaker-suspends-10-sad-mlas-as-disruptions-mar-captains-speech/articleshow/81356767.cms||Vibhor Mohan
March 6, 2021||Chennai||AIADMK first list: Edappadi K Palaniswami in Edappadi, O Panneerselvam in Bodi seat||CHENNAI: Amid intense parleys with allies over sharing of seats, the ruling AIADMK on Friday released its first list with six names fielding CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam from their home turfs of Edappadi and Bodinaikkanur, respectively. While ministers D Jayakumar and C Ve Shanmugam got Royapuram and Villupuram seats, former minister S P Shanmuganathan will contest from Srivakuntam, and Dindigul district joint secretary S Thenmozhi will fight from Nilakkottai. “The candidates have been chosen based on the recommendations of the party’s Parliamentary board,” a party release said. Party sources said it was decided to release the list on the auspicious day, and there were no issues with the allies since the seats were being represented by them. Panneerselvam was chairman of Periakulam municipality for five years, before representing Periakulam assembly segment in 2001 and 2006. He moved to Bodinaikkanur seat in 2011 and won twice. Palaniswami won Edappadi constituency in 1989, 1991, 2011 and 2016. Jayakumar has been nominated for the seventh time in Royapuram seat, which he had won six times. His colleague Shanmugam had represented Villupuram twice since 2011. He had also represented Tindivanam seat twice. “The party has taken a decision meticulously to cover all sections in the first list, comprising thevar, gounder, vanniyar, nadar and SC,” said a leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-1st-list-eps-in-edappadi-ops-in-bodi-seat/articleshow/81356773.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Why Ashram is synonymous with chaos||NEW DELHI: Two parallel ongoing constructions — an extension of the flyover and an underpass — have made going through Ashram Chowk a commuter’s nightmare. Though a makeshift roundabout has been made under the flyover, the traffic mess has only grown. Those deployed for traffic regulation claim that buses that are supposed to ply on the flyover pick up passengers from below, thereby adding to the chaos. The evening hours are the worst. On Friday, when TOI visited the location, it found traffic movement heavy even during non-peak hours. Heavy vehicles heading from south Delhi towards DND Flyway were seen going under the flyover instead of above it. Amit Kumar, a construction worker, said, “The moment people see slow movement on the flyover, they take the route under it.” Delhi Traffic Police has been asking commuters through Twitter and advisories to take alternative routes. Officials said they were conducting regular review meetings with the public works department to assess changes in the diversion plan. They have put signage and stationed cops to manage the traffic. DCP (traffic), southern range, Vikram Singh told TOI, “Due to the underpass construction on Mathura Road, the traffic flow remains heavy, especially during peak hours. To speed up the project, PWD has increased its resources and also closed the straight route and right turn under Ashram flyover from Sarai Kale Khan side.” Commuters would now have to take a mandatory left turn onto Mathura Road and make a U-turn from New Friends Colony traffic signal to come to Ashram Chowk to head straight towards Nizamuddin, Mathura Road or Moolchand Hospital, Ring Road. The situation would be monitored and in the coming days more diversions would be created, depending on the situation. Hardik Khanna, a wedding planner who travels from Noida to Chhatarpur and south Delhi areas daily, said he had changed his route through Kalindi Kunj. “The traffic rush is heavy during office hours and worse in the evening when one has to return home. I have stopped taking the Ashram route for the last couple of days,” he added. Karthikeyan, who lives next to Ashram Chowk and was waiting to exit the roundabout, said, “At times the situation is pretty bad. However, I have started avoiding commuting during peak hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-ashram-is-synonymous-with-chaos-two-parallel-constructions-cause-a-mess/articleshow/81356772.cms||Sakshi Chand
March 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjab: Second assembly resolution to withdraw farm laws||CHANDIGARH: Punjab legislative assembly on Friday passed a resolution seeking unconditional withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws by the Centre. Introducing the resolution calling for the repeal, chief minister Amarinder Singh asked 10 questions from the nation to expose the true intent of the Centre behind the farm laws, which he said were unacceptable to farmers and the state under any circumstances. He also appealed to the Centre to withdraw all cases and notices against the agitating farmers to build a congenial environment for an amicable solution. These laws cannot be accepted and allowed to remain on the statute book to the detriment of the farmers, Capt Amarinder announced in the House. Not only are they against the principles ofcooperative federalism but their objectives are apparently preposterous, he said. The resolution, which was later passed unanimously by those present in the House, expressed the angst of the members against the “inconsiderate and unresponsive attitude” of the Centre, which has aggravated the situation and added to unrest and anguish among the farmers. It demanded the unconditional withdrawal of the farm laws in the interest of farmers and the state, and to continue with the existing system of MSP-based government procurement of food grains. While Akali MLAs were suspended by the speaker over unruly behaviour while Amarinder was speaking on the issue, AAP members had staged a walk-out before it was put to vote. “Ostensibly, these laws are aimed to achieve the objective of doubling the income of farmers, but it does not appear to be so,” Amarinder said while tabling the resolution. Farmers consider these a threat to their livelihood and have started agitation against these laws, demanding that these be withdrawn, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2nd-assembly-resolution-to-withdraw-farm-laws/articleshow/81360369.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chennai||AIADMK hopes to neutralise TTV Dhinakaran||CHENNAI: With V K Sasikala’s exit, temporary or otherwise, from Tamil Nadu politics, the ruling AIADMK’s attention is now focused on her nephew and AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran. As an important claimant to the thevar legacy, a community to which his aunt belongs, Dhinakaran could prove a thorn in the flesh for the AIADMK in the forthcoming assembly election. On Friday, at the AMMK’s Royapettah office in Chennai, it was business as usual. Cadres thronged the party office to receive and submit applications to contest the election. Emerging from yet another meeting with his aunt Sasikala at her T Nagar residence in Chennai, Dhinakaran said there was no question of him backing off. “Why should I be scared? My aunt took an independent decision to stay away from politics. I will not do that, unless people want me to,” he told reporters. For the AIADMK, neutralizing Sasikala’s nephew would be the priority. The AMMK’s political survival had hinged on Sasikala’s backing and her active re-entry into TN politics. With her exit, the AMMK cadre morale has plummeted. Though Dhinakaran and senior functionaries are putting up a brave front, the mood in the AMMK camp is one of uncertainty. “We have received calls from several senior AMMK functionaries who are keen to return to the AIADMK,” said a senior AIADMK leader. Hours before she left for Bengaluru prison on February 15, 2017, Sasikala appointed Dhinakaran as the AIADMK’s deputy general secretary. But he was expelled again from the party after the two factions led by Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam merged and Sasikala was removed from her post as party general secretary. With the AIADMK likely to renew its campaign of accusing Dhinakaran of colluding with the DMK to finish off “Amma’s (Jayalalithaa’s) party”, the leader is in a fix. “The AMMK would be blamed for any setback to the AIADMK in the election,” said the AIADMK leader. “And, unless TTV stitches together an alliance on par with our front, there is no likelihood of the party winning any seat,” pointed out the leader. The buoyancy evident in the AMMK during the 2019 Lok Sabha election, when the party polled around 5% votes, contesting 37 of the 39 seats, appears to be missing now. With Sasikala unavailable to spearhead a powerful campaign for her nephew in the thevar dominant southern constituencies, finding resources to fund an election of such a magnitude could prove the biggest challenge for Dhinakaran. Would he throw down the gauntlet or capitulate like his aunt remains to be seen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-hopes-to-neutralise-ttv/articleshow/81356800.cms||Jaya Menon
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Second assembly resolution to withdraw farm laws||CHANDIGARH: Punjab legislative assembly on Friday passed a resolution seeking unconditional withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws by the Centre. Introducing the resolution calling for the repeal, chief minister Amarinder Singh asked 10 questions from the nation to expose the true intent of the Centre behind the farm laws, which he said were unacceptable to farmers and the state under any circumstances. He also appealed to the Centre to withdraw all cases and notices against the agitating farmers to build a congenial environment for an amicable solution. These laws cannot be accepted and allowed to remain on the statute book to the detriment of the farmers, Capt Amarinder announced in the House. Not only are they against the principles ofcooperative federalism but their objectives are apparently preposterous, he said. The resolution, which was later passed unanimously by those present in the House, expressed the angst of the members against the “inconsiderate and unresponsive attitude” of the Centre, which has aggravated the situation and added to unrest and anguish among the farmers. It demanded the unconditional withdrawal of the farm laws in the interest of farmers and the state, and to continue with the existing system of MSP-based government procurement of food grains. While Akali MLAs were suspended by the speaker over unruly behaviour while Amarinder was speaking on the issue, AAP members had staged a walk-out before it was put to vote. “Ostensibly, these laws are aimed to achieve the objective of doubling the income of farmers, but it does not appear to be so,” Amarinder said while tabling the resolution. Farmers consider these a threat to their livelihood and have started agitation against these laws, demanding that these be withdrawn, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2nd-assembly-resolution-to-withdraw-farm-laws/articleshow/81356774.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||Budget focuses on health, accessibility, self-reliance and safety: CM||Gairsain: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday said that the budget for 2021-22 lays focus on four key points — health, accessibility, self-reliance and safety. He pointed out that under the health sector, the budget has been increased by Rs 700 crore when compared to that of financial year 2020-21. “We are in the process of recruiting 763 doctors and 2,500 nurses. A provision of Rs 200 crore has been kept for upgrading hospitals. Earlier, only the hospitals of Uttarakhand were covered under the Atal Ayushman Yojana but we have increased the coverage under the scheme to 22,000 hospitals in the country. A total of 2.35 lakh people have been treated under the scheme and the total expenditure for which was Rs 254 crore. This year, we have kept Rs 150 crore for the project,” the CM said. Rawat claimed that when he took charge as the CM, there were around 100 ambulances and now, the state has a fleet of 271 ambulances. “The MMR has gone down from 201 per lakh to 99 per lakh. The IMA too has gone down from 41 to 33 and the institutional delivery has gone up from 50% to 71%,” he said. On the issue of accessibility, he said that under PM Gram Sadak Yojana, rural roads of 7,529-km length were constructed from 2000 to 2016. “In the last four years, rural roads of the length of 7,431-km have been constructed. We have kept a provision of Rs 1,083 crore for 2021-22 for the project,” Rawat added. He did not fail to mention that Rs 385 crore has been earmarked for road repair, Rs 330 crore for motorable bridges and Rs 181 crore for air connectivity, including Rs 20 crore for the air strip at Chaukutia in Almora district. In the education sector, the last budget had a provision of Rs 9,149 crore. An amount of Rs 9,450 crore has been kept for the next fiscal. For distribution of bags and shoes for students of Class I and VIII in state run schools, a budget provision of Rs 24 crore has been made. For safety, he said after having a woman commando force in police, plans are afoot to impart commando training to 1 lakh women in the state. Also, Rs 25 crore has been kept for Ghasyari Yojana to provide fodder at subsidised rates. For setting up Science City at Jhajra in Dehradun, a provision of Rs 23 crore has been made in the budget. The budget of agriculture too has witnessed a rise from Rs 1,048 crore to Rs 1,108 crore. Meanwhile, "We were expecting more allocations and some Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) too boost the tourism sector, which is the mainstay of the state and has been badly impacted by the pandemic,” said Sandeep Sahni, president of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Uttarakhand. Pradeep Kukreti, Dehradun district president of Uttarakhand Rajya Andolankari Manch, said that the state budget focuses on health but there is hardly any announcement for employment generation, “especially in times when there is a record-high unemployment in the state as well as the country”. “There has been hardly any announcement in terms of welfare schemes and there was no mention of pension for the disabled and the senior citizens in need. Also, the budget for tackling migration is quite low. We appreciate the move of turning Gairsain into a separate administrative division and we have been demanding it for a while. A separate administrative division will ensure that the major issues related to land or others don’t require files to be sent to Dehradun to get approval. I just hope that the commissioner of the Gairsain administrative division sits in the region itself unlike those of Garhwal and Kumaon, who sit in Dehradun and Haldwani respectively. However, our fight will continue until Gairsain isn’t made the permanent capital,” Kukreti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/budget-focuses-on-health-accessibility-self-reliance-and-safety-cm/articleshow/81354182.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 6, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: Second assembly resolution to withdraw farm laws||CHANDIGARH: Punjab legislative assembly on Friday passed a resolution seeking unconditional withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws by the Centre. Introducing the resolution calling for the repeal, chief minister Amarinder Singh asked 10 questions from the nation to expose the true intent of the Centre behind the farm laws, which he said were unacceptable to farmers and the state under any circumstances. He also appealed to the Centre to withdraw all cases and notices against the agitating farmers to build a congenial environment for an amicable solution. These laws cannot be accepted and allowed to remain on the statute book to the detriment of the farmers, Capt Amarinder announced in the House. Not only are they against the principles ofcooperative federalism but their objectives are apparently preposterous, he said. The resolution, which was later passed unanimously by those present in the House, expressed the angst of the members against the “inconsiderate and unresponsive attitude” of the Centre, which has aggravated the situation and added to unrest and anguish among the farmers. It demanded the unconditional withdrawal of the farm laws in the interest of farmers and the state, and to continue with the existing system of MSP-based government procurement of food grains. While Akali MLAs were suspended by the speaker over unruly behaviour while Amarinder was speaking on the issue, AAP members had staged a walk-out before it was put to vote. “Ostensibly, these laws are aimed to achieve the objective of doubling the income of farmers, but it does not appear to be so,” Amarinder said while tabling the resolution. Farmers consider these a threat to their livelihood and have started agitation against these laws, demanding that these be withdrawn, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/2nd-assembly-resolution-to-withdraw-farm-laws/articleshow/81360372.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Govt sees Covaxin efficacy as validation of its scientific process||NEW DELHI: The phase 3 results of Covaxin released on Wednesday showing 81% efficacy is seen by the government as a major validation of the scientific process and regulatory decision making while granting emergency use authorisation that helped in achieving a timely rollout of the nationwide vaccination programme on January 16. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is India’s first locally developed vaccine against Covid-19. The two-dose vaccine has been developed in collaboration with the ICMR and is based on whole inactivated virus. This means the vaccine exposes the body to the virus but not its virulence. This not only makes the vaccine a safer option but also increases its chances to be effective against mutations, experts say. In fact, this was one of the reasons for the regulator to grant an early approval for restricted emergency use in “clinical mode trial” because authorities felt that a whole virus based vaccine like Covaxin is more likely to act against mutant strains. Also while efficacy data was not available, tests in primates showed it cleared infection in both lower and upper lungs, sources said. Bharat Biotech said the first interim analysis of phase 3 data of Covaxin based on 43 cases, of which 36 cases of Covid-19 were observed in the placebo group versus seven cases observed in the vaccine group, resulted in a point estimate of vaccine efficacy of 80.6%. The interim analysis showed that severe, serious and medically attended adverse events occurred at low levels and were balanced between vaccine and placebo groups, the company said. Despite the initial scepticism regarding Covaxin, the government and ICMR stood firm with the regulatory decision and took measures to address concerns and hesitancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-sees-covaxin-efficacy-as-validation-of-its-scientific-process/articleshow/81358745.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Woman accuses man of rape by posing as cop||Aurangabad: An imposter hailing from Beed district has been arrested by police after he allegedly befriended a woman from Ahmednagar by claiming to be a police officer and raped her on the pretext of helping her a job in the police department. The accused has been identified as Kiran Shinde of Hiwraphadi in Beed and after being produced before the local court in Ahmednagar, he has been remanded in four-day police custody. Based on the complaint lodged by a 25-year-old married woman, Rahata police of Ahmednagar district booked the suspect on the charges of rape, cheating, impersonation and voluntarily causing hurt. As per the complaint, the alleged crime took place between September 17, 2020 to March 3 this year. Ahmednagar superintendent of police Manoj Patil said, “As per the preliminary probe, the suspect befriended the woman through a social media platform by impersonating as policeman serving at Shirdi police station.” The accused even shared his pictures in police uniform along with a forged identity card. Deputy superintendent of police Sanjay Satav said the accused on the pretext of helping the woman get recruited in the police department started speaking with her on a regular basis. “After winning her trust, the accused allegedly raped the woman and even asked her to get divorced,” he said. The woman recently found out that the accused man is an impersonator. On being confronted, the accused allegedly assaulted the woman, following which she approached Rahata police station and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-accuses-man-of-rape-by-posing-as-cop/articleshow/81353481.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Agriculture to grow at 11.7%, highest in 5 years||Mumbai: As opposed to most sectors in the state estimated to record a negative growth, agriculture and allied activities are projected to grow at 11.7% in 2020-21. This would be not only much higher than the 6.1% growth recorded last year, but also the highest in five years. The growth has been attributed to the state receiving 113.4% of normal rainfall during monsoon 2020, which boosted average crop production. Food grain production is expected to increase by 49%, from 61 lakh metric tonnes (MT) to 92 lakh MT in the current financial year. Production of cereals and pulses is expected to go up by 60% and 14% over the last financial year. Production of cash crops like cotton and sugarcane is also likely to increase (by 33% and 40%, respectively). According to the economic survey, due to an overall increase in estimated agricultural production, the real Gross State Value Added (GSVA) of the crops sector is expected to grow by 16.2% against 8.4% reported last year. Livestock, forestry & logging, and fisheries & aquaculture, which are allied sectors, are expected to grow at 4.4%, 5.7% and 2.6%, respectively. It is also expected that the production of fruits and vegetables will be higher (by 12.5% and 42.7%). “The good and timely monsoon has helped the state’s farmers. Also, with jobs in the cities drying up, many youth have returned to villages to help in family farms, which also led to an increase in the area under cultivation,” said VIjay Jawandhia, a farmer leader from Amravati. Out of the state’s 355 talukas, excluding Mumbai city and Mumbai suburban districts, 139 received excess rainfall, 173 received normal rainfall and 43 received deficient rainfall. The government has said they had exempted all agricultural activities from the lockdown and also ensured that agriculture-related inputs like seeds, fertilisers and even licenses were made available to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-agriculture-to-grow-at-11-7-highest-in-5-years/articleshow/81358187.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 6, 2021||Goa||11 officials recommended for promotions||Panaji: The Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) on Friday recommended promotions of 11 officers as mamlatdars/ assistant directors to the state government. GPSC chairman Jose Manuel Noronha said that the commission, through a departmental promotion committee (DPC) recommended that 11 officers from the feeder grade be promoted to the position of mamlatdars/ assistant directors of civil supplies in the personnel department . The feeder grade comprises awal karkun (deputy collectors), inspectors of civil supplies and vigilance officers. Through another DPC, the commission also recommended promoting four executive engineers to superintending engineers in the water resource department (WRD). The commission also recommended promoting one assistant registrar of cooperative societies and one senior-scale officer while lifting the probation of deputy director fisheries, and junior paediatrician in the department of health services (DHS). Once the government accepts the recommendations, the official orders will be issued, but only after the code of conduct is lifted. “Due to the ongoing pandemic the commission continues to conduct DPC’s through circulation,” Noronha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/11-officials-recommended-for-promotions/articleshow/81356786.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||IIT-D’s sustainable tech to tackle e-waste||New Delhi: Researchers at IIT Delhi have developed a process to convert e-waste into useful materials. Stating that e-waste can also be considered an “urban mine” for metal recovery and energy production, Professor KK Pant and his research team from the chemical engineering department have developed a sustainable technology to tackle the e-waste menace. The team has successfully installed a 10kg/h (kilogram per hour) pyrolysis plant for e-waste recycling at IIT Delhi. The institute stated that India was the third-largest producer of e-waste and had generated 3.23 MMT e-waste in 2019. “E-waste contains several toxic materials like lead, cadmium, chromium, brominated flame retardants and polychlorinated biphenyls. Unregulated accumulation, landfilling, or inappropriate recycling processes pose a severe threat to human health and the environment.” “The developed technology will cater to the needs of Smart Cities, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and Atmanirbhar Bharat initiatives of the Indian government via waste to wealth generation in decentralised units,” said Pant. The institute claimed that “this process gives a recovery of nearly 93% copper, 100% nickel, 100% zinc, 100% lead and 50% gold and silver each. It is a green process in which no toxic chemicals are released into the environment.” For this project, the team was awarded the SRISTI-GYTI appreciation for 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iit-ds-sustainable-tech-to-tackle-e-waste/articleshow/81356779.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Surat||Speeding truck crushes 22-year-old in Surat||Surat: A speeding truck mowed down a bike in Udhna area on Friday killing one youth and injuring another. The deceased was identified as Shyam Gupta, 22, a resident of Gandhi Kutir in Udhna, an employee of a shopping mall. The truck rammed their bike from behind and while Shyam died on the spot, his friend was rushed to hospital for treatment. Deceased is a native of Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/speeding-truck-crushes-22-year-old-in-surat/articleshow/81355980.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Wife, son of Covid-battered businessman die in mass suicide bid||VADODARA/ANAND: Wife and son of a tour and travels operator in Anand died in a suicide bid, the trigger for which was husband’s piling debts due to massive hit his business had taken since the Covid-19 pandemic struck. When Prakash Shah, the businessman, reached home on Thursday afternoon, he saw wife Teena (38) vomiting in the bedroom, while his son Meet (12) and 15-year-old daughter Shrusti were puking outside. Police said they had gulped down tablets of celphos, a commonly used fumigant to control rodents like rats and pests in the field. Prakash, who lives in Jeevandeep Society, rushed them to a private hospital in the town but Teena and Meet died at around 8.45 pm. Doctors could save Shrusti’s life and her condition is said to be out of danger. Prakash reportedly told the police that he had piled up on a debt of around Rs 25 lakh to Rs 30 lakh after his travels business in adjoining Vallabh Vidyanagar town had taken a huge hit due to the pandemic. His wife had often talked about committing suicide. “Both the wife and the daughter were aware about his financial position and in his absence, they decided to take the extreme step. Both were highly sensitive regarding their family’s financial difficulties,” said Anand town’s in-charge police inspector Y R Chauhan. The tragic incident comes just two days after six members of a Vadodara businessman’s family attempted suicide, resulting the death of three persons. The reason for their extreme step too was financial distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wife-son-of-covid-battered-bizman-die-in-mass-suicide-bid/articleshow/81355863.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Hardik Patel allowed to leave Gujarat for 15 days||AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court on Friday permitted Gujarat Congress’s working president, Hardik Patel, to leave Gujarat for 15 days so that he could go to Delhi and other places for party’s work. The court had imposed restrictions on Patel’s movement outside Gujarat in January 2020 after he skipped hearings of the sedition case, which was lodged against him and four others by Ahmedabad crime branch in 2015. Additional sessions judge B J Ganatra permitted Patel to leave Gujarat for two weeks from Monday — between March 8 and March 23 so that he could go to Delhi for his party’s work and to consult lawyers for his pending case in the Supreme Court. Besides, he has been permitted to go to Rajasthan to attend his friend’s marriage. Patel had earlier unsuccessfully requested the court to allow him to leave Gujarat by suspending the bail condition so that he could attend party events and canvas for his party candidates in poll-bound Bihar. He once again approached the court through his advocate Rafik Lokhandwala and requested the court that he may be permitted to go to Delhi, where he is required to visit the headquarters of his party and where he can meet his lawyers. It was also submitted that earlier the Gujarat high court had also granted such permissions to him and he had abided by the conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hardik-allowed-to-leave-state-for-15-days/articleshow/81355428.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||Cong MLA alleges anomalies in CAU; minister says will ‘find out the truth’||Dehradun: Deputy leader of opposition and Ranikhet MLA Karan Mahra raised the issue of alleged “wrongdoings” in the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) in the House on Friday. Mahra accused the CAU authorities of “favouritsim” in the team selections and also selecting “undeserving players.” The Congress MLA pointed out that the norms of holding office in CAU too were being flouted. “CAU is an autonomous body but it cannot be permitted to flout the set norms and leave out deserving players in any team,” Mahra said. Citing an example, he said that a deserving player was not selected in one of the teams in the state. He further added that an individual was holding a key post for the third successive term. “However, a person can hold a position for two successive terms only. In the entire life span, a person can hold a position only for four terms. This is a gross violation of norms. It is an autonomous body but government officials are a part of it. If the wrongdoings in the CAU have gone to such an extent, then the government needs to order a probe into the matter. In his reply, sports minister Arvind Pandey said that a departmental team would find out the truth and whether the “selection was being done as per norms and the CAU was following the set guidelines”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-mla-alleges-anomalies-in-cau-minister-says-will-find-out-the-truth/articleshow/81354211.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Surveillance upped after bird flu in Gujarat's Sola||AHMEDABAD: Surveillance was intensified in Sola on Friday, after a sample of chicken was found to be positive for bird flu on Thursday. Suketu Upadhyay, deputy director, animal husbandry in the Ahmedabad district panchayat, said that no culling activity was undertaken on Friday, as there is no poultry farm within the containment zone. “However, we have taken up large scale fumigation activity in the containment zone of one kilometre radius,” he said. “Our teams have been working closely with the health department and other departments to ensure that no poultry products are brought in or are taken out from the surveillance zone, which is a 10km radius area,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/surveillance-upped-after-bird-flu-in-sola/articleshow/81355444.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Retired engineer cheated of Rs 18 lakh in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 59-year-old man from Satellite, who retired as AMC assistant city engineer in March 2020, on Friday filed a complaint against four persons for cheating him of Rs 18 lakh. Amit Oza, a resident of Payal Park on Satellite Road, stated that he received a call from one Anand Patil, who said he was a senior advisor with Mehta Equities and offered him a share-trading package. Oza showed interest and was told to pay Rs 21,000 into an SBI account. He was asked to transfer more money. He began with transfer of Rs 5,96,000. After some days, he got a call from one Siddharth Roy, 'CEO' Sharad Chandra and his assistant Anuradha who told him to invest Rs 11 lakh in a different package. He transferred another Rs 5,25,000. They sent him screenshots showing profits from investments. In all, he ended up transferring Rs 18.09 lakh. He realised the con when they claimed his ‘investments had touched Rs 1.27 crore’ and he should send Rs 18 lakh towards GST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/retired-engineer-cheated-of-rs-18-lakh/articleshow/81355438.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws: Cong, AAP lock horns||Chandigarh: The incumbent Congress and opposition AAP exchanged barbs over farm laws on the fifth day of the budget session of the assembly. While leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said Punjab had representation in the Centre’s committee of agriculture reforms, chief minister Amarinder Singh referred to the Delhi government notification, allegedly endorsing the farm laws. Soon after Cheema made the charge, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said he had attended the meeting of the panel and placed on record the minutes of its proceedings. Later, CM added, “As pointed out by Manpreet in the House, the minutes of the committee meetings were available as the state government had placed them in the House.” At both meetings held after Punjab was included in the committee following his letter to the Centre, his government had categorically cautioned the Centre against tinkering with MSP in any way, he added. Amarinder, who had earlier in the House shown the members a copy of the Delhi Gazette notification implementing one of the three farm laws, asaid AAP was cheating the farmers with its false propaganda. in their support when it had actually repeatedly backstabbed them. To make his point, he even recalled AAP’s earlier U-turns on the issue in Punjab. Earlier in the House, the AAP MLAs had rushed into the well before staging a walkout, alleging that the CM was a member of the high-powered committee set up by the Centre on agricultural reforms and hence party to the decision on the farm laws. Even though Amarinder himself clarified that he was not present at any meeting of the committee, Manpreet had attended one meeting while an officer was present in another. However, Cheema retorted that Congress leadership should have told people of the state about what the Centre was planning to bring about in the farm sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-laws-cong-aap-lock-horns/articleshow/81356783.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chennai||Pride of place for 3 courses at IIT-M||Chennai: Three courses of IIT Madras petroleum engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineeringfeatured among top 100 in the QS World University Rankings (by subject) 2021. These courses ranked 30, 82 and 92 in global rankings respectively. The petroleum engineering course offered by Anna University also featured in the top 51 to 100 bracket while SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST)'s course featured among in the 101 to 150 bracket. IIT Madras ranked 114 in computer science and information systems while Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) featured in the 351 to 400 rank bracket. The computer science course offered by Anna University and Amrita Vishwa Vidhyapeetham featured among 551 to 600. Mechanical engineering course offered by VIT and NIT, Trichy featured within top 400 and top 500. Civil engineering, business and management studies and maths also featured within top 200 at global level this year. IIT Madras got 94th rank at global level in engineering and technology category and third at country level after IIT-Bombay and IIT-Delhi. “Most of our engineering subjects are within top 150 and we have earlier also had several subjects in top 100. Petroleum engineering is a young programme not offered in many IITs. It has now reached some maturity,” said IIT Madras director Bhaskar Ramamurthi. Last year, IIT Madras ranked 88 in engineering and technology category. Despite several issues in terms of faculty shortage and recent controversies, Anna University got 388th rank globally and 9th at all India level. Among the top eight institutions in the country, seven are IITs apart from Indian Institute of Science in Bengaluru. “Anna University is the only state university which has been ranked very high in petroleum engineering, engineering and technology this year. Despite several constraints including overcrowded laboratories and hostels, we are able to achieve very high ranking. It shows that talent is not only confined to IITs, but also comes from other institutions such as state universities,” said M K Surappa, vice-chancellor of Anna University. Though the university did well in indicators like research output including H-index citations (72.7) and citations per paper (78.1), the scores in other indicators like academic reputation (53.9) and employer reputation have dipped 1 and 4 points respectively. Professors said the low scores in these two parameters could be because of the recent controversies.The rank has come down by 15 places compared to last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pride-of-place-for-3-courses-at-iit-m/articleshow/81346295.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||Cong stages walkout over sugarcane price given to farmers||Gairsain: Uttarakhand Congress legislators strongly raised the issues of sugarcane price given to farmers in the assembly on Friday. They came to the assembly building while holding sugarcane in their hands and raising slogans against the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led BJP government. In the House, Manglaur legislator Qazi Nizamuddin turned emotional and said “justice” needs to be done with the farmers. He said that sugarcane prices have remained the same for the last four years due to which lakh of farmers were facing several problems. In his reply, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik said that the sugarcane farmers in Uttarakhand were being given better prices for their produce when compared to other states. Kaushik said “In 2019-20, Rs 327 per quintal was given to farmers for early variety and Rs 317 per quintal for common variety of sugarcane. He further stated that the sugarcane prices are Rs 2 per quintal more for early variety and Rs 12 per quintal more for common variety as compared to neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. He claimed that all dues of sugarcane farmers have been cleared in the state. Unsatisfied with the answer of the minister, Congress members staged a walkout from the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-stages-walkout-over-sugarcane-price-given-to-farmers/articleshow/81354266.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 6, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara dist reports 224 fresh cases||Kolhapur: Satara district recorded 224 new Covid cases and one death since Thursday late night, taking the total number of cases to 59,492. The death toll has now risen to 1,860. Koregaon taluka reported 36 new cases, Satara taluka added 40 cases, 30 people tested positive in Maan taluka among others. As many as 55,951 patients have recovered while 1,681 patients are being treated currently. 25 positive in Solapur city Solapur city reported 25 new Covid cases and two men succumbed to the infection on Friday. Four patient were discharged after recovering.The city has recorded 12,573 cases, including 664 deaths 415 active cases and 11,494 recoveries. Solapur rural added 45 patients while 47 patients were discharged on Friday. A 72-year-old woman from Akkalkot taluka died in a private hospital. Solapur rural has reported 40,846 cases, which includes 1,188 deaths, 531 active cases and 39,127 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-224-fresh-cases/articleshow/81353487.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers patriots, not anti-nationals, says Amarinder||Chandigarh: Accusing BJP leaders of what he described as “reprehensible statements against farmers”, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said famers and farm workers of Punjab were “not anti-nationals, but the same patriotic and nationalistic people who gave their lives for the country in Galwan valley last year”. Calling for an immediate end to attempts to defame the Punjabi farmers by branding them miscreants or ultras, Amarinder said, “They have never done anything anti-national; they are not anti-national, and they will never do anything against the unity and integrity of this country.” “They are patriotic and nationalistic. While one son ploughs the fields in the village, the other brother is busy guarding the country’s borders. These are the same people who gave their lives for the country, along with soldiers from other states too, in Galwan last year while protecting the sovereignty of our country,” said Amarinder, urging the Centre to ensure that this defamation campaign against farmers was ended. Drawing the attention of the House to statements of BJP leaders, at the Centre and in Haryana, Amarinder said it was shameful that they were heading the governments at the national level and in neighbouring states. “Their statements raised the worries and apprehensions not only of farmers and farm workers, but also of our government as these do not augur well for our future,” said Amarinder, while condemning the use of terms “anti-national and Khalistanis” against the farmers. Referring to remarks of Haryana agriculture minister that the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation would in any case have died in their respective homes, the chief minister demanded an unconditional apology for his insensitive conduct, pointing out that a more than 200 farmers (including 125 from Punjab) had so far died during the agitation. Terming Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s conduct “most regrettable”, Amarinder said the government of the neighbouring state had gone against the established norms of democratic functioning by using force against the agitators and also digging roads and putting barricades on their way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-patriots-not-anti-nationals-says-amarinder/articleshow/81356778.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||SC woman alleges rape by ex-husband in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 22-year-old woman from Amraiwadi has accused her former husband of raping her and using casteist slurs after tricking her into giving him a divorce. In her FIR at East Mahila police station, she said they met at work, fell in love and got married on July 16, 2020. “Just five days later, he quit working as event manager, told her to stop working as a singer and get a job at a spa. She did as asked and earned enough to take care of both of their expenses,” she told police. After three months, he told her he was in debt. “He proposed that she should demand Rs 2.5 lakh from his family for divorcing him. He said he would marry her again in two months and use the money to pay off his debts,” the complainant stated. She said, “After the divorce deed was notarized, the accused would come to their flat often. When she him to remarry her, he refused and forced her to have sex with him. She alleged that she got pregnant and he got her to abort the foetus. He also hurled casteist slurs, while his brother issued death threats.” The probe has been handed over to the SC/ST Cell. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-woman-alleges-rape-by-ex-husband/articleshow/81355477.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Lucknow||CM to launch 1st ed of global Ramayan encyclopaedia today||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will launch the first edition of ‘Global Encyclopaedia of the Ramayan’ on the occasion of Janaki Navmi on Saturday. The publication has been put together by the Ayodhya Research Institute and will also be launched as an e-book. While the first edition will be in English, the encyclopaedia will also be launched in Hindi and Tamil a month later. In 2018, the CM had directed that all information pertaining to sites related to the Ramayana across the world should be collated after which the state’s department of culture collaborated with the ministry of external affairs for the project. The encyclopaedia will contain details collected from 205 countries. Director, culture, Shishir said as per the plan, the Ramayana Encyclopedia would be published in 200 volumes. “For this, the Ayodhya Research Institute has set up a board of editors with advisors from around the country and the world. The first edition has been designed by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. The encyclopaedia will also be released in Oriya, Malayalam, Urdu and Assamese. The Ayodhya Mahatamya, the oldest and most authentic book about Ayodhya, will be released in English language,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-to-launch-1st-ed-of-global-ramayan-encyclopaedia-today/articleshow/81358211.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid effect? Water-borne infections fall||MUMBAI: While Covid-19 had adversely impacted Maharashtra’s economy as shown in the economic survey 2020-21, the pandemic seems to have brought about a drastic reduction in water-borne infections as gastroenteritis, jaundice and typhoid. Less than five lakh people got affected by water-borne diseases in 2020 as against 8.7 lakh in 2019. In 2018, the number was 7.9 lakh, said the economic survey. But a public health department official said the lower numbers are only a reflection of the poor surveillance of most diseases except Covid-19. Another doctor said the number could also be due to the fact that people stayed home during the lockdown and didn’t eat or drink water outdoors. “However, one has to see how the opening up has affected people’s behavior and the incidence of such diseases,” he added. In November, the BMC had said that cases of jaundice plunged 84% and gastroenteritis by 68% as compared to the previous years. BMC officials said this was due to Covid etiquette of washing hands before meals and better water supply. Meanwhile, the number of vector-borne diseases too dropped. Dengue cases fell from 15,363 in 2019-20 to 2,429 in 2020-2021 and swine flu cases from 1,187 to 394 in the same period. Only malaria cases increased from 9,491 in 2019-2010 to 11,163 in 2020-2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-effect-water-borne-infections-fall/articleshow/81358234.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Murdered couple never registered by cops as sr citizens||Ahmedabad: People living in the posh locality of Thaltej were in for a rude shock and made jittery by the brutal killings of the elderly couple — Ashok Patel and Jyotsna Patel, residents of Bungalow No-1 in Shantivan Palace Society on Hebatpur Crossroads.Another shock was to learn that the elderly couple, who lived alone most of the time, was never registered by cops under the senior citizen programme of Suraksha Setu.Given the issues with senior citizens to come to police stations and register themselves, last year, She teams in respective city police stations were given the duty to approach the elderly and register them.And the city police continue to claim they are holding drives to register senior citizens.“Ashok and Jyotsna Patel have not registered themselves as senior citizens with Sola police, and they were not approached by She team of Sola police who had responsibility to meet senior citizens and register them,” said a police officer.Earlier in 2013, the city police had also launched a digital platform through which senior citizens could register themselves with the police who were supposed to track these vulnerable people. One of the pioneers of the project was then joint commissioner of police (admin), city police, Sanjay Srivastava, the current city police commissioner.This is the second murder of a senior citizen within a month. On February 12, an 80-year-old woman from the Vejalpur area of city, Meena Thakor, resident of Panch Ghar no Vaas in Vejalpur village, was bludgeoned to death at her home where she was living alone. That murder case also remains unsolved.Residents of Thaltej and especially Shantivan Palace Society had questions for police. Another senior citizen, who was a friend of the deceased Ashok Patel, said that if a murder happens in such a bustling locality and on a busy road then anything could happen in secluded and deserted places of the city.Another resident of the society said earlier, even thefts or burglaries were unheard of in their society, but this incident had shattered the illusion of a safe locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/murdered-couple-never-registered-by-cops-as-sr-citizens/articleshow/81356865.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kolhapur||19 fresh cases in Kolhapur dist, tally reaches 50,600||Kolhapur: The district reported 19 fresh cases of Covid, including 17 from Kolhapur city, on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 50,600. While the death toll stands at 1,745, the district has 386 active cases and 48,469 have recovered from the contagion. Covid rules continue to be violated Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Friday fined 187 people for not wearing masks, spitting at public places and not following social distancing. Also, the KMC fined three wedding hall operators of Rs 3,000 each for flouting Covid rules. Admin finds RT-PCR test not done in pvt hosps Civic health administration has found that the RT-PCR tests of most patients admitted in private hospitals are not being done. The patients are asked to get the high-resolution CT scan and thereby declared Covid positive or not. The KMC on Friday issued a public notice appealing to private hospitals to get RT-PCR done and submit the report details every day to health administration. Sangli reports 32 cases On Friday, 32 fresh cases of Covid were recorded in Sangli district. The total number of cases in the district has reached 48,633, of them, 225 patients are currently undergoing treatment, 46,646 have been cured and 1,762 have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/19-fresh-cases-in-kolhapur-dist-tally-reaches-50600/articleshow/81353523.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat lists 500+ daily Covid cases after 47 days||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday added 515 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 2.72 lakh. The state’s daily cases went above 500 after 47 days – on January 17, Gujarat had recorded 518 cases. Analysis of the cases reveal that in five days of March, Gujarat recorded rise of 21% in daily positive cases. The rise, along with four major cities, is also seen in other parts of the state. However, 68%, or more than two-thirds of the daily cases were recorded from Ahmedabad (113), Surat (101), Vadodara (90), and Rajkot (46). On March 1, the share of four cities was 64%. Thus, other areas also recorded a rise in cases. However, five of the districts did not record a single case in 24 hours. Gujarat in the past five days recorded deaths of three patients, and all of the patients were from Ahmedabad city. The death rate of March is 0.1%, one of the lowest during the pandemic. The data of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association revealed that the occupancy of private hospital beds in Ahmedabad rose from 152 on February 24 to 253 on March 5, increasing by 101 in 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-lists-500-daily-cases-after-47-days/articleshow/81355507.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Hry governor’s address had outdated details on transport dept||Chandigarh: Haryana governor Satyadeo Narain Arya on Friday addressed the state assembly on the first day of the budget session showcasing achievements and vision of the BJP-JJP coalition government, however, the address had outdated information on an issue related to the state’s transport department. Governor Arya highlighted a total of 171 points related to the Khattar government’s achievements and objectives, but point number 159, related to the transport department, had already been stayed last month by the Punjab and Haryana high court. Showcasing the achievements of the transport department, the governor’s address at Point 159 mentioned, “A Shudhikaran (purification) drive was launched by my government as part of which majority of the officers and staff working in the Regional Transport Authorities (RTAs) have been replaced.” In fact, the Punjab and Haryana high court had set-aside the decision of the Haryana government to depute/ shift or replace the staff from the regulatory wing — regional transport authority (RTA) of the state’s transport department to its commercial wing — state roadways and vice-versa observing the state’s decision “completely bereft of rationale.” The governor’s address referred to the replacement of the transport department’s staff as “Shudikaran,” but the high court while setting aside the Haryana government’s decision observed that it is not explained as to how, by bringing in employees from the Haryana Roadways to undertake the duties of the transport inspectors, transport sub-inspectors, and assistant secretaries in the regulatory wing, the system of checking of commercial vehicles would be streamlined. In its February 10 orders, the HC had also observed that there is “no justification offered as to how the present exercise would benefit the system, let alone the public at large.” The order was passed by a single bench of the HC and the order has not been stayed till date by any higher court. According to experts, the discrepancy, if not misrepresentation, shows factually correct information has not been placed in the House. The other part of the information in Point 159 pertaining to the transport department is factually correct. When contacted, Mool Chand Sharma, Haryana transport minister, however, tried to justify the anomaly saying that the governor's address is referring only to the shifting or replacements of Class-I officers of the department, not other employees and there is no misstatement of facts in the governor's address. Ram Narayan Yadav, an expert in legislative affairs who has handled proceedings in the Haryana state assembly for more than three decades and has also served as an adviser to the Punjab speaker, said such mistakes “cannot be termed as misleading of the House” but such “inadvertent errors” can be rectified by way of reply from the state government in the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-governors-address-had-outdated-details-on-transport-dept/articleshow/81356830.cms||Ajay Sura
March 6, 2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat elections 2021: BJP’s chaupals to seek support for candidates||LUCKNOW: The UP unit of the BJP is all set to roll out its well-oiled poll machinery to drum up achievements of the four-year rule of Yogi Adityanath government at the grassroots level as part of preparation for the panchayat elections which are seen as a semi-final before the high stake assembly elections due next year. Beginning March 11, the party will launch a special week-long campaign of organising gram chaupals in all 58,194 gram panchayats which are expected to go to polls next month. On Friday, the party kicked off preparations for the much anticipated campaign by organising gram sabha meetings which were largely attended by the local party ranks. The meetings will continue till March 10, party sources said. “The gram chaupals will be attended by various ministers, MPs and MLAs,” said UP BJP vice-president and party incharge of panchayat elections Vijay Bahadur Pathak while talking to TOI. A senior BJP leader said that the party would, in fact, seek to consolidate its position in the rural areas while preparing for the rural local bodies elections. While the party has decided to field its party workers in zila panchayat, it also plans to support selected candidate in gram and kshetra panchayats. Pathak said that a list of panchayat poll candidates of every ward, who would have full backing of the party, would be released soon. There are 3,051 wards in 75 zila panchayats and 75,855 wards in 826 Kshetra panchayats. The list will be released from the state headquarters. In panchayat polls, voting will be held for the posts of president and members of zila panchayat, block Pramukh and gram Pradhan. Though candidates (except for the post of gram pradhan) will not contest on party symbol they will have full backing of the party. Many of them might be the committed workers of the party who have worked to make it a strong organization in rural areas. “Panchayat elections will help us connect with voters and know what more they expect from us and we can work on it,” said general secretary, Awadh Prant, UP BJP, Vijay Pratap Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjps-chaupals-to-seek-support-for-panchayat-candidates/articleshow/81358229.cms||Pankaj Shah
March 6, 2021||Kolhapur||Probe ordered into purchase of Covid-related material||Kolhapur: An inquiry has been ordered into an alleged scam in the procurement of Covid-related material worth Rs 35 crore during the pandemic.Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai said if the allegations are found to be true, then the additional money paid to the suppliers will be recovered with interest and criminal complaints will be lodged against officials and the private suppliers involved. The procurement of materials such as PPE kits, thermal scanner, beds, oximeters and everything from test kits now to vaccines is done by Zilla Parishad. The panel of ZP chief executive officer, district health officer and civil surgeon approves the procurement orders. Desai said, “The collectors office has nothing to do with the procurement. It is done by respective departments. The procurement is audited by internal auditors. I have ordered them to compare the market rates of each of the items and the rate at which it is procured. No one will be spared if the irregularities are found.”During the pandemic, over Rs 97 crore were made available to the ZP for the procurement. According to the records, around Rs 88 crore have been spent so far.Rajwardhan Naik-Nimbalkar, BJP member in ZP, said, “I have forwarded the irregularities to our state leaders. I expect they will raise the issue in the ongoing assembly session.”Naik-Nimbalkar has alleged that the ZP procured thermal scanners at Rs 10,000 per piece, masks at Rs 205 each, PPE kits at Rs 1,700, beds at Rs 12,500 each, oxygen cylinder at Rs 13,700 each. He said these rates were much more than the actual market rates. According to the sources, the ZP officials have clarified to the district collector’s office that the time when the procurement was done, there was huge shortage in the market and the rates were high. However, later, when the materials were being produced in abundance, the prices declined and the procurement was done at cheaper rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/probe-ordered-into-purchase-of-covid-related-material/articleshow/81353527.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||1.27L jabs a day: New high for Guj||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours inoculated 1.27 lakh persons for the first dose of Covid vaccination, taking the total to 12.37 lakh. Likewise, 2.9 lakh persons complete their vaccination with second dose so far. This includes 45,000 who got the shot on Friday. Both the numbers are a new high for the state which had recorded 1.04 lakh vaccines administered for the first dose and 27,231 for the second dose on Thursday. On Friday, DyCM Nitin Patel got the vaccine along with his wife at Sola Civil Hospital. “We have not recorded any major side-effects due to vaccination in Gujarat,” he said. AMC officials vaccinated 61 retired as well as serving HC judges and their kin on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-27l-jabs-a-day-new-high-for-guj/articleshow/81355518.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chennai||PMK promises 80% job quota for Tamils in private sector||CHENNAI: The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) on Friday released its election manifesto, promising that the party would ensure that all state government jobs are reserved for Tamils.  It has guaranteed 80% jobs in the private sector too for Tamils and said it would urge the Centre to reserve all labour vacancies in the Central public sector undertakings for local people.  The PMK would exert pressure on the AIADMK government to implement the promises, said the party founder S Ramadoss, while releasing the 134-page manifesto. The party has also reiterated its earlier commitment to introduce total prohibition in the state.  “A liquor-free state is our goal. We will intensify our protests in this regard after elections. You will get to see total prohibition soon,” said Ramadoss. The manifesto, titled ‘Valarchimigu Tamilagam Padaippom’ (Let us create a prosperous Tamil Nadu), was released through video conferencing. The party has promised free education to all. Education fee would be paid by the government to students of private schools too and same curriculum would be followed in both government and private schools, he said. At least one member in every family would be given job, he said. Ramadoss said the AIADMK government should return to power with Edappadi K Palaniswami as chief minister to continue good governance.  “The PMK will stand by the AIADMK. Our manifesto provides strong guidance, socio-economic strategies, and would help the state march along the path of development, benefitting everyone,” he said.  Ramadoss said several of his demands, including 10.5% internal quota for vanniyars, were met by the AIADMK. Ramadoss said caste census would be taken in the state to provide social justice to all communities and said internal reservation would be provided to viswakarmas, yadavas and mutharayars, since “their condition is worse” in education and employment. “We should have got more than 15% internal quota for vanniyars, but accepted 10.5% with a lot of difficulty on an assurance by the CM that caste census will be carried out,” the PMK leader said.  He alleged that the reported ‘discontent’ among certain sections of people in the southern districts over the vanniyar quota issue was instigated by a political party. The PMK has promised separate quota for transgenders, 50% quota for Tamils in Centre-run institutions such as IIT and IIM, and increasing quota for differently-abled to 5%. “Akin to 7.5% NEET quota extended to government school students, 10% quota will be extended to government school students in admission to Anna University and government engineering colleges,” former Union minister and PMK leader S Anbumani Ramadoss said.  Among other things, the party has promised to send 1,000 girl students and 1,000 boy students from government colleges and universities abroad to pursue higher education, set up special agro-economic zones and SIPCOT complexes in all districts and metro rail in Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem, Trichy and Tirunelveli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pmk-promises-80-job-quota-for-tamils-in-private-sector/articleshow/81356825.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 6, 2021||Kolhapur||Vaccine drive begins at 5 pvt hospitals in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The vaccination drive for people above the age of 60 years and those above the age of 45 years with comorbidities has started in five private hospitals in the city from Friday.In one of the private hospitals, six elderly turned up to take the jab. The display stating the cost of the vaccine —Rs 250 —was prominently put up in the hospital. The staff in the private hospital said they attended virtual meetings to get acquainted with the process. The stock of ten vials, each for ten beneficiaries were sent in the morning.The officials expect a turnout of at least 100 senior citizens at each of the private hospitals to get the jab every day. So far, 4,751 citizens above the age of 60 years and 947 citizens above 45 years with comorbidity took the vaccine.The vaccination drive has already been started in government hospitals. The administration has roped in Asha workers to register the beneficiaries. The vaccination turnout of public health care works for the second dose continues to be poor. So far, 19% of the public health workers turned out for the second dose. The turnout of public health workers for the first dose is 82% and for frontline workers, it is 66%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vaccine-drive-begins-at-5-pvt-hospitals-in-kolhapur/articleshow/81353532.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chennai||Eight new species of birds spotted||Tirunelveli: As many as 23,921 birds belonging to 137 species were spotted in the fifth annual Kudankulam Bird Count (KKBC) organised by The Pelican Nature Club of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP) on Sunday. In all, 49 bird lovers participated in the one-day count covering 25 birding spots within a 50-kilometre radius of Kudankulam. Brown Flycatcher, Crested Serpent Eagle, Oriental Magpie Robin, Blue-throated Flycatcher, Orange-headed Thrush, Black-headed Cuckooshrike, Chestnut-bellied Sandgrouse and Loten Sunbird were the eight species that were newly sighted this year. This takes the total number of species sighted over the years to 159, according to the results released on Thursday. In all, 29,561 birds were spotted in 2020, but it dropped by 5,640 primarily because of the copious rains in January which diluted the population. However, the 137 species spotted is the highest. A total of 123 species were spotted last year and 136 in 2019. Painted Stork (4,051), Spot-Billed Pelican (4,044), Bar-Headed Goose (3147), Little Cormorant (1,496), Cattle Egret (1,344), Garganey (1,146), Barn Swallow (927), Lesser Whistling-Duck (756), Glossy Ibis (643) and Blue-Tailed Bee-eater (584) were the top 10 species spotted in terms of headcount. Some of the rare birds seen were Oriental Darter, Wooly-necked Stork, Darter, Alpine Swift and Baya Weaver. Manakudy, Puthalam, Swamithope, Suchindaram, Rajakkamangalam, Koonthakulam, Kadankulam, Nanguneri, Anuvijay Township of KKNPP and KKNPP were the main spots covered in the count, primarily in Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli districts. As many as 88 species were sighted in the Anuvijay Township. The species sighted in the KKNPP site include over 400 Barn Swallows, a winter migrant from The Himalayas, and over 200 Crested Terns, another winter migrant from the Palearctic region. Brown Shrike, migrant from Siberia, was also spotted in KKNPP site and in the township. The birding event as a part of NPCIL’s nature conservation initiatives was conducted under the guidance of Dr S Balachandran, deputy director of Bombay Natural History Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eight-new-species-of-birds-spotted/articleshow/81346335.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||HC seeks ground report of Kumbh arrangements; govt to build over 4,000 tents for pilgrims||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC), while hearing a bunch of Public Interest Litigation (PILs) regarding the state’s handling of the Coronavirus pandemic, directed the secretary, district legal services authority (DLSA), as well as a government counsel, and counsel Shiv Bhatt (who represents petitioner) to visit Haridwar and present a joint report detailing all the incomplete infrastructure projects in the area that are essential for holding the upcoming Kumbh Mela. The three officials will be accompanied by Mela Officer Deepak Rawat who will inform them about the works related to Kumbh. The direction came from the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma. “We informed the court that the affidavits filed by the Mela Officer as well as Chief Secretary do not represent the ground realities and even the essential works around Har-Ki-Pauri are pending and toilets are still under construction. The court has, therefore, ordered this joint inspection,” said Bhatt. He added that the court has further directed that all the Kumbh related SOPs be followed on the day of Maha Shivratri when lakhs of people are expected to visit Haridwar to take a dip in the Ganga. “The court has said that since there is just a day's gap between the 'shahi snans' on 12th and 14th April, therefore, special arrangements should be made,” Bhatt said. Meanwhile, the state government has informed the court that it is now planning to put up over 4,000 tents for the pilgrims along with a 600-bed hospital. Besides, most of the toilets and other amenities are already complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-seeks-ground-report-of-kumbh-arrangements-govt-to-build-over-4000-tents-for-pilgrims/articleshow/81354305.cms||Prashant Jha
March 6, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow, Gorakhpur among 14 districts set to get facelift||LUCKNOW: In a major development, the state government has decided to lend a facelift to 14 districts including Lucknow, PM Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency of Varanasi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s home turf of Gorakhpur. A state government spokesperson said that the districts would soon have a new master plan that would cater to their future needs considering the existing population, housing infrastructure and traffic conditions. The state government would also be effecting alternation in the master plan of some of the districts. Officials said that the housing and urban planning department, which would be framing up the new master plans with the help of a consultant, would propose beautification of places having historical and religious importance, conservation of water bodies, wild life sanctuaries, reserve forests and places conserved by the environment and forest. Besides, Lucknow, Varanasi and Gorakhpur, the other 11 districts which are proposed to be taken up by the state government include Kanpur, Chitrakoot, Prayagraj, Jhansi, Agra, Mathura, Bareilly, Meerut, Saharanpur, Moradabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. The spokesperson said that the renovation of the districts would boost tourism and help people in getting employment. According to officials, the housing department would be drawing up land use afresh as per the existing needs. The master plan, which is proposed to be based on the geographical information system, would incorporate rivers, airports, bus-stations and cantonment areas, including the army firing range. For this, a committee headed by secretary, housing, would be preparing a proposal to add new elements in the master plan. The housing department has been directed to incorporate regional developmental schemes, the spokesperson said. He said the key facilities like sewage treatment plant, solid waste management site and water works would also be depicted in the master plan. Officials said people who have got construction done against the master plan will be accommodated after compounding exercise as per existing government order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-gorakhpur-among-14-districts-set-to-get-facelift/articleshow/81358237.cms||Pankaj Shah
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||Locals say that separating Almora from Kumaon will not be tolerated as ‘govt is trying to strip away our Kumaoni identity’||Almora: A day after the Uttarakhand government declared Gairsain as the third division of the state, locals of Almora and Bageshwar expressed disappointment with the announcement. “Almora is the capital of the Kumaon division and thus, including it in Gairsain doesn’t make sense,” said PC Tiwari, a local. Prakash Joshi, president of Almora municipality, said that the decision of the government to separate Almora from Kumaon division is not right as it will strip us of our Kumaoni identity. In a similar vein, Puran Chandra Tiwari, the leader of the Uttarakhand Lok Vahini, said that the government should make Gairsain the permanent capital of the state. Almora Congress president Pooran Rautela said that the incumbent government is playing with the sentiments of people by including the districts in the Gairsain division. Party functionaries burnt the effigies of CM Rawat and the state government on Friday. In Bageshwar, the announcement evoked mixed reactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-say-that-separating-almora-from-kumaon-will-not-be-tolerated-as-govt-is-trying-to-strip-away-our-kumaoni-identity/articleshow/81354640.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||3 city cyclists complete 600km endurance ride||Ahmedabad: Three city cyclists — Dhruv Panikar, Sayed Meraj and Saurin Shah — successfully completed a grueling 600km expedition across the state last month. The three are members of the Simbalian Cycling Community. The cyclist covered the 600km distance travelling to Viramgam from Ahmedabad. They passed through Halvad, Radhanpur before coming back to Ahmedabad via Viramgam. The grueling ride was marked by heavy headwinds and crosswinds which made moving ahead tough. But the three cyclists — the youngest being Panikar (18 years), Meraj (35 years) and Shah (54 years) kept going, battling heat and exhaustion during the day and sleep deprivation during the night. Simbalian Cycling, which has around 1700 members, regularly conducts endurance rides popularly known as the SCJ (Cycle Jatra) and SEII (Explore Incredible India) expeditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-city-cyclists-complete-600km-endurance-ride/articleshow/81355913.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Maha sees 10,216 cases, most since Oct 17, city adds 1k+ 3rd day in row||Mumbai: After dropping to 1,948 on February 1, the daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra ballooned almost five times on Friday to 10,216. The last time the tally was this high was four-and-a-half months ago on October 17 (10,259), reports Malathy Iyer. In Mumbai, cases seem to have plateaued around 1,000, with BMC registering 1,174 cases on Friday—third straight day of 1,000-plus cases. The death toll remains moderate, said experts, with 53 in the state and three in the city on Friday. “Cases are rising in Maharashtra and a few other states, but this is the cyclic nature of viral pandemics,” said Dr Satish Pawar from the state health services. Surges and dips should be expected for years to come. State officials have so far maintained that the surge isn’t caused by a new coronavirus variant. The daily tally of cases could rise further. A senior state health official said, “We expect cases to increase to 15,000 daily,” adding that it’s unlikely to cross the September 2020 high of 20,000 daily. Indeed, the state Covid update on Friday showed that cases in the Pune circle (2,070) and Nagpur circle (1,974) were rising steadily and getting closer to the Mumbai circle’s (2,135). In the Akola circle, where the present surge in cases was first noticed in Amravati and Yavatmal in the second half of February, 1,472 cases were detected. On February 26, 1,601 cases were registered from the Akola circle. On Friday, state health officials added 53 deaths, but said only 28 occurred in the last 48 hours; the remaining took place over a week ago. Almost a year into the Covid pandemic in the state, the tally and toll now stand at 21.9 lakh and 52,293 deaths. In Mumbai, experts said the Covid surge seems to have steadied at 1,000 cases daily. The tally and toll in the city are 3.3 lakh cases and 11,495 deaths so far. “Mumbai seems to have plateaued. However, it will take another two to three weeks for a clearer picture to emerge,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, head of intensive care at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, and a member of the state task force on Covid. With the number of active cases continuing to rise, the BMC health officials have instructed hospitals to revive their bed strength as a precautionary measure. “Most cases are asymptomatic and only need home isolation,” said a civic doctor. However, Pandit said severe cases too are coming in. “My ICU is almost full these days,” he added. In Navi Mumbai, 122 cases were detected on Friday, taking the tally to 56,079. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,126. Panvel municipal area reported 84 cases, taking the case tally to 30,440. With no death reported on Friday, the toll remained at 648.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-sees-10216-cases-most-since-oct-17-city-adds-1k-3rd-day-in-row/articleshow/81358243.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 6, 2021||Puducherry||DMK leader suggests that AINRC lead front in Puducherry||PUDUCHERRY: The DMK’s Karaikal district secretary and former minister A M H Nazeem created a flutter in political circles in Puducherry by urging All India NR Congress (AINRC) leader N Rangasamy to lead a grand alliance of secular parties, including the Congress, to keep ‘communal forces’ away from the Union territory of Puducherry. In a video widely shared on WhatsApp, Nazeem is seen saying he had suggested the idea to his party (DMK) leaders, former chief minister V Narayanasamy and Puducherry Pradesh Congress committee president A V Subramanian and claimed all the leaders responded positively. “I hope NR will consider my plea. I strongly believe in forming a secular government under his leadership,” said Nazeem. Ongoing alliance talks between AINRC and the BJP remain inconclusive. BJP Puducherry president V Saminathan, on Friday, remained confident that Rangasamy will remain a part of the NDA. Meanwhile, MNM’s Puducherry unit representatives called on Rangasamy on Friday triggering speculations of an alliance between the parties. Rangasamy maintained that they did not discuss alliance. “We will meet him again on Sunday to discuss an alliance,” said MNM general secretary (town) E M Rajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/dmk-leader-suggests-that-ainrc-lead-front-in-pondy/articleshow/81356847.cms||Bosco Dominique
March 6, 2021||Goa||505 nominations filed for civic polls||Panaji: Five hundred and five candidates have filed nomination papers over the last few days for the March 20 elections to six municipal councils and Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) as also byelections to some zilla panchayats and panchayats. A clear picture will emerge on Saturday, which is the last day for withdrawal of nomination papers. Both the camps — ruling and opposition — were busy till late evening trying to get some candidates to pull out from the fray to avoid splitting of votes. The six municipalities that will go to the polls are Bicholim, Valpoi, Pernem, Cuncolim, Curchorem and Canacona. Zilla panchayat bypolls will be held for the Navelim seat as the Congress candidate had expired before the polls held in December last year. Byelections to 22 wards of different village panchayats will also be held on the same day. At the end of the scrutiny of papers held on Friday, 106 candidates are in the fray for the 30-member CCP. Sixty-six candidates are contesting the panchayat bypolls while seven candidates are in the electoral battle for the ZP bypolls in Navelim. Elections were to be contested to 11 municipal councils on March 20, but on Monday, the high court of Bombay at Goa had issued an order cancelling elections to five municipalities — Margao, Mapusa, Mormugao, Sanguem and Quepem — after several persons approached the court alleging malpractices while conducting reservation of wards. Thereafter, the State Election Commission (SEC) had kept the election process to these five municipalities in abeyance. However, on Thursday, the Supreme Court stayed the HC order. Within hours of this, the SEC rescheduled the polls to the five municipalities to March 21. As per the new schedule for the five councils, the last day of filing nominations is now March 6. Scrutiny of nominations will be held on March 8, while withdrawal of candidature is fixed on March 9. The list of contesting candidates will be declared on the same day. Counting of votes for all the elections scheduled for March 20 and 21 will be held on March 22. While over 2.5 lakh voters will help political parties gauge the ground situation ahead of next year’s assembly polls, the last local election — to the zilla panchayat — showed that rural Goa overwhelmingly supported BJP. The opposition, however, has now charged that BJP could have a clean sweep of the ZP polls due to the same kind of methods used by the ruling party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/505-nominations-filed-for-civic-polls/articleshow/81356897.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Vadodara||Senior citizens queue up as vaccination gains momentum||Vadodara/Rajkot: Covid-19 vaccination gained momentum with senior citizens queuing up to take the Covid-19 vaccine. Over16,000 senior citizens took the jab in Vadodara even as more than 13,000 were vaccinated in Rajkot so far.Confined to a wheelchair due to severe arthritis, 75-year-old Usha Pandya, came to a health centre in Rajkot to take the jab. Along with Pandya, her husband and other senior citizens from her neighbourhood too took the dose. “I had decided to take the shot the day vaccination started. I also urge other senior citizens to join the battle against Covid-19,” she told TOI.According to the data provided by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), 16,478 senior citizens had taken the first dose of the vaccine. In the case of persons with co-morbidities in the 45-59 years age group, 1,821 persons had been vaccinated. In Rajkot, 13,157 senior citizens took the jab till Friday afternoon even as 1,370 citizens in the 45-59 years age group having co-morbidities got inoculated. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that there was some reluctance amongst beneficiaries initially and minor hiccups in the system. “These have been ironed out and the number of vaccinations per day is looking up. Private hospitals are also scheduling their vaccination as per their convenience,” he said.“The enthusiasm among senior citizens is above our expectation. Before the start of this phase, we thought that we would have to motivate people to take the jab. But they are voluntarily participating. It will help in breaking the chain of Covid-19 spread,” Dr Lalit Vaza, Rajkot municipal health officer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/senior-citizens-queue-up-as-vaccination-gains-momentum/articleshow/81355088.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Vadodara||New mayor for Barodians on Wednesday||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will hold the first general board meeting of the newly elected corporators on Wednesday. The mayor and deputy mayor will be elected in the meeting along with 12 standing committee members for a period of 2.5 years.The recent VMC polls had seen the BJP trounce the Congress by winning 69 of the 76 seats and only seven seats going to the Congress. The saffron party will now have its corporators elected as mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee members.The first general board meeting of the VMC will be held in the Gandhi Nagargruh to ensure that social distancing is maintained during the meeting in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The agenda for the meeting was brought out by the civic body late on Thursday evening.The post of the mayor for the 2.5-year-term is reserved fora corporator from the general category. Several male corporators elected on general category seats are eyeing the post. As per tradition the BJP may pickup a woman corporator for the remaining key posts of the deputy mayor and the standing committee chairperson.The 12 members who will be elected on Wednesday will be called for a meeting. They will formally elect a chairman from amongst themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-mayor-for-barodians-on-wednesday/articleshow/81354634.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala Assembly polls: 23 CPM MLAs not to contest, final candidate list next week||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPM state committee has upheld the decision of the state secretariat that no one who has completed two consecutive tenures in the assembly should be given seat again. As per the decision, 23 sitting MLAs of the party will not be able to contest in this election. The state committee has given approval for a probable candidate list of the party which features wives of minister A K Balan and LDF convener and CPM acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan. When ministers T M Thomas Isaac, E P Jayrajan, A K Balan, G Sudhakaran, and C Raveendranath did not feature in the CPM list, J Mercykutty Amma, K K Shailaja, K T Jaleel, M M Mani, A C Moideen, T P Ramakrishanan and Kadakampally Surendran have been given the nod. Three members from the party secretariat M V Govindan (Taliparamba), P Rajeev (Kalamassery) and K N Balagopal |(Kottarakara) will be contesting. A K Balan’s wife Dr P K Jameela, who is the former director of health services, will contest from Tarur, which is at present represented by Balan. LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan’s wife R Bindhu will be contesting from Irinjalakuda. Bindu is the former mayor of Thrissur corporation. The state committee has also decided to give exemption to two leaders who had unsuccessfully contested in the last Lok Sabha elections. With this, M B Rajesh will contest from Thrithala and V N Vasavan will contest from Ettumanoor. As per the decision of the state committee, speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, S Sharma, Ayisha Potti, Raju Abraham, A Pradeep Kumar and P Jayarajan are also out of the fray. The son-in-law of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and DYFI leader Muhammad Riyas will contest from Beypore and Jaick C Thomas will contest from Puthupally against former chief minister Oommen Chandy. The state committee has recommended the Thrissur district committee to filed former speaker K Radhakrishnan. A final decision of the probable candidates in Palakkad, Malappuram and Wayanad districts have not been finalized. However, the state committee has decided to send back the lists to the respective district committees and has asked them to approve the list. This final list will come back to state secretariat for the final approval. After the politburo meeting, the party is likely to declare the candidates officially on March 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/23-cpm-mlas-not-to-contest-final-candidate-list-next-week/articleshow/81355528.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Freedom House report incorrect, misleading, government says||NEW DELHI: The government on Friday termed as “misleading, incorrect and misplaced” the Freedom House report titled ‘Democracy Under Siege’, which said India’s status as a free country declined to “partly free” in 2020. The rebuttal came even as Freedom House found itself in the midst of a row over a truncated map of India which did not show J&K. The non-profit explained that this was because J&K was a separate report, but the picture of the map in its report, tweeted among others by Sanjeev Sanyal, principal economic advisor in the finance ministry, saw a heated discussion on social media. An official statement by the information and broadcasting ministry said governments at the Centre and in states, often different, were appointed through a free and fair election process, which reflected India’s “vibrant democracy” and which “gives space to those who hold varying views”. Freedom House, which rates people’s access to political rights and civil liberties in 210 countries and territories through its annual ‘Freedom in the World’ report, had on March 3 released its India report in which it pointed to a decline in the nation’s total score and status to a “partly free” country. Separately, the report also referred to “Indian Kashmir” as “not free”. The report said India’s status declined from ‘free’ to ‘partly free’ due to a “multi-year pattern in which the Hindu nationalist government and its allies presided over rising violence and discriminatory policies affecting the Muslim population”. Rebutting the report’s claims of the government’s alleged discriminatory policies against Muslims with particular reference to the north-east Delhi riots in February 2020, the ministry statement said the government treated all its citizens with equality as enshrined in the Constitution and laws were applied without discrimination.  The government also took exception to the report’s assessment about the frequent use of the sedition law. ‘Public order’ and ‘police’, the statement said, were state subjects under India’s federal structure of governance. “The responsibility of maintaining law and order, including investigation, registration and prosecution of crimes, protection of life and property etc., rests primarily with the concerned state governments. Therefore, measures as deemed fit are taken by law enforcement authorities to preserve public order,” it said. The government said the coronavirus-induced lockdown in India was based on states’ assessment of the spread of the virus and said the Centre took multiple measures to mitigate people’s distress during the lockdown period to provide food, healthcare and shelter to homeless and migrant workers, among other measures. The government also said it has a robust human rights protection mechanism in the National Human Rights Commission and SHRCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/freedom-house-report-incorrect-misleading-government-says/articleshow/81358849.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Vaccine doubts fuelling hesitancy in Telangana: Centre||HYDERABAD: Vaccine hesitancy among people across Telangana is triggered by several misconceptions, including impact of the vaccine on fertility, observations from the Centre and independent studies reveal. The Union government in a note sent to the state said that health workers in Telangana and elsewhere in the country, feel there is no urgency to be vaccinated as the virus is under control. Hesitancy is low among states like Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, but in Telangana doubts persist. Officials say hesitancy is high among staff like nurses and ground-level persons, rather than doctors. In fact, a big misconception among people is one cannot drink alcohol after taking the vaccine for 45 days. TimesViewAuthorities should step up the awareness drive among health workers to ensure they take the vaccine. If hospital data entry operators, lab technicians, nurses, ward boys, and sanitation workers are the ones staying away from the vaccination drive, a targeted campaign to allay fears can go a long way in changing their mindset and ensure more participation. A pep talk in small groups should be organised in all hospitalsHealth authorities said there is no evidence of such a claim and dismissed it as rumours. They have suggested that on the day of taking the vaccine, diabetics should ensure they had proper breakfast and have urged others to be a little careful about their diet, if possible. “It seems like common sense: Just as you shouldn’t drink and drive, so also you shouldn’t drink on the day you get vaccinated,” Dr Subhash Salunkhe, member of the ICMR task force on Covid, had told TOI earlier. When it comes to doctors, sources in the medical department said, concerns revolved around whether the vaccine will be of use with different strains of the virus emerging. “Many wonder that we have already achieved herd immunity and don’t understand the larger need to break the chain of the virus once,” said an official. Dr Kiran Madala, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-certified, researcher said, “Herd immunity is only possible when 80% of the people have antibodies with the help of vaccine.” Women staff are also more hesitant towards the vaccine because of the pressure of taking care of households. State government has conducted several online meetings on the vaccine, but fears still exist. “Frequent reminders are required for administration of the second dose,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vax-hesitancy-fuelled-by-misconceptions-centre/articleshow/81355525.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||With chopper showering flowers, Anand & Avahan akhadas take out Kumbh processions in Haridwar||Haridwar: A day after Juna and Kinnar akhadas took out peshwai in Haridwar, the locals of the holy town witnessed the royal Kumbh processions of Anand & Avahan akhadas on Friday. Several Naga Sanyasis participated in these processions. The Anand akhada procession commenced from SMJN Degree College, covered the Ranipur and Kankhal areas, and concluded at the Niranjani Akhada premises. Meanwhile, the Avahan akhada procession started from Gughal temple in Jwalapur. The processions were being showered with flowers by a helicopter and a paraglider. Locals in large numbers came out to witness the processions and seek blessings of the seers. Chetan Verma, a local, told TOI, “Kumbh is the biggest religious event in the world and we are lucky to see the Naga seers, especially after the Covid-19 pandemic. We hope that this year turns out good for all of us.” To prevent any untoward incident, policemen and personnel of the paramilitary force were deployed at various points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-chopper-showering-flowers-anand-avahan-akhadas-take-out-kumbh-processions-in-haridwar/articleshow/81354323.cms||MS Nawaz
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||Restrictions extended till Mar 14 as cases rise to almost 1.4k||Nagpur: With rise in Covid-19 positive cases continuing, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and district administration decided on Friday to continue daily and weekend restrictions in the district till March 14. Home delivery of liquor, mutton, chicken, eggs and fish shops have been allowed to operate on Saturday and Sunday along with other essential services. The district registered 1,393 positive cases of novel coronavirus on Friday. The cases were 1,172 in the city on Friday. The number was highest in a single day in the city as well as district in the last 168 days. There were 1,581 cases in the district of which 1,253 in city on September 19. The district recorded more than 1,000 cases six times in last ten days. On February 22, guardian minister Nitin Raut, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and collector Ravindra Thakare had imposed daily restrictions on some activities up to March 7 and on some more activities on weekends. Raut met with all officials on Friday and extended those restrictions. Educational institutions, weekly markets, sports tournaments, marriage ceremonies in lawns, halls, political, social, cultural and religious programmes continue to be banned on all days till March 14. Radhakrishnan told TOI, “Cases had declined to some extent between February 28 and March 2 probably due to weekend restrictions. But there has been consistent rise on remaining days. We have not gone for full lockdown to prevent impact on economy. People should cooperate with the administration by following Covid guidelines that will reduce the cases and free us from restrictions.” Also announcing extension of restrictions in rural areas till March 14, Thakare said, “Home delivery of liquor will be allowed on weekends in entire district.” He also made it mandatory for people to inform about marriage ceremonies being arranged at homes so they can be monitored. The officials will inspect and take action in case of violation of Covid-19 guidelines. In city, the NMC’s nuisance detection squad is already visiting marriage ceremonies being held at homes and has initiated an action against a couple of persons. NMC and district administration had kept mutton, chicken, eggs and fish shops closed on last two weekends. They have been allowed to operate this weekend following directives of animal husbandry and fisheries minister Sunil Kedar. The civic chief made it clear that planned examinations will go ahead. He also said kitchens of restaurants and hotels can remain open till 11pm for home delivery on all days. NMC and district administration once again stated there will be no restrictions on movement of people and vehicles in the district. Raut appealed to people to step out only for emergency or essential work. He also urged the people from age-appropriate group to get vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/restrictions-extended-till-mar-14-as-cases-rise-to-almost-1-4k/articleshow/81355529.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Industrial growth seen declining by 11.3%; mfg, realty, services sectors worst affected||Mumbai: The pandemic has hit Maharashtra’s manufacturing, construction and services sectors the hardest, according to the latest state’s economic survey report. “The manufacturing sector is expected to decline by 11.8%, construction sector by 14.6% and services sector by 9%. Due to this, the industry sector growth is expected to decline by 11.3%,” the report stated. According to the report, 91 lakh people were employed in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) till March 2020. These units have a total investment of Rs 2.4 lakh crore, while the 37 special economic zones employing 7.8 lakh people have an investment of Rs 58,531 crore. “There is a need to support MSMEs during this time of crisis. This could be in the form of financial support by making easy availability of cheap finance and more leniency when it comes to tax compliances,” said K R Gopi, president, TTC-MIDC Industries Association (TMIA). In the construction sector, Deepak Goradia, president, CREDAI-MCHI, said for 4-5 months there was a slowdown as migrant workers went home. “But the government offered a reduction in stamp duty, then 50% cut in premiums and now, the BMC too has cut its premiums by another 50%...new projects have been launched so the industry is on the uptick.” Niranjan Hiranandani, national president of NAREDCO said, “The government has done well to ensure Maharashtra’s economy did not get impacted by the pandemic to the extent that the negative growth figures might have been higher. It has taken measures to enhance ease of doing business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-industrial-growth-seen-declining-by-11-3-mfg-realty-services-sectors-worst-affected/articleshow/81358271.cms||Clara Lewis
March 6, 2021||Nashik||Fair cancelled, curbs on entry to Trimbak||Nashik: The administration has cancelled the traditional Mahashivratri fair held in Trimbakeshwar town owing to the rise in the Covid-19 cases. The administration has also imposed several restrictive orders to prevent large gathering in and around the temple town. Every year, more than five lakh people visit the Trimbakeshwar temple, which is considered as one of the 12 Jyotirlinga across the country, on the day of Mahashivratri (March 11). The temple will remain open all night on March 11 and will be closed at 8pm from March 12 onwards, the officer added. Assistant collector Shubham Gupta, who chaired a meeting of the local administration on Friday, said the decision to impose provisions of the section 144 had been taken to prevent large groups from coming together and loitering about the town. “All buses and private vehicles will have to be parked outside the Trimbakeshwar town. People will have enter and exit from Jawhar gate only to ensure safe passage of pilgrims during the four days(March 10-14), considering the long weekend and the rise in the visitors to the town,” Gupta said. Medical teams will be put up at the entry gate to screen people coming in. Teams will also be posted at the Trimbakeshwar temple to ensure the citizens not conforming to Covid-19 norms and not wearing masks are stopped from entering the premises. The temples of Someshwar and Kapaleshwar, both in Nashik city, will remain closed from March 10 and will reopen only on March 12. The Someshwar Mahadev Mandir Sansthan Nashik and Shree Kapaleshwar Devasthan Trust have put up boards outside the temples informing about the same and urging people not to gather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fair-cancelled-curbs-on-entry-to-trimbak/articleshow/81353545.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Kubernagar woman alleges cruelty by husband, in-laws||Ahmedabad: A 24-year-old woman from Kubernagar on Thursday filed a complaint at Sardarnagar police station accusing her husband and in-laws of domestic violence. She has also accused her brother-in-law of molesting her, and stated that her husband was in a relationship with another woman and intended to marry her. The complainant stated that she has been living with her parents for the last five months. She stated she married the accused, an interior designer, in January 2017, and lived with him, his parents, his brother and his wife. “About one year ago, my mother-in-law began fighting with me over small household matters and abusing me verbally. On telling my husband, he told me I would have to listen to whatever his mother said,” the complainant stated. “My husband would always take his mother's side and fight with me and began hitting me," she added. “When my husband would go out for work, and I would be alone in my room, my brother-in-law would come in and touch me indecently. On telling my husband, he would take his brother's side and 'you are the bad one and things are like this only in our family'," the complainant stated, adding that her sister-in-law also began harassing her. "My husband had me undergo abortions twice and about five months ago, my mother-in-law fought with me and evicted me," she stated, adding that she left with just the clothes she was wearing. She stated that despite efforts by her family to reach a compromise with her in-laws, one has not been reached. She added that since she has been living with her parents, she has learned that her husband is in a relationship with another woman and intends to marry her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kubernagar-woman-alleges-cruelty-by-husband-in-laws/articleshow/81355527.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nashik||CBD fines 19 for flouting Covid safety norms||Nashik: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has begun taking action against citizens who are not following the Covid norms as 19 people were slapped with a fine of Rs 19,000 since Tuesday. The action has been taken in areas like Sadar Bazar, Lam Road and Rest Camp Road of Deolali Camp. Health superintendent Rajinder Singh Thakur said health inspector Aman Gupta and other team members of the health department have been working on the orders directed by CEO Ajay Kumar of the CBD. While Covid cases are stable in the cantonment board area, the board officials are ensuring the infection does not spread. On February 23, the CBD issued a public notice in which it warned citizens of strict action if they neglect Covid rules set to prevent the spread of the infection.Apart from wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, the traders have also been instructed to set up barricades in front of their shops and mark spaces to maintain social distancing. They are also required to keep sanitiser for customers and ensure they wear masks. Meanwhile, in the public notice, not more than 100 people are allowed to gather at any function at a public place like lawns and marriage halls. If the condition is violated a fine of 50,000 will be imposed on the organisers or the or the proprietor of the place. On the second offence, the place, where these norms are found to be violated, will be sealed without any further notice, said Kumar. The CEO said the public notice also states large gatherings continue to be prohibited and spitting in public places is punishable with a fine of Rs 500. Consumption of liquor, paan or tobacco in public places is also prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-fines-19-for-flouting-covid-safety-norms/articleshow/81353540.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 90 properties sealed for not paying taxes||AHMEDABAD: Several posh commercial and retail outlets were sealed on Friday in Thaltej, Shilaj Road and SG Highway by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) for non-payment of property taxes. The drastic step was taken after a majority of the property units had failed to pay taxes ranging between Rs 50,000 and Rs 2 lakh. A little above 90 properties were sealed. Of these, 35 properties were sealed at Times Square on Shilaj Road. Similarly, 10 offices were sealed in Baleshwar Tower and Avni Tower on SG Highway. In Vastrapur, 21 properties in Abhishree Complex and 15 in NSG Mall were sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/90-properties-sealed-for-not-paying-taxes/articleshow/81355540.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||Panchwati robbery: Seniors seek more patrolling, CCTVs & guards||PUNE: The armed robbery on Wednesday night at a former teacher’s bungalow at Panchwati society in Pashan has left the residents, mostly senior citizens, scientists and researchers, shaken and worried about their safety and security. A sense of fear among the senior citizens was palpable when TOI visited the society on Friday. Discussions during morning and evening walks are circled around the need for more security guards, enhanced police patrolling and better CCTV surveillance in the area. The residents have reasons to fear as nothing of this scale had happened in the area for almost two decades of their stay. In fact, the 80-year-old former teacher, who lives with her bed-ridden husband (a former lawyer) and a caregiver, said she had no reasons to be afraid till the armed intruders targeted her bungalow. “There should be a security gate and more security guards. Our society still has no security gate or CCTV cameras, which means anyone can walk up to the house without any barrier. After the incident, there are talks going on about installing a security cabin and gate. In this very lane, I know many houses where senior citizen couples stay alone. Hence, more police patrolling is needed. We have not seen police vehicles inside these lanes,” said the octogenarian. On the probe front, the police are focusing on the agency that was providing caregivers to most residents in the society. Senior inspector Anil Shevale of the Chatushrungi police said the likelihood of slum dwellers from across the hills committing the crime seemed unlikely as it takes almost a 5km walk to cross the hills from the slums to the society. More CCTV footage has been collected and is being examined to zero in on the culprits. Due to its proximity to science institutes, many retired scientists from the National Chemical Laboratory, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Armament Research and Development Establishment, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and even Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics live in the area. There are two science establishments, Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, and Centre for Materials for Electronics Technology (C-MET), within the locality. They have their own CCTV cameras and security guards. Nandakumar Chavan (72), a shopowner staying in the area for many decades, said, “I have seen police patrol vehicles on the main road inside Panchwati at night. There are people on the road till 11pm.” Many societies still have employed just one guard at the gate, who is also asked to do other works such as gardening. “We also need to take breaks for washrooms. We leave the gate when someone calls for anything in society. We need at least two people at a time secruing the gate,” said a guard. One major reason for not employing more guards is the society members’ reluctance to increase the maintenance amount. Suresh Saudi, a resident, said, “The proposals for increased security measures are shot down in the meetings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panchwati-robbery-seniors-seek-more-patrolling-cctvs-guards/articleshow/81355536.cms||Mihir Tanksale
March 6, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Cong affirms clauses for candidate selection||Thiruvananthapuram: Congress too has come out with certain stipulations in candidate selection though they carefully evaded some tough clauses. A decision, which won’t have far reaching consequences, has been taken and it says: no leader, who has contested unsuccessfully in the previous two elections, will be considered this time. There are only some few leaders who fall in this category. The second decision is that those who have lost in the recent local body election will not be given a chance to contest in assembly election. This too will not have an impact as no such leader is being considered for assembly election. However, the party can claim credit for the decision that reserves 50% of its seats for fresh faces, youth and women. All these decisions were taken at the screening and strategy committee meeting headed by former CM Oommen Chandy. After the meeting, Chandy said a preliminary list of candidates for each constituency was ready. A panel of two or three candidates have been included in each seat. The screening committee will meet again on Saturday and later in Delhi next week. The meeting in New Delhi will give a final shape to the list. After that, the list will be submitted to the party high command. “Party has decided to devote 50% of the seats to youngsters and fresh faces. This list will also include women. This was the directive from the high command and it has been approved by screening committee,” said Chandy. State leaders are likely to leave for Delhi on Sunday and the screening committee will meet on Monday there. The final list of candidates is likely to be submitted to the high command on Wednesday. The filing of nominations will begin on March 12 and KPCC wants to announce the candidate list before it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-affirms-clauses-for-candidate-selection/articleshow/81355544.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: Poll pact only if AIADMK meets demand for 25 seats, says DMDK||CHENNAI: The DMDK on Friday admitted to having demanded 41 seats from the AIADMK initially and now brought it down to 25. There have been no talks between the allies for the past three days. “We have informed them about the number of seats we want. We have communicated to the AIADMK that we will sign the poll pact only if they meet our demand,” DMDK general secretary B Parthasarathy said. The DMDK leader was hopeful of finalising the seats in two days. The party has received more than 2,000 applications from poll aspirants. The DMDK will hold interviews with ticket seekers from all districts on March 6, 7 and 8. “We have been in the AIADMK alliance since 2019. We don’t hold talks with others (for alliance),” he said. Only after an agreement is struck with each ally on the numbers, the constituencies will be discussed. Parthasarathy said the DMDK had sought a Rajya Sabha seat which the AIADMK had conceded to. Party deputy secretary L K Sudhish on Friday submitted an application seeking poll ticket, a day after his sister and DMDK leader Premalatha and her son Vijaya Prabhakaran sought tickets. A PMK delegation, meanwhile, held talks with the AIADMK on identification of 23 seats, for which an agreement was signed between the two parties. The PMK wanted much of the constituencies from the northern belt, including Thiruporur and Pennagaram. The AIADMK team of ministers, P Thangamani, S P Velumani, party deputy coordinators K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam also held talks with NJP leader A C Shanmugam, Puratchi Bharatham Jagan Moorthy and Moovendar Munnetra Kazhagam leader Sridhar Vandaiyar. “They told us to contest in two leaves symbol like general elections. We have asked for five seats,” Shanmugam told TOI. There was a stalemate in talks with the BJP with the two parties likely to resume discussions on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/poll-pact-only-if-aiadmk-meets-demand-for-25-seats-says-dmdk/articleshow/81356883.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 6, 2021||Nashik||Primary schools to reopen in rural Nandurbar||Nashik: In a first in the state, children from standard I to IV can start attending school in the rural parts of the tribal-dominated Nandurbar district. Authorities said that decision was taken so that children do not lose out on education due to the pandemic. Though some parts of Nandurbar district had reported a spike in Covid-19 cases in January and February, the administration has decided to let schools reopen in the rural areas that are sparsely populated and have not seen a rise in cases. Nandurbar district collector Rajendra Bharud told TOI that they were the first in the state to start the schools for students in standard V onwards. “During the past one year, children in the remote areas of the district, especially in Akkalkuwa and Dhadgaon talukas, have been deprived of education because of lack of IT infrastructure for online classes. Hence, we have decided to restart schools in these areas,” he said. He added that the schools in the urban and peri-urban areas would not be started till the Covid-19 cases go down significantly. “The number of cases in Nandurbar, Nawapur, Shahada talukas are on the higher side. However, the situation in Akkalkuwa and Dhadgaon talukas is normal. The closure of the schools there is only hampering children’s education,” Bharud said. The villages across the district are sparsely populated and the houses are not closely located. Except education, life has almost returned to normalcy there. “We have therefore asked the teachers to consult parents, take them into confidence, sanitise the schools, ensure physical distancing, maintain zero-touch system, keep soaps, hand sanitisers in the school and conduct classes. The teachers have also been told close the school the day a positive patient is found in the village,” R K Gawde, chief executive officer Nandurbar Zilla Parishad, said. Residential schools of the tribal department and the social welfare department will not be reopened. The students enrolled in these schools can attend local ZP schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/primary-schools-to-reopen-in-rural-nandurbar/articleshow/81353553.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 6, 2021||Pune||Onion prices decrease after glut of new harvest||Pune: A gradual decrease in the wholesale onion prices over the past three weeks has shown a positive effect in the retail markets too, with the consumers now buying the kitchen staple in the range of Rs25-Rs35 per kg as against the Rs35-Rs60 for a kg they were spending earlier. Wholesale onion pricez in the Gultekdi Market Yard have decreased to Rs1,000-Rs1,500 per quintal from Rs3,000-Rs4,500 per quintal three weeks ago, following a glut of new harvest. Against an average arrival of 8,000 quintal per day, the wholesale market is now reporting an arrival of 11,400 quintal per day. Babasaheb Bibwe, head of the onion and potato section at the Market Yard, said, “The maximum intake of onion is from 13 tehsils of the district. Also, APMCs in tehsils are getting adequate onion supply from their villages.” Bibwe said. Vilas Bhujbal, who heads commission agents’ body at Market Yard, said, “Many farmers took an early harvest due to the fear of another lockdown, so there is a sudden rise in arrivals in two weeks. Plantation of onion is less compared to last year.”  Sangeeta Lakde, a resident of Vishrantwadi, said, “We purchased 1kg onion at Rs60 a fortnight ago. It was beyond our capacity, Now, the prices are in our range.” Meanwhile, onion farmers expressed concern over the price crash. Kaluram Bhadale, an onion farmer from Khed tehsil, said, “This year, the onion harvest was less compared to last year owing to adverse weather conditions. So, we could earn little over the last year’s income.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/onion-prices-decrease-after-glut-of-new-harvest/articleshow/81355542.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 6, 2021||Nashik||800 Nashikites take vax, no complaints about app||Nashik: Eight hospitals, including a few private establishments, in the city have started vaccinating people aged 60+ and those above 45 years with co-morbidities. Administrations of the private hospitals said that the vaccination process was smooth and there were no major hiccups. The beneficiaries were also satisfied with the hassle-free vaccination process. Citizens coming to the hospitals were glad to find that arrangements were made for on-the-spot registration. A man who had brought his 90-year-old father to a private hospital said that his father did not experience any problem after getting the vaccine. The registration for them was done on the spot. Shashikant Parakh, secretary of Namco hospital, said, “The vaccination programme for senior citizens has started on an enthusiastic note. We are glad to find that senior citizens are coming for vaccination. They know that vaccination is in their interest as well as that of the country.” Parakh said that over 100 people were vaccinated at their hospital over the past two days. “The portal was little slow. However, we are sure by tomorrow, things will be extremely streamlined.” Approximately, 850 people above the age of 60 and those above 45 years with co-morbidities have been vaccinated so far. Senior health officials said that almost all the private empaneled hospitals are eager to start the vaccination programme and the process would get underway in the next soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/800-nashikites-take-vax-no-complaints-about-app/articleshow/81353557.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Atmanirbhar Bharat, Make in India mere slogans: Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao has said that in the last six years the Centre has not supported any key projects in Telangana despite making promises in Parliament. Even special incentives that were promised during the bifurcation of the state have not been delivered, he said and alleged that non-BJP states were getting step-motherly treatment from the Union government. Addressing participants at a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Telangana Council event on Friday, KTR added that the Centre has reduced key initiatives such as Atmanirbhar Bharat and Make in India to mere slogans. State projects such as the Pharma City and Kakatiya Mega Textiles Park that would help boost self-reliance in certain sectors have got no support, the minister said. “We were promised special incentives that would further create employment opportunities. It has been six-and-a-half-years, no special incentive has been given even though it has been mentioned in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act. An Act is a statute… It is a law and if the government of India does not honour its promise made in Parliament, who will?” he asked. Citing the example of the Defence Corridor project in Bundelkhand, he accused the Centre of diverting key projects to BJP-ruled states. “They are setting up at Bundelkhand, where there is no defence industry. It may be because UP has 80 Lok Sabha seats,” he said, adding that a state such as Telangana was ignored despite the existence of a mature defence ecosystem. He said that despite repeated requests, the Centre has not been allocating additional electronics manufacturing clusters to Telangana. “When it comes to high-speed rail, Hyderabad does not find a mention. Even the bullet train… unfortunately, it only goes to Gujarat.” He also stated that the Centre went back on its promise to set up a rail coach factory at Kazipet despite the state allotting 150 acres for the project as against the requirement of 60 acres. He pointed out that though Hyderabad is a major global vaccine hub, vaccine firms have to send the samples to Kasauli in Himachal Pradesh for testing. “Does the state government have to plead with you (Centre) to get a lab sanctioned, that too in the middle of the pandemic?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-atmanirbhar-bharat-make-in-india-mere-slogans/articleshow/81358256.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||Pune man posts defamatory video against ex-CM; held||PUNE: A 37-year-old Kalewadi resident was arrested on Thursday night on the charge of posting a defamatory video against the leader of opposition in the state, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, on a social media site. A Chinchwad-based social activist and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) office-bearer Komal Shinde (37) lodged an FIR in connection with the post, stating that it had caused indignation among the BJP workers and had hurt their sentiments. The Wakad police then zeroed in on the suspect, Yuvaraj Dakhale, having six cases registered against him. “We have taken preventive action against him and have initiated the process of Dakhale’s externment,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said on Friday. Dakhale, a resident of Tapkirnagar in Kalewadi, has been charged under sections 294 (punishment for obscene acts or words in public) and 500 (punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “Dakhale was produced before the court on Friday and was released on bail,” said senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police. The senior inspector said that Dakhale was the president of a traders’ organisation. “On March 2, Dakhale had posted a video on the video-sharing site defaming former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. He also had made derogatory comments about Fadnavis,” the officer said. Mugalikar said that Shinde stated in her complaint that Dakhale had posted the video just to earn publicity. “She also stated that the suspect did not have any proofs for his claims,” the senior police inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-posts-defamatory-video-against-ex-cm-held/articleshow/81355543.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Pvt bill rejected, speaker admits no trust motion for March 10||Chandigarh: The private member bill moved by the Congress for amendment in the Haryana Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act was rejected, leading to sharp arguments between the opposition as well the treasury benches on the first day of the Haryana assembly’s budget session on Friday. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta then adjourned the sitting for Monday afternoon. He, however, approved the no confidence motion moved by leader of opposition Bhupinder Hooda for Wednesday. Discussion and voting, if required, would be held after the discussion on it. Congress Rohtak MLA B B Batra sought justification from the speaker for rejecting the private member bill. He raised the point of order saying that the bill belonged to Haryana and the state assembly was competent for amendment. While rejecting the private member bill proposal, the speaker’s secretariat had maintained that the bill was contrary to the provision of three laws passed by the Union government and also the issue related to farm laws was pending in the Supreme Court which had stayed their implementation. After a brief argument over the technicalities related to procedure according to the assembly rule book between Batra, BJP MLA from Nangal Chaudhary Abhay Singh Yadav and Congress Tosham MLA Kiran Chaudhary, Hooda and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar took the centre stage. “We are asking for the amendment in the APMC Act that too just to ensure that there is provision for penalty for those who don’t procure produce at the MSP. The Supreme Court has not issued any direction for staying the APMC Act, which was a state Act passed by the House,” said Hooda. Then the CM rose and said, “I have also seen the proposal. In the section of ‘aim and object’, there is mention of the three agriculture laws. It has been mentioned that we want to improve that. Since the Supreme Court has already put stay on the implementation of these laws, we shall consider this after the stay is lifted.” Hooda then responded saying the Congress Legislative Party was ready to submit another set of proposal for the private bill. Before the start of the day, Congress MLAs, led by Hooda, took out a protest march from secretariate roundabout to Haryana assembly premises. While wearing the black badges, they raised anti-BJP slogans and demanded the withdrawal of three farmers laws. In the House — The speaker’s obituary references had mention of all, even some in-laws of sitting or former MLAs, not of farmers who have died during the agitation. LoP Bhupinder Hooda handed over the list to speaker to be included in proceedings, while terming the deaths as sacrifice. — Having returned the security and MLA flat, NIT MLA from Congress Neeraj Sharma reached Haryana assembly on his two-wheeler scooter as a mark of protest against increased petrol and diesel prices — An all-women team will preside and manage the October 8 proceedings of Haryana assembly to celebrate the International Women Day. This resolution was moved by speaker Gian Chand Gupta which was accepted by the whole houses with voice vote. Seema Trikha, Kamlesh Dhanda, Geeta Bhukkal and Kiran Choudhary would lead the House||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pvt-bill-rejected-speaker-admits-no-trust-motion-for-march-10/articleshow/81356889.cms||Manvir Saini
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||One in 6 health workers refused 2nd dose in state||Hyderabad: One out of every six healthcare workers in Telangana refused the scheduled second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine since the drive began on February 13, 2021, health officials admitted on Friday. The health department data shows that 30,037 health workers are yet to take the second dose in the state, as many stayed away after showing routine to moderate side-effects after taking part in the first round. The vaccines are administered in two doses with a gap of 28 days. Only 1,63,448 of the targeted 1,93,485 beneficiaries were administered the second dose of the vaccine, according to the health department’s data. The first dose was administered till February 12. Senior health experts are worried about the outcome of the drive, if healthcare workers stay away. Dr G Srinivas Rao, director of public health said that it is very important to take the second dose because antibodies for Covid-19 would start developing from two weeks after the first dose. "And it is the second dose which will give a boost to the immune system," he said earlier. Doctors also say that the vaccination process is incomplete unless both the doses are taken. "To an extent, people who did not turn up for the second dose might have thought one dose is enough. However, research tells us that even if it is late by a few days or a couple of weeks, it is very important to take the second dose of the vaccine,” said Dr S A Rafi, consultant pulmonologist, CARE Hospitals. Further, it is learnt that majority of the beneficiaries who did not turn up for the second dose so far are data entry operators, lab technicians, nurses, ward boys and sanitation workers, while there is a decent coverage among doctors. “Apprehensions about side effects and myths could be the reason why some people are giving the second dose a miss. While minor side effects like pain at the site of the injection, headache and fever are common, the problem is that there are a lot of misconceptions and false news of people dying,” said Dr Hari Kishan Gonuguntla, senior interventional pulmonologist, Yashoda Hospitals. Doctors said It is important to remember that the vaccine will not just help you, but it will also protect the people around you who are at an increased risk for severe illness from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-in-6-health-workers-refused-2nd-dose-in-state/articleshow/81355578.cms||Moulika.KV
March 6, 2021||Nashik||Footfall of beneficiaries increasing||Nashik: The long queue of beneficiaries at Indira Gandhi hospital on Friday morning for Covid jabs is showing the positive frame of mind of the citizens towards the vaccination. The hospital had made seating arrangements for 100 beneficiaries, but the footfall was much more and the hospital management had to make arrangements for additional 50 chairs. “Currently, there is only one vaccination centre in Panchavati division due to which the footfall of beneficiaries to get the vaccine has increased. There was good turnout in the morning and we had to arrange additional chairs for those who were waiting for the vaccines,” Vijay Deokar, in-charge of Indira Gandhi hospital, said. On Thursday, the civic body added four vaccination centres at urban public health centres located in Cidco, Hirawadi, Wadalagaon and Pimpalgaon-Khamb. Taking the total number of vaccination centres to seven. “Today (Friday), we opened another vaccination centre in Upnagar area of the city. Now we have a total of eight vaccination centres in the city. Considering the rise in footfall of beneficiaries, we are in the process of opening four new vaccination centres in the city in the next couple of days,” Bapusaheb Nagargoje, NMC’s medical superintendent, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/footfall-of-beneficiaries-increasing/articleshow/81353564.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran a good swimmer, says his friend, doubts drowning theory||MUMBAI: The body of Mansukh Hiran (48), owner of the Scorpio found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was found by police in a creek near Mumbra on Friday. The probe into the explosives-in-vehicle case, initially being overseen by Sachin Waze who belongs to the crime branch’s crime intelligence unit, had been handed over on Tuesday to ACP Nitin Alaknure. Demanding an NIA probe, Fadnavis said in the assembly on Friday the case had taken a serious turn after Hiran’s death. “Hiran was an important link in the case,” Fadnavis said and claimed that he had CDRs (call detail records) from 2020 which revealed assistant inspector Waze and Hiran “knew each other and were in touch”. Fadnavis alleged that when the vehicle with gelatin sticks inside it were found outside the Ambani residence Antilia on Carmichael Road on February 25, Waze reached the spot before the local Gamdevi police. “Later, Waze was appointed investigating officer (IO) in the case. Three days ago, Vaze was removed and the case handed over to the ACP (crime branch),” he said. Hiran had lodged a complaint with Vikhroli police about the vehicle going missing after he had left it on Eastern Express Highway after its steering developed a glitch on February 24. That day, Fadnavis said, Hiran, who was headed to town, took an Ola from the spot where he left the vehicle and went to Crawford Market, where the city police commissionerate is situated. Fadnavis said whom he had gone to meet should be probed. “There are many coincidences in the case which lead to suspicion,” he said. Fadnavis also said that “not a single vehicle but two vehicles were seen coming from Thane, along the same route, the same day, to the spot (Antilia).” Waze rubbished all the allegations. He told TOI, “Hiran has a shop in Thane, I may have met him, I don’t remember. But Hiran had lodged a complaint with the Thane police against a few journalists who were allegedly harassing him asking whether he was under zone of suspicion.” Deshmukh said the state and Mumbai police were capable and the opposition should have faith in the state police. Hiran’s body was pulled out of the creek with a crane at around 10.30am on Friday. Hiran, who owned an automobile accessories shop in Thane and lived in Vikas Palm Complex, was in his shop nearly the whole day on Thursday, his family said. One of his three sons told police that when he was in his shop, his father got a call at around 8pm from someone. After the call, Hiran told his son he was going to meet “Tawade Sahab in Kandivli” and that he had “called him to Ghodbunder Road”. After hiring a rickshaw, he went away, his son said. The missing person’s complaint lodged by the family stated that at around 9.30pm, the son went home but his father had not returned. When he tried calling him at around 10.15pm, he found the phone had been switched off and till 1.30am, there was no call or message from Hiran. So the son called his uncle Vinod and told him about the matter. The family then lodged the police complaint after checking with Hiran’s staff and acquaintances. Sandeep Khambe, a family friend, said, “Hiran was a good swimmer and used to take his kids for swimming in the clubhouse of the society, so it is indigestible that he could have done something like this. Everything looks suspicious in this case.” Avinash Ambure, DCP (zone-1), Thane, confirmed the body had been identified as that of Hiran and an ADR (accidental death report) had been registered with Mumbra police. Ambure said, "The post-mortem on the body of Hiran has been conducted by the forensic lab head and team of Kalwa hospital. They have kept the opinion reserved. It will be informed once the reports come to us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hiren-a-good-swimmer-says-his-friend-doubts-drowning-theory/articleshow/81356951.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 6, 2021||Lucknow||HC directs IIML to restore pension of former director||Lucknow: The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Thursday quashed an order passed on June 25, 2019 by the Board of Governors of Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow (IIML) denying pension and arrears to former director Devi Singh. The judgment delivered by Justice Rajesh Singh Chauhan directed the IIML, through its director, to restore Prof Singh’s pension along with arrears with promptness within two months with 6% interest per annum from the date it accrued up to the date of its actual payment. In case of non-compliance of the order, the petitioner shall be entitled for 12% interest on the dues, the court said. Prof Singh, who served as IIML’s director for two terms, filed a writ petition after IIML on October 3, 2017 passed an order staying his pension provisionally as an ongoing accountant general (AG), audit, had made some adverse observations on the ‘process of grant of pension’ to the petitioner. The court, after hearing both the sides, observed that the petitioner’s pension was stayed on the basis of one audit objection but later not only the pension but arrears too were denied. The court further observed that no proper opportunity to submit the defense has been provided to the petitioner before passing the impugned order of June 25, 2019. In his judgment, Justice Chauhan stated that the order stopping the pension of the petitioner passed by IIML mentions narration of facts relating to the petitioner and his grievances and no explanation or show cause notice has been issued against the petitioner, which involves civil consequences as it is causing serious prejudice to the petitioner. The court stated that the principles of fairness should be followed strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-directs-iiml-to-restore-pension-of-former-director/articleshow/81358257.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Nashik||22 BAMS doctors start working in civic hospitals, health centres||Nashik: As many as 22 BAMS (Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery) doctors have started working in two Covid hospitals and urban primary health centres (UPHCs) of the Nashik Municipal Corporation in the city. With the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the NMC has recalled 276 of the total 526 temporary staff it had hired for six months till January-end, 2021, due to the Covid outbreak. “We have recalled 276 staffers but only 181 persons have joined so far and 95 are yet to join. We will wait for a few days and will give an opportunity to others if they do not join within a week,” said Avesh Palod, the Covid officer of NMC. NMC had released all the 526 temporary health staff including doctors, nurses, lab technicians and other health staff in January after the drop in Covid cases. But in view of the rise in cases, the civic body has recalled some of the health staff temporarily on an honorarium basis The 181 staffers include 22 BAMS doctors, 14 lab technicians, 34 staff nurses,32 Auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), 42 multiskilled health workers etc. Palod said the doctors and other health staff, who have joined, have been sent to Bytco hospital, Zakir Hussain hospital and other UPHCs of the NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/22-bams-doctors-start-working-in-civic-hospitals-health-centres/articleshow/81353579.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||CM to mins, party MLAs: Stay put & campaign vigorously||Hyderabad: TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked party MPs, MLCs, ministers and MLAs of 70-odd assembly constituencies to stay put in their respective segments until the campaign for the two graduates MLC constituencies elections comes to an end. With just about a week left for the campaign to come to a close, KCR instructed the party leaders to intensify the campaign for victory of the party candidates. “Except for emergencies, they should not leave their constituencies. Except for the ministers and leaders who were made incharges of constituencies and districts other than the one represented by them and who have to leave the MLC constituencies after the campaign ends, all others will stay put in their areas until the polling is over on March 14,” he said. While 90% of the total 70 constituencies have TRS MLAs, even the candidates who lost the elections were told to take the responsibility of getting in touch with the voters in their respective assembly segments and campaign aggressively. The chief minister personally called up some of the MPs, ministers, MLCs and MLAs. After taking feedback from them on the response of voters to the TRS leaders going for the campaign, he told them to properly inform the graduate voters that over 1.32 lakh jobs were given in the government sector and another 50,000 would be filled up soon. He also told them to highlight on welfare schemes offered by his TRS government and how only the TRS would fulfil their aspirations. “The CM got some surveys done which indicated that the TRS is maintaining a clear edge over Congress, BJP and independents in the two MLC seats. But, the CM is not taking any chances and wants the party candidates to win with first priority votes itself,” a senior TRS leader told TOI, who is campaigning for party candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy in Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-to-mins-party-mlas-stay-put-campaign-vigorously/articleshow/81355547.cms||Roushan Ali
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||September-like surge in cases; but Vid is in safe zone||Nagpur: With about 30,000 patients now under-treatment, the Covid-19 conditions are almost similar to September-peak in Vidarbha. But, during September 2020 — there was huge crisis of medical facilities, extreme burden on hospitals, and non-availability of beds was creating problems for people. Unlike then, at present only a limited number of positive patients are hospitalized. Most of them are recovering under home isolation. Out of those few who are hospitalized or quarantined in the institutional Covid care centres, most are having no or mild symptoms. Significant decrease has been observed in death rate which is at least 70% less as compared to the September peak. Contact tracing, and testing has seen multifold increase in all districts. In short, the number may be equal to the September peak, but the situation is better, improving and promising. “More tests are detecting the disease at early stage and many super spreaders are getting traced before they start new chain. The virus has also become more infectious, but less fatal now,” said Dr Nitin Shinde, infectious disease specialist. According to him, severe cases are limited in numbers. As treatment protocol is also clear, more patients are recovering faster. Infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade said that even senior citizens of 75+ age groups are also recovering during this phase. Intensive care specialist Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, who heads a private Covid hospital in Nagpur said that those who get admitted with alarming level of infection are also recovering fast during treatment. Administration, however, is alert. Despite of increasing number of cases, districts like Amravati, Akola and Buldhana have gradually started relaxing the lockdown-like restrictions. Interestingly, though the number of under-treatment patients (active cases) is similar to that of September 2020, a large chunk of these patients has been admitted just to stop further spread of the disease. “Had it been the September peak, at least 40% of the under-treatment patients would have been allowed home isolation. But, as we have all facilities to keep them under institutional quarantine, we are not taking any chances,” said a senior official from Akola divisional health department. Despite all this, Hospitals in cities like Nagpur and Amravati are near-full. This is because, serious patients from across Vidarbha and adjacent states travel to Nagpur for advanced treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/september-like-surge-in-cases-but-vid-is-in-safe-zone/articleshow/81355592.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||E. coli strain behind colorectal cancer, reveals UoH study||HYDERABAD: At a time when Hyderabad is seeing a jump in colon cancer cases, a landmark study at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) revealed that various bacterial species in the human intestine, including strains of E.coli, is triggering colorectal cancer. After analysing 4,000 plus genomes of bacterial strains of E. coli, the common bacteria found in the lower intestine, researchers said the genotoxic strains of the bacteria is a huge risk factor in colorectal cancer. Researchers say good hygiene and sanitation habits could keep the E. coli populations at bay. Colorectal cancer affects the colon and the rectum at the digestive tract’s lower end. It is commonly known as bowel cancer, colon cancer or rectal cancer. The MNJ Institute of Oncology Regional Cancer Centre and several other institutes received double the number of colon cancer cases in 2020, compared to previous years. Doctors said unhealthy food habits, more consumption of animal fat and untimely eating can trigger colon cancer. Niyaz Ahmed, department of biotechnology and bioinformatics, school of life sciences, UoH, said the study would help understand bacterial toxins that are associated with colorectal cancer. Researchers said that while they know that bacterial toxins result in cancer progression, the study was to find out the proportion, risk, transmission and possible prevention of such bacteria. “The idea was to determine the exact nature of the risk. How they are carried, where are they acquired in the body, probability of acquisition and domination of such bacteria and their evolution, etc,” said Prof Ahmed. Bacterial strains of E. coli that produces colibactin, a toxin that breaks the DNA leading to cancer, was studied by the team of researchers. “We found that such genotoxic strains occur at about 12% among all the E. coli populations world over and up to 7% in India,” he said. The findings of the study were published in the March 2, 2021, issue of an international journal, mBio published by the American Society for Microbiology. “Colibactin encoded by the family of E. coli has a character that causes a chemical change in the DNA. The DNA codes are modified by this bacterial protein and some of them get selected for cancer,” added Prof Ahmed. According to an estimate, there are close to 14 trillion different bacterial cells of about 2,000 different species types in a human gut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/e-coli-strain-behind-colorectal-cancer-reveals-uoh-study/articleshow/81358267.cms||Preeti Biswas
March 6, 2021||Kochi||Kerala should have been on BJP radar earlier, says Meenakshi Lekhi||KOCHI: BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, who has been in Pathanamthitta for the last couple of days, said that Kerala should have on BJP’s radar much earlier. “Kerala is an important state for BJP. I really don’t know why Kerala was not in the picture so far. Kerala should have been on our radar for a long time now,” said Lekhi. She said that the party would come in and will bring the change — “Sabka saath, sabka vikas”. Lekhi is a part of a host of star BJP campaigners for the upcoming assembly elections. It is learnt that there will be a host of star campaigners coming in steadily once the candidate announcement is done by March 10. The campaign will be led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Home minister Amit Shah, BJP national president J P Nadda, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Union ministers Smriti Irani and Prakash Javadekar, MP Tejaswi Surya, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Karnataka chief minister B S Yedyurappa are among other star campaigners. Charging the two main fronts, UDF and LDF, of being two sides of the same coin, she said that both encourage and indulge in corruption and violence. “The prospects of the party are very high and our cadre are over-enthusiastic and working very hard. But the conditions are very tough in the backdrop of violence propagated by CPM,” Lekhi said. “In politics, it is normal to have different opinions and ideologies and we engage in all kinds of debate. But intolerance towards anybody who doesn’t believe in their ideology or faith is very high here and they indulge in killing. Something wrong with the way politics is played in Kerala. It is the same in West Bengal too, where there is Communist presence,” she added. Lekhi said that she chose to come to Pathanamthitta to meet the people who brought change. “These are people who protested the forces that wanted to destroy the faith and belief of people. Cases have been booked and many were sent to jail. Now the CPM government says that they are withdrawing the cases and Congress says that they will enact a law,” Lekhi said. She charged both the fronts of indulging in opportunistic politics. “They are taking the same lines. Congress never protested then. As for CPM, they have no faith in God. Fearing a backlash from the people, they are changing their stance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-should-have-been-on-bjp-radar-earlier-says-lekhi/articleshow/81355613.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
March 6, 2021||Gurgaon||Man held for duping Haryana man of Rs 9 lakh by promising place in IPL team||KURUKSHETRA: Police on Thursday arrested a man from Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh (UP), for allegedly cheating a Haryana resident of Rs 9 lakh on the pretext of providing his son a place in a team of Indian Premier League (IPL). Disclosing this, Kurukshetra headquarters deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Subhash Chander on Friday said Atul Maurya of Sharda Nagar, Kanpur, was produced in the district court on Thursday, which granted his two-day police remand for investigation. DSP said that on April 4, 2019, Subhash Chander, who works with a company based in Vegetable Market of Kurukshetra, had lodged a complaint at Kurukshetra University (KU) police station. He said Subhash in his complaint had stated that he dealt in fruits and property and his son Vikrant is a cricket trainee at Greater Noida for 3-4 years. “In October 2018, when Subhash went to meet his son at Noida, he told him that he had talked to Karan Singh and his wife Kasturi Gajla who lives in Greator Noida. They had promised him reserve selection in the Mumbai Indians of IPL and demanded Rs 10 lakh for the same. He asked Vikrant to arrange a meeting with Karan. In the meeting, Karan lured Subhash with talks that he has got many players selected in the IPL teams and kept the demand of Rs 10 lakh,” said DSP Subhash. “They gave them Rs 2.5 lakh in Kurukshetra in November 2018 and another Rs 5 lakh was given on December 3, 2018. Another Rs 1.5 lakh was given on December 19, 2018. In this way, a total of Rs 9 lakh was given to accused Karan and Kasturi. Accused persons did not keep the promise and duped the complainant of cash. Subhash told that Karan had made him talk to Atul Maurya several times over phone during the process when they were promising to settle his son in the IPL team”, further said DSP Subhash. DSP added the arrests of Atul’s co-accused were pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/man-held-for-duping-haryana-man-of-rs-9l-by-promising-place-in-ipl-team/articleshow/81356923.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Term in last year, Cong MLAs question own govt||Chandigarh: As the Amarinder government enters the last year of its term, it came under fire from its own MLAs who tried to corner ministers during the ongoing Budget Session over unresolved issues pertaining to their areas. Congress legislators Rana Gurjeet Singh, Kulbir Singh Zira, Randeep Singh Nabha and Rajinder Beri expressed their displeasure over pending works in their respective constituencies. Zira questioned cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa over long-pending demand of restarting of the sugar mill at Zira, which he said should be made operational for the benefit of farmers. Unhappy with the response of the minister that there was no proposal to restart the mill, closed since 2005 due to continuous heavy losses, the MLA said the Amarinder government is replicating the deeds of the former SAD government and they need to work for the benefit of the farmers. Zira even said that the farmers are not getting timely payment. As the conversation between the two started to get tense, assembly speaker Rana KP Singh intervened and tried to defuse the situation by asking Randhawa, “Kyun tang kar rahe ho?” Coming in support of Zira, Rana Gurjeet Singh said that due to little help from the government, farmers have stopped growing sugarcane and shifted to other crops. The minister assured him that the government will provide every possible help to farmers. Zira also highlighted the issue of poor facilities at the civil hospital in his constituency, which was forcing people of the area to go to other districts to avail medical services. “The hospital is in bad condition and does not have the required staff and equipment. People are facing lot of inconvenience,” he said. When he inquired about the government having any proposal of upgrading the hospital, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu replied in negative. Eager to upgrade the hospital, Zira offered to provide the required land to the health department to which the health minister responded that the government would make every possible effort for improving the health services in the area. Randeep Singh Nabha took a dig at his own government for a long-pending project of office complex of sub-tehsil Amloh. Nabha appraised the House that the project is pending since long and was also mentioned in the finance minister’s speech in 2017. “Despite that nothing has been done, forcing me to raise the issue in the House. I have no intention of running anyone down. I just want to know when the project will start as we are left with just one year,” said Nabha. Another MLA Rajinder Beri raised the pending issue of opening of track for renewal of the heavy driving licences in Malerkotla. Beri informed the House that a promise was made in the past, but nothing has been done so far. “I have been raising this issue since the government came into power in 2017,” he said. Rana Gurjeet Singh locked horns with the transport minister Razia Sultana over non-availability of the office of regional transport authority in Kapurthala. Rana contended that people of the district were facing inconvenience as they have to travel long distances for various works to other districts, including clearing pending traffic challans. “While going to clear their traffic challans, sometimes they commit another mistake and are challaned on their way to the regional office,” said Rana in a lighter vein. Responding, Razia Sultana suggested Rana that he should ask people not to break rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/term-in-last-year-cong-mlas-question-own-govt/articleshow/81356942.cms||Vinod Kumar
March 6, 2021||Kochi||Muthoot Finance Group chairman M G George passes away||KOCHI: The richest Malayali and chairman of Muthoot Finance Group MG George Muthoot (71) passed away due to health issues in New Delhi. He had recently recovered from Covid. Hailing from Kozhencherry in Kerala, Muthoot was a graduate in mechanical engineering from Manipal Institute of Technology and had joined the family business at a very young age. He became the managing director of Muthoot Group in 1979 and its chairman in 1993. Under his leadership, Muthoot Finance was expanded beyond south India by setting up branches in the north, east and west India. Later he took the operations overseas to the US, UK, UAE, Central America, Sri Lanka and Nepal. Now Muthoot Group has 20 diversified business divisions, with the flagship company being Muthoot Finance Ltd, the country’s largest gold financing company. He was also the national executive committee member of Ficci and chairman of Ficci’s Kerala State Council. MG George Muthoot is survived by his wife Sara George Muthoot (director, St George’s School and Paul George Global School, New Delhi) and sons George M George (managing director, Xandari Resorts) and Alexander M George (Whole-time director, Muthoot Finance). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/businessman-mg-george-muthoot-passes-away/articleshow/81355641.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Two workers test positive for UK strain in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Two workers who arrived from Dubai have tested positive for the UK strain of Covid-19 in Jagtial district. Both of them have been shifted to TIMS at Gachibowli by the district health authorities. On conducting tests, six of the family members and close contacts of one of the workers have also tested positive in the rapid antigen tests conducted in Muthyampeta village. One of the workers went to Muthyampeta in Malyala mandal and another to Venkatapuram in Korutla mandal. The duo was working in Dubai and arrived directly from there. Jagtial DMHO P Sridhar said as many as 14 primary contacts of the UK strain-affected person were identified in Muthyampet and six in Venkatapuram. “We have collected the samples of all of them for Covid-19 tests,” Sridhar said. Health officials who went to both the villagers sprayed disinfectants and advised villagers on the preventive and precautionary measures to be taken. A medical camp was organised in both the villages on Thursday and Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-workers-test-ve-for-uk-strain/articleshow/81355617.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Hosps again see patients with severe complications||JAIPUR: If you are careless towards wearing masks and keeping social distance, this can force you to follow Covid-19 protocol. After two months, Covid-19 care centres, including private and government units, have started getting patients with severe complications. Things like bilateral pneumonia are again been reported at hospitals like Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) and hospitals in Jaipur and other parts of the state. TOI on Friday spoke to various doctors of government and private hospitals to know if they are again back to administering things like Remdesivir injection, oxygen therapy while treating patients with severe complications. In past one week, RUHS and some of the private hospitals have also reported Covid-19 deaths which is an alarming sign for everyone. “During January this year, we had a sigh of relief as patients with severe symptoms and complications were almost negligible. It continued till three weeks of February. However, from the third week of February, we have started witnessing patients with trouble in breathing, brain fog, gastro issues and elevated HRCT score. So, things are getting bad again. So, we have to be careful,” said doctor Ajeet Singh, superintendent of RUHS. He added that patients with bilateral pneumonia and other complications are again seen. “We are seeing patients who are admitting to the hospital with trouble in breathing and high fever. Again we have witnessed our ICUs getting occupied. This is of course result of carelessness which was seen during marriage season and also while people are going to the public places and markets,” said a senior doctor at the ICU of Covid dedicated ward of a private hospital in the city. Doctors added that patients requiring Remdesivir and other injections like Dexona are back while many patients are coming up with severe fever. “As there has been increase in number of cases, we have also witnessed patients with various issues related to lungs. Our team of doctors and nurses is keeping an eye on the developments and we are prepared to tackle any further contingency,” said a doctor at RUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hosps-again-see-patients-with-severe-complications/articleshow/81355614.cms||Ashish Mehta
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Sheikhpura triple murder: 4 years on, man and son among 8 to get life term||Hisar: A court here on Friday sentenced eight men, including a man and his son, to life imprisonment for allegedly shooting dead three men in Sheikhpura on March 13, 2017. The court of additional district and sessions judge Ved Prakash imposed a fine of Rs 42,000 on each of the convicts. Ramkumar, Mukesh and Pradeep, all residents of Sheikhpura village in Hansi area of Hisar district, were killed, while Ramkumar’s son Sanjay, Mukesh alias Kinnu and Rajesh were injured in the attack. In all, 24 persons, including former DSP Bhagwan Das of Hisar, were booked in the case. During investigation, charges were dropped against many people, including Das. However, after the incident, Das allegedly committed suicide on March 27, 2017. Those sentenced by the court include Ashok, Ajit, Umed, Ramphal and Dalel, Subhash, Subhas’s son Sandeep, all residents of Sheikhpura; and Krishna, a resident of Kukrawali village in Fatehabad. Ashok alias Kala and Suresh, both residents of Sheikhpura village, have been acquitted. Sadar Hansi police station registered the case on March 14, 2017, on a complaint by Sanjay Kumar, son of Ramkumar. The FIR included sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (common object of unlawful assembly), 109 (abetment), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 212 (harbouring offender) of the Indian Penal Code. Sanjay said his family had an old rivalry with Subhash, who lived in front of his house. On March 13, 2017, Subhash’s son Sandeep quarrelled with his younger brother Mukesh alias Kinnu at 10.30am. He said he and his father Ramkumar intervened. Around 2.30 pm, Das allegedly came to his house in his government vehicle and incited his companions to murder Ramkumar’s family and his companions on the assurance that he would handle the repercussions. After this, he alleged, the accused attacked his father, who died on the spot after being shot. On hearing the sound of gunfire, Sheikhpura residnet Balbir Pradhan, his nephews Sandeep, Rajesh, Pradeep, Mukesh and Dayanand rushed to the spot and were also attacked. Mukesh and Pradeep died on the spot and Rajesh was injured. He said he and Mukesh were also injured. The complainant said the assailants dispersed when village residents gathered. He said they fired in the air and threatened to kill the families of Ramkumar and Balbir Pradhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sheikhpura-triple-murder-4-years-on-man-and-son-among-8-to-get-life-term/articleshow/81356958.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Revanth to KTR: Join me in indefinite fast||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Friday threw a challenge to TRS working president KT Rama Rao to join him in an indefinite hunger strike at Jantar Mantar in Delhi demanding revival of ITIR project, Kazipet rail coach factory and implementation of other assurances made to Telangana in the AP Reorganisation Act. “I am ready to stage an indefinite hunger strike in Delhi in the interests of the state. Is KTR ready for the challenge? KTR has been writing letters to the central government and its ministers. Let’s move over letters and take up fast-unto-death at Jantar Mantar,” Revanth said while campaigning for party candidate G Chinna Reddy contesting elections for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar MLC seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-to-ktr-join-me-in-indefinite-fast/articleshow/81355638.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Vaccination drive for public finally kicks off in Cantonment||Secunderabad: After a gap of four days, Covid-19 vaccination for frontline workers and general public began in Secunderabad Cantonment on Friday. The health department gave clearance for the inoculation for both categories of people, including Cantonment sanitation workers. Vaccines were being given at Bollarum General Hospital in SCB ward no-VIII. SCB deputy CEO, Vijaykumar Balan Nair said inoculation began with sanitation workers. On day one, 50 people were given the vaccine at the hospital. Of them, 30 were from the general public and remaining 20 were sanitation workers, according to Bollarum General Hospital’s resident medical officer, Dr Ramakrishna. The general public were allowed to get inoculated after registering through Co-Win app.  SCB senior superintendent, sanitation wing, M Devender, said there are 1,200 sanitation staff. “Interestingly, few sanitation workers — in the single digits — were infected with the virus,” said M Devender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccination-drive-for-public-finally-kicks-off-in-cantonment/articleshow/81355651.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Health startups get boost in the year of pandemic, CCMB leads from front||HYDERABAD: Corona entrepreneurship is the new buzz word in town. The Covid-19 pandemic has brought several business opportunities in the health sector, with the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) leading from the front. CCMB incubated six startups during this period including those that make diagnostic kits, rapid detection devices as well as AI-based screening and sanitizing equipment. Some of the startups under the Atal Incubation Centre (AIC) in CCMB are supplying kits to the entire nation now. Dr N Madhusudhana Rao, CEO, Atal Incubation Centre, CCMB, said, “We incubated six startups during Covid-19 pandemic that developed techniques for mitigating the pandemic.” Rao said the centre is helping companies test the efficacy of their molecules and devices. Citing an example, he said, “one company developed a formulation from mushroom and we helped test its potency. The company introduced the product in the market. Within a short time we were able to achieve this feat.” On the testing front, he added that they are working on producing 30 million indigenous kits a month. “Around six centres would be enough to meet demand. Hyderabad alone has enough capacity to make sufficient kits for the entire country. We have carried out a validation of suppliers’ kits.” Ritika Marampalli, programme and communication manager, CCMB, said: “Hyderabad-based company Huwel Lifesciences Pvt. Ltd. also received ICMR approval for their indigenous Covid-19 diagnostic kit.” Huwel Lifesciences, a virtual incubatee of AIC-CCMB, was founded by Dr Rachana Tripathi and Dr Shesheer Munpally – former research scholars of CCMB. One of the first companies to be incubated at AIC-CCMB, Oncosimis Pvt Ltd, has also developed a rapid and high-throughput screening (HTS) of 2019-nCoV infection with bi-layer photo interferometric method. Their method detects antibodies in serum or plasma that can give results in less than a minute. This method is capable of screening 100 samples in less than an hour. The HTS method is affordable with a shorter turnaround time. The kit is under development and CCMB is a partner in its commercialization. AIC is also working on air purifiers and phytochemicals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-startups-get-boost-in-the-year-of-pandemic-ccmb-leads-from-front/articleshow/81355632.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: HC upholds guv payment to contractor during Prez rule||Mumbai: In a setback to the state government, Bombay high court on Friday upheld governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s approval to pay Rs 358 crore to a road contractor during President’s rule in Maharashtra in November 2019.Justice Girish Kulkarni said it is clear from the November 12 proclamation of President’s rule that the “governor was empowered and authorised to act on behalf of the President” on specific matters, including making payment of any settlement amount.The state had filed a review petition against the HC’s December 12, 2019, order, saying consent terms were hurriedly entered into during President’s rule and its approval was not taken. Manaj Tollway had been given the contract for four-laning of two state highways and their maintenance in 2011. Following disputes, it opted out in 2015, invoked arbitration and won the award.Justice Kulkarni noted that after President’s rule was imposed, a November 18 note on the award prepared by a desk officer and approved by officers in the hierarchy up to the chief secretary was endorsed by Koshyari on November 22. President’s rule was revoked on November 23. The desk officer on November 25 wrote to Manaj that the state has approved payment and the consent terms were placed before HC. Thereafter on December 12, Justice Kulkarni passed the consent order.“It is thus strange and surprising as how the state can assert a case of lack of authority with the governor or a fraud being played on the court by high officials of the government… when there is not an iota of material to support such contentions,” said Justice Kulkarni.The judge said the argument by state’s advocates Anil Anturkar and Jyoti Chavan that no approval was taken of the “democratically elected government’’ sworn in on November 28, cannot be accepted. “There is no provision in the Constitution… which would require any ratification by the elected government of a decision taken by the President acting through the governor during the subsistence of President’s rule, after the President’s rule is revoked,’’ he added.Manaj’s advocates Aspi Chinoy and Cherag Balsara argued that the state’s disapproval claim is belied by the record. On December 13, it paid Rs 1 crore. In the winter session, it took the legislature’s sanction to pay the remaining Rs 357 crore. When Manaj moved HC in contempt, the money was deposited in HC.The state was “totally ill-advised to file this review petition and to assail the consent order. No ground whatsoever is made out for this court to exercise its review jurisdiction,” he concluded, dismissing the petition.Justice Kulkarni said Manaj can move the court after four weeks for the Rs 357 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hc-upholds-guv-payment-to-contractor-during-prez-rule/articleshow/81356997.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||AIMIM to contest in 47 municipal wards in Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Fresh from its victory in 24 municipal wards in Gujarat, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) is now contesting the March 10 municipal elections in Andhra Pradesh. It is contesting from only 47 wards where there is a sizeable Muslim population.  These wards are spread in the municipalities located in Adoni, Kurnool, Nandyal, Anantapur, Kadapa, Nandikotkur, Guntakal, Kadiri, Rayadurg and Hindupur, and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation too. AP will hold polls in 12 corporations and 75 municipalities. The party has fielded a couple of candidates who are from communities other than Muslims. In addition to fielding its own candidates, the MIM is also supporting a plethora of independents. Hyderabad MP and AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi who is leading the municipal poll campaign for the party candidates charged the central government of indulging in crony capitalism and demanded that the Modi-government withdraw its decision to privatise the steel plant. He said he will raise the issue in Parliament. The party has also extended its support to the protests by various trade unions against the Narendra Modi-led BJP government’s decision to privatise the Visakha steel plant. “Does the Modi government want to leave 20,000 jobless by privatizing a steel plant. AP chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy should come out on to the roads to protest against privatization of steel plant and not just stop at writing letters to PM Modi. AIMIM will support YSRCP in its fight against privatization of the steel plant,” Owaisi said while addressing a public meeting in Kurnool on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-to-contest-in-47-municipal-wards-in-ap/articleshow/81355656.cms||Roushan Ali
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Police to get strict in enforcing norms||JAIPUR: As people seem to be dropping guard against Covid-19, the state government is mulling over bringing back night curfew. Cops have been asked to penalise people for not wearing masks and not following social distance. TOI on Friday visited various areas, including shopping malls, Walled City markets and other areas to know if the people are following guidelines. It was found that people are under a wrong impression that Covid-19 has almost vanished and were seen very casual and careless in their approach. At the Chandpole Bazaar, heavy rush was seen at various shops including wholesale grocery, garments and roadside eateries where very few people had masks while many have kept it down near their throat. “Ab kahan hai Corona, case to jyada nahin,” said Aabid Qureshi, a 65-year-old man who was seen at a shop selling foodgrains at the Chandpole Bazaar. Similar scenes were witnessed at Johari Bazaar famous for the jewellery shops where parking on both sides of the roads were full and good number of people were seen walking on the roads without masks. As the cases are on the rise and on Thursday Jaipur saw spike in the active cases which have now gone up to over 1,500, the state government and police are planning to bring back stringent measures including penalizing the violators. “I have told every DCP in Jaipur to ask various police station areas to ensure full compliance of the Covid-19 protocols. They should continue penalising violators for not wearing masks and are into overcrowding at public places. Also Chetak van 100 PCRs have been asked to keep roaming in their areas and start penalising the public,” said Anand Srivastav, commissioner of police, Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-to-get-strict-in-enforcing-norms/articleshow/81355642.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Compliance burden must be reduced for industry: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the compliance burden on industry needs to come down and asserted that the government would look at reducing more than 6,000 compliances at the central and state level this year. “Our government believes that the government’s interference in everything creates more problems than solutions. That’s we are emphasising on self-regulation, self-attesting and self-certification by trusting the citizens to move forward,” Modi told industry representatives at a webinar on the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme which has been unveiled by the government to boost manufacturing in the country. The PM urged the industry to write to him with suggestions and the government would seriously consider their views and said use of technology should help in streamlining processes and do away with the need to fill up multiple forms as well as ease the compliance burden. The NDA government has taken a series of steps to reduce the compliance burden on businesses and boost ease of doing business across sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/compliance-burden-must-be-reduced-for-industry-pm-modi/articleshow/81358951.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||3 districts responsible for maximum fresh infections||Jaipur: Some of the districts, including Dungarpur, Udaipur and Jaipur witnessed sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases where migration from various parts of the country is higher.As the state witnessed 195 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, Udaipur got 43 cases, Dungarpur 36 and Jaipur 32 cases. As the spike in the Covid-19 cases continue, the state also witnessed the increase in the active cases which have gone up to 1,584. With one death reported from Jodhpur, the number of those died of Covid-19 in the state have gone up to 2,789.Last week, Kota had suddenly witnessed 60 cases in a single day when health department attributed it to the migration of the students from various parts of the country to Kota.“I think railway stations, airports and bus stands will have to be more vigilant in checking the arrivals and departures from various cities. Also we had made it compulsory for the people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala to bring their RT-PCR report negative,” said a senior officer of the health department on Thursday.In Jaipur 32 cases were reported which included eight cases from Jawahar Nagar, Jawahar Nagar (4), Mansarovar (3), Pratap Nagar (2), Shastri Nagar (2) and Vaishali Nagar (2). Likewise, one case each was reported from Aadarsh Nagar, Durgapura, Jaisinghpura Khor, Malviya Nagar, Shahpura, Sirsi, Sodala and Tilak Nagar. Also, hospitals in Jaipur have started witnessing cases where patients with severe symptoms are getting admitted.“We now have 385 active cases out of the total 1,584 in the state. Thus, there is a desperate need of following the protocols before things further worsen,” said doctor Ajeet Singh, superintendent of RUHS Hospital.However, districts including Chittorgarh, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Jalore, Karauli, Jhunjhunu, Pali, Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi and Tonk witnessed no cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-districts-responsible-for-maximum-fresh-infections/articleshow/81355677.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Goa||‘Keep record of road rollers in state’||Panaji: After fatalities linked to the movement of road rollers were reported in the state, the Goa consumer action network (Goacan) has demanded immediate intervention of the directorate of transport. It was revealed in the recent meetings of the North and South Goa District Road Safety Committees that there is no record with the directorate of the number of road rollers or their owners. Goacan has demanded that the public works department (PWD) provide the directorate of transport with a list of contractors who own road rollers for it “to take appropriate steps in the matter,” so that they are “warned of the consequences if the violations of conditions continue from April 1,” onwards. Goacan said that the movement of these vehicles is “in violation of the conditions imposed when providing these vehicles with an exemption from the necessity of registration under the provision of the Goa Motor Vehicles Rules 1991.” After the fatal road accident that occurred in Mapusa in January 2015, Goacan had raised the issue of registration of road rollers at the district road safety council meetings and called for proper enforcement of the conditions imposed when granting exemption to these road rollers. Subsequently a memorandum was issued by the transport department in this regard. Goacan pointed out that despite this memorandum there have been two fatal accidents, one at Farmagudi on March 13, 2020 and at Nachinola on January 29, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/keep-record-of-road-rollers-in-state/articleshow/81357010.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||Granny who claims to be 105 takes the jab||Nagpur: “Mujhe corona se ladna hai,” (I want to fight corona), Manjulabai Pawar’s response sounded routine to Dr Sandeep Mogre when the latter posed a regular query to her at his hospital at Sakkardara on Friday. Her response, “105 years”, to the second question about her age sent Dr Mogre’s senses for a toss. Manjulabai claimed to be 105 but her Aadhaar card shows her age to be 98. She was the most fascinating beneficiary of Covishield vaccine among 212 who took the jab at the Mogre Children hospital at Sakkardara on Friday. “She did not have any comorbidity. Was not panicked nor tense. She looked jovial and went back without any symptom or uneasiness,” said Dr Sandeep who is the co-director of the hospital along with wife Sharmishta. Rajendra Pawar, the youngest of her eight children, had accompanied his mother to the hospital for the jab which the family wanted her to take so as to keep her protected. “She has no health complaint and barely takes medicines. She gets up at Brahmamuhurta (early dawn) and takes food on time. Her cheerfulness is secret of her health,” said the son adding Manjulabai not only stays alone but also cooks her food and maintains the home. “She was very enthusiastic about taking the jab and got ready to visit the hospital immediately,” said Rajendra. Clarifying on his mother’s age, Rajendra said she must have crossed 100 as one of his elder brother, who is fourth among the siblings, is 78 year old. “We will now try to take out her birth certificate and ascertain her real age. Also, we are planning a grand 100 year birthday celebration,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/granny-who-claims-to-be-105-takes-the-jab/articleshow/81355686.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS indulging in misuse of power: BJP||The BJP state unit on Friday lodged a complaint with chief electoral officer of Telangana, alleging that the ruling TRS was indulging in misuse of power during the campaign for the MLC polls. The BJP alleged that state polices are biased towards the TRS and threatening cases against youth if they do not support the party candidates. The BJP demanded that senior police observers be appointed to oversee the March 14 elections. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-indulging-in-misuse-of-power-bjp/articleshow/81355688.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kochi||T P Nandakumar appears before ED officials||Kochi: Chief editor of a fortnightly vernacular magazine, T P Nandakumar, appeared before the enforcement directorate (ED) on Friday in connection with in an inquiry into the sensational SNC Lavalin case. CEO of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) K M Abraham, who was supposed to appear before ED on the day, failed to appear in the KIIFB regulatory framework violation case . Nandakumar, a complainant in the Lavalin case, was summoned by ED as per a notice dated February 25, which directed him to appear with the evidence related to ‘SNC Lavalin and others’ on Friday at its office in Kochi. ED sources said that he told the officials on Friday that he would appear on another date to handover all the evidence in his possession. “The person has stated that he was in possession of evidence against key persons involved. It seems like he has kept the evidence hidden at a safe place. This place, apparently, was not easily accessible, so he has told us that he would appear on a later date with the evidence,” said an ED source, adding that he is likely to appear again on March 16. It is learnt that the officials have asked him about his complaints on issues, including financial dealings by key persons involved. The SNC Lavalin controversy refers to an agreement made between the Kerala State Electricity Board and Canadian company SNC Lavalin for the renovation of three hydroelectric power projects during 1996-1997 when current chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as the electricity minister of the state. The project cost was estimated around Rs 236 crore and it was alleged that several clauses in the contract were not satisfied. The case was initially probed by the vigilance department. Later, the case was handed over to CBI and the central agency made Vijayan an accused in the case. However, the CBI special court discharged him from the case and this decision was upheld by the high court. The CBI appeal against discharging Vijayan is still pending before the Supreme Court. ED had in the notice referred to a complaint filed by Nandakumar to the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI). The complaint was made to DRI in 2006 regarding tax evasion and anti-national activities behind the issue. Meanwhile, KIIFB officials continued non-cooperation with the ED investigation as KIIFB CEO K M Abraham, who was summoned by the agency, did not turn up for questioning on Friday. Earlier, an email was sent by Abraham stating that all details related to the investments and money transactions were handed over when it was sought for the preliminary probe. On Thursday, Vikramjit Singh, the deputy managing director of KIIFB, who was summoned by ED, also did not appear for questioning. ED officials said that a second summons would be issued as per procedure in due course of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/t-p-nandakumar-appears-before-ed-officials/articleshow/81355682.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Maha has 4,496MW surplus power||Maharashtra has surplus power of 4,496MW with the average peak demand of 17,345MW till December 2020. In 2019-20, the peak demand was 19,103MW and the surplus 2,668MW. “The state has taken measures for capacity addition, improving transmission and distribution network and energy conservation which resulted in improved supply and surplus power,” the report said. Power consumption in the industrial sector declined to 26,079MU in 2020-21 as compared to 46,507 MU in 2019-20. For the commercial sector, it dropped to 5,764MU in 2020-21 as against 13,123 MU in 2019-20. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-has-4496mw-surplus-power/articleshow/81358291.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Model code of conduct: Banks told to monitor transactions||Tirupur: Collector K Vijayakarthikeyan on Friday instructed bankers and their representatives to carry necessary documents while transporting cash.Vijayakarthikeyan chaired a meeting with bankers to educate them about the model code of conduct. “Bankers were directed to share details about those who deposit or withdraw more than Rs 10 lakh with the returning officer and income tax officials. Information about those who conduct transactions worth Rs 1 lakh in their account that remained unused for the last two months should be shared. Information about accounts of the relatives of candidates who transfer more than Rs 1 lakh should also be reported,” a statement said.The collector directed the bankers to carry the required documents while transporting cash from a branch to other branches or to ATMs. The documents should be made available to flying squad personnel. Later, a training programme was organized for election zonal officers and assistant zonal officers at the collector’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/model-code-of-conduct-banks-told-to-monitor-transactions/articleshow/81356994.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Ready to take CM to meet PM on ITIR, other projects: Sanjay||Hyderabad: Days after IT minister KT Rama Rao challenged BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar to bring the Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) project to Telangana, Sanjay on Friday said he is ready to take chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and central ministers in Delhi to seek projects like ITIR and Kazipet railway coach factory. Addressing a meeting in Mahabubabad for the March 14 grauduates MLC elections, Sanjay said if the CM is ready, he would accompany him to Delhi. “If the CM is ready now, I will go to his Erravelli farmhouse. We both will go to Delhi to pursue various projects for the state,” he said Taking potshots at the chief minister, Sanjay said: “You (CM) were bowing before central ministers during your trips to Delhi. Why did not you ask them about these projects.” Sanjay alleged that the state government had never cooperated with the Centre on welfare projects and schemes since it doesn’t give any commissions. Sanjay, who wrote an open letter on March 2 to the CM, blamed the state government for not implementing the ITIR. “TRS leaders are writing letters to the Centre on the ITIR to cover up their own faults,” Sanjay had said in the letter. The BJP state unit on Friday lodged a complaint with chief electoral officer of Telangana, alleging that the ruling TRS was indulging in misuse of power during the campaign for the MLC polls. The BJP alleged that state polices are biased towards the TRS and threatening cases against youth if they do not support the party candidates. The BJP demanded that senior police observers be appointed to oversee the March 14 elections. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ready-to-take-cm-to-meet-pm-on-itir-other-projects-sanjay/articleshow/81355663.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||15-mnth-old tested for allergy diseases||Hyderabad: For the first time in Telangana, a 15-month-old who travelled from Ireland was successfully tested for allergy-related diseases at a private healthcare centre in Chikkadpally. This was done through use of allergy skin testing method and allergen-specific immunotherapy. She was suffering from atopic dermatitis and eczema. The team of allergy experts from the city who dealt with the child said that the test will help enable the baby not to fall into the routine allergy-related sufferins that might turn into serious medical conditions in the long term. “The test will play a massive role in identifying the medical conditions that might be affect an individual in future and help stop it at the initial stage. Allergy skin testing and allergy specific immunotherapy is a game changer and long-term target oriented treatment. All the remaining treatment strategies that are available come under symptomatic treatment relief which will be for short duration,” Dr Vykarnam Nageshwar, allergist and immunologist, Aswini Allergy Centre, Chikkadpally told TOI. Some diseases which may be avoided in childhood through allergy skin testing and allergen immunotherapy include Allergic Atopic Dermatitis, Allergic Rhinitis, Allergic Asthma||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-mnth-old-tested-for-allergy-diseases/articleshow/81355679.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Pune||Thrust on governance and planning drives PCMC score||Pune: Riding on an impressive performance in governance, planning, citizen perception and sustainability, Pimpri Chinchwad has progressed from 64th overall rank in 2019 to 16th in the ranking of cites for the Ease of Living (EOL) 2020, released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.In the governance, Pimpri Chinchwad has in fact topped all municipal corporations in the country. The economic ability pillar brought down the rank for Pune to the number two position as compared to Bengluru, according to the civic officials.Rajesh Patil, commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Commission (PCMC), said, “For enhanced work productivity in civic administration, citizens’ feedback matters a lot and with the Ease of Living Index (EOLI) 2020, and Municipal Performance Index (MPI) 2020, we have got to know what citizens’ needs are and what do they think about the civic facilities. The fourth rank in the MPI is a validation of citizens’ trust in the administration.” Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Usha Dhore said, “I am proud that we are living in one of the best cities in the state and citizens participated in the survey to bring these facts ahead of us.”Additional commissioner of Pune Municipal corporation (PMC), Rubal Agarwal, said that, “Our performance has improved as compared to previous ranking. A number of factors like economic conditions of cities has been considered while defining the ranks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thrust-on-governance-and-planning-drives-pcmc-score/articleshow/81355670.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad among cities with highest levels of indoor air pollution||HYDERABAD: Not just the outdoors, rising air pollution levels inside homes too have become a concern, say experts. In a recent survey conducted across four cities in India, including Hyderabad, experts found that houses in the city had among the highest percentage of dust particle that are 20 micron in size. The average in other cities was around 10-15 micron. The study also found a high amount of bacteria, fungi, dust mite, cockroach, cat and dog allergens in Hyderabad homes. According to doctors, these allergens can act as triggers for allergies and asthma among people. As part of the study, dust samples were collected from houses in Attapur, Somajiguda, New Malakpet, Madhapur, Gandhinagar, Kondapur and Rajender Nagar. The results were collated by a team of experts from Dyson — a company which manufactures household appliances — and the FICCI Research and Analysis Centre, which works in this area. “Indoor air has pollutants from the outdoors (reflecting the outdoor air), but in addition has allergens that are unique to the indoor environment such as house dust mites, cockroach allergens, fungal spores, all of which tend to be present in high densities indoors, owing to limited ventilation,” said Dr Lancelot Mark Pinto a consultant pulmonologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-among-cities-with-highest-levels-of-indoor-air-pollution/articleshow/81355692.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||TSRTC releases salaries to employees||Hyderabad: As per the directions of transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) released salaries to all employees on Friday. TSRTC managing director, Sunil Sharma said that around Rs 32 crore was recently deposited in the GPF account of the employees. Regular video conferences are conducted with the staff and directions were given, which helped RTC to improve its financial health, he said. “RTC staff was motivated to take up measures to improve the revenue of the corporation,” Sharma said “During the Covid-19 time, the revenue had fallen to a low of around Rs 2 crore,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-releases-salaries-to-employees/articleshow/81355699.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||CM, Raje take 1st dose of Covid vaccine||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje and health minister Raghu Sharma got vaccinated at the Institute of Infection Disease Centre at the SMS Hospital on Friday. First to visit was Gehlot who was surprised to see within seconds he was administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. He said, “Corona has not yet gone from the country and hence we should not take this disease lightly in view of rising cases in Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra and Punjab. We should not be negligent and if anyone gets symptoms he or she should immediately approach the hospitals.” During his observation period, he interacted with doctors including Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Medical College. Thereafter, former chief minister came and got her first dose of vaccine. “It is a matter of great pride that India is witnessing the biggest vaccination campaign in the world. I would like to thank the health workers Priyanka, Sheeba and Ishrat who gave me this vaccine.” Meanwhile, 3,464 health workers, 2,504 frontline workers, 17,319 beneficiaries from 45 to 59 with comorbidities and 2,35,595 beneficiaries of age 60 and above got their first dose of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-raje-take-1st-dose-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/81355696.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong stuck to social justice in candidates’ choice: Uttam||Hyderabad: Of the two graduate MLC constituencies heading to polls on March 14, Congress has fielded S Ramulu Naik, an ST candidate, from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat and G Chinna Reddy from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said Congress president Sonia Gandhi has followed the party’s social justice policy by fielding Ramulu Naik from a general category seat while addressing party leaders and workers through an app. He said voters should realise that both Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have fielded candidates from Reddy community in Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat and Brahmins from Hyderabad-RR-Mahbubnagar constituency. “Telangana Rashtra Samithi sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy has no moral right to seek votes as he has hardly done anything for the welfare of graduates and unemployed in the last six years. The TRS wants to win elections with money and liquor power. Work hard and ensure victory of party candidates,” Uttam told the party cadre. Uttam slammed the BJP government at Centre for huge rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas and failing to fill two crore jobs per year.  The TPCC chief said voting for Telangana Jana Samithi president M Kodandaram would be futile as the contest in Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam constituency is between Congress and TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-stuck-to-social-justice-in-candidates-choice-uttam/articleshow/81355698.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Pre-historic terracotta bull head found in T||Hyderabad: Amateur historians — Sriramoju Haragopal and Kolipaka Srinivas — found an oxen head made of terracota material and a pendant near a megalithic site at Naganuru in Siddipet. “The bull head and pendant found could be of pre-Satavahana period,” said Haragopal. Haragopal said in Harappa excavations, several terracotta bulls, carts and animal figures were found. “In Telangana too, there were some findings earlier in Pullur banda megalithic site. Excavators have found skeletal remains apart from earthen pots which are said to be between 1000 BC and 200 AD,” he said. He added that current finding should be studied scientifically to establish the age and linkage to other parallel findings in other civilisations. Similarities of findings in Pullur, Markook, Narmetta and Naganur shall be studied, historians said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pre-historic-terracotta-bull-head-found-in-t/articleshow/81355720.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Govt should fast track vaccination’-Suresh Goel||With assembly elections only a year away, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is trying hard to capture the political space in the state. Contradicting the claims that the party could not leave a strong impression in the recent MC elections, Suresh Goyal Nikku, who is the district president (urban) of AAP, maintained that the party was all set to provide ‘much needed alternative’ to the masses. In a freewheeling interview with Shariq Majeed, he spoke on host of other issues that would remain in focus during the coming elections. Excerpts AAP doesn’t seem to have fared well in the recent local bodies elections. Don’t you feel that it will be challenging for your party in the coming assembly elections, as such elections reflect the mood of the people? In 2016, SAD had made clean sweep in MC elections and that time the party leaders had made tall claims about a victory in the 2017 elections. But instead of winning elections, they were pushed to third position and we became the main opposition party. In the MC elections, our candidates were not allowed to go to voting centres and even in counting centres. In Raikot, the EVMs were opened on February 16, a day before counting. Also in the MC elections, state departments including police, are involved but in Vidhan Sabha elections, central forces are deployed so scenario is different in that elections. We don’t think that there is even distant relation with state elections. How do you rate the Congress government performance since it assumed power? For four years, they didn’t work and in fifth year they are coming up with tenders. This is a model of 40 years ago when trucks would unload stones on road and then those stones for road construction would vanish. This time around, they are unloading interlocked tiles and then they will say they couldn’t start work due to model code of conduct and will do development after winning. This is unlike us as we have done 110% work in Delhi, fulfilled 100% promises made in manifesto and besides doing 10% extra on public demand. In Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal started work in the first year after winning. In Delhi, Covid-19 situation was severe but our government controlled it. The model made by AAP government for home isolation was adopted by world. How do you see vaccination process in the state? It is very slow. In other states where elections are being held, there is no restriction on gathering but here Congress used Covid-19 to stop us from coming on streets. We want that they should fast track vaccination and make people aware about it. People don’t trust vaccine so the government should educate them to clear rumours. They should make necessary preparations to check cases and set up camps for vaccination. In villages, they should provide logistics and infrastructure to carry out vaccination. How do you look at the progress of development projects in Ludhiana? In 70 years, if common masses are raising issues of bad roads and street lights, how can we say that there is development. I wonder if the minister who represents one of the assembly seats too passed through those roads and doesn’t realise or feel about the need to take some measures. Roads in industrial area are also in a shambles and there have been accidents there. I feel that Ludhiana Smart city exits around fountain chowk, Ludhiana club, Satluj club and Kipps market. It should have started from outer areas as rich people in posh areas can carry out development in their areas. The industry got paint done at various places and centre and state government usurped the money. If ministers spend even two hours, things will change but they have businesses. Do you think that government is adopting proper steps to check pollution in Buddha Nullah? In the name of cleaning, they remove mud and put it on the sides. It again goes into it. Thousands of crores they have eaten away. In fact, they plan how they will get money next year from it. Water from industries goes into it and if government gets the industries sewerage treatment plant set up at subsided price it will check pollution in the Nullah. Atleast they can do it for industrial units who pay them taxes. The Municipal Corporation can treat domestic pollutants and can create awareness among people to clean it. Congress’s Navjot Singh Sidhu has recently suggested that the state government should form its own laws for the welfare of farmers to meet the “aspirations” of farmers. If AAP comes to power in state, what will your party do for farmers protesting against farming laws? We will do maximum we can do for farmers. Delhi government is already giving 150% more than minimum support price and has implemented many recommendations of Swaminathan committee report. We are doing whatever we can according to law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-should-fast-track-vaccination-suresh-goel/articleshow/81357000.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Ban yarn export to bring down prices: Apparel exporters||Tirupur: Apparel exporters here have sought the Union government’s intervention to check incessant surge in yarn prices.Usually, yarn prices increase with cotton prices, said R Sakthivel of Daffodil Fashion. “Prices go up by Rs 2 to Rs 5 per kilogram. But, this time, there has been a continuous increase, disproportionate with cotton prices. Since December, yarn prices have increased by Rs 65 per kilogram, which is expected to go up. Yarn prices have never gone up so steep in the last few decades,” he said.Exporters are struggling to take new orders and to process existing orders because of the price rally, Sakthivel said. “Its impact would become visible within two months. A lot of apparel units might shutdown due to lack of orders and it will have a ripple effect on the industries depending on them.”Most of the yarn mills in the northern part of the country that used to make a significant percentage of yarn are functioning with 50 to 60% of workforce since the lockdown, said another exporter. “Now, most of them prefer to export yarn rather than sell it in the local market, leading to yarn shortage. This has triggered panic buying,” he said.About 90% of the products exported from Tirupur are core products that can be made in any other country, said V Elangovan, president of the Buying Agents Association. “Already countries like Bangladesh and Vietnam have an advantage over us due to the free trade agreement. In this situation, if we demand retailers in European countries to revise the price, then chances are high that we might lose our orders. It will be very difficult to regain our place.”The government should immediately ban yarn export to bring down prices, Elangovan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ban-yarn-export-to-bring-down-prices-apparel-exporters/articleshow/81357005.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kalyan man accused of ISIS link sent home from jail||Mumbai: Kalyan youth Areeb Majeed, accused of alleged ISIS links after he went to Syria, was released from jail on Friday on bail. The Bombay high court had confirmed his bail on February 23.He had been arrested on November 28, 2014, on his arrival at the Mumbai airport. Observing a likelihood of his “trial being delayed for a “considerable period”, the high court bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale had confirmed bail that was granted by a special National Investigation Agency court last year. The bench had invoked the fundamental right to life in the context of right to speedy trial.The high court had directed his release on bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs1 lakh with solvent surety bond of two solvent surety in like amount and laid down stringent conditions. His father, a Unani medicine doctor, Ejaz Majeed, said his son was released in the afternoon. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-kalyan-man-accused-of-isis-link-sent-home-from-jail/articleshow/81357013.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: Caste factor set to play a big role||Hyderabad: As the fight for the March 14 graduates MLC polls intensifies, a notable aspect which has come out of hectic campaigning is key candidates resorting to caste lobbying. BJP’s sitting MLC and candidate N Ramchander Rao, who is a Brahmin, has to watch out for undidved support from his community as Vani Devi belongs to the same caste and has staked a claim to PV’s legacy. “The old generation Brahmins are certainly looking at PV’s daughter. There could be a spilt in their vote,” said those watching the fast-changing developments in the campaign. Prof K Nageshwar, who has also entered the race from this constituency as an independent, hails from Vysya community. As a former MLC, he is keen to upset the applecart of both the TRS and the BJP. “He enjoys the support of his community and stands a good chance of winning second preference votes,” a political analyst said. In Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates constituency, the three main candidates belong to the strong Reddy community — Palla Rajeshwar Reddy (TRS), Gujjula Premender Reddy (BJP) and professor M Kodandaram (TJS). KCR played the caste card by fielding former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter Surabhi Vani Devi from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-caste-factor-set-to-play-a-big-role/articleshow/81355693.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 6, 2021||Pune||Animal rescue NGO may shut ops over fund crunch||Pune: Animal Rescue Trust Pune, located in Manjari, Khurd, is no longer in a condition to sustain operations amid dwindling donations and rising expenses — so much so that it plans on shutting down in two months. “People are uncertain about whether there will be another lockdown and are not donating as much as they used to. Cruelty towards animals has also increased. With restaurants closed, stray dogs and cats were dying of dehydration and starvation. All these wounded strays are brought to our shelter and treated for free. The monthly expenditure after the pandemic was about Rs4-5 lakh, but less than 5% can be met with donations,” said Vineeta Tandon, trustee and shelter manager. The NGO has applied to be included under section 80G of the Indian Income Tax Act, with an aim to encourage people to donate. But while the paperwork for the same is underway, the plan to bring in some income involves offering outpatient treatment and private consultations at the shelter’s hospital. Farokh Irani, the NGO’s founder, said, “We hope people bring their pets for treatment here and the proceeds will go towards running the shelter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/animal-rescue-ngo-may-shut-ops-over-fund-crunch/articleshow/81355702.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Interstate coordination committee meeting held ahead of election||Udhagamandalam: A coordination committee meeting, attended by officials from the Nilgiris district and border districts in Kerala and Karnataka, was held at the government guest house in Ooty on Friday to discuss the upcoming assembly election.Chaired by Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, the meeting was attended by Nilgiris SP R Pandiarajan, Wayanad collector Adhila Abdullah, Wayanad SP Arvind Sugumar, Malappuram collector K Gopalakrishnan and SP S Sujith Das, and Samraj Nagar sub-collector Girish, besides senior police and Tasmac officials. The meeting mainly discussed the measures to check liquor smuggling across the border. It was decided to set up two more check posts at Kuni and Koththalagundu on the Kerala border, besides the 13 check posts at the border close to Malappuram and Wayanad. Also, mobile check posts will be introduced.Personnel will be on alert to check transportation of gift article, cash and liquor. History-sheeters linked to liquor smuggling will be monitored. If sales of liquor exceed 30% of the average sale, reasons should be elucidated. It was also decided to conduct simultaneous combing operations at border areas vulnerable to Maoist activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/interstate-coordination-committee-meeting-held-ahead-of-election/articleshow/81357003.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Induction furnace owners meet to discuss GST complications||Ludhiana: Induction furnace owners of the city and state are furious over both state and central governments turning blind eye to their problems which are making doing business impossible. On Friday, a large number of prominent businessmen gathered to attend a meeting called by The Induction Furnace Association of North India (IFANI) at a city hotel. According to K K Garg, president of IFANI, “Induction furnace industry of Punjab is facing a huge crisis. The major problems that we are facing are related with GST. Our entire industry is favour of curbing the incidents of bogus billing and tax evasion, but the system being adopted by the state GST and centre GST authorities is not justified as in such cases they block input tax credit (ITC) of innocent companies too due to fault of their suppliers and others in the supply chain. Steel manufacturing industry buys required scrap against tax invoice, but there remain uncertainty about the deposit of the tax by supplier to the exchequer and we have no system to check this. When some supplier defaults the tax payment, it not only results in revenue loss in some cases, but this also leads to portraying of genuine buyer as tainted in the eyes of department. Moreover, option to denial of ITC in the name of fictitious billing in case of non-deposit of tax collected on the sale has exaggerated the woes for the manufacturer and buyer. We request the centre government and GST authorities to pay attention to this genuine problem due to which our industry is facing huge problems.” According to Dev Gupta, general secretary of IFANI, “Besides our woes related to GST the other big concern right now is the manipulation of rates by the illegal SMS services provider operating from Mandi Gobindgarh. These SMS about fake fluctuation in the steel rates have destroyed the normal working of the steel industry. It is difficult to buy raw material or sell finished product as rates changes every hour due to SMS being circulated by a mafia. Steel price are fixed according to the situation of the market on the basis of demand and supply and generally Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), a government of India enterprise fixes the steel rates of the market for the specific monthly period and these rates are available on its websites. But even then some persons who are neither manufacture nor authorised by any competent authority to fix and circulate steel rates, are fraudulently circulating fake and wrong steel rates-prices through bulk SMS mode in every fifteen minutes. There is no physical market in the world, where the steel prices can be changed in every 15 minutes. The main purpose of the aforesaid persons is only to play ‘satta’ (gamble) on the steel fluctuating prices deliberately created by them. But by doing this they are manipulating the rate of the steels just to disturb the market and by doing so they get illegal gains and commissions from the different brokers and traders. Both state and centre government need to immediately curb this practice and deal with these elements at the earliest so that our industry can operate normally, as it was doing years ago when this malpractice was not going on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/induction-furnace-owners-meet-to-discuss-gst-complications/articleshow/81357006.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Palaniswami sure to hit jackpot in ‘VIP constituency’, say supporters||AIADMK cadres in the Edappadi assembly constituency are jubilant after the party’s announcement that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami would be contesting the election from the segment again.EPS had contested six times from the segment since 1989 and won four elections.But this time, cadres are excited over his candidature since the segment has become a ‘VIP constituency’ as it was “none other than the chief minister who is contesting.”“Right from the beginning, we know that EPS would be the candidate. So, it was no much of a surprise for us. We are happy that our constituency has attained so much prominence,” said M Bangaru, a former AIADMK councillor.AIADMK cadres, as well as the public, note that it was from Edappadi, EPS launched the campaign last month.AIADMK men said that as many as 30 functionaries had filed nomination from the segment, but none of them sought tickets for themselves. “All those who filed nomination had sought EPS to be the candidate. We all wanted him to contest and do more for the segment,” said a functionary. The constituency has basic infrastructure like good roads even to interior villages, street lights even in remote areas, playgrounds and drinking water facilities, cadres said.The agrarian constituency has a large population of Vanniyars, who are traditional supporters of PMK, now an ally of AIADMK. Partymen note that in 2016, EPS bagged 98,000 votes while PMK got 56,800 votes.“In 2011, EPS got more than a lakh votes while PMK got 69,000 votes. In both the elections, EPS won even without the support of PMK who came second. Now, PMK is also with AIADMK. So, EPS has an edge over DMK,’’ said an AIADMK functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/palaniswami-sure-to-hit-jackpot-in-vip-constituency-say-supporters/articleshow/81356998.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||PCMC gets new standing panel chief||Pimpri Chinchwad: BJP corporator Nitin Landge was elected the chairman of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s standing committee on Friday. He defeated NCP candidate Pravin Bhalekar. Landge secured 10 votes, while Bhalekar bagged five. Inspector general of registration, Shravan Hardikar, was the election and presiding officer for the polls held on Friday. Earlier this week, BJP corporator Ravi Landge submitted his resignation after he was denied the post of the standing committee chairman. In the 16-member standing committee, the BJP has 10 members, the NCP has four and the Shiv Sena, one. The remaining one member is independent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-gets-new-standing-panel-chief/articleshow/81355694.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||GPS units installed in flying squad vehicles||Coimbatore: Election officials started to fit GPS devices in vehicles used by flying squads and static surveillance teams (SST) on Friday to monitor their movement from the election control room at the collectorate. The devices will be fixed in all the 30 flying squad and 30 SST vehicles within two days.Election officials have identified 64,750 voters over the age of 80, who will be given application from Monday to know whether they want to cast postal votes. “Revenue department staff will approach the elderly people from Monday to issue form 12 D. The filled forms should be submitted to the officials on or before March 16 to ascertain how many of them are interested to cast postal votes,” said an official.The officials also plan to train presiding and polling officers who will be deployed in the 10 assembly constituencies in Coimbatore district. As many as 21,250 polling personnel will be deployed.“Randomization of electronic voting machines (EVMs) will be held at the temporary warehouse at the office of the deputy director of public health at Race Course on Saturday morning. As many as 5,523 control units, 7,414 ballot units and 5,912 VVPATs will be randomized and send to the strongrooms of the 10 assembly constituencies from Saturday,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gps-units-installed-in-flying-squad-vehicles/articleshow/81357007.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Three hospitalised as foreign, Indian cadets clash at IMA||DEHRADUN: A scuffle between gentlemen cadets (GCs) at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) has left three GCs admitted in military hospital with injuries. It is alleged that a few GCs — some from a central Asian country and others who were Indian cadets — got into a physical fight after a heated argument on Wednesday night. A source familiar with the development told TOI, “The fight started between a few GCs, and drew attention when many others also got involved. It is not clear as to what precipitated the fight.” When queried, IMA officials on Friday refused to give any confirmation about the medical condition of the cadets — all believed to be Indian GCs — admitted in hospital but maintained that an inquiry has been ordered in the matter. Earlier on Thursday, the academy had issued a statement that said, “A case of scuffle involving gentlemen cadets undergoing pre-commission training at Indian Military Academy occurred on the night of March 3.The case is being investigated and followed-up.” Meanwhile, reacting to the incident, defence expert and former Indian Army officer Maroof Raza, who has also served as an instructor at IMA, said that such incidents are extremely rare in the academy which is known for its discipline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-hospitalised-as-foreign-indian-cadets-clash-at-ima/articleshow/81358953.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Def Col residents’ notice to SDMC over cell tower on Kushak drain||New Delhi: Residents of Defence Colony have served a cease and desist notice to South Delhi Municipal Corporation, stating SDMC has given permission for installation and building of a cellular communication tower on top of the covered Kushak drain in Defence colony. This is a clear violation of an NGT order, which prohibits any construction or encroachment on Delhi’s stormwater drains. The notice says by licensing the tower work, the SDMC had violated the status quo order of no construction activity in stormwater drains. “On October 21, 2013, in the original application no. 300 of 2013, after hearing the parties at great length and considering the resolution of the UTTIPEC, it was directed that status quo shall be maintained, i.e no further construction shall be carried out in the drains in Delhi; whether manmade or natural. Even Delhi High Court had noticed that there is no consistent policy of the state as to whether they should be covered or not,” said the notice, quoting an NGT judgement. Served by a Defence Colony resident, Rajeev Suri, the cease and desist notice further highlights portions from the Drainage Master Plan of Delhi final report from July 2018, which says storm water drains need to be treated as a key public asset and no encroachment or construction is allowed. It added that violations generally consisted of utilities in drains, or the construction of pillars of elevated roads or the Delhi metro. “You are therefore requested to peruse the judgement and are called upon to immediately cease and desist from proceeding any further on the aforesaid violations. You are requested to take appropriate steps to dismantle the communication tower from the central park, the covered Kushak drain and proceed with full restation immediately, within 24 hours of the notice,” the notice says. The Kushak drain is a 6.5 km-long storm water drain which carries sewerage from locations such as Mehrauli-Badarpur road, South extension-2, Chirag Dilli, Defence Colony and Pushp Vihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/def-col-residents-notice-to-sdmc-over-cell-tower-on-kushak-drain/articleshow/81357015.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Petrol pump manager held for swindling Rs 1 cr||Coimbatore: The district crime branch (DCB) police on Friday arrested the manager of three fuel stations belonging to Coimbatore Lorry Owners’ Association for swindling Rs 1.11 crore.M Anand alias Narayanan, of Sukkampalayam village near Sulur, works as a manager of three petrol bunks run by the Coimbatore Lorry Owner’s Association. The association used to maintain lakhs of rupees in its bank account and the amount would be detected automatically once the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) supplied fuel to the three petrol bunks.Anand had fraudulently withdrawn Rs 1.11 crore between 2017 and 2019 from the account by fabricating bank statements.When the IOC stopped supplying fuel in 2019, association representatives learned that there was no money in the bank account.The association members verified the bank account statements and came to know that Anand had swindled Rs 1.11 crore.Secretary of the association M Viswanathan, 39, from Sulur, lodged a complaint with the DCB police who registered a case against Anand under sections 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) read with 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Police arrested him on Friday and seized Rs 30,000 in cash from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/petrol-pump-manager-held-for-swindling-rs-1-cr/articleshow/81357008.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Two Telugus create India’s 1st blockchain-based social network||HYDERABAD: Two students from the Telugu states — Bhargav Varma and Palem Imran Mohammed — have created CiSAPP (Connect in Single App), which is said to be India’s first blockchain-based social networking platform that can securely connect users on a single platform. The idea, which was conceptualized at a hostel room of Lovely Professional University by the two students, who were then in their second year of engineering, uses blockchain technology to weed out fake profiles and promises to provide 100% privacy and transparency to its users. Both Bhargav and Imran have their own reasons for creating this one-stop social media platform. While a tweet from Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra got Imran thinking, for Bhargav, it was his desire to have a safe place for networking that made him collaborate with his roommate. “In 2018, Mahindra posted a tweet saying if it’s time to consider having India’s own social networking company. This got me thinking,” said Imran, who is from Chittoor district, Andhra Pradesh. “I did my research, found out problems with the current social media platforms, and came out with a solution — CiSAPP. I wanted to create a space where there is no chance of another Cambridge Analytica. Where there are no hackers, spams, or trolls.” Imran said this will be a people’s network where data is not controlled by big tech giants, but stored in decentralized locations, which cannot be used by any third party. Hyderabadi boy Bhargav said he is not on any social media platform as of now as he doesn’t feel safe. “I am someone who will only use a product if I feel safe and know that only I have access to my data. Initially, I wanted to build a social network for my own networking,” he said, and added that over time, he felt that he should collaborate and make it for a larger audience. The CiSAPP app uses a face ID to register a user and verifies whether the registered person alone is using the app at regular intervals and reports any discrepancies. Once a user is reported thrice, his/her account is deleted permanently. The app also has latest features like private encrypted chats and self-destructing messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-telugus-create-indias-1st-blockchain-based-social-network/articleshow/81355731.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||‘Third front is of no meaning in TN right now’||Salem: CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury ruled out the possibility of a third front achieving any success in Tamil Nadu in the current political scenario.A third front would be of no help because the primary objective of the people was to defeat the BJP and the AIADMK, he told reporters in Salem on Friday when asked about Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam forming a third front in the state.“Kamal is a good friend of mine. But in politics, in this sort of a polarization, I don’t think a third front will be of any help because the primary objective is to defeat the BJP and AIADMK,” he said. “I don’t know if the third front is of any meaning now,’’ he said.Under the current scenario, DMK was the best bet to defeat the BJP and its ally AIADMK, he said to another query. “Tamil Nadu needs a change. The best opportunity, it appears, is under the leadership of DMK,” he said. Yechury said that in the past DMK has displayed maturity, responsibility of carrying together everybody. “We hope they will do that,” he said, adding that it would be easier to achieve the objective of defeating BJP when all parties are together.Yechury said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s love for Tamil, expressed by way of quoting Thirukkural, was hypocrisy. “He would do different things to get electoral benefits. Even Covid vaccination is a political electoral programme for him,’’ he said, recalling that one of the nurses who was present during his vaccination was from Tamil Nadu and another one was from Puducherry, which are heading towards an election.Noting that the Centre did not grant the cyclone relief sought by the state government, Yechury said that his love for Tamil was only to deceive Tamil people.On the postal ballots for people above 80 years, Yechury said that the persons who cast postal ballots should be physically verified. “We are waiting to see how the election commission is going to implement the postal ballot system,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/third-front-is-of-no-meaning-in-tn-right-now/articleshow/81357011.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Lucknow||B’luru blank C’garh 6-0, hosts go down fighting||Fazal Khan Lucknow: Bengaluru trounced Chandigarh 6-0 while hosts Lucknow lost to Delhi 3-0 during the ongoing All-India SBI Inter-Circle tournament at Mohammad Shahid stadium on Friday. In other matches of the day, Ahmedabad defeated Kolkata 1-0 while the match between Hyderabad and Patna ended in a draw (3-3). Launching a blistering attack on Chandigarh, Bangalore’s players hit six goals without giving any chance to the adversaries to go on the offensive. The first goal was hit by A Ravi Navalagi in the very first minute of the match followed by a field goal by MR Kripan in the 4th minute. Other goals were hit by KK Santosh (16th & 35th minutes), BM Ganesh (42nd minute) and KM Prakash (45th minute). Delhi defeated Lucknow 3-0 with the help of goals hit by Deepak Bhalla (4th & 59th minutes) and Arun Singh (15th minute). Ahmedabad emerged victorious against Kolkata in another match. Ahmedabad's Naresh Rehtwa gave his team a breakthrough in 50th minute. In yet another closely contested match, Hyderabad and Patna held their nerves to ensure a 3-3 draw. Tharinath Reddy (11th minute), D Nagararaju (12th minute) and Gyan Chand (31st minute) scored one goal each for Hyderabad while Bihar's Rohit Kujur hit twice (22nd & 34 minutes) while Ciril Dhan scored in the 41th minute. LNN Cricket | Nagar Ayukt XI defeated Press XI in a league match of Lucknow Nagar Nigam Cricket Tournament at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Friday. Brief scores | Nagar Ayukt XI: 161/6 in 20 overs (Manish Singh 45 not out, Sonu Bharti 36, Rajveer Ghavri 33; Pranchal 2-30); Press XI: 129/7 (Anish Oberoi 51 not out, Sudhir Tiwari 23; Vikas Singh 3-12, Amit 2-21); Man of the match: Manish Singh (Nagar Ayukt)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bluru-blank-cgarh-6-0-hosts-go-down-fighting/articleshow/81358296.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||DBEE is single-roof solution for young job seekers: DC||Ludhiana: To boost the morale of the youth seeking employment, deputy commissioner of Ludhiana, Varinder Kumar Sharma organised an event at District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE), Partap Chowk. During the interaction, DC talked to youth about their qualifications, aims, interests and also sought suggestions to improve the functioning of the DBEE. He also instructed the officials to ensure that every youth undergoing training under various skill development course must visit the DBEE. Speaking on the occasion he said, “Youth should focus on their goals besides empowering themselves with skill development training being imparted by the state government. As far as DBEE is concerned, it is an asset for us as it has been acting as a single roof solution for the job seekers and job givers in the district. Bureau is a catalyst for transforming the destiny of the youth from district as besides providing jobs, it has been helping in making the youth self-reliant by enabling them to open their own business. Bureau is also helping the youth to become active partners in socio-economic growth of the state. Officials attached with DBEE and other related departments should spread awareness about the bureau and its functioning among the students, either through morning assembly or online classes. Bureau can also make effective use of social media through video messages so that maximum youth can take benefit.” Terming state’s Ghar-Ghar Rojgar scheme a game changer, DC said it will lead in elimination of unemployment from the state by opening up avenues of employment for the youth. He was accompanied by ADC development Sandeep Kumar who also appealed to the industry to come forward and join hands with DBEE for getting skilled workforce. He also thanked president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) Upkar Singh Ahuja for assuring support to the administration in organising job fairs. Deputy director of DBEE, Meenakashi Sharma and deputy CEO Navdeep Singh were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dbee-is-single-roof-solution-for-young-job-seekers-dc/articleshow/81357009.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||AICC secy Goud meets Rahul||Hyderabad: All India Congress Committee secretary and former MP Madhu Yashki Goud on Friday met Rahul Gandhi and briefed him about the political situation in Telangana including the rise of BJP. Sources told TOI that Rahul asked Goud about the prospects of the party in 2023 Assembly elections followed by Lok Sabha polls in 2024. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aicc-secy-goud-meets-rahul/articleshow/81355732.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman hangs self at Narsingi||HYDERABAD: Unable to put up with the harassment of a labourer, a 25-year-old woman committed suicide at Narsingi. Six years ago, the victim, married K Redya Naik, 34, a farmer from Wanaparthy but left due to domestic violence. Recently, a labourer, Unya Nayak, started harassing the victim to marry him. Unable to put up with the harassment, she hung herself on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-hangs-self-at-narsingi/articleshow/81355770.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||Gift on city MLA birthday: Free vaccination for 1,000 BPL people||Nagpur: In maybe the first such move since national roll out of Covid-19 vaccination, private hospital Shri Bhawani Multispecialty Hospital and Research Institute, Pardi, plans to inoculate 1,000 below poverty line (BPL) people free of cost on Saturday. The event has been planned to mark the birthday of BJP MLA from East Nagpur Krishna Khopde. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has provided 1,000 doses to the hospital, saying there is nothing wrong in such charity activities, if all vaccination guidelines are followed. Shri Bhawani Mata Seva Samiti, which runs the hospital, will sponsor the Rs250 per head cost of vaccine for 1,000 people. Samiti president Pandurang Meher told TOI, “Our trust is into various social activities since outbreak of the pandemic. The government has allowed our hospital to be part of the vaccination programme since we are empanelled in its scheme. We have been allowed to charge Rs250 per dose. We are planning to give jabs to senior citizens from BPL category free of cost. Khopde’s birthday is a coincidence.” Private hospitals are allowed to vaccinate only pre-registered people who are 60+ or 45+ with specified comorbidities. Meher said, “Registration and vaccination of walk-ins is not allowed in our hospital. Therefore, we have arranged a computer at our hospital and started registration of BPL people. It will take five or more days to vaccinate the 1,000 people.” Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “Such charity activities from private hospitals or NGOs or public representatives are welcome. But the hospital should strictly vaccinate only pre-registered people from age-appropriate groups. Also, they should not stop inoculation of other people coming to the hospital who are ready to pay Rs250, even during vaccination of BPL people. There should not be any discrimination.” Meher said, “We will vaccinate other people simultaneously with BPL people. We have arrangements for two separate lines and other arrangements for BPL and other categories.” Radhakrishnan said, “There is no minimum or maximum norm for vaccination by private hospital in a day. Only thing is that they will have to follow all norms of Co-Win application. We will not allow hoarding of vaccines, and distribute another lot only after consumption of first one to private hospitals. It is mandatory for private hospitals to pay the government in advance, and then come to NMC with the receipt to take the vials.” As per the hospital’s advertisement, Union minister Nitin Gadkari will grace the free of cost vaccination programme for BPL people at the hospital on Saturday. President of NGO Together We Can Joseph George said, “It is not an actual vaccination of people if any politician is taking mileage. Senior citizens are standing in queues for hours to get the jab. But a hospital pleasing a legislator and few people in the name of vaccination is not proper. This hospital or politician should sponsor vaccination free of cost to all people in the city at private hospitals, which would be a charity, instead of vaccinating selected people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gift-on-city-mla-birthday-free-vaccination-for-1000-bpl-people/articleshow/81357018.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||More relaxations from semi-lockdown in Amravati division||Nagpur: After almost two weeks of near-lockdown situation, the districts in Amravati revenue division in Vidarbha have started offering relaxations to bring life back to normalcy. Giving a great relief to the city traders, Amravati district collector Shailesh Naval ordered relaxation the lockdown, allowing opening of all markets, shops and establishments from March 6. He has allowed opening of markets from 9am to 4pm. The orders came even before the expiry of March 8 deadline of the semi-lockdown. The order will be effective from 6am of Saturday. Naval said that essential services will fully remain open while services at other offices will continue with a staff of 15. “If a shop is found violating the safety measures, it will be sealed and closed for five days, and the owner will be fined Rs8000,” he said. Exactly similar relaxations have been offered in Akola district. The shops are allowed to stay open from 9am to 5pm. District Collector Jitendra Papalkar, who took first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Friday, said that the number of new cases increasing, but it’s due to the increased testing. “While allowing the shops to open, I have asked all the shopkeepers and staff to test them for Covid-19 before joining work. This will ensure more testing and we could trace unknown spreaders,” said Papalkar. In Yavatmal, District Collector M Devendra Singh kept the decision to impose lockdown like restrictions in Yavatmal city on hold for one more day. Now, it will be decided on Saturday. In Buldhana, district collector S Ramamurthi has decided to observe Sunday shutdown of market while offering weeklong business. Even hotels and eateries are allowed to carry on their businesses in day-time. To avoid evening rush, they will provide on parcels from 5pm onwards. In Washim, Guardian Minister Shambhuraj Desai took review on Friday and directed the administration not to impose any further restrictions. “We need to adopt the area-specific attitude to deal with the situation. Overall, cases are rising in some tehsil headquarters only. So, I have asked the district administration to ensure more tests and contact tracing in these towns,” he said. One of the core reasons behind relaxations is that the hospitalization rate of patients is low. Medicines, beds, and health services are available in all five districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-relaxations-from-semi-lockdown-in-amravati-division/articleshow/81355769.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 6, 2021||Goa||GIDC floats tender to appoint mine developer for Dongri-Tal coal block||Panaji: After a lengthy delay of over a year, Goa Industrial Development Corporation has finally issued the tender to appoint a mine-developer-cum-operator (MDO) for the Dongri-Tal II coal mine, which has a 2.9 million tonne per annum (MTPA) capacity. The MDO will be responsible for extracting the coal, which will be subsequently auctioned by GIDC through an online route, said the Request for Proposal (RFP) issued by GIDC. “Goa-IDC intends to commence mining operation as per approved mining plan and mine closure plan for Dongri-Tal II coal mine through an MDO after obtaining all requisite statutory clearances, approvals, permissions, consents, NOCs, etc, pertaining to development and operation of the coal mine,” GIDC said in the tender, which was floated on Friday. In December, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that the Request for Proposal would be issued within 15 days for the coal block. The Dongri Tal–II coal block has been allotted by the Union ministry of coal for commercial mining to GIDC. As per the terms of the allotment agreement, which was signed in October 2019, at least 25% of the coal extracted in a financial year has to be sold to the MSME sectors in Madhya Pradesh and balance coal to other buyers across India. Once GIDC identifies an MDO, a coal mining agreement has to be signed with the coal ministry. For this, GIDC needs to submit a performance security of Rs 163.9 crore to the Union ministry. Lack of financial resources and the state government’s direct refusal to offer a grant to the GIDC prompted the corporation to delay the process. “The MDO shall assist Goa-IDC in the marketing of the coal so as to achieve the maximum sale price against each auction. The MDO will have to submit a performance guarantee of Rs 77.2 crore along with an additional performance guarantee of Rs 163.9 crore, which is equivalent to the performance security that GIDC has to submit to the Union ministry of coal,” the tender document said. The Union environment ministry has already granted environmental clearance for mining of 2.9 MTPA of coal for the coal block in February 2012. Land is in the name of the earlier allottee, the Madhya Pradesh State Mining Corporation Ltd (MPSMC). The MDO will be responsible for transferring the approvals and clearances from MPSMC to GIDC. All additional clearances, licenses, approvals and permissions will also have to be obtained by the MDO. During the initial period of two to three years, the coal will be transported by road to the proposed Gajara Bahara Railway siding. Meanwhile, a dedicated railway line and railway siding will be built near the mine so that coal can be directly loaded on railway wagons for transportation. “The MDO shall prepare a detailed plan, design and project report for construction and operation of railway line from Gajra Bahara railway station to the mine and procure necessary approvals as may be necessary under applicable laws for the setting up and operating such railway siding. GIDC will have to approach and sign an operational railway siding agreement with the Indian Railways for the dedicated track,” the tender document stated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-floats-tender-to-appoint-mine-developer-for-dongri-tal-coal-block/articleshow/81357025.cms||Newton Sequeira
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: HC extends interim relief to Arnab||Mumbai: Bombay HC on Friday extended interim relief to ARG Outlier Media and Arnab Goswami in the alleged TRP rigging case after senior counsel for Maharashtra government Kapil Sibal continued his earlier statement of “no coercive action” till March 16. The HC bench posted Goswami’s plea seeking quashing of the case or its transfer to the CBI to March 16. In another plea by Goswami, the HC bench granted him exemption from personal appearance before an Alibaug court on March 10 in connection with proceedings in the Anvay Naik case.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hc-extends-interim-relief-to-arnab/articleshow/81357036.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||DRDO test-fires solid fuel-ducted ramjet||Hyderabad: The DRDO on Friday successfully carried out flight demonstration based on solid fuel-ducted ramjet (SFDR) technology from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) at Chandipur off the coast of Odisha at around 10.30 am.  “All the sub-systems, including the booster motor and nozzle-less motor, performed as expected,” defence officials said. The launch was monitored by senior scientists of DRDO labs, including DRDL and RCI, in Hyderabad and HEMRL. Officials said many new technologies were proven during the test, including SFDR technology. “The successful demonstration of SFDR technology has provided DRDO with a technological advantage which will enable the DRDO to develop long range air-to-air missiles. At present, such technology is available only with a handful of countries in the world. During the test, air launch scenario was simulated using a booster motor. Subsequently, the nozzle-less booster accelerated it to the required Mach number (the ratio of flow velocity after a certain limit of the sound speed) for ramjet operation,” officials explained. The performance of the missile was monitored using the data captured by electro optical, radar and telemetry instruments deployed by ITR and confirmed successful demonstration of the mission objectives. G Satheesh Reddy, chairman of DRDO, congratulated the team involved in the successful flight test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drdo-test-fires-solid-fuel-ducted-ramjet/articleshow/81355795.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Udaipur||28 +ve in Rajasthan blind school, area declared a hotspot||UDAIPUR: Twenty-eight people — including 24 students, two teachers and peons each — of a government residential blind school in Udaipur’s Ambamata area tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. The school was sanitized and the area declared a containment zone. Two days earlier, a teacher turned out Covid positive here. As it is a residential school, the principal informed the health department and a team took samples of all students and staff, of whom 28 were found Covid-positive. “Most students are asymptomatic while some showed signs of cold and fever. Nine students had gone home and the administration arranged for testing at their residences,” collector Chetan Ram Deora told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/24-students-among-28-test-ve-in-udaipur-blind-school/articleshow/81357020.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mum home to 10.3% of state’s vehicle popn||Mumbai’s vehicular population has almost touched 40 lakh, said the economic survey report. “Of the total registered vehicles in the state, about 10.3% were in Mumbai,” it said. While the two-wheeler population in Mumbai has grown by 3% in a year to 23.6 lakh, there are now 12.7 lakh light motor vehicles, which includes 11 lakh private cars. Mumbai’s vehicle density is now nearing 2,000 vehicles per km, which could mean more cars, bikes and other vehicles on the roads this year. The effects can be felt on the road: interminable traffic jams and a disruption of road-based public transport. —Somit Sen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-home-to-10-3-of-states-vehicle-popn/articleshow/81358302.cms||Somit Sen
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Alwal police arrest thief||Hyderabad: Alwal police arrested a thief, B Shankar at Macha Bollarum market on Friday. Shankar, a native of Assam, migrated to Subhash Nagar in 2015 and started working as a daily wage labourer. Due to financial problems, Shankar started committing temple thefts.In he past two months, Shankar committed thefts in three temples at Jeedimetla. tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/alwal-police-arrest-thief/articleshow/81355748.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||River cleanup: Review of 13 projects shows progress||NEW DELHI: The National Mission for a Clean Ganga (NMCG) has held a review meeting of the progress made on 13 Yamuna projects designed to reduce raw untreated sewage flowing into the river. These projects are expected to treat 1,384 million litres of sewage for cleaning of the river. A senior Delhi Jal Board (DJB) official said several projects had made significant progress since the last review and a team from the central Jal Shakti ministry expressed satisfaction about the work at a meeting on Monday. The two key sewage diversion projects, which have been completed since the last review, include completion of the rising main line from Bharat Nagar to Pitampura and the trunk sewer line rehabilitation for Jhilmil, the official added. “The rising main pipeline will prevent the sewage from several heavily populated areas from reaching the river channel untreated,” he said. The areas include Ashok Vihar, Shastri Nagar, Karol Bagh, Gulabi Bagh, Rampura and Keshavpuram. “The rehabilitated trunk line will divert sewage from Jhilmil Colony and the neighbouring areas to the sewage treatment plant,” the official added. TOI had earlier highlighted how tree felling permission was delaying execution of several STP projects. DJB data shows that 2,901 trees need to be removed under the sewage treatment plants at Rithala and Kondli phases I and II, and the Okhla facility. The permission for some of these projects have been pending with the forest department for eight to 14 months. Officials say the work is now progressing as permissions regarding the transplantation of trees on the STP premises have been received from the department. Other projects in which significant progress has been made include rehabilitation of peripheral sewer line in Rithala. “The work is likely to be completed in the next two months and this will reduce the raw sewage from Jahangirpuri, Ashok Vihar and their neighbouring areas,” the official said. Another key project that is being executed with funds under Namami Gange is setting up of the new Okhla sewage treatment plant, which is expected to be the biggest such facility in the country with a capacity of treating 565 million litres of wastewater every day. DJB states that 50% of the work at Rithala and Kondli sewage treatment plants, which will reduce pollutant levels in the supplementary drain. Both will be completed before December, officials claim. The review meeting was chaired by Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, the director general of NMCG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/river-cleanup-review-of-13-projects-shows-progress/articleshow/81357031.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||Usmani seeks quashing of Elgar 2021 FIR||Mumbai: Sharjeel Usmani, the former Aligarh Muslim University student leader booked for allegedly making a provocative speech at the Elgar Parishad 2021 held on January 30 in Pune, has petitioned the Bombay HC for quashing of the FIR claiming it was “malicious”. Usmani’s matter was scheduled for a hearing before the bench of Justice S S Shinde and Justice Manish Pitale on Friday. But it was posted for a hearing on March 8. Usmani said the FIR dated February 2, 2021, registered by Swargate police against him under Section 153(A) of the IPC at the instance of one Pradeep Gawade, secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, was “no more than a political gimmick” . He sought a stay on the probe and protection against any coercive step by the police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/usmani-seeks-quashing-of-elgar-2021-fir/articleshow/81355817.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Crimes against women, kids dip; benefits hit||Mumbai: While Maharashtra was grappling to control the spread of Covid-19 cases, crimes against women and children reported a decline in 2020 compared to the previous two years. However, expenditure on welfare for women and children has also been hampered, said the Economic Survey of Maharashtra 2020 tabled in the legislative assembly by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday. According to the report, 26.586 cases of crime against women, including rape, abduction, dowry death, sexual harassment and immoral trafficking, were registered in 2020 compared to 37,112 in 2019 and 35,501 in 2018. It should be noted that except for a definition of the ‘crime against women’, the economic survey has neither commented nor noted down any observations on the number of crimes. The report defined ‘crime against women’ as direct or indirect, physical or mental cruelty to women. According to the report, 11,154 cases of crime against children were filed in 2020 as against 17,517 in 2019 and 15,455 in 2018. The report cited the state CID as the source for the information and said the numbers for 2020 are provisional, which means they could either increase or reduce. Among the welfare schemes affected was the babycare kit bag programme for first-time mothers who registered and delivered at healthcare centres and government hospitals. In 2019-20, Rs 44.8 crore was spent on over 2.6 lakh kits, but in 2020-21, till November, Rs 35.3 crore was spent on more than 1.4 kits. Also affected was the Majhi Kanya Bhagyashree Yojna which aims to increase birth rate of girls, stop gender testing and improve their education and health status. An expenditure of Rs 8.4 crore was incurred on 4,100 beneficiaries in 2019-20, while Rs 2.3 crore was spent on 3,538 beneficiaries in 2020-21 till December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-crimes-against-women-kids-dip-benefits-hit/articleshow/81358314.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||16-yr-old stabbed at Ashok Nagar||Hyderabad: A 16-year-old boy was attacked with a sharp edged object at Ashok Nagar on Thursday night. On Thursday night, the victim, Raj Kumar tried to intervene when a group of youngsters were quarrelling. One of the boys, David, 21, got angry with the teenager for interfering and stabbed him in the stomach. The boy was rushed to Gandhi Hospital. Police booked a case against David, who is currently absconding. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/16-yr-old-stabbed-at-ashok-nagar/articleshow/81355812.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Lucknow||Top seed Myneni storms into UP Open semis||LUCKNOW: Top seed Saketh Myneni moved into the semifinal round of the UP Open World Tennis Tour (WTT) ITF Men’s $15000 event at Vijayantkhand Mini Stadium here. The event is being organised by the UP Tennis Association (UPTA) under the auspices of AITA. In a well fought quarterfinal, Saketh Myneni struggled to edge past local lad Siddarth Vishwakarma 6/3, 7/6(2) in a 1 hour 20 minute match. In the semi-finals played on Friday, the unseeded pair of Kaza Vinayak Sharma and N Vijay Sundar Prashanth upset top seed Swedish pair of Filip Bergevi and Mridha Jonathan 6-3, 2-6, 13-11 in a thrilling match. In the second semi-final, Yuki Bhambri and Saketh Myneni fought past young third seeds Anirudh Chandrasekar and Niki Kaliyanda Poonacha 6-4, 6-4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/top-seed-myneni-storms-into-up-open-semis/articleshow/81358307.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccination centres double in dist; record 9.1k take jab on Friday||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad (ZP) have doubled Covid-19 vaccination centres in the district from 45 to 90 on Friday, which saw inoculation of record 9,105 persons, and reduction in crowding at centres to a great extent. NMC has started 14-hour vaccination at its four centres on Friday, which is likely to be followed by other centres in a day or two. The number of private hospitals too increased from 25 to 34, which are also allowed to start 24X7 vaccination. After healthcare workers (HCWs), second dose of frontline workers (FLWs) also started in the district on Friday. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “Crowding reduced to a great extent at all centres. NMC also started three separate lines for HCW-FLW, pre-registered people from age-appropriate groups, and walk-ins at Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital on Friday. This will be extended to all centres in a day or two. It will ensure fast vaccination of HCWs, FLWs and pre-registered people from age-appropriate groups, and also expedite registration and inoculation of walk-ins.” Joshi also said, “NMC’s four centres; IGR, Pachpaoli, Isolation and KT Nagar Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC), on Friday started vaccination from 8am and concluded at 10pm. Earlier, inoculation used to be for 8 hours from 9am to 5pm. The same will be facilitated at other centres soon.” Free of cost vaccination was also started at NMC’s Mahdibagh UPHC and divisional railway hospital on Friday. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B also directed officials to begin inoculation at eight more UPHCs of NMC. Total number of vaccinated HCWs, FLWs and age-appropriate group people on Friday in the district was higher that total number in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Monday and Tuesday. Of the 9,105 beneficiaries in the district, 6,516 were from 60+ and 45+ with specified comorbidities group, and remaining 2,598 were HCWs and FLWs who took first or second dose. In city, number of centres has increased from 28 to 41 on Friday. Of the 2,680 eligible people taking the jab in 16 centres in NMC and government-run hospitals, 1,441 were from age-appropriate groups and 1,239 were HCWs and FLWs. Equal response was witnessed at 25 private hospitals which were paid centres. Of the 2,641 vaccinated here, 2,380 were from age-appropriate groups. Even, HCWs and FLWs started to pay Rs250 for the jab at private hospitals, with 261 HCWs and FLWs taking the first or second dose at private hospitals. In rural, ZP increased centres from 17 to 49, where 3,784 turned up for inoculation, 2,695 from age-appropriate group and remaining 1,089 were HCWs and FLWs. On Thursday, 5,726, of which 4,243 from age-appropriate group and 1,483 HCWs and FLWs had taken the jab at 45 centres, which means beneficiaries have almost doubled in the district on Friday. Joshi also said hourly token system will start at all centres for walk-ins from Saturday onwards. “Tokens will also be issued for other days,” he said. No adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was registered among 9,105 beneficiaries on Friday, excluding one minor AEFI in Parsheoni tehsil, said NMC and ZP. The district has sufficient doses of Covishield, which is being administered at all centres excluding Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). To ensure no shortage of Covaxin at GMCH, NMC has taken permission from the government and reportedly brought doses of Covaxin from Gadchiroli district, which were unutilized. In latest lot, the district did not receive doses of Covaxin. GMCH has been using doses of Covaxin for people from age-appropriate group from among the doses received for HCWs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccination-centres-double-in-dist-record-9-1k-take-jab-on-friday/articleshow/81356992.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||OTS extended till June 16||Hyderabad: One Time Scheme (OTS) has been extended till June 16 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (limits) . People can pay property tax at Mee Seva centers, citizen service centers or approach the bill collectors of their respective circles. Under the scheme, property owners, who have property tax dues with interest, need to pay 10% of their accumulated interest along with principal amount up to 2019-2020 financial year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ots-extended-till-june-16/articleshow/81355839.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur police nabs criminal behind 250 burglaries||JAIPUR: A high-profile criminal, who has committed 250 burglaries in 10 states, was nabbed by the Shyam Nagar police from the Jaipur airport on Thursday along with three members of his gang. Police recovered gold and silver ornaments along with US dollars from Satpal Singh Chauhan, the main accused. The members of his gang who were arrested are Aakash Kumar, Surya Kant Sharma and Kanchan Sharma. According to police, the accused led an extravagant lifestyle and was living in a plush bungalow in Jhunjhunu. He bought new cars before major burglaries, travelled by air for committing crimes, and used debit and credit cards for making purchases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-cops-nabcriminal-behind250-burglaries/articleshow/81357032.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Usmani plea in HC to quash FIR against him||Mumbai: Former AMU student leader, Sharjeel Usmani, booked for allegedly making a provocative speech at Elgar Parishad on January 30, has petitioned Bombay HC to quash the FIR, which he says is “malicious” and discloses no offence. His matter was scheduled for hearing before a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale on Friday. Due to paucity of time it did not reach and has now been posted for hearing on March 8. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-usmani-plea-in-hc-to-quash-fir-against-him/articleshow/81357065.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||High drama in HCBA, as poll panel members offers to resign||Nagpur: High drama prevailed in the High Court Bar Association (HCBA) meeting on Friday after five election committee (EC) members tendered their resignations citing questions being raised on their integrity and credibility, as per its office-bearers. Quoting TOI report where lawyer Shreerang Bhandarkar blamed “some of them” as “biased and incompetent”, the EC members took a strong objection over language being used by a “section of lawyers” that depicted them in a bad light. They were also upset over Thursday’s representation by over 50 lawyers they were allegedly accused of being hand-in-glove with some contestants, who wanted to defer the March 12 polls. Expressing shock over the development, the veteran EC members having several decades of experience requested the HCBA executive committee to constitute a new poll panel. However, after requests from the HCBA office-bearers and several lawyers, the members withdrew their resignations. Over 70 lawyers led by Ravi Sanyal also came in support of the EC members by sending a representation to HCBA, expressing their solidarity with them. “We’ve a complete faith in their impartiality and integrity. We support their highest ethical standards set by them and have full confidence in their honesty, fairness as well as independent and non-political approach,” they said. Sanyal told TOI that earlier representation by over 50 lawyers doubting the integrity of EC members set a bad precedent in the HCBA that had a glorious history. “We’ve full faith in each and every EC member, as we knew them for several years. Those casting aspersions on their conduct should think twice and also take into account that they’re bringing disrepute to their own esteemed institution.” No online voting, but polls deferred to March 25: Following several requests to defer the March 12 election due to a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, the EC members fixed March 25 as the new polling date. With a view to maintain social distancing, the elections would be conducted in five HC halls, of which one would be reserved for women. The panel also ruled out any chances of holding online voting as suggested by the HCBA office-bearers. Atul Pande, who wrote a letter to EC, strongly opposed any plans of e-voting stating that the HCBA lacked mechanism for it. “Even the credibility of online polling will be doubtful. Installing a mechanism for it and making it tamper proof is impossible in such a short span. Moreover, the voters and candidates also need to be aware of how to use an online voting system. Instead, the polls should be postponed for the safety of all voters and no prejudice would be caused to anyone by it,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/high-drama-in-hcba-as-poll-panel-members-offers-to-resign/articleshow/81355889.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Road fatalities in city drop by 53% in 3 years||Deaths due to mishaps in Mumbai dipped by 53% in three years—from 475 in 2018 to 223 in 2020—and in the state by 34%—from 13,261 to 8,747. The economic survey report stated: “There were five accidents per 10,000 vehicles in the state during 2020.” In 2018, there were 35,717 accidents in the state; in 2020, the number dropped to 19,552. Mumbai reported 3,162 accidents in 2018, which reduced to 1,369 mishaps in 2020. —Somit Sen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-road-fatalities-in-city-drop-by-53-in-3-years/articleshow/81358344.cms||Somit Sen
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Woman kills two kids, ends own life in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A woman allegedly killed her four-month-old daughter and 3-year-old son by hanging them before ending her own life at her house in northwest Delhi’s Shakurpur on Thursday. The woman wanted to visit her village for a family ceremony, to which her husband had objected. It looks like following a heated argument over this, the woman took the extreme step, police said. While the husband runs a roadside eatery, the woman was a homemaker. Neighbours told police that the family was facing financial problems. Police said that the woman had recently expressed her wish to visit Madhubani, Bihar, to attend a relative’s mundan ceremony but owing to the money crunch, her husband had objected to it. The couple also had an argument over this on Thursday morning. The incident came to light around 10.30am when the man returned home from work and found that the house was locked. When his wife or kids did not respond for long, he looked through the window and found them hanging from the ceiling. He cried for help after which the neighbours gathered and they together broke open the door of the house. The matter was then reported to police and the woman and her children were taken to a hospital where doctors declared them dead. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said the bodies have been sent for postmortem examination and reports are awaited. “Prima facie, it looks like the woman took the step following an argument with her husband. The incident is being probed from all angles,” she said. A police officer said that since the couple had been married for not more than seven years, a magisterial inquiry has been initiated. Inquest proceedings are under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-kills-two-kids-ends-own-life/articleshow/81357081.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination at DMC heart institute on Sunday||Ludhiana: For the convenience of general public, Covid-19 vaccination will be done on Sunday in Dumra auditorium and main reception area of Hero DMC Heart Institute. Secretary Prem Kumar Gupta said the central government has taken this initiative of conducting Covid-19 vaccination drive on Sunday, for those, who cannot avail facility of getting themselves vaccinated during weekdays. He added that those who would want to come for vaccination are advised to bring an identity document (original copy) at the venue, which can be PAN card/ passport /voter card / state or national driving licence/ bank passbook. They also have to bring Aadhaar card and the registered mobile phone to verify vaccination in Co-Win portal. Those who are above 45+ age, need to bring medical certificate of comorbidities along with them. Only then, they will be registered and vaccinated. A DMCH helpline number 98726 70761 can be availed for any vaccination related enquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccination-at-dmc-heart-institute-on-sunday/articleshow/81357062.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Surat||Eschew populist measures, freebies: V-P||Surat: Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday suggested that the government eschew populist measures including freebies and instead promote entrepreneurship. Addressing the industry representatives at an event organized by Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Naidu said, “The government should encourage entrepreneurship and not distribute freebies. Populistic politics is not good.”He said this while lauding farmers for steady agriculture production along with the frontline health workers who have worked hard in the pandemic. Elaborating India’s potential, the VP claimed that everyone is following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s three-word mantra of Reform, Perform and Transform. “We are a country with 65% population less than 35 years of age and 50% less than 25 years of age. This is the greatest demographic advantage India is having in the world. We are the youngest population.” While he expressed his happiness that the local leaders are strongly representing the issues of the local industries, Naidu was particularly acerbic on the Indian businessmen escaping the country after defaulting huge loans with leading banks. He was critical of the countries that provide a safe haven to them.“Every country should be strict with such people and frame laws that ensure that the criminals are immediately repatriated,” said Naidu, adding that not handing criminals over to the country of origin is not a civilizational stand. Naidu called Surat’s story of growth a positive one. “In India Gujarat is a success story and, in the state, Surat is a positive story of growth,” said the man who, as union urban development minister in 2016, had proposed Diamond City to be developed as a smart city among the first 20 cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eschew-populist-measures-freebies-v-p/articleshow/81354132.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Classroom shortfall up 120% in 5 years||Gandhinagar: Despite allocating a substantial Rs 32,719 crore budgetary fund for improving education in the state, the education department has admitted in the state assembly that there is a massive shortage of classrooms despite the big spending on education. Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, while responding to a series of questions related to the shortage of classrooms at government schools, informed the state assembly that there is a shortage of 18,537 classrooms in the 33 districts of Gujarat. He added that against the reported shortage, only 994 classrooms were built in 2019-20. According to figures tabled in the assembly, there was a shortfall of 8,388 classrooms in 2015. This increased to 16,008 in 2018 and according to the latest survey, the shortfall stands at 18,537 in 2020. This is a 120% increase despite a whopping Rs 1.5 lakh crore having been allotted to the education department over the past five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/classroom-shortfall-up-120-in-5-years/articleshow/81355254.cms||Kapil Dave
March 6, 2021||India||HC notice to Madhya Pradesh govt on ‘love jihad’ law||A division bench of MP high court has issued notices to the state government in response to a petition challenging the legality of Freedom of Religion Act. The petitioner, a Bhopal resident, has sought quashing of the law, contending that it was in violation of Article 14, 19, 21 and 25 of the Constitution. The act, popularly known as ‘love jihad’ law, provides for an imprisonment from three to 10 years if anyone forces a person to convert his/her religion through marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-notice-to-madhya-pradesh-govt-on-love-jihad-law/articleshow/81358957.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Vax drive hit by Covid, 23% drop in BCG jabs||Mumbai: The pandemic has dealt a blow to the routine immunisation programme of infants, children and pregnant women, shows the economic survey. BCG coverage in the state dropped by 23% in 2020-2021 because of Covid-19, in contrast with almost 100% of newborns in Maharashtra getting the anti-TB vaccine within 15 days of birth. The pulse polio drive suffered a setback, resulting in only 25% of children under five getting two polio drops . As for the hepatitis B vaccine, as against 19.32 lakh children meant to receive it, only 8.57 lakh did, a 55% drop. If complete immunization crossed 55% and 57% of targeted children earlier, it did not cross 32% in 2020-2021. In the ongoing financial year, only 43 lakh children could benefit from the pulse polio drive that cost the government Rs 2.24 crore. In comparison, in 2018-2019 and 2019-2020, as many as 1.7 crore and 1.69 crore children benefitted, with the government spending Rs 13 crore and Rs 17 crore, respectively. Universal immunization helps reduce mortality, morbidity and disability from diseases such as TB, diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, polio, haemophilus influenza type B, hepatitis B and measles. Public health experts have warned that in the coming years, the burden due to these diseases would increase. —Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vax-drive-hit-by-covid-23-drop-in-bcg-jabs/articleshow/81358369.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Post office service in PU to continue||Chandigarh: The decision to discontinue postal delivery services at Sector 14 Post Office has been withdrawn by authorities concerned after intervention of PUTA. The post office in PU provides delivery and booking facility to university offices, residents and PU office-bearers. PUTA members said the decision to discontinue postal services was taken but they intervened as the post office plays an important role in the university’s day to day works and is of great help to students, residents and varsity office-bearers. PUTA members met the university registrar and requested the senior superintendent of post office, Chandigarh division, Sector 17, on December 30, 2020 through e-mail and letter to his office to continue postal services in PU. On February 22, the registrar infomed that the delivery of and booking facility to university offices, residents and office-bearers would be provided by the department as usual and post office, Sector 14 would be functioning at its current location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/post-office-service-in-pu-to-continue/articleshow/81357139.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 drown in river in Titwala||Two men from Bhiwandi are feared to be drowned in Khadavali river in Titwala on Thursday. The duo—Moiddin Sayyed and Ahmed Shaikh— had gone to the river for a picnic with their friends. Rescue operations were pressed into action, but the duo haven’t been fished out yet. — Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-2-drown-in-river-in-titwala/articleshow/81357141.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Constable harassed, thrashed in bus||NEW DELHI: A 29-year-old Delhi Police constable posted in the Police Control Room (PCR) unit was allegedly sexually harassed and thrashed by a man inside a moving bus in Dwarka. According to the police, the woman constable was on her way to work when the incident took place on Wednesday afternoon. He also hit her with a helmet when she objected. In her statement, the woman said that “the man started touching her on her shoulder and back. Initially, she ignored and tried to move away but he continued harassing her and touching her inappropriately. After some time, she objected to this, shouted at him and threatened to file a complaint against him. The accused then fought with the constable and hit her on the head with his helmet”. A case has been registered under sections of sexual harassment and assault of the IPC, police said, adding that they have not made any arrest in the case yet. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/constable-harassed-thrashed-in-bus/articleshow/81357138.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Bhopal||Alarm bells ring again in MP: Active cases jump by 1503 in a fortnight||BHOPAL: There has been a slow but upward surge in Covid-19 cases in the state again after more than two months overall there has been an increase of 1503 active cases in the state in past 15 days. And, Friday was the third consecutive day when more than 400 new cases were reported in the state as 457 people tested positive. It is Indore district that has seen maximum increase in active cases in 15 days between February 19 and March 5 wherein the number of active patients in the district increased by 847. Second to Indore is Bhopal, but it has only seen an increase of 76 active cases. Overall five districts including Indore, Bhopal, Chhindwara, Betul and Ujjain account for 1,136 out of the total 1,503 active cases in the state. There are at least 12 districts including Ratlam, Khargone, Shahdol, Jhabua, Datia, Jabalpur, Damoh, Ashok Nagar, Barwani, Niwari, Satna and Dewas where there has been decrease in number of active cases. Government has also issued instructions to step up precautions in the districts bordering other states like Maharashtra. After February 25, more than 300 cases were reported daily in the state prior to it on an average less than 300 cases were reported for nearly two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/caution-call-active-cases-jump-by-1503-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/81355924.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Bhopal||457 new Covid-19 +ve cases reported in MP||Bhopal: A total of 457 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state on Friday taking the tally of Covid-19 patients in state to 2,63,747. No deaths were reported in the state on Friday and it was the third day in March and was also the fifth day in this year when no death case was reported due to Covid-19 in the state. Earlier, it was on February 7 and 13 and on March 3 and 2, this year when no death cases were reported. Prior to this it was only on April 2, 2020 after the first death case was reported in the state on March 25, that no deaths were reported. On Friday, new cases were reported only from 41 of the 52 districts of the state. Of these 41 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from 8 districts. The highest numbers of cases were reported from Indore where 176 tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 77 tested positive and 21 patients were found in Jabalpur district. On the brighter side, 308 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, count of total people who have recovered so far in the state reached 256424. A total of 16,921 samples were tested on Friday and out of it, 417 tested positive, thus a positive rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Friday stood at 2.7%. As on March 5, there were 3,457 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/457-new-covid-19-ve-cases-reported-in-mp/articleshow/81355959.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||Pvt hosps to help senior citizens register through call centres||Kolkata: Private hospitals will start offering registration assistance to senior citizens, who have been struggling to enrol on the website, through their call centres. Two of them are planning to flag it off on Monday to reduce the lengthening queue of senior citizens who have been forced to wait for hours at vaccination sites over the last one week. Another has asked senior citizens to put their personal details on the website and call the hospital for an appointment in case they can’t complete the formalities. The hospitals that were forced to continue on-spot registration on Friday say it has been delaying their vaccination process. On Friday, hundreds of senior citizens waited in long queues for their turn to register and get the dose. While hospitals have decided to continue with the on-site registration for the senior citizens struggling to complete the online formalities, they have activated call centres to help them register. AMRI Hospitals, for instance, will be inviting applicants to leave their basic details at the hospital’s helpline numbers from Monday. “We will register them online, get a slot allotted and inform them so that they can come and take the shot at the assigned time. This will save them from a long wait and the harassment of online registration. We, too, will be able to hasten the process and vaccinate more,” said AMRI CEO, Rupak Barua. While AMRI inoculated around 700 senior citizens and 45-plus recipients with co-morbidities on Friday, the number will climb to one thousand by next week, said Barua. At RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), more than 150 were vaccinated on Friday. RTIICS has already started registering applicants calling up on their helpline numbers. It has hastened the process. “We are helping senior citizens, who can’t register online, over phone. Most of them are not able to secure a slot online after filling in other details. We are helping them complete the formalities. Once the portal starts functioning better, we will provide guidance over phone” said RTIICS zonal director, R Venkatesh. All recipients at RTIICS were registered on the site on Friday. Peerless Hospital continued the on-spot registration only for those who have filled in their basic details on the Co-Win site. “It has helped to speed up the process,” said Peerless Hospital CEO, Sudipta Mitra. Peerless vaccinated 150 senior citizens and 45-plus recipients on Friday. Barring a few, all had to be registered at the hospital. Around 400 people were vaccinated at Woodlands Hospital on Friday and most of them were registered on the spot. “The portal is very slow and senior citizens are finding it difficult to register. But there are others who are coming in with a registration. While we have so far managed it well, the on-spot registration could be a problem once there is a further rise in the number of recipients,” said Woodlands CEO, Rupali Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-to-help-senior-citizens-register-through-call-centres/articleshow/81355951.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
March 6, 2021||Bhopal||Over 64000 vaccinated in state in two days||Bhopal: A total of 46,736 people were administered with first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the state on Wednesday. The vaccination of people aged above 60 years and those aged between 45 and 59 years and having co-morbidities started in the state on Monday and Wednesday was the second day of vaccination, a total of 17,605 people were vaccinated on the first day. Overall a total of 64,341 people falling in this category have been vaccinated in first two days. More than 61 lakh people have to be vaccinated. The beneficiaries were provided with three options, online registration and booking vaccination schedule, onsite registration and then facilitated registration using field health workers. Of the 46,736 people who were vaccinated in the state on Wednesday 42,865 were elderlies aged above 60 years and remaining only 3,871 were people with co-morbidities. Maximum 3,320 elderlies were vaccinated in Indore district, and maximum people with co-morbidities, 596 were vaccinated were also vaccinated in Indore itself. And it was where lowest number of people were vaccinated, a total of only 65 people were vaccinated there which included 46 elderly and 19 people with co-morbidities. Apart from the elderly and people with co-morbidities, second dose vaccination of the health workers as well as frontline workers was also carried out simultaneously. And a total of around 20660 health workers were administered with the second dose of vaccine in the state. Cumulatively a total of around 6.54 lakh health workers and frontline workers were administered with first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the state since the vaccination started on January 16. Now they are being administered the second dose of vaccine which has to be administered to the patients after 28 days of giving the first dose, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-64000-vaccinated-in-state-in-two-days/articleshow/81355933.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Even passport not valid ID in snag-hit birth-death portal||New Delhi: Despite the matter being red-flagged on several occasions, the new birth and death registration portal run by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is still far from being people-friendly. Technical glitches make it hard for people to obtain a certificate and have also led to increased application pendency. Among other issues, even passports issued by the government of India are not accepted as a valid document ID by the portal. SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti has, meanwhile, ordered the public health department to prepare a list of the rejected cases. Reasons behind their rejection will be analysed to identify and remove the technical glitches, he said. Leader of House Narendra Chawla claimed that the issue had been brought to the notice of the department officials on multiple occasions but nothing happened. “A man recently moved an application to get a name added in the certificate. He got a message from the portal that the name had been added and the hard copy was available. The certificate was taken but when he checked on the website, the name was not there. If tomorrow some agency tries to verify the certificate, they will consider it as a fake document. This is a serious matter,” Chawla said in a standing committee meeting. Glitches also don’t allow people to fill in names of father and husband in a specific column on the portal. “Where documents have to be provided for cross-verifying the identity, the portal is not accepting the passport issued by the Government of India. What can be a more verified and secure document than a passport,” Chawla wondered. In the standing committee meeting held in January, senior municipal councillors had raised the issue, saying that the portal had increased the woes of citizens, instead of streamlining the process. Glitches in the form of OTP generation, lack of flexibility with registered mobile numbers and difficulty in filing of locations are making the process lengthy and cumbersome, forcing people to make several rounds of zonal offices. Over 8,000 cases were pending at that time. New portals for property tax collection, certificates and licenses have also been hit by glitches in recent times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/even-passport-not-valid-id-in-snag-hit-birth-death-portal/articleshow/81357171.cms||Paras Singh
March 6, 2021||Goa||Dabolim bizman attacked for Rs 1 crore ransom, two arrested||Vasco: A businessman from Alto-Dabolim, Pramod Dessai, 65, was allegedly attacked by his tenant for ransom on Friday. Police said that the accused forcibly made Desai sign on four cheques and fled. Dessai was later rescued by his worker and neighbours Friday afternoon. Two persons were arrested by the police, while a manhunt has been launched for the main accused, Sanjay Verma, and his accomplices. Sources said Verma was staying in Desai’s guesthouse since last week. The guesthouse is located next to Dessai’s bungalow in Alto Dabolim. Verma would occasionally drop in at Desai’s house, and had developed a camadarie with the latter. In fact, Dessai had lent Verma Rs 20,000 a few days ago. Police are trying to ascertain if both of them were known to each other in the past. On Friday afternoon, when Dessai was alone in the house as his wife and children had gone to work, Verma phoned Dessai to say he has some work with him. Police said that as soon as Dessai ended the call, Verma was at his door with three others. Police said that they suddenly attacked Dessai and demanded a ransom of Rs one crore, and tied him to the bed. As Dessai said he didn’t have the money, they demanded the amount by cheque. They helped Dessai locate the cheque book and forced him to sign on four cheques - three of Rs 25 lakh and one of Rs one lakh. Verma and two others left with the cheques, leaving one person in the room. Suspecting something was amiss, one of Dessai’s workers – Fayaz – called out to him. Verma’s accomplice informed Fayuz that a meeting is under way inside the house and told him to stay out. Fayaz immediately summoned the neighbours, gathered four others and apprehended the accomplice. They later informed the police and handed over the accused to them. By evening, after the manhunt was launched, police arrested another accomplice. Superintendent of police South Pankaj Kumar Singh said that two persons have been arrested, and a case of robbery has been registered, while investigations are being carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dabolim-bizman-attacked-for-rs-1-crore-ransom-two-arrested/articleshow/81357162.cms||Ruvina Khan
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||CMCH commemorates Intl’ Cancer day||Ludhiana: Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), in collaboration with Cankids, an NGO, commemorated International Childhood Cancer Day on Thursday. A three-hour workshop for training ASHA and ANM workers from Ludhiana was organised and 10 Asha, 10 ANMS and eight community health workers employed by CMCH joined the workshop. Punjab is facing a high burden of childhood cancer and cancer in general. Civil surgeon of Ludhiana, Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar was the chief guest. Dr William Bhatti, director of CMCH, Ludhiana, felicitated the chief guest and medical officer Dr Puneet Sidhu. The civil surgeon, in his address, mentioned various responsive government policies like Ayushman Bharat and Mukh Mantri Cancer Rahat Kosh Yojna,, which are currently available for cancer patients. He also talked about the patient-centric plans that the government plans to roll out in the future. Dr Joseph John, head of clinical haematology, emphasised that the reason for the workshop was to help establish a relationship with the ASHA– ANM workers and the hospital. He reiterated the importance for the hospital to integrate with the grassroot health workers, to create awareness of the services and amenities provided by the medical facility. He also empathised that better survival is achievable through timely and accurate diagnosis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cmch-commemorates-intl-cancer-day/articleshow/81357148.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||India||2016 hooch case: Nine of a family get death sentence||PATNA: A special excise court in Bihar’s Gopalganj on Friday awarded death penalty to nine of a family in the 2016 Khajurbanni hooch tragedy that had claimed 19 lives and left two others permanently blind.  The court also awarded rigorous life imprisonment to four women from the same extended family and imposed a fine of Rs 10 lakh each on them. The sentences were passed under the provisions of the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016. All 13 convicts were present in the court on Friday. “This is the first time so many people have been handed capital punishment in a single case in the state... Friday’s sentencing is also the first judgment where capital punishment has been awarded either under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016, which came into force after prohibition was imposed in April 2016 or the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act (Amendment) 2018,” ADG Jitendra Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2016-hooch-case-nine-of-a-family-get-death-sentence/articleshow/81358958.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||FIR filed against 2 doctors in Mumbai for ‘leaving mop in body’ of patient who later died||Mumbai: Two years after the death of a Malad homemaker, an FIR has been registered against two gynecologists for “negligently” leaving behind a surgical mop in her body while performing a hysterectomy. The FIR registered by Dindoshi police is based on a report by an experts’ panel from Grant Government Medical College. The woman’s family members say the past two years have been a “nightmare” and they have exhausted their savings while running from pillar to post to seek redressal. Ganga Sen (45) lived in Malad with her husband and children. In January 2019, she began to experience severe menstrual bleeding and her physician referred her to Jeevan Maternity Hospital, Malad. Dr Sarina Relan and Dr Ramesh Relan performed the hysterectomy, along with their team, on January 13. Even after being discharged from hospital, Ganga continued to complain of abdominal pain and her son, Rahul, took her back to see Dr Sarina. According to the FIR, Ganga was told that pain was experienced sometimes and she would get better. She was given antibiotics. The pain never went away though. Meanwhile, Rahul’s wedding was planned at their hometown in Rajasthan. The family travelled to Udaipur but Ganga’s condition was no better. Another visit to a physician and more antibiotics did not help. On May 6, Ganga was wheeled into J K Hospital at Udaipur after she developed a fever and began to vomit. A CT scan revealed a surgical mop in her body.“She underwent a surgery which was videographed. Doctors took out the surgical mop and told us about the extent of the infection,” said Rahul. Ganga spent another over two months in various hospitals even as the family struggled to foot the medical bills. On July 26, Ganga died at home. Rahul had given a complaint letter to the police before her death. “The protocol in cases of this nature is to send all documents to an experts’ panel at Grant Medical College. If the panel finds a doctor negligent, only then is an FIR registered,” said investigating officer Amol Shinde.Rahul made close to 50 trips in the past two years to the police station, the court and to Grant Medical College for redressal. He was told at the medical college that there was a high pendency of cases. Out of funds, Rahul, who works as a bank peon, moved to Virar with his wife. His father and sisters stayed back in Rajasthan. After the experts gave a report earlier this year, stating the gynecologists had been negligent, the police registered an FIR on March 1. The report also mentioned a separate incident, reported in TOI in 2008, of a surgical mop being left in the body of another patient at the same hospital.TOI reached out to Jeevan Hospital for a comment. Dr Siddharth Relan, husband of Dr Sarina, said she would get back if she wished to talk, but there was no response. “There is a need for courts to direct the administration to formulate appropriate guidelines pertaining to medical negligence cases. The experts’ panel could add a judicial member in addition to doctors, which would bring transparency to the process. As the police are yet to make any arrest, we may approach Bombay high court with a PIL (public interest litigation) for speedy disposal of such cases,” said advocate Tanya Jha, representing the Sens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fir-filed-against-2-doctors-in-mumbai-for-leaving-mop-in-body-of-patient-who-later-died/articleshow/81355986.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 6, 2021||Bhopal||Chouhan warns night curfew in Bhopal, Indore from March 8||Bhopal: Alarmed by the rise in Covid-19 cases in Bhopal and Indore, chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Friday that if the Coronavirus cases in the two cities don't decline in the next three days, night curfew will be imposed there from March 8. He also directed that no person without a Covid-19 negetive report must be allowed entry into MP from Maharashtra. Speaking at a Coronavirus review meeting at Mantralaya, Chouhan said that Coronavirus cases in Bhopal and Indore are consistently rising and strict enforcement of mask and social distancing norms is a must. He further said that six Coronavirus patients found in Indore have the London variant of the virus, which is more lethal as it spreads more rapidly. He said there has been an average increase of 151 Coronavirus patients in Indore daily over the past week, 78 in Bhopal, 16 in Jabalpur, 13 in Betul and 11 each in Chhindwara and Ujjain. He said the number of Coronavirus cases in Indore have become double in a fortnight. It's imperative to enforce the Covid-19 norms in Bhopal and Indore stringently. Chouhan appealed to traders to wear masks themselves and enforce social distancing norms in their shop and market. If traders sit in their shop without wearing a mask or allow customers in their shop, who are not wearing masks, action would be taken against them. "Roko Toko" campaign to persuade people not to give up precautions for protection from Coronavirus will be started again at Bhopal and Indore. Chouhan said that the number of Coronavirus patients are increasing in Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Betul, Chhindwara, Ujjain and districts bordering Maharashtra. The Coronavirus situation can't be allowed to deteriorate in the state under any circumstances. Passengers arriving from Maharashtra will be allowed inside MP only if they have a Corona negative report and bus operators will be responsible to check it. They should allow passengers only with covid negetaive certificates to board their buses bound for MP. Checking on the borders of the state should be tightened. A strict vigil should be maintained on districts bordering Maharashtra, he said. He said use of masks should be compulsory in all the educational institutions and an awareness campaign should be launched among the students for use of masks. Chouhan said that all necessary arrangements should be made at the Coronavirus vaccination centres. There should be proper sitting arrangements. There should be provision of shed, water, wheelchair and requisite facilities required at the time of observation after vaccination. He appealed to NGOs to make arrangements of water, tea and sharbat at the vaccination centres. He said in addition to a certificate of vaccination, those vaccinated should also be given a card to guide them informing about the next date of vaccination, other information and precautions they are supposed to exercise. It was informed at the meeting that vaccination work is being carried out at 469 centres. The number of centres will increase to 1,808 from March 11 and by this month end, there will be 5,595 vaccination centres. So far, the first dose of vaccine has been administered to 3,66,528 health workers and 3,02,165 frontline workers. Among people of 60 years and above and 45 years with comorbidities, 1,03,911 people have been vaccinated, so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-warns-night-curfew-in-bhopal-indore-from-march-8/articleshow/81355978.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||Officials booked for illegal plotting on agri land in Vikasnagar||Dehradun: A case of fraud — under sections 423, 217, 120-B of the IPC — was registered against several officials of the forest department and Doon Valley Special Area Authority for allegedly giving nod to illegal plotting on 400 acre land in Vikasnagar between 2007 and 2014. The case was registered after a PIL was filed in the Uttarakhand high court against illegal plotting on agricultural land around Herbertpur, Vikasnagar and Dhakarani of Doon Valley Special Area Authority (Sada) area during the aforementioned period. It was alleged that without changing the category of the land, fruit-bearing trees were cut and the land was made ready for commercial purposes. After an SIT investigation, a case has been registered at Kalsi police station in which case several officials have been booked. Talking to TOI, station in-charge, Kalsi, confirmed that a case has been lodged and the further investigation will clear the names of the officials who were responsible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/officials-booked-for-illegal-plotting-on-agri-land-in-vikasnagar/articleshow/81354628.cms||Abhijeet Singh
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Forex firm raided in Mumbai, Goa||Mumbai: Enforcement Directorate searched premises of a forex firm, Full-Fledged Money Changers, in Mumbai and Goa on Friday for violating FEMA rules. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/forex-firm-raided-in-mumbai-goa/articleshow/81357201.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Goa||Covid toll touches 800-mark||Panaji: Goa’s Covid toll touched the 800-mark on Monday as one more death was reported. A 43-year-old man from Old Goa who was admitted to Goa Medical College (GMC) with respiratory failure two days ago, died. The man also had morbid obesity. The state reported 79 more cases and 42 recoveries, pushing the active tally to 674. The case positivity rate went up to 4.9%. Twelve patients were hospitalised and 31 home isolated. Caseloads of urban health centres at Margao and Panaji rose to 98 and 77 respectively. In North Goa, primary health centres of Candolim and Porvorim witnessed a marginal rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-toll-touches-800-mark/articleshow/81357175.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Delhi||CBSE releases revised datesheet for boards; no exams from May 13 to 15||NEW DELHI: Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday issued a revised datesheet for Class X and XII board exams. According to the revised datesheet, no exam will be held between May 13 and 15. Eid is likely to fall on one of these days. Class X science exam has been deferred to May 21. Earlier, it was scheduled for May 15. Mathematics exam, which was scheduled for May 21, will now be held on June 2. For Class XII science students, Physics exam, which was scheduled for May 13, has now been postponed to June 8. Mathematics and Applied Mathematics exams will be held on May 31. For humanities students, Geography paper will now be held on June 3. The board has also uploaded guidelines for practical exams. The practical examination project internal assessment shall be conducted from March 1 to June 11 and no extension of date shall be considered. The board will appoint external examiners in each school for conducting practical examinations and project assessment. School managements are not authorised to make alternative arrangements for conduct of practical examination, project assessment at local level. They have been strictly said that practical examination can only be conducted by an examiner appointed by the board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-releases-revised-datesheet-for-boards-no-exams-from-may-13-to-15/articleshow/81357270.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Goa||Aim for self-sufficiency, CM tells corporations||PANAJI: The state government has directed its corporations to become financially ‘swayampurna’ (self-sufficient) by bidding for contracts floated by central government departments and aim to reduce dependency on loans. The government has directed corporations to submit their ideas and plans in this regard. Sawant said tht Goa state infrastrucutre development corporation (GSIDC) is a government of Goa PSU, and they can bid for contracts of central government works Chief minister Pramod Sawant also interacted with Ambassador of Italy, Vincenzo De Luca and discussed various investment opportunities in the state in sectors such as renewable energy, food processing, infrastructure, digital platforms and tourism. Sawant on Friday held a meeting with GSIDC, Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC), Economic Development Corporation (EDC), etc, to discuss various issues, including taking steps towards Swayampurna. Speaking to mediapersons, the chief minister said he held discussions with various corporations. “When we say that we will make Goa swayampurna, we also have to make corporations swayampurna, and we will initiate steps from next financial year,” he said. The chief minister said that corporations can take up central government works. “We have the Navy, Railways, Goa Shipyard, etc, who outsource their contracts. We want our corporations to bid for those tenders and bag these contracts,” he said. Sawant said that these entities award contracts to public sector units (PSU) of Government of India. “GSIDC is a Goa government PSU. They they can bid for such contracts,” he said. Sawant said as GSIDC chairman, he has instructed the corporation to approach central government offices for contracts. He also said that he will outline steps on reducing the outstanding loan amount of GSIDC in his budget speech. Last week, Sawant on Monday launched Swayampurna Goa in municipal areas and said that civic bodies should avail of various schemes of the state and central governments to provide better facilities to the public. He also said that unnecessary funds will not be allocated to municipalities as money allocated earlier was found unutilised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aim-for-self-sufficiency-cm-tells-corporations/articleshow/81357211.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||AAP slams Uttarakhand budget, calls it ‘impractical’||Dehradun: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has criticised the state government over the 2021-22 Uttarakhand budget that was presented by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in the assembly at Gairsain on Thursday. Calling it an ‘impractical budget', AAP spokesperson Ravindra Anand said, "It is clearly evident that the state government presented the budget keeping in mind the assembly elections slated to take place early next year. CM just made announcements without realizing where the money will come from." Anand added that the state is already under debt and there is nothing for the farmers and the common man in the budget. AAP is also not impressed with the state government's decision to make Gairsain, summer capital of Uttarakhand, as headquarters of the third commissary after Pauri and Nainital. "The state government has announced spending a huge amount of money in Gairsain, which is not financially feasible looking at the current financial condition of the state. It is a political gimmick through which the government wants to swing votes," added Ravindra Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aap-slams-uttarakhand-budget-calls-it-impractical/articleshow/81354633.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 6, 2021||Goa||2 undertrials flee from Colvale jail||Panaji: Two undertrials — Upendra Naik, 23, a native of Odisha, and Hussain Kod, 37, a resident of Moti Dongor but originally from Karnataka — fled from Colvale Central jail on Friday evening. Naik was undergoing trial in a murder case, while Kod was arrested in connection with the rape of a minor. Mapusa police said they received intimation about the missing accused after 7.30pm. The accused along with others were brought out of their cells in the evening as per routine. “Their absence became known during the prisoners’ roll calls,” a police personnel said. A search was conducted within the jail premises, but they were not found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-undertrials-flee-from-colvale-jail/articleshow/81357199.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to provide legal, financial assistance to women fighting litigation against husband, in-laws||Gairsain: In a first of its kind move, the Uttarakhand government will provide financial and legal assistance to women who have an ongoing litigation against their husbands or in-laws in a court. The state has earmarked a provision of Rs 3.6 crore in its budget for the purpose. The government said that cases where women are financially dependent upon their husband or in-laws (against whom they are fighting litigation) will be identified for the scheme. “We will form a committee which will look into each case and decide upon the amount of financial assistance to be provided to the woman concerned. However, working women who are getting a salary or are earning through businesses will not get benefits of this scheme,” chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Friday during the ongoing assembly session at Gairsain. The CM added that legal assistance and ration items will also be provided to the woman if needed. “Often, a woman doesn’t have the option to take legal action against her husband or in-laws. In such situations, the woman takes an extreme step (commits suicide) or runs away from home. So, we have decided to provide them assistance,” he said. Rawat added that the focus of this budget has been to address women’s concerns. The state had recently introduced the CM Ghasyari Kalyan Yojna to provide fodder to women at subsidised rates, who often have to venture into jungles for fooder, putting their lives at risk. Rough estimates show around 70 per cent of the population in the hill state are associated with animal husbandry. Using technology, the government aims to convert agricultural residue into high-quality fodder. Rs 25 crore has been allocated for the scheme, under which the government aims to produce 10,000 metric ton Total Mixed Animal Ration (TMR), which will be made available to women. The CM added that while the Saubhagyawati Yojna aims to provide food, clothes and blankets to women and their newborns, the government also plans to give commando training to 1 lakh women. Uttarakhand recently inducted its first all-women commando Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), whose first deployment will be at the Haridwar Maha Kumbh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-to-provide-legal-financial-assistance-to-women-fighting-litigation-against-husband-in-laws/articleshow/81353755.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 6, 2021||Goa||Foggy conditions dampen spirits of cashew farmers, distillers||PANAJI: Cashew farmers and feni distillers, who until last month were pinning hopes on a fruitful season, are now fretting that the foggy conditions prevailing in the since the past week will affect cashew crops. While the flowering of cashew trees has been satisfactory, harvesting of cashew apples was delayed by at least 15 days. “We have started crushing cashew apples over the last few days, but the season has been delayed,” president of the Goa State Cashew Feni Producers, Distillers and Bottlers Association, Gurudatta Bhakta, said. With the quantum of cashew yield still being marginal, farmers and traders are keeping their fingers crossed and hoping for a decent season as opposed to the one last year that was marred by the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown. Hansel Vaz, a South Goa-based distiller, said the worries among cashew farmers are palpable. “This season might not be good. The first flowering was not optimal. By the end of February, we should have seen cashews, but it did not happen. The second flowering was encouraging, but last week has seen heavy dew and that is not a good thing,” he said. Their worries were compounded by unseasonal rain a few days ago. Vaz said that while light showers are not a problem as they create much-needed moisture for vegetation, heavy rain is definitely a cause for concern. Tukaram Haldankar, director of Haldankar Cashew Industries, said they too have started crushing but are falling short of the required quantity of apples. Only if the weather improves can they hope for a better season, he said. Vaz said if the present weather conditions – hot days and cool or dewy nights – continue, there are likely to be incidents of fire. “Two days ago, an orchard in South Goa caught fire and was destroyed. So farmers will have to be alert as most have not insured their crops,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/foggy-conditions-dampen-spirits-of-cashew-farmers-distillers/articleshow/81357239.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Vadodara||New mayor for Barodians on Wednesday||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will hold the first general board meeting of the newly elected corporators on Wednesday. The mayor and deputy mayor will be elected in the meeting along with 12 standing committee members for a period of 2.5 years.The recent VMC polls had seen the BJP trounce the Congress by winning 69 of the 76 seats and only seven seats going to the Congress. The saffron party will now have its corporators elected as mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee members.The first general board meeting of the VMC will be held in the Gandhi Nagargruh to ensure that social distancing is maintained during the meeting in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The agenda for the meeting was brought out by the civic body late on Thursday evening.The post of the mayor for the 2.5-year-term is reserved fora corporator from the general category. Several male corporators elected on general category seats are eyeing the post. As per tradition the BJP may pickup a woman corporator for the remaining key posts of the deputy mayor and the standing committee chairperson.The 12 members who will be elected on Wednesday will be called for a meeting. They will formally elect a chairman from amongst themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-mayor-for-barodians-on-wednesday/articleshow/81354642.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||233 fresh cases in Haryana, 124 recover||Chandigarh: As many as 20,345 people were administered the Co-Win in Haryana on Friday, including 14,158 with co-morbidities and above the age of 60 years, who got the first dosage of vaccine. Gurugram remained the at the top among districts with 4,437 persons being given the vaccine, while Nuh was at the bottom with only 13 coming forward for the vaccine shots. Meanwhile, the state reported 233 new cases, one death and 124 recoveries during the day. The state now has 1,723 active cases. The only death was reported from Yamunanagar district. At 51, Gurugram district led in new cases as well, followed by Panchkula (41), Panipat (23), Kaithal (21), Karnal and Kurukshetra (19 each), Ambala (15), Faridabad (12) and Yamuananngar (11). The remaining 13 districts reported less than 10 cases, including six — Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Palwal, Mahendragarh, Rohtak and Rewari — with zero positive case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/233-fresh-cases-in-haryana-124-recover/articleshow/81356001.cms||Manvir Saini
March 6, 2021||Goa||Avni exhibition at Goa state museum||Panaji: Avni, an initiative to provide livelihood to socially and economically marginalised women in Goa using recycled material and traditional Kantha embroidery will present its works at the Goa state museum, Adil Shah Palace in Panaji, on March 12. Art and culture minister Govind Gaude will be the chief guest and the director of the Goa State Museum, Radha Bhave will be the guest of honour on March 12. The exhibition cum sale will be on till March 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/avni-exhibition-at-goa-state-museum/articleshow/81357260.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM, health minister get first jab of vaccine||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday took their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Civil Hospital in Mohali. The chief minister urged all those who are eligible to get inoculated. “I got my first shot of #Covid 19 vaccine today. I urge all above 60 years of age or above 45 years with co-morbidities to get the vaccination dose as soon as possible. We all need to come together to defeat #Covid 19 and I'm sure we will.#MissionFateh,” the chief minister tweeted. After vaccination, Capt Amarinder said, “It was painless and I am feeling fine”, according to a tweet by his media adviser who also posted a short video in which auxiliary nurse Manpreet is seen administering him the vaccine. The Centre government had last week announced that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. After receiving the jab, the health minister said the vaccine is safe and so far, no adverse effect of vaccination has been reported from anywhere. He lauded the efforts of health care workers and frontline workers for working tirelessly to curb the spread of the virus. He added that even though the vaccine is being given the world over, caution is still needed. People should cover their faces with masks while moving out and keep the necessary distance from each other. On Friday, 9,968 eligible people received their first dose of vaccine in the third phase of the ongoing drive. A total of 2,710 frontline workers and 2,003 healthcare workers were given their first dose. As many as 1,901 healthcare workers and 1,901 frontline workers were given their second dose of vaccine. Till date, 1,78,371 health and frontline workers have received the first dose and 47,000 have got the second dose. 1. Total vaccinations so far in the state | 178371 2. No. of 2nd dose given | 47000 3. No. of healthcare workers given 1st dose | 95872 4. No. of healthcare workers given 2nd dose | 45727 5. No. of frontline workers given 1st dose | 82499 6. No. of healthcare workers given 2nd dose | 793 7. 60+ population and 45+ with co-morbidities vaccinated with first dose | 23609||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cm-health-minister-get-first-jab-of-vaccine/articleshow/81355999.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Raut seeks dismissal of woman’s pleas for a probe against him||MUMBAI: Senior Shiv Sena leader and spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Friday denied before Bombay high court all allegations of harassment by him in a stalking complaint a city doctor had made against unknown persons a few years ago, and through his counsel said she was “like a daughter to him”. Senior counsel Prasad Dhakephalkar appearing for Raut opposed petitions filed by the doctor who sought a “thorough investigation” into three of her FIRs. The woman, represented by advocates Abha Singh and Aditya Pratap, alleged harassment by Raut and said though she had registered three FIRs in Mahim and Vakola police stations in 2013 and 2018 against unknown persons who had allegedly attacked her, the police had not investigated who was behind the alleged crime. Raut’s counsel pointed to her alleged marital dispute and said her allegations against the MP were based perhaps on her feeling that he was siding with her husband. Abha Singh strongly objected to any reference to her client’s marital dispute and said she was before the court on her own cause. Singh referred to an FIR and sought orders for investigation to ascertain if Raut had any role in the case. She also sought orders for directions against a deputy police commissioner for alleged laxity in acting on her client’s “urgent complaints’’. Dhakephalkar sought dismissal of the petitions. The state public prosecutor, Deepak Thakare, said it had already filed a chargesheet in one of her FIRs which is not against Raut. None of the cases name him as an accused, said Dhakephalkar. The PP said two cases have been closed and an A-summary report was filed a few years ago. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale asked the state to furnish a copy of the chargesheet to the petitioner and posted the matter for further hearing on March 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-raut-seeks-dismissal-of-womans-pleas-for-a-probe-against-him/articleshow/81357283.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||Hold insurance claim as Rishiganga power project authorities not co-operating in rescue, help to victims: Chamoli DM to insurance company||Dehradun: In a letter to the authorities of New India Assurance company, which had insured the Rishiganga hydropower project, district magistrate of Chamoli, Swati Bhadauria, has asked them to hold the insurance claim of the power project firm as it has “neither helped the administration in rescue operations nor has come forward to help the victims and their kin.” According to sources, the Rishiganga power project authorities have sought an insurance claim of around Rs 110 crore from New India Assurance Company. Talking to TOI, Bhadauria said that the insurance firm authorities have given verbal assurance to consider the administration’s request. “The Rishiganga power project company has not taken any action to support their own staffers so far. They haven’t helped the administration either in relief work nor have they provided any assistance to the families of the victims and missing people,” said the DM. She added that withholding their insurance claim will force the power firm to settle the dues they have towards their own workers on priority. The Chamoli administration in its letter to the insurance firm also maintained that “there is dissatisfaction among the people due to the attitude of the firm.” Atul Sahai, CMD of the New India Assurance Company Limited, when queried about the matter, said that the owner of the Rishiganga power project was given an ‘Industrial All Risk policy’ under which the claim can only be entertained when the property is reinstated. “As per my information, the reinstatement process hasn’t started as yet so the compensation claim is not applicable so far,” added Sahai. Meanwhile, the officials of the Rishiganga power project could not be reached despite several attempts by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hold-insurance-claim-as-rishiganga-power-project-authorities-not-co-operating-in-rescue-help-to-victims-chamoli-dm-to-insurance-company/articleshow/81353766.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||10 staffers test positive for Covid at Mumbai eatery||Mumbai: At least 10 staff members of a popular food joint in Andheri tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week. BMC has sent all 10 to its Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) Covid centre while their high risk contacts have been told to quarantine themselves in an SRA building in Jogeshwari that the civic authority has turned into a Covid care centre (CCC-1). Amidst the surge in Covid cases in the city, BMC has once again aggressively started testing for the virus. Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s K-West Ward, said, “Earlier this week, during our testing of commercial establishments in the ward, we also tested the staff of Radha Krishna restaurant and found that 10 of the 35 were Covid positive. We immediately directed the eatery to shut shop and get the entire premises sanitised. The 10 were then shifted to the Covid centre at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) while high risk contacts have been moved into a CCC-1.” Mote further said the restaurant had been asked to stay shut for two days and also deploy new staff for both cooking as well as serving. “We would be sending our teams to check whether they have deployed new staff,” he said. When TOI contacted the eatery on Friday, John Mathias, its manager, said the food joint was open and they had got staff from other restaurants for now. Andheri resident and advocate Godfrey Pimenta said the restaurant has been around for four decades. “It is frequented by several locals as well. I remember visiting it during my school days too. Tracing all high risk contacts will be a huge challenge for the civic authorities as well. While maintaining social distancing, use of masks and sanitisers at hotels is a good precaution, the staff at these eating outlets should also be periodically tested. It may not be possible to get everyone tested very frequently considering the costs, but then random testing could be undertaken,” said Pimenta, adding that it may be difficult to put on masks at all times while eating at a restaurant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-at-mumbai-eatery/articleshow/81356003.cms||Richa Pinto
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||Rashika Jain death: Kolkata cops check tech evidence||KOLKATA: Probing into the mysterious death of 25-year-old Rashika Jain on February 16, cops are analysing technical inputs collected through social media chats, SMSs and telephone calls. Cops are also planning to record the statements of the woman’s parents before the court. Some investigators suspect that there might be a disagreement between the Alipore couple regarding a kin or acquaintance. Over a dozen statements that have significance in this case have been recorded so far, claimed sources. Cops want to gather further technical evidence after they came to know from her in-laws that the couple had travelled within and outside the country between November and February 11. However, the detective department has remained tight-lipped on the probe on Friday. Human rights organization APDR has demanded that cops take a quick action in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rashika-death-cops-check-tech-evidence/articleshow/81356000.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 6, 2021||Goa||Goa’s first solar ferry to be ready by October: Govt||PANAJI: The electric-cum-solar ferry boat that is being built by Aquarius Shipyard at Divar for the river navigation department (RND) will be ready by September-October, said senior government officials. They said that RND is open to the vessel being used for passengers as also for evening river cruises along the Mandovi and Zuari rivers. Given that the solar-powered vessel costs more than Rs4 crore to build, the navigation department currently does not see the viability in replacing the existing diesel-powered ferry boats which cost approximately Rs60-70 lakh to build. “We are looking at two options. One is to revive the Panaji-Aldona route for passengers and we are also open to cruises along the Mandovi and Zuari rivers,” said an official. “We will see the performance of the solar ferry for six months to a year and then decide what to do.” Speaking recently at the Maritime India summit, captain of ports (CoP) James Braganza had said that the keel for the electric solar boat had already been laid and was expected to be completed over six to seven months. The hybrid boat will have an operational speed of 12 knots and will be able to ferry 60 passengers. In November 2018, a delegation from Goa visited Kerala which was the first to introduce solar-powered passenger vessels in India. From that visit the delegation decided to commission a solar-powered ferry boat on a trial basis in Goa. Meanwhile RND is also phasing out older conventional ferry boats and is introducing newer ferryboats along existing ferry routes. “A contract for two ferries has been given to Vijai Marine. The newer ferries are a lot safer. Many of the ferries were more than 30 years old and suffered frequent breakdowns,” said a government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-first-solar-ferry-to-be-ready-by-october-govt/articleshow/81357277.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Husband arrested in ‘Triple Talaq’ case||BHOPAL: After two years of marriage, a man allegedly pronounced 'Triple Talaq' and left his wife at her mother's home in Talaiya. Acting on the woman's complaint, Talaiya police on Thursday registered a case against the accused on charges of verbal abuse, threatening and 'Triple Talaq' under relevant sections of IPC and Muslim Women (Protection of right on marriage) Act of 2019 and started the investigation. The accused was arrested on Friday and produced before the court from where he was sent to jail. Investigation officer ASI Gopal Singh said, the accused Mohammed Shanu, married the survivor, 23, a resident of Talaiya, in September 2019. The woman alleged that the accused used to force her to bring money from her mother citing that she was in a government job. When the wife refused, he harassed her. After lockdown, his harassment intensified as his job was irregular. She told police that on March 3, she was at her mother's home when the accused Shanu reached the spot and started quarrelling with her in front of her mother. When the survivor's mother and other family members tried to resolve the matter, the accused became furious and hurled abuses at her. He pronounced 'Triple Talaq' and went away, saying that their relationship was over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/husband-arrested-in-triple-talaq-case/articleshow/81356010.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||2 inter-state smugglers held with 3kg opium||Ambala: A special task force (STF) on Thursday arrested two residents of Bihar and Jharkhand states after allegedly recovering 3.20kg opium from them near Ambala Cantonment bus stand flyover. The police said that the arrested accused have been identified as Sanjay Das of Bihar and Jitender Kumar Yadav of Jharkhand. Ambala STF in-charge deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kulbhushan Sharma said, “Both accused were produced in the district court on Friday, which granted their two-day police remand for further investigation.” Meanwhile on the complaint of sub-inspector (SI) Ram Kumar, a case has been registered against both these accused under Section 18 (punishment for contravention in relation to opium) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at Parao police station on Thursday. Ram Kumar stated to the police, “On Thursday evening, STF unit Ambala was present near Mohra village on GT Road when a tip-off was received that Sanjay Das of Bihar and Jitender Kumar Yadav of Jharkhand supply opium in Haryana and Punjab. It was informed that they would be arriving from Jharkhand with contraband in large quantity at bus stand Ambala Cantonment. Accordingly, checking was started and two suspects were seen walking with polythene carry bags in their hands and they were stopped for checking. After checking 3.20kg opium was recovered from possession of both accused.” DSP Kulbhushan said, “The interrogation will be done from the first supplier of this contraband and further action will be taken as per law.” The DSP added that the team that nabbed the inter-state smugglers included SI Ram Kumar, ASIs Jitender Kumar and Subhash Chand, head constables Sandeep Kumar, Jagmohan and Nirmal Kumar, contable Randeep Singh of STF unit Ambala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-inter-state-smugglers-held-with-3kg-opium/articleshow/81354645.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Covid curbs to stay to ensure minimum loss of livelihood||Chandigarh: Underlining the need to continue Covid appropriate behaviour, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said that safety restrictions and norms in the state shall continue, while ensuring minimum, if any, loss of livelihood to the citizens of the state. Claiming the state was successful in managing the pandemic, he said that a year since the pandemic broke out, he could say with satisfaction that “we have done well, thanks to the hard work of all the health and frontline workers, district and police administration, NGOs, local representatives, and above all, the people.” Punjab was thought to be potentially a high-risk state given its international airports, and a large diaspora, but despite being over 2.5% of India’s population, the cases reported in Punjab have been relatively much less @ 1.6% of the country’s 1.1 crore cases, he said, disclosing that 5,887 persons have unfortunately lost their lives in Punjab, with a current positivity rate of 2.3%, “which is otherwise low but should give us no cause for complacency”. It appears that India is experiencing a second wave “so we have to be prepared for it”, he warned. He listed out various measures taken by his government to strengthen health care facilities to treat those affected by the virus as also to track and trace others to prevent its spread, including ramping up testing capacity from NIL in March 2020 to around 30000 individual tests per day, among other initiatives. Lauding the role of the farmers in ensuring successful procurement even during the pandemic, he said a total of Rs 62000 crore had been paid to the farmers for the two crops procured during this period. Around 10 lakh farmers had come to the Mandis to sell their produce, he disclosed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-curbs-to-stay-to-ensure-minimum-loss-of-livelihood/articleshow/81356006.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Goa||Palolem villagersseek action against filling of river bank||POINGUINIM: More than 50 residents staying along the river at Palolem have expressed fear and concern over filling of a portion of the river bank. A group of villagers who spoke to TOI said that such an activity would endanger their stay here and also lead to an environmental hazard, thus disturbing the ecological balance. Several times during the year, water rises as the houses are situated close to the river bank, the locals said. Terming the activity as illegal, villagers have called for the authority concerned to immediately look into the matter, and warned of intensifying their protest if the activity is not halted. Uday Prabhu Desai, chief officer of Canacona municipality who is also currently incharge of municipal nominations as returning officer, said that he is not aware of the issue as he is occupied with the poll process, and assured to look into the matter. Residents also said that discarded crockery, cutlery and other unwanted materials are thrown in this river or dumped on the river bed, which is polluting the water body and creating an eyesore for tourists. “We are strongly opposed to this as most of us are fishermen and our income is depending on the fish catch,” said a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/palolem-villagersseek-action-against-filling-of-river-bank/articleshow/81357302.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||OBC poll ruling: BJP fumes, dy CM talks review||Moving the Supreme Court with a petition to review its verdict dismissing OBC reservations in local body polls as the 50% quota limit had been breached is an option, said deputy CM Ajit Pawar in the assembly on Friday after Devendra Fadnavis raised the issue. Fadnavis’s party colleague and former minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule launched a scathing attack on the MVA government in Nagpur for failing to defend reservations granted by the previous BJP government to Marathas and OBCs. He warned of an agitation if a review petition is not filed and a stay on the verdict ensured by next week. In the assembly, Fadnavis said: “I demand that the government file a review petition citing the pandemic and form an OBC commission at the earliest. The government should seek a stay on the order... (it) puts a question mark on OBC reservations.” Reiterating the MVA government’s commitment to OBC quota, Pawar said all parties should meet, along with legal experts, to thrash out the issue. “The government failed to put up a strong case before the apex court... Their neglect proved costly for the entire community,” said Bawankule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/obc-poll-ruling-bjp-fumes-dy-cm-talks-review/articleshow/81357344.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Physically challenged man held with ganja||Times News Network Mohali: Police have arrested a physically challenged resident and recovered ganja from his possession. The accused has been identified as Rajesh, a resident of Amb Sahib Colony. Police said he was caught on Mandi chowk to Kambali road on Thursday evening. “The miscreant, who is handicapped, was coming from Kambali on his three- wheel bicycle. When he saw the police, he got scared and tried to turn back but was nabbed. When he was frisked, 890 grams of ganja was recovered from him,” said sub-inspector Gagandeep Singh, the investigating officer. Gagandeep added that the miscreant has been selling ganja for the past two years. He was produced in a local court on Friday and has been placed in police remand for two days. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the NDPS Act at Phase XI police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/physically-challenged-man-held-with-ganja/articleshow/81354652.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Took a day for Sarojini blast victim to finally get relief||New Delhi: A day after TOI carried a report on the plight of an elderly couple, victims of 2005 Sarojini Nagar bomb blasts, an official of Delhi State Legal Services Authority handed to them the order releasing the compensation money. Bhagwan Das and his wife had been running from pillar to post to get the money, which the bank refused to release without express orders from DSLSA despite the fixed deposit having matured last December. The legal authority also ordered the banks to immediately release the amount in the accounts of other blast victims too. On Friday afternoon, Das, 74, and his paralysed wife, Saleena, were finally given the papers that would put the money in their hands by Sumeet Anand, secretary, New Delhi District Legal Services Authority. Das said, “We can’t believe what we couldn’t do in the last three months became possible in three hours. I am very happy. Only today I had to visit the hospital for my wife’s ECG and other tests as her medical condition is not good. At our age, we only need money to sustain ourselves, not for luxuries. We are grateful that the newspaper reported our plight and forced the legal authority to act.” Kanwaljeet Arora, secretary, DSLSA, had assured on Thursday he would take up the matter on priority. “Once I learnt about the problem, I immediately ensured someone reached out to the couple at their residence because they are too old to be coming to our offices,” said Arora. “In future too, if there is any need for it, we will give the couple help in commuting and depute an office employee to get their work done quickly.” Arora also requested all other kin of blast victims who are facing problems to contact his office and he would ensure all necessary assistance to them. “For people who are resident in other states, we will pass a similar order,” Arora assured. Anand’s order of Friday stated that in view of the “totality of facts and circumstances”, if the period of three years from the date of making a fixed deposit of the applicant was completed, then there was no occasion for the bank to seek any permission/authorisation from the State Legal Services Authority. The order read: “Particularly in view of the fact that the Delhi Victim Compensation Committee Order dated 11.07.2017 has been sent to the bank, and the bank ought to have released the fixed deposit of the applicant on the said basis itself. However, be that as it may, it is communicated to the bank by this authority, that this authority has no objection whatsoever, if the fixed deposit of the applicant, made in terms of Delhi Victim Compensation Committee order dated. 11.07.2017 is released to her if the period of three years since its making has been completed.” Ashok Randhawa, president, South Asian Forum for People Against Terror, an NGO that has worked with the blast victims, thanked TOI for “listening to us and the blast victims. All thanks to you, there’s a happy ending.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/took-a-day-for-sarojini-blast-victim-to-finally-get-relief/articleshow/81357372.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Power privatisation draws employees’ ire||Times News Network Chandigarh: Electricity employees of Chandigarh, under the banner of UT Powermen Union, held a rally and demonstration against privatisation of UT Electricity department, which they described as well running and profit making. They also expressed anger at the indifference of authorities at genuine demands of employees which have been pending for a long time. The demonstration was organised before the electricity office in sector 19-B, Chandigarh. Union general secretary Gopal Datt Joshi strongly criticised the privatisation policy of the Government of India. He alleged that the decision of the Chandigarh administration to privatise UT electricity department is in violation of the Electricity Act, 2003. According to him, the six firms in the fray for the privatisation project include Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power. However, he said, the engineering department had issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) to 20 intended bidders. The UT administration recently got relief from the Supreme Court after the Apex court vacated the stay on privatisation. Recently, the UT administration challenged the stay order in the Apex court. On December 1, the high court stayed privatisation till the next hearing and issued a notice to the Union government, UT administration and UT chief engineer on a petition filed by Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen’s Union. Challenging UT’s decision to float tender for privatisation, the petitioner submitted that electricity rates were less in Chandigarh in comparison with neighboring states and still the department was in profit. Despite that good financial state, the UT administration wanted to privatise it, he said. The UT administration, in its tender, proposed to give licence to a distribution company, to be finalised after the bidding process, for 25 years under the power department privatisation project. Recently, UT had written a letter to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) and submitted the roadmap for the department’s privatisation. In the letter written to JERC, UT submitted that they have decided to formulate a company which will take over assets of the power department. It was also decided to create a trust to manage pension obligations of government employees, who will be moved to the private company. The administration had sought the advice of the power regulatory body on principles of reorganisation and transaction of the electricity department. In May 2019, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said electricity distribution companies in union territories (UTs) would be privatised. Earlier, the UT had engaged a government-owned power finance corporation limited to unbundle the department and transform it into a corporate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-privatisation-draws-employees-ire/articleshow/81354654.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Goa||Sand dealer arrested under Arms Act||PONDA: Jalesh Naik, 48, a resident of Panaji has been arrested under the Arms Act by Ponda police following his discharge from hospital on Friday for allegedly brandishing a sword at Bhoma on Wedneday. He was hospitalised after complaining of hypertension following the incident involving local sand dealers. The police have recovered the sword, and also seized the sand-laden truck and car used by the accused in the case. Ponda PI Mohan Gaude said Naik would be produced before a Ponda court on Saturday. On Wednesday, three local sand dealers - Gauresh Tari, 30, a resident of Volvoi, Sushant Naik, 32, a resident of Savoi Verem and Rajesh Gaonkar, 50 from Volvoi had allegedly restrained the entry of a Maharashtra registered sand laden truck at Bhoma and confronted its driver Milind Dole, 45, a resident of Kudal, Maharashtra. However, during a scuffle, Naik, a sand dealer who deals with Kudal sand and had reportedly brought the truck to Goa, allegedly threatened the trio with a sword. Following counter complaints, the trio and truck driver were arrested and later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sand-dealer-arrested-under-arms-act/articleshow/81357329.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||8-year-old female leopard found dead in tea garden||Udhagamandalam: A decomposed carcass of a leopard was found in a private tea garden at Pudiyangi village in Kotagiri range of forests in the Nilgiris on Friday. According to a forest officer, the villagers spotted the carcass while they were trying to find out the cause of stench in the area. “They immediately alerted us.” Sasikumar, forest range officer, said the animal might have died a week ago. “It was a female leopard aged around eight years. The carcass was in a considerably decomposed state and as such we couldn’t identify the cause of death.” He said all the parts of the animal, including teeth and nails, were intact. “Samples of the animal’s vital organs have been collected for lab tests. We could get to know about the cause of death only after the test results are out.” The carcass was burned in the tea garden itself after postmortem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/8-year-old-female-leopard-found-dead-in-tea-garden/articleshow/81356044.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Bhopal||Assembly passes resolution to rename Hoshangabad||Bhopal: MP assembly on Friday gave its nod to the proposal to change name of Hoshangabad- settled on the banks of holy river Narmada, to Narmadapuram. Former assembly speaker and senior BJP MLA, Sitasharan Sharma moved a private motion in the assembly on Friday to rename Hoshangabad as Narmadapuram. He said keeping in view the sentiments of local residents the name of Hoshangabad should be changed to Narmadapuram. The MLA said for the past 50 years, the local residents are demanding to change the name. It is ironic that history was started with Hushang Shah Gori by previous governments. Gori came in 14th century, gave his name to the town and went to Mandu. Sharma said the history of Hoshangabad dates much earlier. MLA from Sohagpur, Vijaypal Singh supported the resolution and said Hoshangabad was named on the name of a looter and its name should be changed to Narmadapuram. Hoshangabad division has already been named as Narmadapuram and now the Hoshangabad district will also be named as Narmadapuram. Congress MLA PC Sharma also supported it, but pointed that naming division and district both as Narmadapuram should not create confusion. The government should ensure that change of name should not be only on papers. The resolution was unanimously cleared by the house. Similarly, the house also cleared the resolution to rename Khanna Banjari railway station in west central railway to Vijaynath Dham. Assembly cleared it and it would now be sent to the government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/assembly-passes-resolution-to-rename-hoshangabad/articleshow/81356038.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM ‘surprised’ as Mukesh Sahani’s kin opens govt event||Patna: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday expressed “surprise” that his animal and fisheries resources minister Mukesh Sahani sent his brother to inaugurate an official function at Hajipur in Vaishali on Thursday. “I am surprised. I came to know about the incident only through newspaper. It should not have happened. I will look into it,” the CM told the agitated members of the opposition in the state assembly. The echoes of the misdemeanour on the part of the minister and his brother were also heard in the legislative council, as the opposition members demanded resignation of the minister for sending his brother Santosh Sahani in his place to inaugurate a government programme. All the official protocols as befitting a minister were accorded to Santosh. The House was even adjourned by the acting chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh. As per the plan, an official function of the department was held at Hajipur on Thursday for the distribution of ice box, moped, bike and such other items among select group of fishermen. Minister Sahani sent his brother to inaugurate the function and perform the needful. Sources said senior BJP leaders, including deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, worked on Mukesh, who, later, tendered public apology by using the media platform. “Whatever happened should not have happened. It will not be done, again,” Mukesh said. Earlier, when the zero hour began, RJD MLA Bhai Birendra raised the issue, leading to the opposition demand for Sahani’s resignation. Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma said action should be taken against the officials responsible for it, and the minister himself should be asked to resign. The legislative council witnessed ruckus on the issue. RJD MLC Sunil Kumar Singh said the minister’s brother even used a government vehicle and police escort to reach the venue. “They are coming up with a new culture. In absence of a minister, the department’s senior official, or government official from the district should inaugurate the government programme. Relatives of a minister cannot do so,” RJD MLC Subodh Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-surprised-as-ministers-kin-opens-govt-event/articleshow/81356073.cms||Abhay Singh
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||72 new cases in Himachal||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported one Covid-19 death and as many as 72 positive cases on Friday while a total of 22 patients recovered during the day, sources said. With this development, the state’s total tally has crossed a total of 59,014 cases of which 589 cases are active, 57,428 patients have recovered while a total of 984 patients have died, sources said. Positive cases were reported from Sirmaur (24), Kangra (20), Solan and Una (11), Mandi (3), Hamirpur (2) and Shimla (1). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/72-new-cases-in-himachal/articleshow/81356037.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||2.2L undergo RT-PCR tests at Mumbai airport in six months||MUMBAI: Over 2.2 lakh passengers underwent RT-PCR tests at Mumbai airport in six months, out of which 1,480 tested positive, Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said on Friday. In February, around 81,000 passengers registered for the test, compared to 1,700 in September last year, when the facility was launched at the airport. Demand for the tests went up with recent central and state government restrictions. All international passengers arriving in or transiting through Mumbai have to undergo the test. Passengers from Brazil, South Africa and UK must wait at the airport for their test results before they can board their onward domestic flight to their final destination. Passengers from Europe and Middle East can proceed with their journey after submission of their sample, said MIAL. Domestic passengers from Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Kerala and Rajasthan who land in Mumbai without the test have to undergo it at the airport. Under government guidelines, passengers arriving or transiting from flights originating from UK, Europe, Middle East, Brazil and South Africa with a final destination in Maharashtra will have to observe a compulsory institutional quarantine of seven days at a state-designated facility even if they land with a negative RT-PCR report in tow. All other international passengers arriving here have to furnish a negative RTPCR report. “Alternatively, they can opt for a molecular test on arrival, wherein after submitting the test sample they can proceed with their journey and receive their reports in eight hours,’’ MIAL said. When introduced at Mumbai airport, RT-PCR testing facility was only for passengers arriving. A month later it was extended to passengers departing and also those without an air ticket, like those who go to the airport to drop/receive passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-last-6-mths-2l-pax-took-rt-pcr-test-at-mumbai-airport/articleshow/81356053.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||HC: Accept cash surety from Varavara Rao||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday directed release of poet PV Varavara Rao on cash surety of Rs 50,000. Justice Anuja Prabhudesai directed the Gadchiroli sessions court to send his release order to Taloja Central Jail, Mumbai, by email or any other electronic mode after he furnishes the surety amount. Currently, the poet is recuperating in Mumbai’s Nanavati Hospital. The 82-year-old had been earlier released on temporary bail on February 23 on medical grounds by the high court. However, the Gadchiroli court had refused to accept his two solvent sureties of Rs 50,000 on the ground that they were from Telangana. His counsels — Firdos Mirza and Nihalsing Rathod — pointed out to the HC these difficulties faced by him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-accept-cash-surety-from-varavara-rao/articleshow/81357467.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Tourists take closed ghat road in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: Tourist vehicles are still taking Ooty-Kalhatty-Masinagudi ghat road for downhill journey, for which the stretch with 36 hairpin bends was closed two and half years ago because of frequent fatal accidents. Based on a report of then Nilgiris superintendent of police (SP), the district administration issued an order to close the road for tourists in 2018. The order was notified in the Nilgiris district gazette too. However, the road was opened for tourists on February 8 by the previous SP V Sasi Mohan. But the road was again closed for downhill journey after seven accidents occurred on the road in a span of three weeks, killing one. In the absence of strict at Thalaikundha check post in Ooty, motorists are taking the road for downhill travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tourists-take-closed-ghat-road-in-ooty/articleshow/81356078.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Bhopal||Night curfew in Indore & Bhopal if cases don’t drop: CM||BHOPAL/INDORE: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday expressed serious concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state and detection of patients with UK-strain in Indore, and said night curfew would be imposed in Bhopal and Indore from March 8 if the numbers don’t come down in the next three days. He ordered strict enforcement of mask and social distancing norms, warning that shopkeepers will face action if they allow maskless customers. The active-patient count has shot up by over 1,500 in the last 15 days, with Indore (847) accounting for over half of it, and Bhopal coming second with 76. The last three days, MP’s daily Covid count has been in excess of 400 — 457 on Friday. Moreover, six patients of the UK strain have been detected in Indore, the CM said. Passengers arriving from Maharashtra will be allowed into MP only if they have a Covid-negative report and bus operators will be responsible to check for this, the CM said. He ordered checks to be intensified on the state borders, especially in districts adjoining Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/night-curfew-in-indore-bhopal-if-cases-dont-drop-cm/articleshow/81356090.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Cops to grill 3 property fraud accused till March 9||Chandigarh: A local court on Friday sent the three accused in the Rs 3 crore property fraud case in police remand till March 9. Police produced former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan and Manish Gupta, a property dealer, in the court after the expiry of their three-day police remand. The court extended their police remand for four more days. However, police had demanded seven days’ remand. The third accused, Satpal Dagar, brother of a DSP, was arrested on Thursday night. During the hearing in the court, police said Mahajan and Manish were not cooperating in the investigation. Police called Mahajan the main conspirator in the case. Police said they needed their more police custody to know the whereabouts of the remaining absconding accused in the case. Police custody of the above accused is required to trace the fake Rahul Mehta who was produced before the office of sub registrar at the time of execution of sale deed of the house. Police are also trying to recover the original sale agreement of the house which was executed between the owner of the house Rahul Mehta and accused Saurabh Gupta, Arvind Singla and Manish Gupta. The police had on Monday booked nine persons—Arvind Singla, a liquor baron and resident of Sector 33; Khalendra Singh Kadiyan of Sector 18; Ashok Arora of Sector 20; Saurabh Gupta and Surjit Singh, both residents of Sector 38; Shekhar of Sector 37 and Daljit Singh of Sector 40, Mahajan and Gupta. Surjit, a bouncer-turned-financier, was murdered by two armed men near his house in March last year. The FIR alleged that Mahajan, Surjit, Shekhar and others entered a 14-marla two-storey house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 and took possession of the first floor in March 2017. Mehta had been living alone after the death of his parents and brother. The FIR alleged the accused had confined Mehta in a room for a few days and “tortured” him. “The accused took his signatures on blank cheques and papers. A general power of attorney was executed in favour of Arvind Singla and Khalendra Singh,” the FIR added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-to-grill-3-property-fraud-accused-till-march-9/articleshow/81354671.cms||Pawan Tiwari
March 6, 2021||Thane||Covid-19: Maharashtra daily cases may rise up to 15,000, says official||MUMBAI: After dropping to 1,948 on February 1, the daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra ballooned almost five times on Friday to 10,216. The last time the tally was this high was four-and-a-half months ago on October 17 (10,259), reports Malathy Iyer. In Mumbai, cases seem to have plateaued around 1,000, with BMC registering 1,174 cases on Friday—third straight day of 1,000-plus cases. The death toll remains moderate, said experts, with 53 in the state and three in the city on Friday. “Cases are rising in Maharashtra and a few other states, but this is the cyclic nature of viral pandemics,” said Dr Satish Pawar from the state health services. Surges and dips should be expected for years to come. The daily tally of cases in Maharashtra could rise further. A senior state health official said, “We expect cases to increase to 15,000 daily,” adding that it’s unlikely to cross the September 2020 high of 20,000 daily. State officials have so far maintained that the surge isn’t caused by a new coronavirus variant. Indeed, the state Covid update on Friday showed that cases in the Pune circle (2,070) and Nagpur circle (1,974) were rising steadily and getting closer to the Mumbai circle’s (2,135). In the Akola circle, where the present surge in cases was first noticed in Amravati and Yavatmal in the second half of February, 1,472 cases were detected. On February 26, 1,601 cases were registered from the Akola circle. On Friday, state health officials added 53 deaths, but said only 28 occurred in the last 48 hours; the remaining took place over a week ago. Almost a year into the Covid pandemic in the state, the tally and toll now stand at 21.9 lakh and 52,293 deaths. In Mumbai, experts said the Covid surge seems to have steadied at 1,000 cases daily. The tally and toll in the city are 3.3 lakh cases and 11,495 deaths so far. “Mumbai seems to have plateaued. However, it will take another two to three weeks for a clearer picture to emerge,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, head of intensive care at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, and a member of the state task force on Covid. With the number of active cases continuing to rise, the BMC health officials have instructed hospitals to revive their bed strength as a precautionary measure. “Most cases are asymptomatic and only need home isolation,” said a civic doctor. However, Pandit said severe cases too are coming in. “My ICU is almost full these days,” he added. In Navi Mumbai, 122 cases were detected on Friday, taking the tally to 56,079. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,126. Panvel municipal area reported 84 cases, taking the case tally to 30,440. With no death reported on Friday, the toll remained at 648.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-state-daily-cases-may-rise-up-to-15000-says-official/articleshow/81359101.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Graduates from top Ivy league schools work on rejuvenating Sanganoor Canal||Coimbatore: An urban planning PhD student from Columbia University was seen at Sanganoor Canal at Kavundampalayam recently, walking along it and talking to nearby residents. She and her team, which include graduates from Harvard University, like many others from across the world, is expected to come with a design and solution to revitalize the Sanganoor Canal, which now resembles a dump yard, and areas around it.In February, the city corporation and the German development agency Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) had announced an open Co(Vai) design competition, inviting creative minds in the field of urban design and planning, architecture, landscape design as well as environmental and social experts to find ways to rejuvenate the Sanganoor Canal and develop the surrounding areas at Kaoundampalayam. The competition is likely to see the participation of the best urban planning graduates from the top ivy league schools such as Harvard and Columbia and the universities from across the world. “This is a great way for us to be part of the system that designs city infrastructure without having to work directly with the government,” said an Ivy league graduate, requesting anonymity.For the competition and design purposes, the civic body has demarcated the Sanganoor Canal and surrounding areas into five sites. A corporation official said, “We are looking at a design solution that is innovative as well as realistic to implement. It also needs to include the people living around the canal and protect their livelihood.”The Sanganoor Canal, which was a natural stream carrying rainwater from Thadagam valley to Singanallur Lake, has over the years become a sewage canal. As a result, it’s no longer a habitat of migratory birds. During monsoon, the canal overflows, bringing many localities in and around Singanallur under sewage water. The corporation was allocated Rs 295 crore to rejuvenate the canal in 2018. Subsequently, the civic body brought GIZ on board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/graduates-from-top-ivy-league-schools-work-on-rejuvenating-sanganoor-canal/articleshow/81356114.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Madurai||HC: Monitor quarrying activities regularly||Madurai: The Madras high court has said that it is necessary that the licensing authorities put a system in place where the quarrying activities of the licencee would be monitored periodically through a chain of command, which should be held accountable.The court was hearing a petition filed by P T Azhaguraja, who sought to prevent a person from carrying out quarry operation in the government land at Puthur village at Rajapalayam taluk in Virudhunagar district.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice R Hemalatha said that pursuant to the previous direction of this court, an advocate commissioner was appointed to inspect the area. The report submitted by the advocate commissioner does not reveal any excess quarrying.The judges observed that it is quite possible that excess quarrying activities may have been suspended for sometime in the wake of the order appointing advocate commissioner. It is equally possible that the untrained eye of the advocate may have missed the myriad ways that a licensee seeks to exploit a quarry licence.Observing that the licensing authorities put a system in place to monitor the quarrying activities of licensees, the judges said that it is public knowledge and must be judicially recognised that the licences are obtained over a small area and larger areas are mined.“Officers responsible for checking, sometimes turn the other way. While it is not the court’s intention to generalise and paint all officials in the same brush, a system must be put in place where the monitoring can be effective and purposeful and the licensees under constant fear that any attempt at excess mining would result in a penalty that may not be worth taking the risk,” observed the judges.Taking into account that report of the advocate commissioner that there was no excess quarrying, the judges disposed of the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-monitor-quarrying-activities-regularly/articleshow/81357410.cms||Kaushik Kannan
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula MC introduces home compost scheme for kitchen waste||Barinderjit.saluja Panchkula: Panchkula Municipal Corporation (MC) has introduced a new scheme to manage kitchen waste, called the Home Compost Scheme. The “Waste to wealth” scheme was launched by MC Commissioner R K Singh on Friday. The MC commissioner said the scheme has been launched to encourage people to manage kitchen waste on their own instead of dumping it in a bin. “We have launched the scheme of ‘waste to wealth’ termed as home compost scheme in which home makers use the composter. Kitchen waste can be subjected to the composter and managed at door steps instead of waiting for the garbage lifter to come and take the waste away. The composter is a green bin which does not emit a foul smell and produces purely organic manure. The green bin will be provided to people at very low cost as compared to the market,” he explained. The MC commissioner also said the scheme would later be extended to kitchen waste generated at hotels, restaurants, schools and other places where canteens are operational. Singh claimed that the Panchkula municipal corporation is first among civic bodies to introduce such an initiative at subsided rates. For sale and promotion of these innovative eco-solutions, the MC has tied up with the local NGO, Haryana Nav Yuvak Kala Sangam. Explaining working of the composter, compost expert Dr Parveen Kumar of the NGO said it does not require electricity to operate. “It works on the formula of compost culture, which converts all organic waste from kitchens, canteens, hotels, gardens etc into compost to be used as vermicompost manure. One can use all types of kitchen waste like leftover food, vegetables, fruits, dry garden waste, used tea leaves, vegetable fruit peels and other leftover eatables in the compost bin,” he said. Parveen said they will run the ECO Mart Shoppee, where sustainable solutions like biodegradable bags, utensils, packaging material, mini- waste water treatment plants, home composter for commercial establishment and solar powered alternatives will be provided to people under the NGO’s “Let us go green” initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-introduces-home-compost-scheme-for-kitchen-waste/articleshow/81354695.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Maharashtra daily cases may rise up to 15,000, says official||MUMBAI: After dropping to 1,948 on February 1, the daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra ballooned almost five times on Friday to 10,216. The last time the tally was this high was four-and-a-half months ago on October 17 (10,259), reports Malathy Iyer. In Mumbai, cases seem to have plateaued around 1,000, with BMC registering 1,174 cases on Friday—third straight day of 1,000-plus cases. The death toll remains moderate, said experts, with 53 in the state and three in the city on Friday. “Cases are rising in Maharashtra and a few other states, but this is the cyclic nature of viral pandemics,” said Dr Satish Pawar from the state health services. Surges and dips should be expected for years to come. The daily tally of cases in Maharashtra could rise further. A senior state health official said, “We expect cases to increase to 15,000 daily,” adding that it’s unlikely to cross the September 2020 high of 20,000 daily. State officials have so far maintained that the surge isn’t caused by a new coronavirus variant. Indeed, the state Covid update on Friday showed that cases in the Pune circle (2,070) and Nagpur circle (1,974) were rising steadily and getting closer to the Mumbai circle’s (2,135). In the Akola circle, where the present surge in cases was first noticed in Amravati and Yavatmal in the second half of February, 1,472 cases were detected. On February 26, 1,601 cases were registered from the Akola circle. On Friday, state health officials added 53 deaths, but said only 28 occurred in the last 48 hours; the remaining took place over a week ago. Almost a year into the Covid pandemic in the state, the tally and toll now stand at 21.9 lakh and 52,293 deaths. In Mumbai, experts said the Covid surge seems to have steadied at 1,000 cases daily. The tally and toll in the city are 3.3 lakh cases and 11,495 deaths so far. “Mumbai seems to have plateaued. However, it will take another two to three weeks for a clearer picture to emerge,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, head of intensive care at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, and a member of the state task force on Covid. With the number of active cases continuing to rise, the BMC health officials have instructed hospitals to revive their bed strength as a precautionary measure. “Most cases are asymptomatic and only need home isolation,” said a civic doctor. However, Pandit said severe cases too are coming in. “My ICU is almost full these days,” he added. In Navi Mumbai, 122 cases were detected on Friday, taking the tally to 56,079. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,126. Panvel municipal area reported 84 cases, taking the case tally to 30,440. With no death reported on Friday, the toll remained at 648.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mumbai-state-daily-cases-may-rise-up-to-15000-says-official/articleshow/81359100.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 6, 2021||Patna||Nine of a family get death in 2016 hooch tragedy case||PATNA: In an unprecedented judgment in Bihar, a special excise court in Gopalganj on Friday awarded the death penalty to nine of a family in the 2016 Khajurbanni hooch tragedy that had claimed 19 lives and left two others permanently blind. The court of ADJ-II Law Kush Kumar also awarded rigorous life imprisonment to four women from the same extended family and imposed a fine of Rs 10 lakh each on them. The sentences were passed under the provisions of the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016. "To my knowledge, this is the first time so many people have been handed capital punishment in a single case in the state. Given the sentencing, a large posse of police personnel was deployed at the court on Friday and all 13 convicts were present in the court," ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said. He added, “Friday’s sentencing is also the first judgment where capital punishment has been awarded either under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016, which came into force after prohibition was imposed in April 2016 or the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act (Amendment) 2018.” Gopalganj public prosecutor, Deo Vansh Giri, told TOI over the phone that altogether 14 people were named accused in the FIR lodged with the Town police station of Gopalganj on August 16, 2016, in the hooch poisoning case. “Those who got the death sentence are Chatthu Pasi, Kanahiya Pasi, Nagina Pasi, Lalbabu Pasi, Rajesh Pasi, Sanoj Pasi, Sanjay Choudhary, Ranjay Choudhary and Munna Choudhary. The female convicts to get life imprisonment are Lalghari Devi, Kailasho Devi, Rita Devi and Indu Devi,” he said. He said Ranjay, Sanjay and Munna are Indu’s sons, while Rajesh and Sanoj are Rita's sons and Kanahiya is Laljhari’s son. Giri said all convicts are members of the extended family who lived together in hutments adjacent to each other in Khajurbanni. Giri said one of the accused, Gharan Pasi, had died in the course of the trial. The special public prosecutor (Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act), Ravi Bhushan Srivastava, said a separate trial is on against four other accused whose names surfaced at a later stage as a separate charge sheet was filed against them. “One Rupesh Shukla of Siwan is also among those four. He is still evading arrest. Court has declared him an absconder. In the course of the investigation, it surfaced that Rupesh was the one who had supplied consignment of raw spirits and homoeopathy medicines in large quantities to the convicted persons for manufacturing the hooch,” he said. Srivastava said over 1,000 litres of the spirit stored for manufacturing liquor was recovered by police when they raided the houses of the convicts at Khajurbanni after the deaths. He said the hooch tragedy took place on the occasion of the Mahavir Akhara Mela in Gopalganj. “Looking at this event, hooch was manufactured on a large scale at Khajurbanni by the convicts as they knew people would be longing for liquor. All 19 dead persons and the two who turned blind had consumed hooch at their houses,” he said. Srivastava said in forensic analysis, it was established that the entire consignment of seized spirit was methyl alcohol which is poisonous for humans. The special PP said there were eight prosecution witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nine-of-a-family-get-death-in-2016-hooch-tragedy-case/articleshow/81356218.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Kin by their side, seniors line up for the jab||New Delhi: V Jagannath Rao and his wife, V Sundari, were hesitant in getting vaccinated as they feared not being able to bear any possible side effects in their old age. But encouraged by their children and family, they made it to the hospital. The couple, married for several decades, made sure they got inoculated together. For many elderly couples like them, the vaccination drive turned out to be another momentous event of their lives. At Max Super Specialty Hospital, Saket, there was a sizeable number of such couples. Kanchan (57), a government official, and Ashok Batra (58), a businessman, said they were “keen on getting the vaccine and wanted to be the first ones as soon as it was rolled out”. “We registered as soon as we became eligible to apply. The process was simple. Our daughters live abroad and they have been helpful throughout. Even today they kept calling us regularly to know how we were doing,” said Batra. Alka (61) and Rajeev Bali (62) had registered on the second day of the drive. Though they faced some difficulties, they managed to get an appointment. “We are relieved to get the vaccine. Even our children are happy. But we must not be casual and should continue to follow social distancing norms and wear masks,” Bali said. Sneh Arora, a 79-year-old retired government employee, said she refused to go with her husband on Tuesday as she was scared because her son, who lives in Bengaluru, had got some adverse effects of the vaccine. “After being encouraged by my children, I decided to finally get inoculated hoping that nothing bad will happen,” said the elderly woman at Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital. Writer Arvind Shah (65) and his retired government officer wife Seema (60) said their children helped them with the registration. They visited Mata Chanan Devi Hospital encouraged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi getting the vaccine. “We hope our children also get the vaccine soon as there is no scarcity in India,” Shah said. Ashok Kumar Behl (78) had gone to get inoculated with his 74-year-old wife. The couple had no apprehensions as thousands of people were getting vaccinated daily. “People our age are vulnerable, so it is good that the drive is focusing on us. However, hospitals can make better arrangements, like providing wheelchairs for those unable to walk properly,” said Behl, who took the assistance of a friend to get registered. However, 63-year-old Naresh Kumar had to leave his wife at home as she was not yet 60. “As she was not eligible for the shot, I came here alone. My family encouraged me to get vaccinated. Hopefully, even she will get inoculated soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kin-by-their-side-seniors-line-up-for-the-jab/articleshow/81357488.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
March 6, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra daily cases may rise up to 15,000, says official||MUMBAI: After dropping to 1,948 on February 1, the daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra ballooned almost five times on Friday to 10,216. The last time the tally was this high was four-and-a-half months ago on October 17 (10,259), reports Malathy Iyer. In Mumbai, cases seem to have plateaued around 1,000, with BMC registering 1,174 cases on Friday—third straight day of 1,000-plus cases. The death toll remains moderate, said experts, with 53 in the state and three in the city on Friday. “Cases are rising in Maharashtra and a few other states, but this is the cyclic nature of viral pandemics,” said Dr Satish Pawar from the state health services. Surges and dips should be expected for years to come. The daily tally of cases in Maharashtra could rise further. A senior state health official said, “We expect cases to increase to 15,000 daily,” adding that it’s unlikely to cross the September 2020 high of 20,000 daily. State officials have so far maintained that the surge isn’t caused by a new coronavirus variant. Indeed, the state Covid update on Friday showed that cases in the Pune circle (2,070) and Nagpur circle (1,974) were rising steadily and getting closer to the Mumbai circle’s (2,135). In the Akola circle, where the present surge in cases was first noticed in Amravati and Yavatmal in the second half of February, 1,472 cases were detected. On February 26, 1,601 cases were registered from the Akola circle. On Friday, state health officials added 53 deaths, but said only 28 occurred in the last 48 hours; the remaining took place over a week ago. Almost a year into the Covid pandemic in the state, the tally and toll now stand at 21.9 lakh and 52,293 deaths. In Mumbai, experts said the Covid surge seems to have steadied at 1,000 cases daily. The tally and toll in the city are 3.3 lakh cases and 11,495 deaths so far. “Mumbai seems to have plateaued. However, it will take another two to three weeks for a clearer picture to emerge,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, head of intensive care at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, and a member of the state task force on Covid. With the number of active cases continuing to rise, the BMC health officials have instructed hospitals to revive their bed strength as a precautionary measure. “Most cases are asymptomatic and only need home isolation,” said a civic doctor. However, Pandit said severe cases too are coming in. “My ICU is almost full these days,” he added. In Navi Mumbai, 122 cases were detected on Friday, taking the tally to 56,079. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,126. Panvel municipal area reported 84 cases, taking the case tally to 30,440. With no death reported on Friday, the toll remained at 648.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-state-daily-cases-may-rise-up-to-15000-says-official/articleshow/81359102.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra daily cases may rise up to 15,000, says official||MUMBAI: After dropping to 1,948 on February 1, the daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra ballooned almost five times on Friday to 10,216. The last time the tally was this high was four-and-a-half months ago on October 17 (10,259), reports Malathy Iyer. In Mumbai, cases seem to have plateaued around 1,000, with BMC registering 1,174 cases on Friday—third straight day of 1,000-plus cases. The death toll remains moderate, said experts, with 53 in the state and three in the city on Friday. “Cases are rising in Maharashtra and a few other states, but this is the cyclic nature of viral pandemics,” said Dr Satish Pawar from the state health services. Surges and dips should be expected for years to come. The daily tally of cases in Maharashtra could rise further. A senior state health official said, “We expect cases to increase to 15,000 daily,” adding that it’s unlikely to cross the September 2020 high of 20,000 daily. State officials have so far maintained that the surge isn’t caused by a new coronavirus variant. Indeed, the state Covid update on Friday showed that cases in the Pune circle (2,070) and Nagpur circle (1,974) were rising steadily and getting closer to the Mumbai circle’s (2,135). In the Akola circle, where the present surge in cases was first noticed in Amravati and Yavatmal in the second half of February, 1,472 cases were detected. On February 26, 1,601 cases were registered from the Akola circle. On Friday, state health officials added 53 deaths, but said only 28 occurred in the last 48 hours; the remaining took place over a week ago. Almost a year into the Covid pandemic in the state, the tally and toll now stand at 21.9 lakh and 52,293 deaths. In Mumbai, experts said the Covid surge seems to have steadied at 1,000 cases daily. The tally and toll in the city are 3.3 lakh cases and 11,495 deaths so far. “Mumbai seems to have plateaued. However, it will take another two to three weeks for a clearer picture to emerge,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, head of intensive care at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, and a member of the state task force on Covid. With the number of active cases continuing to rise, the BMC health officials have instructed hospitals to revive their bed strength as a precautionary measure. “Most cases are asymptomatic and only need home isolation,” said a civic doctor. However, Pandit said severe cases too are coming in. “My ICU is almost full these days,” he added. In Navi Mumbai, 122 cases were detected on Friday, taking the tally to 56,079. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,126. Panvel municipal area reported 84 cases, taking the case tally to 30,440. With no death reported on Friday, the toll remained at 648.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-state-daily-cases-may-rise-up-to-15000-says-official/articleshow/81356166.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 6, 2021||---||Kerala polls: 18 CPM MLAs & 5 ministers won’t be fielded||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPM Kerala committee has upheld the state secretariat’s decision that no one who has completed two consecutive assembly terms be given a seat again. This means that 23 sitting MLAs will not be able to contest. Kerala will vote in a single round on April 6. The committee has given approval for a probable candidate list that features wives of minister A K Balan and LDF convenor and CPM acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan. Ministers T M Thomas Isaac, E P Jayrajan, A K Balan, G Sudhakaran, and C Raveendranath did not feature in the list. The son-in-law of CM Pinarayi Vijayan and DYFI member Muhammad Riyas will contest from Beypore. However, the committee has decided to send the lists to the respective district panels for approval. It will then come back to the state secretariat for final approval. After the politburo meeting, CPM is likely to declare the candidates officially on March 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/kerala-polls-18-cpm-mlas-5-ministers-wont-be-fielded/articleshow/81358959.cms||---
March 6, 2021||India||Kerala polls: 18 CPM MLAs & 5 ministers won’t be fielded||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPM Kerala committee has upheld the state secretariat’s decision that no one who has completed two consecutive assembly terms be given a seat again. This means that 23 sitting MLAs will not be able to contest. Kerala will vote in a single round on April 6. The committee has given approval for a probable candidate list that features wives of minister A K Balan and LDF convenor and CPM acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan. Ministers T M Thomas Isaac, E P Jayrajan, A K Balan, G Sudhakaran, and C Raveendranath did not feature in the list. The son-in-law of CM Pinarayi Vijayan and DYFI member Muhammad Riyas will contest from Beypore. However, the committee has decided to send the lists to the respective district panels for approval. It will then come back to the state secretariat for final approval. After the politburo meeting, CPM is likely to declare the candidates officially on March 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-polls-18-cpm-mlas-5-ministers-wont-be-fielded/articleshow/81358961.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Slight spike in Covid cases, two clusters emerge in dist||Coimbatore: The district recorded 51 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the highest since February 7, even as 52 patients were discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 376. While the district had so far seen 55,982 Covid-19 cases, 54,923 have recovered and 683 have succumbed to the virus. Health department officials said there has been a spike in new cases since Friday, but the situation wasn’t alarming. The district had 52 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday and 48 on Thursday. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We have seen two clusters recently – Saravanampatti, where four people were tested positive for the virus after attending a condolence meeting in Erode four days ago, and Thudiyalur with three cases.” He said the city corporation had been testing all their contacts and screening their neighbours to check for transmission. “If they test positive, numbers may be slightly higher in the next couple of days.” Officials said one person had succumbed to the virus at Thudiyalur, where the source of infection is yet to be traced. They said the public should continue to take precautionary measures to keep the virus at bay. “People should continue to wear face masks, practice hand hygiene and sanitize surfaces in public places often. People in the vulnerable age groups should get vaccinated as soon as possible and follow the Covid-19 norms after that,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said. On Friday, 3,624 people were vaccinated against the virus in the district. While 1,732 people took the jab from the government centres, 1,732 had it from private hospitals. Meanwhile, the district administration issued a notice asking all government employees and officers, including teachers, central government employees, bank employees, public sector undertaking staff and the 4,000-odd police staff in the district, to get vaccinated in the next 28 days from any of the 25 government centres. The move has to be seen against the backdrop of election duties that await them. While health secretary J Radhakrishnan had announced the plans to allow private hospitals to administer Covaxin, a government order to this effect is yet to be issued, according to health officers in the district. “We are yet to receive an official order in this regard. So, we have not planned anything yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/slight-spike-in-covid-cases-two-clusters-emerge-in-dist/articleshow/81356142.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Cong slams BJP over civic index||New Delhi: A day after the Centre’s municipal performance index was released, Congress councillors on Friday questioned the development projects taken up by the BJP-run corporations in so many years. South corporation councillor Abhishek Dutt alleged that the civic bodies had only wasted time in indulging in a blame game on funds, about corruption and misrule without filing FIRs. Out of the 51 municipalities, SDMC has ranked 28, the north 48 and the east 42.North corporation councillor Mukesh Goel said BJP’s corrupt misrule had been brought out tellingly in the survey. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said projects pending for decades had seen light of the day in and around 2017 civic elections. The corporations have also tried to increase their revenues and introduced many services online, he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cong-slams-bjp-over-civic-index/articleshow/81356180.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||EDMC treats faecal sludge to save funds||New Delhi: To minimise the burden on sewer systems, save money and supply non-stop water and electricity to community toilets, East Delhi Municipal Corporation has started a project to set up faecal sludge treatment plants at septic tank sites.An EDMC official said five of these had already been built at community toilets, of which three had become operational at Nand Nagri, Welcome and Khichripur. The civic body plans to set up 20 more in future at toilet complexes and civic schools.The method developed by Defence Research and Development Organisation treats septega — human excreta mixed with water in a septic tank — to generate methane gas. The process uses BIOMAD (biological mesophilic anaerobic digestion) technology, in which bacteria decomposes the septage in the absence of oxygen to produce methane.According to EDMC, the plant includes installation of a bio-digester system at septic tanks and is loaded with anaerobic microbial inoculum. “The bio-digesters will produce high-grade methane of 95% purity and water. The gas is colourless and odourless,” said an official. The trapped gas will be fed into generators to produce electricity and light up the toilet complex while the wastewater will be segregated, treated and used for flushing toilets. “In densely populated areas, the technology will prove efficient because of the abundance of raw materia,” he added. EDMC engineering-in-chief Vijay Prakash said water and electricity bills would come down thanks to these faecal sludge treatment plants. “Since the sludge system is one of the assessment criteria of Swachh Survekshan 2021, it is an important step towards getting EDMC a better ranking,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-treats-faecal-sludge-to-save-funds/articleshow/81356149.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Lockdown ration: Delhi teachers asked to produce sacks||NEW DELHI: Many municipal primary schools are now facing a unique problem. Several schools were turned into dry ration distribution centres for migrant labourers and economically weaker sections during the Covid-induced lockdown. Around 8 months after the process was stopped, food and supply officers are now asking them to produce the empty gunny bags. A letter sent to principals Kirari schools on Monday stated that in compliance of the instructions received from assistant commissioner (policy), all head of schools and in-charge of non-PDS distribution schools in the area are directed to provide details of number of empty gunny bags of available so that further action may be taken. Similarly, another letter from a food supply officer in Sultanpur Majra stated that the empty bags of non-PDS foodgrains stored in the schools should be auctioned and the money deposited for credit to the government account. “This area had eleven schools turned into distribution centres. The report states that over 4 lakh kilograms of wheat and 1 lakh kilograms of rice were distributed from these centres and 10,208 sacks were utilised,” it stated. TOI spoke to several teachers in these centres, who said they were no longer in possession of the bags. Many needy recipients of the grains took the sacks to carry ration back home. Each school now needs to supply thousands of empty gunny bags. One municipal primary school in Sultanpur B-2 block alone distributed over 83,036 kg of wheat and 20,759 kg rice, in which 2076 gunny bags were used. Each jute bag is estimated to cost Rs 15. A teacher in-charge said that all schools have distributed thousands of gunny bags of foodgrains. “No instructions were issued to store the bags safely,” said a teacher said on condition of anonymity. “It was a matter of life and death during that period and hundreds of teachers got infected in process. Nobody was keeping track of empty bags,” they said. A response from the school principal to the department stated that there were no written instructions to keep these bags and most ration card holders used these sacks to take the foodgrains. “A few bags that were kept in school were infested with termites, which were affecting the walls and floor of the classrooms. Such bags were thrown away during a cleaning exercise and no bags are available in the school right now,” the letter states. “The ration distribution process was stopped in July last year. After that, our school has been washed five times,” Kuldeep Khatri, who heads Shikshak Nyaya Manch Nagar Nigam, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-ration-teachers-asked-to-produce-sacks/articleshow/81356185.cms||Paras Singh
March 6, 2021||Bhopal||Ruckus in House over demolition of properties in Barwani, Datia||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh assembly was adjourned for five minutes on Friday after the Congress members created ruckus and trouped into well of the House over demolition of houses and properties in Barwani and Khargone and demolition of a famous recreational club in Datia. The Congress members alleged that the BJP government has launched a political campaign against its adversaries. The matter was first raised by Congress MLA from Rajpur (Barwani), Bala Bachchan as the House assembly for the day, but Speaker Girish Gautam denied hs permission to raise the issue. The ruckus ensued during Zero Hour when Bachchan raised the issue again alleging highhandedness of the officials. "District administration in Barwani and Khargone has turned autocratic and are demolishing shops and houses in the Nagar Panchayat and Gram Panchayat areas in the name of anti-encroachment drive, without serving any notice. More than 12 shops in Rajpur were razed. I request the chair to stop this arbitrary action against the rival political leaders," said Bachchan. The Congress MLA later talking to reporters alleged, "BJP leaders are trying to lure the Congress MLAs to join the saffron party. When they (Congress) refuse, the BJP government takes revengeful action against them. I have evidence and I am also among those who have been approached." Senior Congress MLA from Lahar (Bhind) Govind Singh said the BJP government has launched a political campaign against the adversaries and opposition leaders. "In Datia, the district administration demolished the famous 'Lokendra Club' built during the State Rule in 1944, only because a Congress leader was elected president," he said. "There was a middle school and Nehru Yuva Kendra in the club and the government used to provide financial assistance to them. But the club was razed without notice. Ironically, there was a billiards table in the club worth Rs 5 crore. The table was also damaged during the demolition drive. The administration is taking arbitrary action because Congress MLA Ghanshyamji is the president of the club," alleged Singh. State legislative affairs minister Narottam Mishra said that those who were complaining should provide legal papers of their properties. The Club mentioned by the opposition members, was also constructed on government land. "200 shops were sold in a market without registration and legal documents. There was not a single registry (of property). Congress MLAs are involved in encroaching and selling government land. I want that Opposition members should join a debate on this matter. If they want to move a `Call Attention', we can discuss the issue," said Mishra. The ruckus ensued and some Congress members led by Bala Bachchan trouped into the well of the House demanding a debate and reply from the government. Congress members Priyavrat Singh, Jitu Patwari and Bachchan also sought clarification for damaging public property. Amid din, Speaker adjourned the House for five minutes. As the House reassembled, Speaker Gautam said that the home minister has accepted to conduct a debate on the matter. The House is also ready to take a call attention motion. The Congress members agreed to the proposal and said that the government should give in writing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ruckus-in-house-over-demolition-of-properties-in-barwani-datia/articleshow/81356181.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Cops make 6 on bike shell out Rs 5,000 each||Coimbatore: A day after a video of six people travelling on a motorcycle on Chinnavedampatti Road in the city went viral on social media, traffic police nabbed and fined them Rs 5,000 each on Friday. On Thursday, city deputy commissioner of police (traffic) R Mutharasu had formed two special teams led by assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Saravanan to trace the vehicle and the six people for violating traffic norms. The teams detained K Gokulan, 31 and S Sakthvel, 29, both natives of Dharmapuri; N Vijayakumar of Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh; M Selva, 38, of Thiruvannamalai; D Tamilselvan, 36, of Edayarpalayam in Coimbatore; and S Manikandan, 26, of Pudukkottai, on Friday in connection with the incident. “They were wall painters and construction workers, who were staying in rental rooms at Chinnavedampatti and surrounding areas. They travelled on a single motorcycle to show their heroism,” Mutharasu said. The six were produced before the judicial magistrate court-VIII, which slapped a fine of Rs 5,000 each on them and seized the motorcycle. Police said Gokulan had bought the motorcycle through an online platform and had not transferred the ownership to his name. He was the fourth owner of the vehicle. “The previous two owners too hadn’t done the name transfer. People selling vehicles should ensure that buyers are transferring the vehicle to their names. Otherwise, the seller would have to face inquiry for the offences that the buyers commit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-make-6-on-bike-shell-out-rs-5000-each/articleshow/81356182.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||At 3,548, Vidarbha reports highest Covid cases so far this year||Nagpur: The 11 districts of Vidarbha reported 3,548 new cases on Friday, not only the highest in 2021 but also since September 18. Increasing number of new cases has a relief factor too. Total 29,784 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in Vidarbha. Nearly 12% of them tested positive. Though this positivity rate is not ideal, it’s constantly coming down since the last six days. While the situation in Amravati division is improving, districts in Nagpur division are showing good control over Covid-19 spread. The sample positivity rate in Amravati division was Amravati (16%), Akola (18%), Buldhana (11.6%), Yavatmal (17.3%) and Washim (11%). On the other hand, Nagpur (12%), Bhandara (2%), Gondia (1.15%), Chandrapur (8.23%), and Wardha (9%) have reported a good control over the spread. Deaths reduced from 24 to 20 as compared to Thursday. Nagpur reported 9 deaths, including 5 from city and 2 each from rural and other districts/states. Amravati and Akola reported 3 deaths each, Wardha 2 while Chandrapur and Yavatmal reported 1 death each. Overall, case fatality rate of Vidarbha, which is going down constantly due to higher number of new cases and lowering number of fatalities, reached 2.23% on Friday. Vidarbha now has better case fatality rate than the state average of 2.4%. On recovery front, total 2,306 patients recovered on Friday. This number is less than yesterday’s record 2,470. As fewer patients are recovering as compared to higher number of new cases, the overall recovery rate of the region has gone down to under 89%. Total 2.98 lakh patients have recovered from Vidarbha till date of the 3.35 lakh total cases. Yavatmal: The district recorded death of a 42-year-old man from Mahur (Nanded district) taking the toll to 474. The administration received 1,675 test reports of which 291 tested positive. Currently, there are 1,781 active positive patients in the district. Of the 18,693 cases so far, 16,441, including 235 of Friday, have recovered. Amravati: The district reported 651 new cases and three deaths even as the administration announced relaxations in lockdown from Saturday. The caseload has reached 38,447 while the toll touched 552. Total 240 patients got discharged, leaving 7,146 under treatment. Chandrapur: The disteict witnessed a spike in the cases with daily positive figures touching three digits after nearly a month. Total 123 cases were reported, while 54 patients were discharged, leaving 503 active cases. The death toll reached the 400-mark with yet another succumbing during the day. The caseload has reached 23,996 while the recoveries amount to 23,094. Wardha: Two deaths were reported here taking the toll to 355. Total 208 new cases were reported as the caseload crossed 13,000-mark. Total 197 patients were discharged taking the recoveries to 11,648. Active positive patients here are 1117. Akola: Total 464 patients tested positive taking the caseload to 18,389. With 250 patients recovering, total 13,668 of them have beaten Covid. Three senior citizens died during treatment. This took total the death toll to 381. Now, 4340 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: As many as 108 persons tested positive. With this, the caseload here surpassed 20,000-mark. Buldhana became the third district in Vidarbha after Nagpur and Amravati to surpass 20k-mark. Total 356 patients recovered. No death was reported. Washim: Record 344 patients recovered from Washim on Friday. Total 190 new cases were reported. A 55-yr-old man from Karanja died during treatment. This took the death toll to 162, cases to 9,733 and recoveries to 8,178. Total 1,392 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: Of the 1,571 tests, 32 tested positive. The caseload in Bhandara is 13,844. With 22 recovering in a day, total 13,207 patients have recovered till date. No death was reported. Gondia: Record 1,200-plus tests were conducted in Gondia of which only 14 tested positive. On the other hand, 16 patients recovered. No death was reported. Gondia now has 14,514 cases, 14,165 recoveries and 186 deaths. Gadchiroli: Total 21 new cases were reported. Nine patients recovered. No death was reported. The district now has 9,645 cases, 9,377 recoveries (97.22%), 108 deaths (1.1%) and 160 patients under treatment (1.66%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-3548-vidarbha-reports-highest-covid-cases-so-far-this-year/articleshow/81357318.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Stopped from drinking, group attacks man, son||Times News Network Chandigarh: Police booked three people for allegedly assaulting a man and his son with sharp-edged weapons in Sector 25 on Thursday night. The complainant stopped them from consuming liquor near their house. In his complaint, Sunny, a resident of Sector 25, alleged Kala, Raju , Lokesh and one more person sitting near his house and consuming liquor and creating nuisance. When he told them to go somewhere else or he would inform the police, they allegedly started abusing him but left. Later, they returned with other people armed swords, iron rods, axes and sticks and attacked Sunny, he alleged When his father intervened, they assaulted him too. All the accused fled. A PCR (police control room) took them to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Police registered a case under Sections 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) , 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stopped-from-drinking-group-attacks-man-son/articleshow/81354784.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fadnavis govt did nothing for Dhangars: Min||Mumbai: With an eye on assembly polls, the Devendra Fadnavis government had announced a Rs1,000-crore package for the Dhangar community, but the community did not get a single rupee, said social justice minister Dhananjay Munde. He was replying to supplementary questions in the legislative council on Friday. He said the aid was scaled down to Rs 500 crore and finally nothing was given. Munde said the MVA government has decided to budget Rs 51 crore in the 2021-22 budget for the community’s welfare. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fadnavis-govt-did-nothing-for-dhangars-min/articleshow/81357538.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Gang of extortionists busted, kingpin among those paroled to decongest jails||New Delhi: A gang of five criminals that made extortion calls to traders in east Delhi and northeast Delhi has been busted. The kingpin was released on parole as part of the exercise to decongest jails during the Covid pandemic. Subsequently, he started extorting in the name of another jailed gangster, police said.A history-sheeter from Shahdara who collected and passed on information about traders to the gang members is among those arrested.An investigation was started by police after a trader from Babarpur Road complained on March 2 that he had received a call from a person claiming to be one Salman from jail and demanded Rs 5 lakh as protection money. “The call was made at 3.45pm. An hour later, some unidentified bikers arrived at his shop and opened fire. They fled after firing two shots,” said DCP (Shahdara) Sathiyasundaram.Police tracked the entry and escape route of the accused men by checking footage of CCTV cameras installed in and around the shop. The employees of the shop, a tailor seated outside and shopkeepers and other people nearby were questioned. The police team also interrogated local criminals to gather intelligence.Meanwhile, cops received a tip-off about the suspects and apprehended two of them, later identified as Anas from Jafrabad and Farman from Maujpur. The motorcycle and pistol used in the crime were seized from them.During interrogation, Anas disclosed that his friend Shoib introduced him to one Munnawer from Jafrabad, who was involved in several cases of murder and robbery. The other members of the gang, identified as Farman, Shoib, Nitin and Gulfam, were then arrested.The arrested men revealed that Munnawer had procured a stolen mobile phone from a drug addict using which he threatened many people in Shahdara to extort money. After firing at the shop on Babarpur Road, Munnawer went into hiding. Raids are being conducted to arrest him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-of-extortionists-busted-kingpin-among-those-paroled-to-decongest-jails/articleshow/81356221.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Make our voice heard in Parliament: Bizmen||Coimbatore: Members of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (FOCIA) have presented their demands to the CPM general secretary, Sitaram Yechury, during his recent visit to the city and urged him to include them in the party’s election manifesto. They also requested him to raise their demands in the Parliament through the party MPs. Their demands were to control the increasing price of raw materials, form GST rectification and reform committee, provide separate identity to nano and cottage industries and settle bill payments to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in a month, among others. In a press statement, the FOCIA said the price of raw materials had been increasing continuously for the past few months and no steps have been taken to regulate the same, despite several representations to the government. “We request the government to regulate the price rise by imposing one year one price policy, fixing maximum allowed price and forming a raw material price monitoring committee with MSMEs representatives.” The FOCIA members also demanded the government to form GST rectification and reforms committee with representatives from MSMEs to ease the hardships faced by the industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/make-our-voice-heard-in-parliament-bizmen/articleshow/81356212.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Meerut||UP police bust Delhi factory supplying fake packaging material to illicit liquor mafias||Muzaffarnagar: A team of Muzaffarnagar police on Thursday raided and sealed an illegal factory in Delhi which was manufacturing and supplying packaging material for spurious liquor bottles in the region. The police team also found at least 4 lakh caps and 12 machines which were being used in making the illegal products. The factory, operating from Delhi’s Shahdara area, was catering to liquor mafias in UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana.It comes against the backdrop of the busting of a gang in Muzaffarnagar on February 25, which was involved in supplying illicit liquor. Police had arrested four accused then. And, on their tip-off, police raided and busted the illegal factory in Delhi.“The action is part of the ongoing drive of Muzaffarnagar police against drug peddlers and bootleggers launched in November 2019,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muzaffarnagar, Abhishek Yadav.The police team which busted the gang has been awarded Rs 2lakh by the government, additional chief secretary (Home), Awanish Kumar Awasthi confirmed.According to police, four other members of the gang are on the run. Six of the total eight accused are residents of Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-bust-delhi-factory-supplying-fake-packaging-material-to-illicit-liquor-mafias/articleshow/81351908.cms||Mohd Dilshad
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Numbers rise as vaccine hesitancy eases, but glitches continue to hurt||NEW DELHI: The vaccination drive in the capital gained momentum on Friday with the turnout remaining above 27,000 for the second consecutive day. However, while the registration process was smoother, it was not glitch-free. Almost all hospitals had a decent crowd and some even completed their daily target of vaccinating 100 patients well before 2pm. Abha Kumar (77) said her son Abhay and daughter-in-law Tariqa had registered her in the morning and were able to secure a slot the same day at Max Hospital Saket. “We are relieved, but will have to wait for 28 days for the second shot and another two weeks before she develops immunity,” said the couple. Sahil Chawla (50), who took his mother Usha (75) for vaccination at Max, said it took them only a few minutes to register. “I was scared initially because I was unsure of the vaccine’s reaction, but the fear slowly passed. I got infected in October last year, so wanted to get the shot,” said Usha. Dr Varun Koul, deputy medical superintendent at Max Saket, said more people had come on Friday. “It may be because the government app is working better and we have worked out a system at the hospital too. Many had apprehension about their health history as they were on heavy medication,” he added. While the overall vaccination figure was 27,057, the number of senior citizens getting the shots increased to 14,874 compared with 14,328 a day earlier. The number of those in the 45-59 age group dropped slightly with 2,020 people taking the shots compared with 2,175 on Thursday. In all, 3,269 frontline workers and 1,734 healthcare personnel were administered the vaccine, which was lower than the day before. The prime reason for this was attributed to most of them already having taken the shots. While the registration of frontline workers is still on, it has stopped for healthcare personnel. In all, 5,160 individuals got the second dose. Only four minor adverse events were reported. While 71% (11,989) of the prioritised groups turned up at private facilities, 29% (4,905) went to government hospitals. While 67% of the available 17,800 slots in private facilities were filled, only 28% of 17,500 scheduled beneficiaries turned up at government units. Chhaya Malhotra, nodal officer at Metro Hospital and Cancer Institute in Preet Vihar, said the hospital met its daily target of 100 people a little after 2pm. Things didn’t appear quite smooth at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital where people stated they had made multiple visits to get a shot. Govind Prasad (65), who had a heart condition, said, “This is my third day here. I was supposed to get the jab on March 3, but the list didn’t have my name. I came again on March 4 and 5. People shouldn’t be made to wait.” Dr Ajeet Jain, the nodal officer, said 200 doses were given on Friday, which included first-timers, healthcare workers, the elderly and those with comorbidities. “In all, 63 people got their second dose and 137 their first, including 97 aged above 60,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/numbers-rise-as-vaccine-hesitancy-eases-but-glitches-continue-to-hurt/articleshow/81357531.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Old Is Gold, Archives Get New Lease||New Delhi: With the announcement of additional funds and a new building for Delhi Archives, a team of over a hundred archivists are happy that their work will now prove of value to citizens. Since 2017, the team has been converting four crore historical documents, dating back to 1803, into digital records and microfilms, a task they hope to finish in a few months.From conserving paper documents, including old land and revenue records, and the shahi farmans (royal decrees) to repairing and properly storing archival materials, the work of making the past available to those in the future never ceases. The plans for a new building to be called Kala Kunj will give the public access to the repository that has over 10 crore documents.This week, the council of ministers decided to improve the functioning of Delhi Archives and cleared Rs 50 crore for the construction and development of the archives building. Speaking to TOI, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “The records in Delhi Archives belong to the people. Besides being used for academic research, the archives is regularly accessed by Delhiites searching for administrative documents, especially those related to property and land ownership. We hope to ease the experience of Delhi citizens through this effort.”Chief archivist Sanjay Garg had the details. “We have five storeys of storage space for the documents, which are kept at a controlled setting of around 20 degrees Celsius and 45-50 % relative humidity with ventilation and filtration system to remove atmospheric pollutants such as dust, chemicals, and micro-organism,” he said.When archival materials arrive, those in good condition are sent directly for digitisation. If damages are observed, then the team repairs such documents. The work involves de-acidification of papers, much of which gets discoloured or brittle with time due to acids present in the paper. “We request all government departments to use standard paper quality that resists damage and so helps archiving,” said Garg.Once a document is repaired, it is sealed between two sheets of polyester film for protective viewing and ease of handling. As Garg explained, “In this way, the documents are safe from human touch and atmospheric elements. The polyester film is waterproof and helps increase the shelf-life of the documents.”These materials range from revenue and land records or legal documents like Bhagat Singh's trial papers, Delhi gazettes, Punjab government records, contents of private collections such as an old illustrated Bhagwat Gita and maps. There is the blueprint from the 1930s of a railway station at Bijwasan and a map of Farash Khana in old Delhi from the 1960s.Garg added, “We are using German machines and technologies like SMA 51 Archive writer to create microfilms and microfiches.” These are admissible even in courts of law.Since January, Delhi Archives has also started two short-term professional programmes on heritage tour guides and record management-preservation. These courses are part of the plans for Kala Kunj. Sisodia had said last year that this would be a complex with a state-of-the-art auditorium with a capacity of 500 and space for art exhibitions, archives, libraries, café, and would offer a mix of cultural activities.Swati Sharma, secretary, Delhi Archives, Kala Kunj would provide the sorely needed space for the preservation of documents. “This is a treasure trove that we would like the people of Delhi to know about. The materials connect our past and the future,” said Sharma.This was part of Delhi government’s commitment to reduce inequities by making knowledge all inclusive, said Abhinandita Mathur, advisor to the state government. “Democratisation of knowledge goes hand in hand with the decentralisation of power,” Mathur asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/old-is-gold-archives-get-new-lease/articleshow/81356214.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Malayalis seek resumption of Kerala Sampark Kranti Express||TNN/Mohali Members of the Malayali Samajam demanded resumption of Kerala Sampark Kranti Express Train, popularly known as Kochuveli Express, connecting Chandigarh with Kochuveli. Office-bearers of Malayali Samajam, Mohali (Kerala Bhawan) presented a memorandum in this regard to divisional railway manager (DRM), Ambala on Friday. K Shivaramakrishna, president, Malayali Samajam, Mohali said office-bearers met the divisional railway manager (DRM), Northern Railways, Ambala and handed over a memorandum demanding resumption of the Kerala Sampark Kranti Express trains (Train No. 12217 and 12218). The DRM assured us that all possible steps would be taken to restart the said trains, he said. DRM G M Singh said said, “We have accepted the memorandum and assured them that a notification will soon be issued in this regard. The notification on resumption of any train is to be issued by the railway ministry.” According to the DRM, Ambala division is also waiting for issuance of the notification to announce starting of festival special trains as holi is approaching. Every year, Holi special trains are introduced under Ambala division from Chandigarh-Kalka, Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar. This is done to facilitate migrants who wish to go to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to celebrate Holi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/malayalis-seek-resumption-of-kerala-sampark-kranti-express/articleshow/81354768.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chennai||Stalin calls for arrest of special DGP, SP||Chennai: DMK president M K Stalin on Friday asked the state’s chief secretary and DGP to free themselves from the control of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and order the arrest of the special DGP whom a woman IPS officer has accused of sexual harassment. He also demanded the arrest of the Chengalpet SP, who prevented the woman SP from proceeding to Chennai to lodge the complaint. TOI is not naming the DGP involved as the high court has barred it. Stalin also urged the Election Commission to intervene saying the “inaction “of the chief secretary and the DGP clearly shows that the chief minister controls the administration, even though election model code of conduct has come into force, (The DGP has been put on “compulsory wait” without any posting). Stalin also called attention to the complaint filed by 10 women IPS officers with the DGP, seeking action against the perpetrators following death threats to the woman SP.  Accusing the Palaniswami government of protecting those involved in the Pollachi sex scandal two years ago, Stalin said no action was taken against another police official in the rank of IG against whom too there was a sexual harassment complaint. The government on Friday replaced one of the members of the panel it set up to probe the sexual harassment complaint. A Arun, inspector general of police, administration, has gone on long leave, which was sanctioned before the committee was formed. So Joshi Nirmal Kumar, IGP, headquarters, has been inducted in his stead, said a police officer. The Chennai city police also restructured its Vishaka committee, which will now be headed by additional commissioner of police, traffic, K Bhavaneeswari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-calls-for-arrest-of-special-dgp-sp/articleshow/81356202.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Two found dead inside house in west Delhi, cops suspect suicide||NEW DELHI: A woman and a man have been found dead in a house in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar under mysterious circumstances. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide as a bottle of liquor and a few tablets were found at the spot. However, no suicide note was found. They were known to each other, police said. The man has been identified as 29-year-old Pawan Paliwal, a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh who worked as a gym trainer and was also into modelling, and the woman as Priyanka Bisht (23) from Nainital who was working in Gurgaon as a consultant at a private firm. Neighbours of the house in Mahabir Nagar noticed foul smell coming out of its ground floor and informed police on Wednesday. A team reached the spot and found the main entrance bolted from inside. Police broke it open and found the duo lying dead. They had probably died two-three days ago, the cops said. Their families were informed and the bodies were sent for postmortem. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said, “The man had come to meet the women two days ago. An almost-empty liquor bottle, some supplements and wrappers of some tablets were found. Their postmortem has been conducted and viscera samples have been preserved for further proceedings.” Investigations suggest no foul play behind the deaths. “We have not found any suicide note. Family members and others known to the duo are being questioned to find out what could have prompted them to take such a drastic step,” an investigating official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-found-dead-inside-house-in-w-delhi-cops-suspect-suicide/articleshow/81356240.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||CCPCR inaugurates digital library||Chandigarh: Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) inaugurated the 5th digital library at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Karsan, Ram Darbar, Chandigarh. Manoj Kumar Parida, adviser to the administrator, UT, Chandigarh was the chief guest on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, Manoj Kumar Parida said, “Digital library is a great endeavour by CCPCR, which can open several growth opportunities for children. When I was studying, it was difficult to even find relevant books. Initiatives undertaken by CCPCR will help mitigate the digital divide that the world has witnessed during Covid times. We hope children make optimum use of the digital library and it enables in bringing positive and significant changes in children’s life.” The commission also provided all the infrastructure required to set up the digital library. The library, installed by the commission, is equipped with five computers, a projector with screen, audio system, almirahs, chairs and tables. Harjinder Kaur, chairperson, said, “Digital library is CCPCR’s effort in making an equitable society where all children get equal opportunity for growth and development. In the last year, the commission had undertaken online contest on mental health, covid, drug abuse, POCSO in which over 45,000 children participated. The Commission had undertaken rural games in 2 government schools. We, at CCPCR, are consistently innovating in providing holistic opportunities of growth and development.” The inauguration ceremony was attended by Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, Chandigarh administration, Prof (Dr) Monica M Singh, Pooja Punchhi, Varun Beniwal, members CCPCR, Sunil Bedi, deputy director, Neena Kalia, DEO, Sukhraj Sandhu district nodal officer, education department, Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ccpcr-inaugurates-digital-library/articleshow/81354790.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Vadodara||Cyber frauds cheat pvt firm manager with job promise||Vadodara: Cyber frauds targeted the manager of a private firm in the city and duped him of lakhs of rupees. However, a timely intervention by the cybercrime cell ensured that Maulik Pathak got Rs 3.33 lakh back into his bank account. The cops have registered a complaint of cheating and begun search for the accused.According to the police, Pathak had kept his resume on a website in January this year. Within a couple of days, he was contacted by a man who identified himself as Indranil Das. Das told him that he has a lot of job options for Pathak and asked the latter to pay Rs 5,800 towards registration.Later, the accused asked Pathak to pay Rs 3.93 lakh in instalments under one or other pretext. The accused even sent a job offer letter to Pathak and claimed that the latter’s job has been confirmed in a Bangaluru-based firm. When Das said that Pathak would have to pay 11% of his salary in advance, the complainant got suspicious and approached the police. The cops swung into action and ensured that Pathak got majority of the amount back by reversing the transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cyber-frauds-cheat-pvt-firm-manager-with-job-promise/articleshow/81355179.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Surat||BJP leader suspended in Bharuch||Surat: Former general secretary of BJP’s Bharuch district unit Chandan Vasava was suspended from the party for six years for his ‘anti-party’ activity during the recently concluded panchayat polls. BJP clinched 27 of 34 seats and won the Bharuch district panchayat for the first time. Sources say that Chandan Vasava had campaigned for BTP candidate Vijaysinh Vasava in panchayat polls. Chandan Vasava lives in Patthariya village in Valia taluka of Bharuch district. Vasava is also a director of one corporation in the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-leader-suspended-in-bharuch/articleshow/81355976.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Le Meridien eateries get closure notice||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council has issued a show-cause notice to Le Meridien Hotel to stop the operation of all restaurants, lodging houses and other trade activities as their licences have expired and unauthorised construction has taken place within the premises. Hotel sources, however, called the action arbitrary and stated that the issue of expiry of the licensing deed, based on which NDMC denied licences to the extended restaurants, etc, was pending in court. The matter of unauthorised construction dates back 32 years for which a writ has been filed in court. The notice was issued by NDMC on March 1. It questioned why all restaurants, lodging houses and other licensable trade activities within the premises should not be sealed as they were in operation despite expiry of licences. It gave Le Meridien a week’s time to reply, failing which requisite action as per NDMC Act would be taken. “Health licences were issued to CJ International Hotels Ltd for 10 restaurants in July 2017. The validity of the licences expired on March 31, 2020. The hotel reapplied for renewal on time on the portals of NDMC and MHA. But the application was rejected on January 20, 2021 as there was unauthorised construction in the building. Also, the hotel’s licence deed has expired,” said the civic body. NDMC said the health licence couldn’t be given due to illegal construction, which was liable for demolition. “The hotel was informed on January 20 that the eating house, lodging, boarding, coffee house, etc couldn’t operate without proper licences. It was directed to close the operation of all trades to avoid action. But the directions were not complied with,” said ML Sharma, director, NDMC health licensing. Accordingly, a show-cause notice was issued for the closure of trade activities, including 10 restaurants, within seven days. Hotel sources said, “Earlier, when NDMC had denied the health licence over pending arrears, the hotel had challenged the matter in Delhi High Court and it was stayed. In 2020, during the pandemic, health licences for all hotels were extended automatically till March 31, 2021. Only Le Meridien’s licence was not renewed on the ground of unauthorised construction done 32 years ago.” “An assurance had been given to the hotel by NDMC that no coercive measures would be taken during the pendency of the petition in the high court. The show-cause notice issued recently is not just arbitrary, but also contempt of court. Le Meridien will avail of legal remedy,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/le-meridien-eateries-get-closure-notice/articleshow/81356262.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 6, 2021||India||Dumped by AGP, Mahanta seeks help from Congress||GUWAHATI: Dumped for the second time since 2005 by the party (Asom Gana Parishad) he founded in 1985, Prafulla Kumar Mahanta is now raring to fight the elections from the Congress-led ‘mahajot (grand alliance)’ platform. Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora told TOI, “All I can say that Mahanta has contacted us over contesting elections.” As anticipated, the BJPAGP combine on Friday announced their list of 96 candidates and Mahanta’s name was conspicuously missing. His own party sacrificed his constituency, Barhampur, to BJP. The 69-year-old stalwart of All Assam Students Union’s anti-foreigners’ movement and two-time CM has been winning from Barhampur since 1991. BJP has fielded Jitu Goswami from Barhampur as Mahanta is recuperating from illness at AIIMS, New Delhi. Mahanta has also been constantly in friction with his own party and eventually with BJP over CAA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dumped-by-agp-mahanta-seeks-help-from-congress/articleshow/81358965.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 6, 2021||---||Dumped by AGP, Mahanta seeks help from Congress||GUWAHATI: Dumped for the second time since 2005 by the party (Asom Gana Parishad) he founded in 1985, Prafulla Kumar Mahanta is now raring to fight the elections from the Congress-led ‘mahajot (grand alliance)’ platform. Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora told TOI, “All I can say that Mahanta has contacted us over contesting elections.” As anticipated, the BJPAGP combine on Friday announced their list of 96 candidates and Mahanta’s name was conspicuously missing. His own party sacrificed his constituency, Barhampur, to BJP. The 69-year-old stalwart of All Assam Students Union’s anti-foreigners’ movement and two-time CM has been winning from Barhampur since 1991. BJP has fielded Jitu Goswami from Barhampur as Mahanta is recuperating from illness at AIIMS, New Delhi. Mahanta has also been constantly in friction with his own party and eventually with BJP over CAA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/assam/dumped-by-agp-mahanta-seeks-help-from-congress/articleshow/81358963.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 6, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Proposal to make private hospitals with over 50 beds vaccination sites||PUNE: The health department has proposed adding private hospitals with more than 50-bed capacity to the prospective vaccination sites across Pune, Satara and Solapur districts. The assistant director (medical) of the department’s Pune circle, Sanjay Deshmukh, told TOI that they would shortlist such hospitals in the three districts and forward a proposal to the Union government. The number of such hospitals is likely to be more than 150. If they are included in the list vaccination sites, the burden on the government-run inoculation sites would ease. The Pune district was operating over 70 vaccination centres across Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural till Thursday. With the addition of these private centres, the number could go up to around 150 centres in the district. Deshmukh said they had sent a proposal to the Union government to allow private hospitals with more than 200-bed capacity to work as vaccination centres earlier this week. The approval to it is likely in a day or two. According to Deshmukh, till Thursday, the health department had vaccinated over 5,000 senior citizens per day and they are aiming to increase it further to at least 25,000 beneficiaries per day. “The more private hospitals join us in the vaccination drive, the more sites will be available for administering the shots,” he said. He said the private hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad were now getting a slow and steady response and it was likely to grow further. On the general criteria for shortlisting a private hospital for vaccination, Deshmukh said the first and foremost part of the vaccination remained the willingness of the hospitals concerned to carry out the vaccination process. “Then comes the availability of ample space and the cold chain points in the hospital. They should have at least three rooms to carry out the drive and staffers, who can vaccinate and look into the technical things such as CoWIN. Finally, the hospitals will have to buy the vaccines from the respective local bodies,” he said. “Generally, the government medical staffers train the private hospital employees in the vaccination process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/proposal-to-make-pvt-hospitals-with-over-50-beds-vax-sites/articleshow/81356271.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||FIR filed against 2 Mumbai doctors for ‘leaving mop in body’ of patient who later died||MUMBAI: Two years after the death of a Malad homemaker, an FIR has been registered against two gynecologists for “negligently” leaving behind a surgical mop in her body while performing a hysterectomy. The FIR registered by Dindoshi police is based on a report by an experts’ panel from Grant Government Medical College. The woman’s family members say the past two years have been a “nightmare” and they have exhausted their savings while running from pillar to post to seek redressal. Ganga Sen (45) lived in Malad with her husband and children. In January 2019, she began to experience severe menstrual bleeding and her physician referred her to Jeevan Maternity Hospital, Malad. Dr Sarina Relan and Dr Ramesh Relan performed the hysterectomy, along with their team, on January 13. Even after being discharged from hospital, Ganga continued to complain of abdominal pain and her son, Rahul, took her back to see Dr Sarina. According to the FIR, Ganga was told that pain was experienced sometimes and she would get better. She was given antibiotics. The pain never went away though. Meanwhile, Rahul’s wedding was planned at their hometown in Rajasthan. The family travelled to Udaipur but Ganga’s condition was no better. Another visit to a physician and more antibiotics did not help. On May 6, Ganga was wheeled into J K Hospital at Udaipur after she developed a fever and began to vomit. A CT scan revealed a surgical mop in her body. “She underwent a surgery which was videographed. Doctors took out the surgical mop and told us about the extent of the infection,” said Rahul. Ganga spent another over two months in various hospitals even as the family struggled to foot the medical bills. On July 26, Ganga died at home. Rahul had given a complaint letter to the police before her death. “The protocol in cases of this nature is to send all documents to an experts’ panel at Grant Medical College. If the panel finds a doctor negligent, only then is an FIR registered,” said investigating officer Amol Shinde. Rahul made close to 50 trips in the past two years to the police station, the court and to Grant Medical College for redressal. He was told at the medical college that there was a high pendency of cases. Out of funds, Rahul, who works as a bank peon, moved to Virar with his wife. His father and sisters stayed back in Rajasthan. After the experts gave a report earlier this year, stating the gynecologists had been negligent, the police registered an FIR on March 1. The report also mentioned a separate incident, reported in TOI in 2008, of a surgical mop being left in the body of another patient at the same hospital. TOI reached out to Jeevan Hospital for a comment. Dr Siddharth Relan, husband of Dr Sarina, said she would get back if she wished to talk, but there was no response. “There is a need for courts to direct the administration to formulate appropriate guidelines pertaining to medical negligence cases. The experts’ panel could add a judicial member in addition to doctors, which would bring transparency to the process. As the police are yet to make any arrest, we may approach Bombay high court with a PIL (public interest litigation) for speedy disposal of such cases,” said advocate Tanya Jha, representing the Sens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fir-filed-against-2-mumbai-doctors-for-leaving-mop-in-body-of-patient-who-later-died/articleshow/81356431.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Man stabbed by roommate over land dispute||New Delhi: An 18-year-old man was stabbed to death with a scissor allegedly by his roommate following a scuffle between them over a land dispute in Shahadra, police said on Friday The victim, Aftab Alam, was stabbed on late Thursday night in Gandhinagar, Shahdara. Police said both the victim and the accused, identified as Rashid Alam, hail from the same village in Araria district of Bihar. After stabbing Aftab, the accused jumped from the fourth floor of the building, due to which he sustained fractures on his legs. The two men were taken to a nearby hospital, where Aftab was declared brought dead and Rashid was treated for his injuries, a senior police officer said. A case of murder was registered and the accused has been arrested. During interrogation, Rashid disclosed that he had a previous enmity over land dispute with Aftab’s family in their native village. So, he planned to kill Aftab when he came to Delhi and stayed with the victim in the same room, the officer said. On late Thursday night, Rashid kept a scissor with him under his mattress and started an argument with the victim. Later during a scuffle, he attacked the victim many times with the tool. After killing him, the accused tried to escape from the spot but when other roommates tried to apprehend him, he jumped from the fourth floor of the same building, he said. Police said they have recovered blood-stained scissors, clothes and mobile phone of the accused. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-stabbed-by-roommate-over-land-dispute/articleshow/81357610.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||6 most wanted criminals held in 60 days||Panchkula: Police have arrested six most wanted and 60 fugitives involved in the heinous crimes in 60 days, said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa. The DCP said these most wanted criminals were on the run from 2019-20. Handa said, “Two out of the six most wanted criminals carried Rs 10,000 reward, while the rest carried Rs 5,000 reward . They have been arrested from their hideouts at various places in Haryana, Rajasthan and Bihar. We have also arrested 60 fugitives.” The DCP said in January, police had arrested two most wanted and 29 fugitives. He said that the two most wanted are Ashish Kumar alias Manish, a resident of Aurangabad, and wanted in a murder case. Ashish carried Rs 5,000 reward and was booked at the Chandimandir police station. The other most wanted was Abhishek Jain, a resident of Rajasthan, and was wanted for dacoity, cheating, fraud and conspiracy. He was also carrying a reward of Rs 5,000, the DCP said. Handa said in February, four most wanted criminals and 31 history sheeters had been arrested out of which Sanjiv Gaud, a resident of Sector 44, Chandigarh, carried Rs 10,000 reward and was wanted for dacoity, fraud, cheating and conspiracy The other most wanted criminal carrying Rs 10,000 reward was Vikram alias Saifi, a resident of MDC, Panchkula. He was wanted for dacoity, fraud, cheating and conspiracy. The other two who carried Rs 5,000 reward were Maninder alias Monu, a resident of Takhto Majra in Patiala, and Ajay Kumar alias Haddi, a resident of Dhakoli in Mohali. Maninder was wanted for snatching and Ajay for snatching and conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-most-wanted-criminals-held-in-60-days/articleshow/81354796.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Rain likely in Delhi tomorrow, to improve air quality||NEW DELHI: Several parts of Delhi are expected to receive very light rain on Sunday under the influence of a fresh western disturbance that will pass over the region. The maximum temperature could reach 35 degrees Celsius on Sunday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, as strong winds were recorded in the city on Friday, the maximum temperature dipped to 31.6 degrees Celsius, five degrees above normal. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 33.9 degrees Celsius, which was the highest temperature recorded this year so far. The minimum temperature reported on Friday was 14.4 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said, “As a fresh disturbance is expected to impact plains and hills on Saturday, Delhi may receive very light rain on Sunday. There are chances of thunderstorms and lighting accompanied by gusty winds at a speed of 25-35 kmph on Sunday.” According to the weather department, the maximum and minimum temperatures may remain around 33 and 14 degrees, respectively on Saturday. The maximum temperature is expected to reach 35 degrees on Sunday. The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 33-34 degrees Celsius in the next week while the minimum temperature may remain around 15-16 degrees Celsius, along with chances of mist during the morning hours. The air quality, meanwhile, of the national capital remained in ‘poor’ category. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi was 255 on Friday. However, due to strong winds, the air quality may improve to ‘moderate’ category on Saturday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said: “The overall Delhi air quality is in the ‘poor’ category as predicted. Surface winds are high and forecast to further increase in the next 24 hours. AQI is predicted to sharply improve to the ‘moderate’ category on Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-likely-tomorrow-to-improve-air-quality/articleshow/81356278.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Economic survey: Tourist arrivals down 81% due to Covid||Shimla: The mainstay of Himachal Pradesh’s economy, the tourism sector, saw a 81.33% dip in foreign and domestic tourist arrivals in 2020, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur informed the legislative assembly on Friday while sharing the grim picture of state’s economy post-Covid-19 pandemic. Covid had a drastic effect approximately on all sectors, ranging from acute to minor, he said while presenting the Economic Survey 2020-21 report of Himachal Pradesh. Thakur said the economy received two reinforcing shocks both in demand and supply. The biggest shocks were witnessed in transport, mining and quarrying, forestry and in logging and construction. He said the tourism sector had done well in 2019, witnessing a 4.63% growth in both foreign and domestic tourist arrivals as compared to 2018, which witnessed 16.08% negative growth. But the pandemic ruined the sector in 2020, he said. The CM said the trade, hotel and restaurant sector showed a contraction of 9.2% during 2020-21 as against 4.6% growth in 2019-20. Transport by other means, namely, road transport (mechanised and non-mechanised), water transport, air transport and services incidental to transport, too showed a negative growth of 28% during 2020-21 as against 5.6% growth during 2018-19. The manufacturing sector showed a decline of 14.2% during 2020-21, after a positive growth rate of 0.3% in 2019-20. The mining and quarrying sector showed a negative growth of 18.4% during 2020-21 after 4.3% growth in 2018-19, Thakur said. As per the estimates for 2019-20 at constant (2011-12) prices, the gross value added (GVA) of this secondary sector is estimated at Rs 53,498 crore against Rs 53,456 crore in 2018-19. The manufacturing sector’s contribution in gross state value addition (GSVA) at current prices increased from 28.94% in 2016-17 to 29.18% in 2019-20, but is expected to decrease by 26.94% in 2020-21, the CM said. Mining and quarrying sector GSVA fell from 0.64% in 2016-17 to 0.25% in 2020-21. The construction sector saw a 11.5% decline in 2020-21 as against 3.1% growth in 2019-20. The agriculture and livestock sector registered a positive growth of 18.3% in 2019-20 at constant prices with GVA of Rs 10,583 crore as compared to Rs 8,949 crore for 2018-19. However, during 2020-21, a 3.1% shortfall resulted due to a decrease of 43% in horticulture production. The CM claimed that his government had taken up several initiatives to mitigate the Covid effect, like incentives for investors, such as facilitating ease of doing business, to attract investments. He said there are of more than 28,000 enterprises in the state. Box: Key points of Economic Survey At the state level, gross state domestic product (GSDP) at current prices (nominal GSDP), is estimated to be Rs 1,62,816 crore in 2019-20 as against Rs 1,49,442 crore in 2018-19, showing a growth rate of 8.9% Due to Covid-19, as per first advance estimates, GSDP for 2020-21 fiscal year is estimated to contract by 6.2% Per capita income at current prices is estimated to drop by 3.7% to Rs 1,83,286 for 2020-21 Consumer price index-combined inflation during April-December 2020 was 5.3% as compared to 2.5% for the same period in 2019-20. It was 4.4% in 2015-16 and 3.5% in 2019-20 As per budget estimates, the government revenue receipts for 2020-21 are estimated to be 24.56% of the GSDP as against 19.86% last year. Similarly, the tax revenue for 2020-21 is estimated to be 9.81% of GSDP as compared to 7.79% in 2019-20 Non-tax revenue shows a marginal increase to1.54% of GSDP in 2020-21 as compared to 1.46% during 2019-20 Fiscal deficit is estimated to be 4.65% of the GSDP in 2020-21 as compared to 6.53% in 2019-20||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/economic-survey-tourist-arrivals-down-81-due-to-covid/articleshow/81356273.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Patna||Bihar complies with WHO norms on doctor-population ratio: Mangal Pandey||PATNA: Bihar has been complying with the World Health Organisation (WHO) norms of doctor-population ratio as it has 1.19 lakh registered practising doctors catering to the healthcare needs of 12 crore population of the state, health minister Mangal Pandey said in the legislative assembly on Friday. He said the state has 40,100 doctors in allopathy besides 33,922 Ayurvedic and 34,257 homoeopathy doctors. The number of those doing Yunani medical practice is 5,203 and there are 6,130 dentists. As per the WHO norms, there should be one doctor for 1,000 population. “The registered doctors of various categories together add up to 1.19 lakh for a population of 12 crore in the state,” Pandey said, adding that as many as 31,414 nurses are also deployed in various hospitals. The doctor-population ratio will improve further with the opening of the new medical, paramedical and nursing colleges in the state, he said. Pandey was giving the government’s reply to the question put by RJD MLA Lalit Kumar Yadav. Later, replying to the House debate on the Rs1,285.17 crore budgetary demand of his department for 2021-22, industries minister Shahnawaz Hussain Hussain appealed to the Bihari and other entrepreneurs to avail themselves of the new investment opportunities in the state, and coupled it with the promise that the government would give red-carpet welcome to them. Hussain also noted that he would go to the airport to “personally welcome” all those investors who were willing to pump in money to set up their industries worth Rs1,000 crore and more each. He said facilitating the establishment of industries for the creation of job opportunities was high on the agenda of the state government. “The land of existing closed sugar or other mills will be given to the investors for the production of ethanol. It will not be tied up with the production of sugar. Besides, as per the wish of CM Nitish Kumar, the land given for opening a particular industry will not be utilized for any other industry or product production,” Hussain said. While the opposition members heard most of his speech, they, led by leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, walked out of the House towards the end, pointing out that Hussain had not spelt out any credible policy to entice the investors and create job opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-bihar-complies-with-who-norms-on-doctor-population-ratio/articleshow/81356308.cms||Abhay Singh
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Firm told to pay Rs 62,000 for failing to replace refrigerator||Hyderabad: A district consumer forum here directed Cloudtail India Private Limited to pay about Rs 62,000 to a consumer for failing to replace a refrigerator that was damaged in transit. Jaganmohan R, the complainant, submitted that after seeing an advertisement online, he purchased a refrigerator for Rs 41,999 from Cloudtail India Private Limited. On October 6, 2019, the fridge was delivered along with the invoice. When he opened the package, he found that the glass door of the refrigerator was broken. The complainant said that he immediately informed the same to the online retailer and requested for a replacement. Subsequently, a technician from the firm who inspected the product said that it will be replaced, he added. However, even after one-and-a-half months, the refrigerator had not been replaced. He later approached the forum for redressal. Despite receiving notices, the firm remained absent. The bench directed the firm to refund Rs 41,999 with 12% interest from date of invoice to realization to the complainant, pay Rs 15,000 as compensation and Rs 5,000 towards the cost of the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firm-told-to-pay-rs-62000-for-failing-to-replace-refrigerator/articleshow/81354802.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Sing national song before govt events’||Mumbai: Shiv Sena leader Diwakar Raote on Friday moved a private member’s resolution in Maharashtra legislative council, pitching for singing of national song Vande Mataram at the start of Central and state government events. Raote noted that only the national anthem, Jana Gana Mana, is sung at events. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sing-national-song-before-govt-events/articleshow/81357616.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Man arrested for mask extortion in Mumbai||Anil Ashok Tawde, 35, has been arrested for allegedly posing as a cop to extort money from people moving about without masks. He had allegedly intercepted an autorickshaw as the driver was not wearing a mask, took him to an isolated spot and robbed him of Rs 5,000. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-arrested-for-mask-extortion-in-mumbai/articleshow/81356311.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Mayor’s demand for generator at camp office sparks controversy||Hyderabad: Mayor G Vijaya Laxmi was caught in another controversy on Friday after she wrote to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar requesting him to sanction a generator for her camp office that is located inside her residence. In the letter, the mayor complained about frequent power outages at her camp office, however, she did not mention the location, which created a controversy. “It is to inform that due to frequent power cuts, the work at my camp office is being hampered and this is causing inconvenience in day-to-day work,” read the letter written to the GHMC commissioner. She also requested the commissioner for a 25 KV generator. However, activists said that it was wrong for the mayor to get a generator installed at her residence with taxpayers’ money. “When the GHMC is in financial crisis, what is the need to seek a generator from taxpayers’ money,” said Harish Daga, an activist. Meanwhile, the mayor said that the road near her house was dug up to lay power lines and that she wants a generator to be installed only temporarily. “I have only requested the GHMC commissioner to sanction a generator temporarily so that there are no hurdles in work. I never said there are power outages in the city,” read a statement issued by the mayor’s office. Vijaya Laxmi also alleged that Hyderabad scored low in the Ease of Living Index released by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) due to political vendetta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mayors-demand-for-generator-at-camp-office-sparks-controversy/articleshow/81354798.cms||Nabinder Bommala
March 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Deadlock ends, suspension of Cong MLAs revoked||Shimla: The deadlock between the ruling BJP and opposition Congress finally ended on the sixth day of the budget session of the Himachal Pradesh assembly with the House revoking suspension of Congress MLAs, including leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri. The impasse was resolved following a meeting between five senior Congress MLAs — Asha Kumari, Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, Ram Lal Thakur, Jagat Singh Negi and Dhani Ram Shandil — and speaker Vipin Singh Parmar, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj and jal shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur at the speaker’s chamber. CPM MLA Rakesh Singha was also present. Sources said the government took the initiative to end the deadlock ahead of the budget presentation by Thakur in the House on Saturday. The opposition had decided not to attend the House on the budget day without five suspended MLAs. After the meeting, Bhardwaj moved a resolution in the House to repeal the suspension of five Congress MLAs including Harshvardhan Chauhan, Sundar Singh Thakur, Vinay Kumar and Satpal Singh Raizada who were suspended on February 26 for disrupting the path of governor Bandaru Dattatraya near the speaker’s chamber. While the government had insisted that Congress MLAs should apologise to the governor, the five MLAs had been sitting on a dharna at the main gate of the assembly accusing the government of high-handedness and deliberately trying to throttle the voice of the opposition through suspension. Bhardwaj said the ruling and opposition sides are the two wheels of democracy. He said it is necessary to have both in making any law. He said on the instructions of the leader of the House (Chief Minister) Jai Ram Thakur, he is proposing to repeal the suspension of five MLAs in the House. He said the incident which had taken place on February 26, has been resolved through dialogue and there had been a significant contribution of many members and Rakesh Singha was also involved in it. Congress MLA Asha Kumari welcomed the proposal brought by the parliamentary affairs minister in the House. She said speaker Vipin Parmar had called the Congress members for talks to end the ongoing impasse. Congress MLA Ram Lal Thakur said atmosphere in which the conversation took place on Friday should continue in the future too and both sides should move ahead forgetting the past. The resolution to revoke the suspension was passed by the House with voice vote. Box: Dialogue is solution to every dispute: CM Expressing happiness over the end of deadlock, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said it has been the established tradition of the House that the Opposition should sit face to face. He said it is necessary for both ruling and opposition to sit in the House in the state’s interest. He said ideologies may be different, but they are not enemies of each other. He said it’s better to forget what had happened and move forward. He said on the Governor’s address, the Opposition had an opportunity to speak against the Government, which it lost, but there are more opportunities. He said dialogue is the solution to every dispute. Box: Opposition is soul of House: Agnihotri Interacting with mediapersons at the assembly gate, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said Congress Legislature Party (CLP) had made it clear that suspension of Congress MLAs on February 26 was wrong. He said in the CLP meeting, it was decided on Friday that all the Congress MLAs will attend the House together else no one will attend. He said a resolution to revoke their suspension was adopted by the House and they have received the letter to attend the House. He said that running the House is responsibility of government and Parliamentary Affairs Minister has the task of coordination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/deadlock-ends-suspension-of-cong-mlas-revoked/articleshow/81356301.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||UoH’s BioNEST is best emerging bio-incubator||Hyderabad: ASPIRE BioNEST of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) was selected as best emerging bio-incubator in the country at the valedictory function of Global BioIndia 2021, a biannual conference conducted by Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), government of India held recently. ASPIRE BioNEST is a life sciences incubator, set-up with the support of BIRAC in 2018 at the UoH. ASPIRE BioNEST, formed as a knowledge-based incubator, nurtures innovation and entrepreneurship in scaling technologies of agriculture, biotechnology, healthcare, pharmaceutical and allied areas. It is a deep science incubator which has 25 incubators and offers incubation services mainly to the start-ups who are actively working to address the pressing needs like medical requirements, environment protection, etc. It also encourages and supports young budding individual entrepreneurs through bench space incubation. The facility has been recognized by department of scientific and industrial research and at least 10 competitive grants have been bagged by its start-ups. The incubator is headed by professor S Rajagopal, who is also a full time professor at the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uohs-bionest-is-best-emerging-bio-incubator/articleshow/81354803.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||Pune: Number of vaccinations soars over 8,000 despite CoWIN glitches||PUNE: The CoWIN glitches, scorching heat and mismanagement at the vaccination sites did not dampen the response from the senior citizens and those with comorbidities, as the vaccination figures soared over 8,000 in the district on Friday. The urban and rural health department officials had roped in more private centres to cater to the crowd, which led to the encouraging response on Friday. The 58 vaccination sites in the Pune city limits saw 4,983 senior citizens and 569 citizens above the age of 45 getting the jab, almost double the number of the day before. At Pimpri Chinchwad, there were 1,114 senior citizens across 13 sites. In Pune rural, 1,810 elderly and 606 with underlying conditions turned up on Friday across 41 sites (see graphic). Pune circle assistant director (medical) Sanjay Deshmukh, told TOI that they were aiming to reach at least 25,000 vaccination responses per day across the district, as more private facilities would be roped in. On the availability of doses as per the vaccination aim, Deshmukh said the district as on Friday had around 2.5 lakh doses in stock and expected to get more by next week. “The Covaxin site at District Hospital Aundh has over 9,000 doses,” he added. Meanwhile, the rush at the prominent civic hospitals continued at the Pune Municipal Corporation areas. Kamla Nehru hospital, Sutar hospital, Rajiv Gandhi hospital witnessed a lot of crowd. Mostly the senior citizens had gathered at these centres. The response at the private hospitals and smaller civic hospitals was low. “People are coming to the bigger civic hospitals. Some people have gone from areas like Kondhwa to Kothurd. A few of them went to areas in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits as well. The selection of centres and pressing for the bigger hospitals are causing most of the problems,” said a senior official of PMC. Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department, told TOI that they were making arrangements for better coordination.“More manpower is being deployed at the centres. They are helping in speeding up the vaccination. The floor management at the leading hospitals is being planned, in such a manner that people need not wait for long at the vaccination centres,” he said. He said the PMC was in the process to adde more hospitals to its list of vaccination centres. PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil said awareness drives would be soon conducted to elevate the response from the slum pockets. On the low response in rural vaccination sites, Deshmukh said they would soon start the vaccination across the primary health centres to elevate the response. Snehprabha Joshi (85) from Kothrud who came with her sons at Sutar hospital, said after registering for the vaccine on March 1, they finally got the slot for Friday. “It will be helpful for the elderly people like me if the building had an elevator. The staffers are caring and helpful. But an elevator and wheelchairs will be of big help for the people aged 70 and above,” Joshi said, adding that she would prefer to find another centre with an elevator for the second dose. Joshi was not the only person to face the inconvenience. The family members of Vijaya Kukde, 95, from Kothrud had to carry her on a plastic chair to the first floor at Sutar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/number-of-vaccinations-soars-over-8000-despite-cowin-glitches/articleshow/81356330.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Draw of lots for Delhi Development Authority flats slated for March 10||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority is going to conduct the draw for allotment of flats under its Housing Scheme-2021 on Wednesday (March 10). The draw of lots will be held at 11am and will be live-streamed. People can watch the telecast at www.dda.webcast.ml. “The draw of allotment of flats will be based on random number generation system and will be held in the presence of judges and senior officers of DDA,” a DDA spokesperson said. The land-owning agency had received 22,551 complete applications with security deposit for 1,354 flats on offer till February 16, which was the last day to apply. The scheme has on offer 254 higher income group (HIG) flats with prices ranging between Rs 69.6 lakh and Rs. 2.1 crore and 757 two-bedroom, middle income group (MIG) flats priced between Rs. 40.6 lakh and Rs. 1.4 crore. Applicants who are successful in the draw of lots, can get a flat of their choice subject to availability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/draw-of-lots-for-dda-flats-slated-for-mar-10/articleshow/81356296.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man held for threatening MLA||HYDERABAD: Banjara Hills police on Thursday night arrested a painter for allegedly threatening AIMIM Karwan MLA Kausar Mohiuddin over phone a few days ago. Bilal, a Hakimpet resident, was held for threatening the MLA over phone. Police officials said Bilal had worked in a hotel where he had an argument with the MLA’s son and bore a grudge against the MLA’s son. Bilal stole a mobile phone, from which he made the call. The MLA lodged a complaint claiming that the caller threatened to abduct his son if he failed to pay Rs 50 lakh ransom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-threatening-mla/articleshow/81354815.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||TOI Impact: Mumbaikars pour hearts out for Asma||Mumbai: Mumbaikars poured their hearts out to help Asma Sheikh (17), who lives on the pavement outside Azad Maidan. TOI had carried a photo feature on Thursday depicting her hardships and determination to continue studies. Sheikh got smartphones from two persons and many others helped her. Anuja Kohli-Mariwala, an education consultant and a food blogger, who helped her earlier, plans to mentor her for college and provide an internship opportunity at her office. Another samaritan promised her life and medical insurance policies. Anjuman-I-Islam (Fort) president Zahir Kazi has allowed Sheikh access to the iconic Karimi Library of Studies and offered Internet facilities on the campus. The management assured assistance for her education and also her brother’s, who is in class VII. KC College welcomed her to attend classes and helped with books and stationery. Principal Hemlata Bagla said others from the vicinity, unable to attend class due to network or other issues, are doing so from computer labs. Asma was elated with the support. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/toi-impact-mumbaikars-pour-hearts-out-for-asma/articleshow/81358439.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Brahmotsavam at Jubilee Hills temple from Mar 11||Hyderabad: The maiden annual Brahmotsavam of Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple in Jubilee Hills will begin on March 11 and conclude on March 21. Executive officer, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, KS JawaharReddy on Friday released a poster on the first Brahmotsavam of the temple at TTD administrative building in Tirupati. “The TTD has made all arrangements for the smooth conduct of the first Brahmotsavam at the Jubilee Hills temple,” said the EO. ‘Dwajarohanam’ will be held on March 12, Garuda Vahana seva on March 16, Rathotsavam on March 19, Chakrasnanam on March 20 and Pushpa Yagam on March 21. The EO said as part of focus on sanatana Hindu dharma propagation, SVBC channel will telecast live all these events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/brahmotsavam-at-jubilee-hills-temple-from-mar-11/articleshow/81354831.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Delhi||With patriotism as theme, budget to outline vision 2047 for Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi budget, to be presented on Tuesday, is likely to revolve around patriotism with the Arvind Kejriwal government planning to celebrate 75 weeks from March 12 as ‘weeks of patriotism’ marking the 75 years of Independence on August 15, 2022. The budget may also include Kejriwal’s vision for Delhi 25 years from now in 2047. With the economy also swiftly recovering from the Covid shock, the size of the state budget could be bigger than the Rs 65,000 crore one that the Aam Aadmi Party government presented last year, with the focus on health, education, environment and transport. The AAP government may organise functions across the country on the role of Delhi in the independence movement and the city-state's journey since independence. A source said the events will tinge the capital’s atmosphere with patriotism before India completes 75 years of independence next year. “Besides commemorating this milestone, the Kejriwal government will also present the vision of India 100 years after freedom. The celebrations will begin 75 weeks, starting from March 12, before the country completes 75 years of independence,” the source said. Such events will be organised not only in the city, but across the country. The government is likely to earmark funds in the budget for these. The budget session of Delhi assembly begins on March 8 and the annual financial document for 2021-22 is likely to be presented on March 9. The outcome budget, a document mapping the performance and achievements of government departments in the outgoing financial year, will be presented on the first day of the session along with Delhi’s Economic Survey. Last year, the assembly passed a Rs 65,000 crore budget for 2020-21, which was nearly 10% higher than the budget estimates of the previous year. With the pandemic disrupting lives, the government set aside Rs 50 crore to deal with Covid-19. With the economy on the upswing, the budget could be bigger than last year’s, even if the revenue collection has dropped by 42% due to the pandemic and is only now showing signs of rising again. Since it came to power in 2015, the Aam Aadmi Party government has focused on education and health and has always allocated a significant percentage of the budget to these sectors. Education and health are likely to continue getting official attention though important sectors such as environment and transport will not be neglected. The revamp of civic infrastructure in the unauthorised colonies, providing houses to slum dwellers, and ensuring 24x7 water supply in all parts of Delhi are likely to be among the other priorities. The campaign to switch to electric vehicles being promoted under the state government’s Electric Vehicle Policy may hog the highlights of the budget. The budget session will conclude on March 16. Under the Aam Aadmi Party, the size of the Delhi government’s budget has been growing steadily in the last five years. In 2015-16, the outlay of the budget was Rs 41,500 crore, which rose to Rs 46,600 crore in 2016-17 and to Rs 48,000 crore in 2017-18 before going up to Rs 53,000 crore in 2018-19, Rs 60,000 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 65,000 crore in 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-patriotism-as-theme-budget-to-outline-vision-2047-for-capital/articleshow/81356315.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Ridge board defers Metro’s plans, gives RRTS go-ahead||New Delhi: At its meeting on Friday, the Ridge Management Board (RMB) gave its approval to the Delhi-Gurgaon-Rewari-Alwar Regional Rapid Transit System corridor that will pass through the Aravali Biodiversity Park. However, the call on allowing Delhi Metro to pass through parts of Delhi Ridge in its Phase IV expansion will be taken at a later date. The board also decided to constitute a committee to assess the environmental impact of dumping of inert material at the Asola Bhatti Mines. After its first meeting in around a year on Friday, a board official confirmed, “A 3.5-km underground RRTS corridor can pass through Aravali Biodiversity Park.” RRTS is a rail-based, high-speed transit system aimed at reducing travel time between NCR cities. After receiving the approval, NCR Transport Corporation, the implementing agency for the project, said in a statement, “We are committed to preserve the ecology of the Ridge and, therefore, strategically no stations, structures or installations have been planned inside the Ridge area.” It added that the 3.6-km section between Munirka and Aerocity stations would pass through the Ridge in underground tunnels at an average depth of 20 metres in such a manner as to have “no impact on the ecology of the Ridge area”.Delhi Metro Rail Corporation had sought RMB’s clearance for construction in the Southern Ridge, Central Ridge and parts of the Morphological Ridge for its Phase IV project. RMB deferred a decision on this.RMB will constitute a committee to assess South Municipal Corporation of Delhi’s proposal to dump the inert waste mined from its landfills in four pits of Asola Bhatti Mines, three of which fall in the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, part of the Southern Ridge. The panel will submit its report in a month and a decision will be taken after considering that report.Experts, however, are against the proposal. C R Babu, head, Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem, said, “The pits hold rainwater and dumping of waste can contaminate the groundwater. The wildlife habitat can be adversely impacted too.” RMB also cleared the construction of the city’s first wildlife rescue-cum-rehabilitation centre at Rajokri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ridge-board-defers-metros-plans-gives-rrts-go-ahead/articleshow/81356333.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad tops in quality of health||Aurangabad: The city has topped the quality of health ranking in the country under the Ease of Living index among 111 cities with a population of more than one million each. The announcement by the union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday is being seen as a major achievement by the health authorities from Aurangabad. Under the health category, Aurangabad has scored 61.69 points and is followed by cities of Pimpri Chinchwad, Solapur, Chennai, Amritsar and Pune. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean Dr Kanan Yelikar gave the credit for the achievement to all the health workers as well as the administration for walking an extra mile to ensure better health facilities. GMCH has been successfully catering to critical as well as economically weaker patients from at least 12 surrounding districts. After the pandemic broke out last year, GMCH played a key role in handling comorbid patients as well as extremely critical cases. Echoing her, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s health officer Dr Neeta Padalkar said, “Health workers and doctors from public as well as private sector have together played a key role in bagging this achievement. This recognition has only increased our responsibility towards making efforts to provide best of health services.” EOL index evaluates ease of living in Indian cities on the basis of quality of life, economic ability, sustainability and citizen perception. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s administrator Astik Kumar Pandey maintained that he and his team would strive to take the city to the next level. Under other crucial parameters, Aurangabad is ranked 15th in education, 11th in housing and shelter, 40th in wash and solid waste management, 33rd in mobility, 31 in safety and security, 17th in recreation, 19th in level of economic development, 29th in economic opportunities, 28th in environment, 22nd in green spaces and buildings, 18th in energy consumption, 39th in citizen perception and 49th in city resilience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-tops-in-quality-of-health/articleshow/81353234.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Students who test +ve can take re-exam for practicals’||Mumbai: Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) will allow final year MBBS students to take a re-exam for practicals, if they test positive for Covid during exams and have already attempted theory exams. Students can avail of the one-time facility within three days of their scheduled exam by sending a mail to the university’s exam controller. Students have to send applications with Covid positivity reports. The exam will be rescheduled for such students within 45 days of the scheduled date of practical exams, said controller Ajit Pathak. This will not be for students who are absent from the exam for other reasons. A detailed instruction sheet is available on MUHS’s portal. The university issued another circular iterating that final year exams will be held offline from March 8. With rising Covid cases in the state, several parents and students’ groups wanted the exams to move online. MUHS also issued standard operating procedures for institutions, in line with UGC guidelines. Colleges have to ensure exam centres are not overcrowded and are disinfected, and sanitisers are provided to examinees. Students will not be frisked at the exam centre, the circular stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-students-who-test-ve-can-take-re-exam-for-practicals/articleshow/81356358.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||2 of gang arrested for rly job racket||Hyderabad: A gang of four persons, who were allegedly involved in a fake job racket, was busted by Cyberabad police and two of them were arrested from Rajendranagar. The accused lured the victims by making them believe they had already got jobs in Indian Railways. Cyberabad police said that Sahu of Ghaziabad in UP and Abdul Majid of Vijayawada were arrested while Mishra of Delhi and Dinesh of Kolkata are absconding. Police said that Majid created a page on social media and posted a text stating that recruitment is being done for different jobs in Indian Railways allegedly through backdoor entry. The accused gave their contact numbers on this page. The victims, who came to know about the openings, contacted the accused, who demanded Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh to get a job through back entry. “When one of the victims went to Indian Railways office in New Delhi, he came to know that the job offer was fake,” Cyberabad CP VC Sajjanar said in a press meet. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-of-gang-arrested-for-rly-job-racket/articleshow/81354851.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Not enough time given to raise key issues: BJP||New Delhi: Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Friday said Delhi government convened the budget session of the assembly at short notice and did not give MLAs enough time for raising important issues concerning the people. Bidhuri also slammed the government for “scrapping question hour during the session and snatching away the rights of MLAs”.According to the norms, MLAs are informed about convening of the assembly session 15 days in advance so that they can raise important issues concerning the people, their constituency and Delhi at large, Bidhuri said in a statement. He added that the government informed the legislators about the session, which commences on March 8, only four days in advance.“MLAs need time to prepare for raising issues in the House and the government gave the MLAs little time because it wants to avoid answering questions,” Bidhuri said, adding that it was unfair for the MLAs and smacked of arbitrariness.Bidhuri demanded the government convene another session with a 15-day notice to discuss important issues impacting Delhiites. BJP MLAs are likely to raise this issue during the budget session. “There was no need for the government to call the session at such short notice because the pandemic is also under control,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-enough-time-given-to-raise-key-issues-bjp/articleshow/81356331.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Chennai||Gradual rise after steep fall: Clusters, violation of norms push up Covid infections in Chennai||CHENNAI: After the fall in daily Covid-19 cases that brought a collective sigh of relief, the rising number of infections has become a cause of concern. On Friday, 16 people from the Commercial Taxes Training Institute on Greams Road tested positive; this a day after four from the institute returned positive. Chennai reported 225 cases, the highest daily tally since January 6. Greater Chennai Corporation drew samples from 300 more people in the institute as part of saturation RTPCR testing. But what is worrying the corporation and the state health department is the cluster of cases that are coming from family luncheons, parties, weddings and funerals. Over the past two weeks, one out of every five cases reported in the city was from a cluster. Out of the 2,325 cases reported between February 25 and March 4, there were 209 clusters from which 480 people tested positive. "This is concerning," said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. "While the state has relaxed lockdown norms, allowed industries, commercial establishments and opened public transport without bringing down testing or standards of care, the community has led down its guard," he said. There were 82 new cases from 37 family clusters in Adyar, 80 new cases from 34 clusters in Kodambakkam, 58 people from 27 clusters in Ayanavaram and 51 people from 19 clusters in Anna Nagar. "The positivity rate within family clusters are higher compared to a workplace or institute," he said. Since September, the state and city have reported a drop in cases. In February, the directorate of public health said until November 2020, 31.6% of people in TN and 41% of people in Chennai have developed antibodies for Sars-Cov2. "But that doesn’t mean the end of Covid-19," said senior virologist Dr T Jacob John. "The fall in cases indicates that the epidemic phase is waning off. There are several people who are still not infected and the virus is mutating. So we still have to wear a mask and maintain social distance," he said. This rule applies to people who took the vaccine. Those vaccinated should wear masks because the virus which they carry may still affect others even if they are not affected, he said. The average daily cases, which was around 234 in the first week of January, dropped to 159 by the last week and was further down to 144 three weeks ago. In the week between February 19 and 23, it increased to 152 cases a day and between February 26 and March 4, it went up to 180 a day. Along with an increase in active cases, hospital admissions increased in the past two weeks. The directorate of medical education Dr R Narayanababu said nearly 400 people were admitted to government medical college hospitals on Friday compared to 350 last week. "We are increasingly seeing late admissions and longer hospital stays. Though our doctors and staff are now trained to save more people now, there is nothing we can do to stop complications when they come late," said Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr Therani Rajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gradual-rise-after-steep-fall-clusters-violation-of-norms-push-up-infections/articleshow/81356326.cms||Pushpa Narayan
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: I-T searches on film producer Madhu Mantena||HYDERABAD: Income tax sleuths of Hyderabad and Mumbai conducted searches on film producer Madhu Mantena’s premises in Hyderabad on Thursday and Friday. Sources said searches were conducted on Mantena in connection with jointly-owned firms with director Anurag Kashyap. Mantena was born in Hyderabad, did his education in the city and later shifted to Mumbai. Residences of the kin of Mantena were also searched. Searches were also conducted on Phantom Films and Kwan firm. Mantena is director of 12 firms. Some of them are Phantom Swags LLP, Big Bang Media Ventures Private Limited, Indus Epic Productions LLP, Big Bang Media Private Ltd, Kwan Entertainment and Marketing Solutions Private Limited, Cinergy Pictures, Kwan Securities and Kwan Talent Management Agency Private Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/i-t-searches-on-film-producer-mantena/articleshow/81354868.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Taj to expand footprint in Mumbai, rebuild Sea Rock||NEW DELHI: Pinning hopes on a strong post-pandemic recovery, Tata Group’s Taj Hotels is charting a careful growth path and feels that the mega metro regions of Delhi and Mumbai could have at least 25 properties each across its brands. It currently has over 15 properties in Delhi NCR and over 10 in Mumbai. In Mumbai, Taj parent Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL) has begun demolishing its old flight kitchen near the airport’s Terminal 2 to make way for a 371-room flagship Ginger — its “lean lux” brand. “The flagship Ginger will be ready in 20 months and the cost of construction is about Rs 200 crore,” Puneet Chhatwal, MD and CEO of IHCL, told TOI on Friday. It is also drawing up plans to build a new hotel on the city’s once-glamorous Sea Rock Hotel. During the pandemic last year, IHCL had raised its stake from 75% to 100%. The hotel, remembered by old-timers for its rooftop revolving restaurant, was demolished in 2009 when the Bandra Worli sea link had opened. “There is a road between Sea Rock and Taj Lands End that leads to Bandra Fort. Once we redevelop it, the view of the sea will remain uninterrupted. We are drawing up plans for Sea Rock and will propose a small bridge to link the two properties. Once complete with the rebuilt Sea Rock and the bridge, this area can be a landmark for this part of Mumbai. We will work closely with the state government,” Chhatwal said. The biggest catch, however, could be in Delhi where the government is planning to hand over the management control of the sprawling 25-acre Ashoka Hotel in the heart of Delhi’s prime diplomatic area Shantipath. “We will carefully evaluate all the options in the market and take an informed decision once the terms (of Ashoka’s management change to private hands) are known,” said Chhatwal, who is in Delhi for the opening of the renovated The Chambers at Taj Mahal, Mansingh Road. The Modi government is finally planning to implement its old plan for handing over management control of Ashoka to private players. The 1956-era prime property is long past its heyday due to poor upkeep and maintenance. In 1983, acclaimed music conductor Zubin Mehta had walked out of the hotel with his troupe after finding his room unhygienic. Incidentally, at that time Chhatwal was a management trainee at Ashoka Training Centre behind Qutab Hotel. IHCL currently has 215 hotels across the world, with 165 operational and 50 being developed. Of the 50 properties in the pipeline, 47 are located in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/taj-to-expand-footprint-in-mum-rebuild-sea-rock/articleshow/81357684.cms||Saurabh Sinha
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||10 employees of Mumbai restaurant test Covid positive||MUMBAI: At least 10 staff members of a popular food joint in Andheri tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week. BMC has sent all 10 to its Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) Covid centre while their high risk contacts have been told to quarantine themselves in an SRA building in Jogeshwari that the civic authority has turned into a Covid care centre (CCC-1). Amidst the surge in Covid cases in the city, BMC has once again aggressively started testing for the virus. Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s K-West Ward, said, “Earlier this week, during our testing of commercial establishments in the ward, we also tested the staff of Radha Krishna restaurant and found that 10 of the 35 were Covid positive. We immediately directed the eatery to shut shop and get the entire premises sanitised. The 10 were then shifted to the Covid centre at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) while high risk contacts have been moved into a CCC-1.” Mote further said the restaurant had been asked to stay shut for two days and also deploy new staff for both cooking as well as serving. “We would be sending our teams to check whether they have deployed new staff,” he said. When TOI contacted the eatery on Friday, John Mathias, its manager, said the food joint was open and they had got staff from other restaurants for now. Andheri resident and advocate Godfrey Pimenta said the restaurant has been around for four decades. “It is frequented by several locals as well. I remember visiting it during my school days too... While maintaining social distancing, use of masks and sanitisers at restaurants is a good precaution, the staff at these eating outlets should also be periodically tested. It may not be possible to get everyone tested very frequently considering the costs, but then random testing could be undertaken. Tracing all high risk contacts will be a huge challenge for the civic authorities as well,” said Pimenta, adding that it may be difficult to put on masks at all times while eating in a restaurant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-employees-of-mumbai-restaurant-test-positive/articleshow/81356345.cms||Richa Pinto
March 6, 2021||Pune||104-year-old Spanish Flu survivor takes Covid jab||PUNE: Circa 1918: A two-year-old Dev Raj Aggarwal survives Spanish Flu even as the pandemic sweeps through his Pakho village in Punjab, claiming hundreds of lives. A year later, he loses his mother to the influenza outbreak. Cut to March 5, 2021: Aggarwal, now 104, is wheeled into the Kamala Nehru Hospital, Pune, for a shot of the Covid vaccine, along with his 84-year-old son AP Kansal. “My grandfather did not speak about the Spanish Flu till Covid hit us in March last year. That brought back memories of stories he had heard from his brother about those troubled times,” his grandson Anand (51) said. He uses the Kansal surname along with his father and others. He was supposed to get the Covid shot on Friday but had to postpone after he developed slight fever. Initially, Aggarwal was reluctant about getting the shot. “We told him that it had been made compulsory by the government. We told him that we will take him in a car and then in a wheelchair to the hospital. In comparison, my father was looking forward to the vaccination and did not have any apprehension,” Anand said. All of them stay in the same flat at Ranka Park Society on Sadhu Vaswani Road. In fact, the seniors did not have to wait for their jabs. “The staff at the hospital was very nice. They did not let them wait for a minute. Within a few minutes they were given the shots. They were kept under observation for 45 minutes. Then they allowed us to take them home. Both my grandfather and father were absolutely fine after the vaccination and showed no symptoms,” he said. “My grandfather has been fine during the Covid and lockdown. We have an in-house attendant who looks after him 24x7. He does not have any ailment. No heart issues or hypertension,” Anand said. “He used to walk a lot. Till the age of 102, he would take walks. Even in his 80s, if he had to go to somebody’s place, he would just walk 5-10 km very easily,” he said. Aggarwal has vegetarian food and leads a very disciplined life. Till a few years back, he would get up early in the morning and do yoga before going for a walk. “Now, he has become weak. He needs some help to get up from the bed and do other things, but otherwise he is fine,” said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/104-year-old-spanish-flu-survivor-takes-covid-jab/articleshow/81356344.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks reply over reopening of Nizamuddin Markaz||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Friday granted time to the Centre, Delhi government and the police to respond to a plea seeking reopening of the Nizamuddin Markaz, lying locked since March 31 last year after several people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation there contracted Covid-19. Justice Mukta Gupta gave ten days’ time to the authorities to file a status report and posted the matter for further hearing on March 24. The high court had on February 24 issued notices and sought replies of the ministry of home affairs, Delhi government and Delhi Police on the petition filed by Delhi Waqf Board. Both the police and Centre sought time to furnish their stand and file the status report. The court is hearing the plea by the Board where it has sought directions to the authorities to reassess the necessity of keeping the waqf premises available for operation as a religious place. The board, represented through senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, contended that even after Unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the markaz — comprising the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and the attached hostel — continues to be locked up. It has said that even if the premises was part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it “under lock as an out-of-bound area” was a “primitive method” of enquiry process. An FIR has been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat event held at the markaz and the subsequent stay of foreigners there during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-reply-over-reopening-of-markaz/articleshow/81357704.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee keeps her word, lands in Nandigram for a bigger fight||NANDIGRAM (EAST MIDNAPORE): “Ami katha dile, katha rakhi,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday, pointing out she would keep her word and contest from Nandigram. Banerjee will leave for Nandigram on March 9 and file her nomination at Haldia SDO office at 3.30pm the next day. The chief minister has again turned to Nandigram—where her battle against land acquisition had propelled her to power a decade ago—to fight a bigger battle to stop a religious binary from reshaping the political landscape there. The import of “Jai Shri Ram” and “Jihadi” in political discourse are fraught with far-reaching implications in an assembly segment, where nearly on-third of its 2.1 lakh voters are minorities. Banerjee’s decision to contest from Nandigram to off-set Suvendu Adhikari’s defection was a strategic move, said political observers. Nandigram comprises Nandigram-1 and Nandigram-2 blocks. The epicentre of the anti-land acquisition movement was the minority-dominated Nandigram-1. The majority-dominated Nandigram-2 block watched the flames from afar. The core Trinamool leadership, led by Abu Sufian and Abu Taher, have homes in Nandigram-1. It is this divide that Adhikari has been trying to play on. Nandigram needed a leader of stature to rise above this divide, said observers. Banerjee on January 18 declared she would contest from Nandigram, largely halting the BJP inroads. But Trinamool is not taking any chance. Till Thursday night, at least two senior ministers were in Nandigram, taking stock of preparations. Party secretary Subrata Bakshi has been frequenting Nandigram. Purnendu Bose and MP Dola Sen will campaign there till the election on April 1. The party is also scouting for a home for Banerjee there. “Nandigram has become synonymous with Trinamool. Suvendu held the baton there. Now that he has defected, party workers had become directionless. The CM’s decision to contest from Nandigram is a bold move,” said a political analyst. A senior Trinamool leader said, “This also queers Suvendu’s claim that Trinamool leadership is Kolkata-centric, with little or no representation in the party core committees —and even cabinet—from the districts.” The induction of former CPM workers into BJP might go in favour of Trinamool, as the movement there was largely anti-Left and the BJP mirroring the CPM might not go down well with the people, said a leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-keeps-her-word-lands-in-nandigram-for-a-bigger-fight/articleshow/81356373.cms||Suman Mondal
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: SSC, HSC exams to be offline, stresses school education minister||MUMBAI: School education minister Varsha Gaikwad has once again reiterated in the state assembly that the SSC and HSC board exams will be conducted offline and the government is consulting experts on how best to manage the process.  “Parents and students are both very anxious and worried about Class X and XII board exams because they matter for college admissions. In parts of the state such as Gadchiroli, Nandurbar and other hilly regions, online education too isn’t possible and offline sessions have begun. Online education continues in some parts. This exam is the same for all students in the state and hence we have to consider all these factors. Keeping all this in mind and after consulting officials from the state board, we have decided that the exams will have to be conducted offline,” Gaikwad said on Friday. The education department has set up a 10-member committee headed by Dinkar Patil, chairperson of the state board, to recommend the best ways to conduct SSC and HSC exams. The committee held its first meeting on Friday in Pune. Nearly 17 lakh students appear for SSC exams and 15 lakh for HSC in the state every year. “We have already consulted with some experts to understand how to conduct the examinations in the offline mode in the most remote parts of the state. We are also considering if the exam can be conducted at the student’s respective school. We will do the best to ensure that while this academic year was difficult for students, the next year isn’t impacted,” she said. Parents are worried though. “Shouldn’t there be offline prelims before board exams? A Class XII student in Mumbai has not written a single exam this year. It would be very stressful for students to directly appear for the board exams,” said a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ssc-hsc-exams-to-be-offline-stresses-school-edu-minister/articleshow/81356356.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC acquits 34-year-old handed death sentence for minor’s rape, murder||MUMBAI: Slamming the prosecution for the “most insensitive manner” in which it had investigated and conducted trial in a 2016 case of rape and murder of a five-year-old , the Aurangabad bench of Bombay HC acquitted a 34-year-old man who had been handed the death sentence by a special trial court last February. The court had convicted the man, a labourer, for rape, murder and for aggravated penetrative sexual assault under section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. In law, a death sentence awarded by a trial court has to be confirmed by the HC. A nylon thread used to strangle the child had “gone missing”, noted the HC. The evidence on record led the HC to give the accused ‘benefit of doubt’ and order his acquittal on February 11. The HC directed the Directorate of Prosecution to initiate action against those responsible for the loss of the nylon string, failure to acquire a report from the forensic science laboratory to match evidence it considered crucial and for failure to examine important witnesses. The HC bench of RV Ghughe and B U Debadwar also expressed surprise at the “manner in which” the special judge had decided the case by overlooking certain cross-examination while drawing his conclusion. It said the judge had a duty to direct the prosecution to bring witnesses necessary to draw a “correct conclusion”. “He should have paid attention to the fact that a nylon string with which the victim was strangled has also gone missing.’’ The HC said, “…such cases involving children of a tender age should be dealt with, with utmost sensitivity.’’ The HC praised public prosecutor S D Ghayal for the “tremendous efforts’’ he put in to marshal facts in the appeal hearing and for death confirmation. “It is unfortunate that such amount of hard work is met with an order of acquittal at our unfortunate hands only because the prosecution has not collected evidence and has not even taken efforts to get a result from the FSL…’’ In October 2016, the child’s grandparents, who worked as agricultural labourers, had found her missing and lodged a missing complaint. The police found her body in a well in another villager’s field. There was a nylon string around her neck and her body was wrapped in cloth, both of which were sent to the FSL. The accused labourer was arrested in November 2016 from another state. The trial court’s conviction was largely based on circumstantial evidence, but the HC held there were too many gaps in the chain of circumstances to reach the conclusion that only the accused and no other person committed the crime. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hc-acquits-34-yr-old-handed-death-sentence-for-minors-rape-murder/articleshow/81358451.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||Commandos bust Naxal ‘arms factory’ in Abhujhmadh, one jawan injured||Nagpur: Maharashtra’s elite Gadchiroli-based C-60 commandos, during a 48-hour operation, busted a Naxalite ‘arms factory’ and camp in the rebel stronghold of Abhujmadh, barely 5 kms from the state border in the hilly and densely forested terrains of Chhattisgarh on Thursday. One jawans was injured when Naxals ambushed the security forces during the operation. The commandos, carrying their bullet-hit colleague on shoulder for 5 km on a forested slope, staved off the advancing guerrilla fighters, who were desperate to wrest back some of the weapons seized by the forces and also inflict more casualties, for more than 36 hours. The commandos are learnt to have brought back several seized weapons and destroyed some equipment likely to be used for manufacturing, repairing and maintenance of arms. At around 4 pm on Thursday, C-60 commandos had the first fire-exchange with the Maoists when they saw suspicious movement on the hill-top. The Naxalites had exploded several IEDs to keep the C-60 commandos at bay but still the forces climbed around 700 metres to reach the top where they were stunned to see the arms-making and repairing equipment and weapons. It is learnt the security forces blew up most of the equipment with grenades as it was impossible to bring it all back. On their way back with weapons, the rebels blasted more grenades and fired on the cops leading to injuries. Though C-60 commandos have earlier busted Maoist camps in Abhujmadh and even recovered horses from their camps, this is the first time they have destroyed a weapons factory in the area close to Maharashtra. It could be used to launch an attack in the coming days during Maoists’ ongoing tactical counter offensive campaign (TCOC). State home minister Anil Deshmukh lauded the efforts of the commandos for the action. The commandos had to get back into Maharashtra border after crossing the Indravati river on foot and reach plain ground where an IAF’s Mi-17 chopper with reinforcements awaited them. The chopper, flown in from Raipur, could not take off due to the dense forest where Naxals waited with grenade launchers. DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil said an assault group was diverted towards the site for support but it had to tread cautiously as the Naxals too could be waiting anywhere laying ambushes. “This is a setback to the Naxalites as their factory to put together arms was destroyed and weapons seized,” he said. “The injured jawan would be brought to Nagpur for treatment,” he said. SP Ankit Goyal said the more details of the weapons seized would be soon disclosed. Sources in the Gadchiroli police, who were part of the encounter, said there was ruckus in the destroyed camp after the midnight with howling which meant there could be some deaths too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/commandos-bust-naxal-arms-factory-in-abhujhmadh-one-jawan-injured/articleshow/81356366.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 6, 2021||Pune||More than 1,800 test +ve in PMR, over 1.2k recover||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 1,803 Covid cases on Friday as against 1,223 recoveries, taking its total discharges and infections above 3.93 lakh and 4.15 lakh, respectively. Ten more deaths in the region in the last 24 hours has increased the region’s death toll to 9,286. The Pune municipal areas recorded 830 cases in the last 24 hours, followed by the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas (602) and the rural pockets (274). Among the recoveries. the PMC areas recorded maximum discharges (551), followed by the rural pockets (326) and the PCMC limits (225). As on Friday, the active caseload in PMR stands above 12,000, including as many as 4,787 patients in hospital isolation and 7,912 in home quarantine. When it comes to day’s fatalities, five patients lost their lives to Covid-related complications in the PMC areas on Friday, while two people died in the rural pockets. One patient each died in PCMC, cantonments and council limits. As per PMC data, the corporation areas have 664 patients in need of oxygen support and there are 300 patients who are critical across municipal areas. The death reports of patients highlighted health problems like high blood pressure and heart problems, which led to complications and death. A total of 12,757 tests were conducted in PMR on Friday, taking the total tests above 23.76 lakh. Of the day’s tests, as many as 7,267 were conducted in the PMC limits and 3,118 in the PCMC areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-than-1800-test-ve-in-pmr-over-1-2k-recover/articleshow/81356355.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nashik||BJP candidate elected NMC edu panel chief||Nashik: BJP’s Sangita Gaikwad defeated Shiv Sena’s Jyoti Khole by five votes on Friday to become the chairperson of the education committee of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). In the nine-member committee, BJP has a majority of five members, while Shiv Sena has three and the NCP one. Only six members of the education committee, including five from the BJP, turned up for the election process. While Gaikwad got all the votes of her party members, Khole received just one vote. District collector Suraj Mandhare, who was the presiding officer of the election process, declared Gaikwad the chairperson of the education committee.. Thereafter, the election for the post of deputy chairperson was held. Shahin Mirza from the BJP had filed her nomination for the post, besides Khole who withdrew her nomination. As a result, Mirza was elected unopposed as the deputy chairperson of the education committee of NMC.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjp-candidate-elected-nmc-edu-panel-chief/articleshow/81353269.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: MLC moves bill on beer bar names||Mumbai: Shiv Sena legislator Manisha Kayande on Friday moved a private member’s bill in the legislative council, seeking a ban on using names and images of gods, saints, great personalities and national heroes on nameboards or signboards of beer bars or liquor shops. The bill will be discussed at the next session, Kayande said. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mlc-moves-bill-on-beer-bar-names/articleshow/81357737.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man gets 3-year jail for murder attempt||HYDERABAD: A milk vendor was sentenced to three years rigorous imprisonment for trying to kill a woman while committing a robbery at Neredmet in 2014. The offender, V Balaraj, 25, went to the house of the complainant, S Krishna Veni, 50, in JK Colony and attempted to strangle her to escape with valuables. However, neighbors came to the rescue of the victim and Balaraj fled from the spot. Later, police arrested him and on Friday, a local court in LB Nagar sentenced Balaraj to undergo 3 years RI and pay Rs 1,000 fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-3-year-jail-for-murder-attempt/articleshow/81355002.cms||---
March 6, 2021||---||‘Treated badly’ by DMK, Tamil Nadu Congress chief turns emotional||CHENNAI: DMK on Friday moved ahead with its alliance talks and signed a seat-sharing deal with CPI by offering six seats. With this, it has concluded agreements with four parties - VCK, CPI, IUML and MMK for 17 seats. But the alliance talks with other allies, including Congress, MDMK and CPM, continued to hang in the balance. While MDMK and CPM are likely to discuss the status at their respective internal meetings on Saturday, the Congress internal meeting held on Friday had its 'cinematic' moments. At Congress's extended executive committee meeting, TNCC president K S Alagiri turned emotional when he described the way DMK treated the Congress delegation when they went for talks. "More than numbers, the way they treated senior leader Oomen Chandy hurt me," Alagiri said. "In the evening, our leader Rahul Gandhi spoke to Alagiri and appreciated his speech in the party's internal meeting to keep up the morale of the cadres. But he has urged the state unit to sustain the alliance by getting the right share of seats," a Congress leader said. Earlier, senior Congress leader and CWC member Veerappa Moily and Congress general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao explained the difficulties the party had during seat sharing, while stressing on the need to sustain a relationship. Towards the end of the meeting, the committee members extended their full support to the stand taken by the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/treated-badly-by-dmk-tn-congress-chief-turns-emotional/articleshow/81359002.cms||D Govardan
March 6, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Palavakkam man runs over puppy, held||CHENNAI: Police on Friday arrested a Palavakkam resident who ran over a 45-day-old pup two days ago, allegedly unable to bear the sight of the dog, its sibling and their mother in front of his house. The arrested man, V R Ramji of 3rd Street in Kandasamy Nagar, was released later in the day on bail. Janani, an animal welfare activist, said the pup that was run over was one of two delivered by a stray about one and a half months ago. The family made its home in front of the residence of Kandasamy whose cruel act was caught on camera. The female dog and one of the p[ups escaped with injuries. The video of the incident was circulated among animal welfare activists and went viral on social media. Activists informed the Adyar deputy commissioner of police who promised action against the culprit. Subsequently, the Neelankarai police filed a first information report (FIR) and arrested him. Janani said incidents of cruelty against voiceless animals are increasing by the day, with people thinking it is okay to hurt animals and get away with it. “We animal welfare people are there to fight for them and to make sure we tell the wrongdoers that it sure is not alright to hurt the voiceless stray animal,” she added. Another activist said residents in many areas do not feed stray dogs, but inflicting cruelty upon them or killing them will not be accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/palavakkam-man-runs-over-puppy-held/articleshow/81356368.cms||P Oppili
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||3 booked for nuisance||HYDERABAD: Three persons, including an accused who was previously arrested by police on the charges of stealing Nizam’s family’s valuables from a museum, were booked by Rajendranagar police for creating nuisance. The accused, Mohammed Ghouse, and others consumed alcohol and damaged a few parked autorickshaws. Police said that none was injured in the incident. Locals alerted cops who reportedly took the trio into custody. Police, however, said the accused are still at large. Ghouse obtained a bail after he was arrested by Hyderabad police for stealing the valuables a few years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-booked-for-nuisance/articleshow/81355038.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||Aadhaar-based learner’s licence test from home on Maharashtra govt's radar||PUNE: The government is considering allowing aspirants to appear for learners’ licence examination from home or doing away with the exam, officials in the Pune regional transport office (RTO) told TOI. A senior RTO official said that according to a recent notification of the ministry of transport, Aadhaar-based authentication for 18 RTO-related services, including procurement of a learners’ licence, was being considered. “While details are still awaited, we have learnt that the idea is to let examinees appear for tests from home. As their Aadhaar numbers will be linked with online appointments, the examinees will not have to come to the RTO office for learners’ licence examination. They will get a one time password (OTP) to access the link and appear for the examination. If they pass, they will receive licence online, which they can download,” Sanjiv Bhor, the deputy RTO in Pune, told TOI. The second proposal, as another official said, involves making the permanent licence test more stringent. “If learner licence test is done away with, the test for securing permanent licence will be tougher and will include a theory examination and a simulator test before the final driving test. The road transport ministry will share details with the RTOs regarding which option will be implemented. From now on, while providing documents for a learners’ licence, one should also submit a copy of the Aadhaar card for linking the number,” another RTO official said. However, transport and traffic activists are not in favour of doing away with the learners’ test permanently. Ranjit Gadgil, programme director, Parisar, said that both the tests are essential. “The two tests are different in nature and both are essential for ensuring that a person who obtains licence has the qualities that will make him/her a safe driver. The learner’s test is required to ensure that the applicant has adequate knowledge of rules and regulations and knowledge of documents to be kept with him/ her while driving or riding a two-wheeler. The driving test, on the other hand, tests on-road skills -- both ability to control the vehicle as well as safe driving habits. To strengthen overall licencing, it is essential that both tests be stringent and conducted appropriately. Currently, only 60% correct answers are needed to pass the learner’s test, which should be increased to at least 80%,” he told TOI. Harshad Abhyankar, founder, Save Pune Traffic Movement, said, “Common sense tells us that testing at any and all stages of licencing needs to be strengthened, not diluted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aadhaar-based-learners-licence-test-from-home-on-govt-radar/articleshow/81356362.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Abide by orders on online path labs or face contempt: HC||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday made it clear it expects Delhi government to abide by the court’s earlier directions to regulate online pathological labs, indicating that otherwise contempt action would be initiated. The high court, which was hearing a plea alleging non-compliance of its order in this regard, also sought to know from the AAP government if its pathological laboratories and hospitals are NABL accredited. The plea alleged non-compliance of the high court’s August 6, 2020 order to take action against illegal online health service aggregators operating in the capital and to regulate online pathological labs. “There is something fundamentally wrong in the process. Are your own labs and hospitals NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) accredited? It is a very fundamental question,” Justice Najmi Waziri said. Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose submitted that the government has issued a notification intimating all the labs that they have to follow the Supreme Court’s order. The apex court had on April 8, 2020 directed that Covid-19 tests must be carried out in NABL-accredited labs or any agencies approved by the WHO or ICMR. The high court then granted time to Delhi government to take instructions on the issue and listed the matter for further hearing on March 12. “I expect you (Delhi government) to put things in order or else we will probably have to issue contempt noticeand shut all your establishments. Find some solutions and put things in order in the interregnum,” Justice Waziri orally observed. Advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, representing petitioner Dr Rohit Jain, submitted that online pathological labs are not recognised, still they are conducting Covid-19 tests. They are not accredited labs and are not even approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), he argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/abide-by-orders-on-online-path-labs-or-face-contempt-hc/articleshow/81357749.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Raut seeks dismissal of woman’s pleas for a probe against him||Mumbai: Senior Shiv Sena leader and spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Friday denied before Bombay high court all allegations of harassment by him in a stalking complaint a city doctor had made against unknown persons a few years ago, and through his counsel said she was “like a daughter to him”. Senior counsel Prasad Dhakephalkar appearing for Raut opposed petitions filed by the doctor who sought a “thorough investigation” into three of her FIRs. The woman, represented by advocates Abha Singh and Aditya Pratap, alleged harassment by Raut and said though she had registered three FIRs in Mahim and Vakola police stations in 2013 and 2018 against unknown persons who had allegedly attacked her, the police had not investigated who was behind the alleged crime. Raut’s counsel pointed to her alleged marital dispute and said her allegations against the MP were based perhaps on her feeling that he was siding with her husband. Abha Singh strongly objected to any reference to her client’s marital dispute and said she was before the court on her own cause. Singh referred to an FIR and sought orders for investigation to ascertain if Raut had any role in the case. She also sought orders for directions against a deputy police commissioner for alleged laxity in acting on her client’s “urgent complaints’’. Dhakephalkar sought dismissal of the petitions. The state public prosecutor, Deepak Thakare, said it had already filed a chargesheet in one of her FIRs which is not against Raut. None of the cases name him as an accused, said Dhakephalkar. The PP said two cases have been closed and an A-summary report was filed a few years ago. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale asked the state to furnish a copy of the chargesheet to the petitioner and posted the matter for further hearing on March 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/raut-seeks-dismissal-of-womans-pleas-for-a-probe-against-him/articleshow/81356371.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Osmanabad cop held as woman ends life blaming him for rape||AURANGABAD: A constable attached to the City police station in Osmanabad town has been arrested on charges of rape and abetting suicide after a 32-year-old woman ended her life and left a suicide note implicating him. Haribhau Kolekar (40) was charged and arrested on Wednesday, soon after the victim’s husband lodged a complaint. A local court has remanded him in police custody till March 9. “We immediately registered an offence and suspended the accused policeman. We have also initiated a departmental inquiry against him,” said superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan. The officer said that an inquiry is also under way to check the dates on which the accused was carrying the official weapon. According to police, the woman hanged herself at her residence on Tuesday and left behind a suicide note blaming Kolekar for allegedly threatening and raping her since September 2020. The woman has stated in the note that the harassment had become unbearable, forcing her to take the extreme step. The woman has also stated in the suicided note that her husband should in no way be blamed for anything, said police. Preliminary inquiry has revealed that the accused and the victim lived in the same locality. Police said that Kolekar barged into the woman’s home on finding her alone in September, raped her after issuing a threat with his official firearm. “The constable raped her on multiple occasions after that and the woman was too scared to speak to anyone about it,” said police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/osmanabad-cop-held-as-woman-ends-life-blaming-him-for-rape/articleshow/81353289.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||26-year-old worker held in Hyderabad for minor girl’s rape||HYDERABAD: A 26-year-old worker at a worship place was arrested on Friday on the charges of sexually exploiting a 16-year-old girl. In her statement to police, the girl, who stays with her aunt, said the accused befriended her three months ago and began exploiting her. The man works at the worship place, which is close to her aunt’s house. “The girl said the accused sexually exploited her several times in his room, adjacent to the worship place and other places in the city. Based on her statement, we have registered a rape case under IPC sections and relevant sections of POCSO Act and SC& ST Atrocities Act,” Bowenpally inspector K Ravi Kumar said. On March 3, the girl sneaked out of the house. The aunt lodged a missing report on March 3 and a police team tracked the girl in Andhra Pradesh. “The girl had gone to Andhra Pradesh to stay with a relative’s place on the instructions of the accused. He wanted to elope with her,” Ravi Kumar said. The girl’s parents have a hand-to-mouth existence. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/26-yr-old-worker-held-for-minor-girls-rape/articleshow/81355082.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Farmer hacked to death by siblings||HYDERABAD: A 48-year-old farmer, who wanted to help his younger sibling by mortgaging the family-owned agricultural land and bail him out of a case, was hacked to death by his two other brothers in Tangutur village in Rangareddy’s Shankarpally mandal on Friday. The accused are in police custody, with a murder case booked against them. S Yadaiah had four siblings — Paramaiah, Pandu, Raju and Srinivas. His elder brother Paramaiah died a few months ago due to ill-health, while Raju was convicted in a stalking case recently. Yadaiah wanted to provide legal help to Raju by mortgaging the two-acre farmland. However, Pandu and Srinivas opposed this idea. On Friday morning, Pandu went to Yadaiah’s house while he was about to go to work in the fields. “Pandu called Yadaiah to come to their old house where Srinivas was waiting to discuss the land issue. After reaching the house, Pandu sprinkled chilli powder in Yadaiah’s eyes and hit him on his head with a stick. Srinivas attacked his brother with an axe, killing him on the spot,” said inspector G Gopinath. After killing Yadaiah, his brothers took the pattadar passbooks of the land from his pocket and fled. “Yadaiah tried to reason with them that they could recover the legal fee from Raju after his release by disposing his share of the land. But, Pandu and Srinivas did not agree to this,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-hacked-to-death-by-siblings/articleshow/81355104.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Charge of elderly boosts vax nos, 6 private hospitals join today||MUMBAI: The state carried out over 91,000 Covid-19 vaccinations on Friday, accounting for nearly 9% of the 10.34 lakh shots given across India and recording a moderate 20.6% rise in recipients from Thursday. Mumbai carried out 29,487 vaccinations, a rise of 28.3% from Thursday. After 13 on Friday, six more private hospitals — Holy Spirit Hospital (Andheri East), Shivam (Kandivali), Surana (Malad), Surana Sethia (Chembur), Sushrut (Chembur), Balaji Hospital (Byculla) — will join the drive from Saturday. BMC has sought the Centre’s permission to rope in another 13 private hospitals. The city’s 53 vaccination centres carried out the drive through 174 sessions. The biggest group of beneficiaries was the elderly at almost 20,000, with 2,199 persons with comorbidities, 5,063 healthcare workers and 2,266 frontline workers. In five days, over two lakh elderly and persons above 45 years with co-morbidities across the state have received the first dose. Mumbai leads, reaching out to 58,104, followed by Pune (20,872), Thane (13,443) and Nagpur (12,256) districts. Compared to 6,705 of the target citizen groups who got vaccinated on Day 1, over 57,000 had turned up across Maharashtra on Friday. Overall, the state has given 15.99 lakh shots, including 7.46 lakh first dose and 2.25 lakh second dose. Over 4 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated. Public health experts said the numbers are increasing now as Covid cases are on the rise. In the city, some private hospitals that started vaccinating on Friday had a mixed day. Masina faced hiccups with the initial registration. “We realised that the Co-WIN portal was running slow. If an individual has registered and the registration is not linked to Aadhar KYC due to a change of mobile number or so, we had to manually register the details, take a photograph and do the other formalities which were time-consuming,” said Dr Vispi Jokhi, CEO. The same process, if done through the phone-based app, was comparatively better, he said. However, the glitches resolved through the day. Sion resident R Sridhar, who got vaccinated at the BKC jumbo facility with his mother, wife and physiotherapist daughter, said everything was done within an hour. “Only improvement I would suggest is having a separate queue for healthcare workers and people above 45. If everyone is clubbed together, the wait time gets longer. But overall, we had a seamless experience,” he said. On the second day of vaccination at Bombay Hospital, Dr Gautam Bhansali said that nearly 500 people took the shot. “We have urged the corporation to extend the vaccination hours at least till 10pm,” he said. While the Centre had said vaccination centres could run 24/7, hospitals said it may not be practical. Dr Archana Patil, head of state health services, said: “We have kept it flexible.” Sneha Joseph, executive director of Holy Spirit Hospital, said they plan to take at least 25% walk-in beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-charge-of-elderly-boost-vax-nos-6-pvt-hosps-join-today/articleshow/81356380.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: First set of 650 autos gets new meters||Mumbai: There was chaos and confusion on Friday morning followed by a rasta roko for a few minutes before 650 autos got approval for their meter recalibrations showing the revised fare of minimum Rs 21 for 1.5 km. These autos will be among the first in Mumbai region to collect the new fares from commuters. The first set of Kaali Peeli taxis could be on roads with upgraded meters (minimum fare of Rs 25) by weekend. On Friday morning, there was chaos on Eastern Express highway, with over 500 autos parked from the highway to R City Mall in Ghatkopar as they awaited RTO clearance for meters. With no RTO officials in sight for over an hour, the auto drivers, including women, staged a rasta roko, bringing peak hour traffic to a halt for some time. The police quickly intervened and dispersed the crowd. When contacted, a senior RTO officer said the drivers/owners had failed to take appointments for the recalibration tests. “From Saturday, we will strictly follow our system of first giving appointments to the autorickshaw owners/drivers and then conducting the road tests in batches allotted to them,” said regional transport officer (Wadala RTO) Purushottam Nikam. A woman driver, Neeta Chaudhary, from Bhandup said she had to wait for the recalibration process for more than five hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-first-set-of-650-autos-gets-new-meters/articleshow/81358459.cms||Somit Sen
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Revamp of sewage plants still in the drain over costs||MUMBAI: Rates for construction of sewage treatment plants at six spots in the city have shot up, with companies bidding 30% to 60% more than BMC’s estimated cost. The six spots for which BMC got bids include Versova, Dharavi, Bhandup, Ghatkopar, Worli and Bandra. It will invite a fresh tender for the seventh plant — Malad. BMC has set aside over Rs 15,000 crore to revamp the plants under Mumbai Sewage Disposal Project-II that has been crawling for 15 years. Tenders for the plants have been scrapped many times over cost hikes and tepid response from bidders. Last February, then BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi scrapped tenders for the plants, citing use of new technology to save cost and to frame new guidelines. TimesViewSewage treatment plants (STP) are part of an important infrastructure project, Mumbai Sewage Disposal Project-II, which has been moving at a snail’s pace for over 15 years. STPs are vital for the city given the environmental ramifications of letting untreated sewage into the sea. While the project must be fast- tracked, BMC must ensure it is free of irregularities and favouritism, if any. Merit must be the only criterion to award work.An official said there were also complaints of irregularities in tendering.“There were allegations of favouritism... That conditions were drafted such that only some contractors would gain. There was little competition, so tenders were scrapped.” Earlier, BMC had to revise its tender plans after an order from National Green Tribunal on effluent discharge norms. It changed how contractors were appointed. Opposition leaders alleged that BMC had sat on the project due to political pressure and interest. “Consecutive governments delayed the project and scrapped tenders for their convenience. There must be a probe into how many times tender conditions were changed to favour certain companies. The city and its coastline have suffered due to vested political interest...,” said Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh. “We have formed three panels of experts... The decision taken will be scientific with proper reasoning. Any decision will only be taken after this,” said P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects). Officials said BMC had followed guidelines of the union environment ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-revamp-of-sewage-plants-still-in-the-drain-over-costs/articleshow/81357864.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 6, 2021||Vadodara||New mayor for Vadodara on Feb 10||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will hold the first general board meeting of the newly elected corporators on Wednesday (Feb 10). The mayor and deputy mayor will be elected in the meeting along with 12 standing committee members for a period of 2.5 years.The recent VMC polls had seen the BJP trounce the Congress by winning 69 of the 76 seats and only seven seats going to the Congress. The saffron party will now have its corporators elected as mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee members.The first general board meeting of the VMC will be held in the Gandhi Nagargruh to ensure that social distancing is maintained during the meeting in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The agenda for the meeting was brought out by the civic body late on Thursday evening. The post of the mayor for the 2.5-year-term is reserved fora corporator from the general category. Several male corporators elected on general category seats are eyeing the post. As per tradition the BJP may pickup a woman corporator for the remaining key posts of the deputy mayor and the standing committee chairperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-mayor-for-vadodara-on-feb-10/articleshow/81354008.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Panchayat member, 3 others held for gambling||Aurangabad: The special squad of the city police raided a gambling den and arrested a gram panchayat member and three others after seizing Rs 22,000 and four mobile phones from them at Daulatabad late on Thursday night. The arrested have been identified as Deepak Ghusde (38), Shaikh Siraj (28) and Asef Khan (22), all residents of Bhimnagar, and Syed Mazhar (27) from Chhoti Mandi area of Daulatabad. “Deepak Ghusde was elected member of the local gram panchayat. As per the preliminary investigation, he and Siraj are into gambling business. Ghusde has been nominated to the post of standing committee member of the GP,” said assistant inspector Rahul Rode, who led the raid. “The suspects have started taking bets through WhatsApp due to which they no more need any fixed spot for running a gambling den. This made it difficult to nab them red handed,” he said. The Daulatabad police station registered an offence against the foursome and handed them over to the area police station. Inspector Rajshir Adhe said the suspects got bail because it was a bailable offence. “We have launched a probe to ascertain how many people are involved in running online ‘matka’ and who their customers are.” Police sources said they will take opinion on sending a report about the alleged activities of the gram panchayat member to the administration, so that appropriate action is initiated against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/panchayat-member-3-others-held-for-gambling/articleshow/81353302.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man spreads rumour of affair with woman, held||Mumbai: A 24-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly stalking and sexually harassing a 33-year-old woman from Vakola over the last four months. The woman lodged a police complaint after the accused, Farhan Khan, spread rumours in the locality where she lives that she “had often accompanied him to lodges”. Khan was released on bail on Friday. The woman lodged a complaint on February 2 after Khan allegedly followed her and gesticulated in a vulgar manner. She claimed that the harassment began in September last year after she lodged a complaint at Vakola police against her husband and his friend, identified only as Ijaz, accusing them of fraudulenty withdrawing Rs 20,000 from her bank account. The woman claimed that Khan, who is known to Ijaz, had been threatening her since then, demanding that she withdraw the police complaint. Those who know the woman told TOI that Khan is among those who terrorise people in the locality. “When the woman refused to take back her complaint, Khan started to tarnish her reputation by spreading rumours abut her,” said a local who did not wish to be named. —V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-spreads-rumour-of-affair-with-woman-held/articleshow/81358468.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 6, 2021||Chennai||AIADMK gives BJP one LS and 20 MLA seats||Chennai: After several rounds of talks, the BJP late on Friday sealed a pact with the ruling AIADMK, settling for 20 MLA seats and Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat in the polls to be held on April 6. AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam, joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami, BJP general secretary and TN in-charge C T Ravi and state president of the BJP, L Murugan, had signed the pact dated March 5. Earlier in the day, the AIADMK released its first list of six candidates, fielding the CM and his deputy from their home turf — Edappadi and Bodinaikkanur. After BJP’s poll strategists and Union minister Amit Shah held nearly three-hour talks with AIADMK leaders EPS and OPS last Saturday, over seat-sharing and other key issues related to the alliance and its prospects in the assembly polls, Union minister and TN election in-charge G Kishan Reddy and state BJP leaders held multiple rounds of negotiations with the ruling party. The deal was delayed due to a purported disagreement over sharing of some constituencies in the western belt, particularly in Coimbatore district, between both the parties. “AIADMK will extend full cooperation in all the 20 constituencies to be fought by the BJP in the assembly poll and the Kanyakumari bypoll,” AIADMK leaders declared in the agreement. AIADMK has already allocated 23 seats to one of its ally, PMK, while it continues to hold talks with other smaller parties, including Vijayakanth’s DMDK. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-gives-bjp-one-ls-and-20-mla-seats/articleshow/81356425.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||Tickell’s Thrush seen at Seminary Hills||Nagpur: City birder Narendra Shankar Nikhare has sighted and recorded a rare Tickell's Thrush female at Seminary Hills. This is said to be the first record of the bird in the district.As reported by TOI, the bird was sighted in Yavatmal district in April 2016. Nikhare said the bird was recorded from his CPWD quarters terrace at Seminary Hills recently. Bird expert Pushkar Kulkarni said, “There is no last record available in Nagpur district of this bird. It may be the first sighting of this bird in the district. Some well-known bird watchers have also confirmed the identity.”As per the records, this bird is commonly seen in the open forests of the Himalayas and North-East. It migrates seasonally into Peninsular India. In Maharashtra, it has been previously sighted in Yavatmal and Konkan, and Jalgaon regions.This bird is omnivorous and mostly feeds on earthworms and insects. Its size is similar to that of the common myna. While males of this species have bluish upper parts and a white belly, females have brown upper parts. “Its sighting in our area signifies the healthy biodiversity at Seminary Hills, which has been the hotspot for birders of Nagpur,” said Nikhare.“This year I’ve recorded some rare and uncommon birds in Seminary Hills. These birds include the grey-headed canary flycatcher, greater racket-tailed drongo, crested goshawk and many more,” he added. FLYING HIGH* Commonly seen in open forests of Himalayas & North-East* Migrates seasonally into Peninsular India* In Maharashtra, previously sighted in Yavatmal and Konkan, and Jalgaon regions* Omnivorous, it mostly feeds on earthworms and insects* Size similar to common myna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tickells-thrush-seen-at-seminary-hills/articleshow/81356420.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 6, 2021||India||Kerala BJP chief bats for Metro Man as CM face||KOTTAYAM: Kerala BJP chief K Surendran on Friday continued to bat for ‘Metro Man’ E Sreedharan as the CM candidate, saying the saffron party will form government in the state and people like Sreedharan will lead that government from the front. Speaking to reporters in Konni in Pathanamthitta district, Surendran said there was no confusion regarding what he had said about Sreedharan in a speech delivered in Thiruvalla on Thursday.  “What I said in Thiruvalla was that the people of the state as well as the party workers wish the proximity and presence of a figure like Sreedharan ji. There is no doubt about that… People of Kerala want Sreedharan to lead from the front. However, it will be the national leadership of the party that will decide and announce this,” Surendran said, adding that Congress and CPM have been panicky since Sreedharan joined BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-bjp-chief-bats-for-metro-man-as-cm-face/articleshow/81359012.cms||---
March 6, 2021||---||Kerala BJP chief bats for Metro Man as CM face||KOTTAYAM: Kerala BJP chief K Surendran on Friday continued to bat for ‘Metro Man’ E Sreedharan as the CM candidate, saying the saffron party will form government in the state and people like Sreedharan will lead that government from the front. Speaking to reporters in Konni in Pathanamthitta district, Surendran said there was no confusion regarding what he had said about Sreedharan in a speech delivered in Thiruvalla on Thursday.  “What I said in Thiruvalla was that the people of the state as well as the party workers wish the proximity and presence of a figure like Sreedharan ji. There is no doubt about that… People of Kerala want Sreedharan to lead from the front. However, it will be the national leadership of the party that will decide and announce this,” Surendran said, adding that Congress and CPM have been panicky since Sreedharan joined BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/kerala-bjp-chief-bats-for-metro-man-as-cm-face/articleshow/81359009.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Govt school staffer,2 others duped||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad city police have booked a man from Ahmednagar and some of his unidentified accomplices for allegedly cheating and three youths of Rs 16 lakh after offering to help them get jobs in the railways. The suspect and his accomplices not only gave the youths fake appointment letters but also took them to Delhi for medical tests and made them stay there for around 40 days, said police. Bharat Khedkar, who is currently working as a class-IV employee with a government school in Beed district, has stated in his police complaint that he came across the suspect while travelling from Aurangabad to Pune in a private bus. “Sometime in mid-2019, the suspect picked a conversation with Khedkar in the bus and claimed to be an employee of the railways. He boasted about his contacts with higher-ups in the railway board and the ministry’s office in Delhi,” police sub-inspector Pravin Patil told TOI. “The suspect claimed that he had helped many youths get jobs in railways. Khedkar got carried away and expressed his desire to get recruited, for which the suspect said that he would have to pay money for it,” said the officer. According to Patil, the two exchanged their phone numbers and after returning home, Khedkar informed his family members about the conversation with the suspect. On learning about it, Khedkar’s two acquaintances, Vishwas Tathe and Sunil Nagre, also expressed their desire for railway jobs. As per the complaint, Tathe and Nagre handed over Rs 4 lakh each to the suspect while Khedkar, who was assured ticket collector post, gave him Rs 8 lakh to him sometime in September-October 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/govt-school-staffer2-others-duped/articleshow/81353322.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: How first patient on ventilator clung on to life & gave doctors hope||MUMBAI: Amol Dhamdhere’s recovery after a life-and-death tussle with Covid-19 in March last year has turned into a metaphor for the city and a symbol of hope.  The 38-year-old techie was the first patient who had to be put on ventilator in the city at a time when little was known about treatment but much about how deadly the virus was. His recovery, doctors said, gave them the first ray of hope that the virus was not unbeatable after all. A year on, Amol told TOI that this was version 2.0 of his life. “It was my second birth on March 31, the day I went home, back to my family after spending the toughest five days of my life on ventilator,” said the father of two. As many are trying to resume their normal lives after a year of living with the pandemic, the Dhamdheres remain vigilant. Birthdays and religious festivities are curtailed, shopping mostly happens online, and social meetings are rare. “We have seen the extreme of coronavirus. We don’t want to lower our guards till we get the vaccine,” he said. Amol had returned to his Kalyan home from a work trip in Minneapolis, US, on March 6, 2020, and soon he left for his native place in Solapur to attend a cousin’s wedding. He remembers returning to his workplace in Airoli on March 9, feeling slightly unwell. As the chill and feverish feeling persisted, he approached the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation that sent him to Kasturba Hospital for testing. His report came positive on March 14, only the fifth such person in the city. A day later, his wife and younger daughter Aarohi, then four, also tested positive. She was the first child to get Covid in the city. Thankfully, both mother and daughter did not turn critical and recovered and went home before Amol. With no underlying ailments, Amol was certain he would head home from Kasturba in a few days.  But his condition took a turn for the worse on March 19. Doctors first put him on oxygen support, and then on a ventilator as his condition started to deteriorate. Amid murmurs of “will he survive”, the then municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi decided to shift him to Jaslok Hospital on Peddar Road—this exception became the norm as BMC allowed private hospitals to start admitting Covid patients. As his wife and daughter looked on, doctors removed his ventilator, put him into an ambulance and put him back on a ventilator at Jaslok. Infectious diseases expert Dr Om Srivastava said Amol’s case was unusual given that he was put on a ventilator twice. “The knowledge of effective drugs was emerging. We treated him with hydroxychloroquine that was initially thought to be effective. That, along with good old ICU care, and his own willpower helped him recover,” he said. Intensivist Dr Shruti Tandan called Amol’s recovery their “first victory” against the virus. “It was a huge boost for the team as data from the US and Italy showed a very high mortality rate for patients on ventilator. But he was on invasive ventilation only for a day, though not by plan,” she said. Amol had pulled out the tube which is referred to as unplanned extubation. The doctors wondered why not see if he could sustain on non-invasive ventilation, and he did. “We had also used steroids to treat him, although global evidence came much later proving that it worked,” she said. Amol vividly remembers how his positive report had triggered frantic screening, testing and contact tracing activities, spanning across Kalyan, Navi Mumbai and all the way to Solapur, where ambulances were lined up outside the villages of his cousin and his newly-wed wife. Fortunately, Amol said, no one was infected. Solapur recorded its first case only around April 12. His Airoli office, which went on ‘work from home’ mode that day, continues to work remotely till date. Following his recovery, Amol was among the first to donate plasma. “I owed it to the doctors who were doing everything to fight this new disease,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-how-first-patient-on-ventilator-clung-on-to-life-gave-doctors-hope/articleshow/81356430.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Scare on flight: Man claims he’s Covid+ve before take-off||NEW DELHI: There was chaos on a Pune-bound IndiGo flight at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport after a passenger revealed that he was Covid-positive. The passenger announced it just before the flight was about to take off, which resulted in the pilot promptly returning the aircraft to the parking bay so that flyers could be evacuated. The incident took place on Thursday when flight 6E-286 was preparing to take-off for Pune. Officials said the man revealed his condition to the flight crew, who immediately alerted the pilot. A source said the man had documents to back his claim. “It is unsure what prompted him to board the aircraft and then reveal it afterwards. After the crew alerted the pilot, the air traffic controller and ground staff were informed about the situation,” added the source. Passengers were asked to remain calm and deboard in a phased manner. “There was panic after the passengers came to know of it, but they were asked to stay calm. Once back in the taxi bay, everyone was made to get down and the alleged infected passenger was taken to the airport authorities,” said an official. IndiGo said the aircraft was thoroughly fumigated and sanitised and the seat covers were changed too. “Passengers were provided PPE kits and food and beverages. There was a delay of nearly two hours. However, no one was made to take Covid-19 tests at the airport,” said the official. An airport source said the alleged infected passenger was handed over to government authorities, who took him to Safdarjung Hospital’s Covid-19 facility. Flight operations were halted last March, but the central government announced resumption of domestic operations from May 25, 2020 in a phased manner. At IGI Airport, flights initially began from Terminal-3 and from October 2020 from Terminal-2. Terminal-1, which is currently being renovated, is likely to see operations soon. From February 23, passengers from the UK, Europe, Middle East, Brazil and South Africa are being tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/scare-on-flight-man-claims-hes-covidve-before-take-off/articleshow/81357841.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Daughter of murdered activist enters politics||TRICHY: It was in July 2019 that a six-members gang brutally murdered 65-year-old Veeramalai and his son Nallathambi, 40, at Kulithalai in Karur district in front of her sister V Annalakshmi, 38. The duo’s crime: They had moved Madras high court to retrieve an encroached water body from influential people in the village. Today, Annalakshmi has decided to take the political plunge as an independent candidate from Srirangam, resolving to fight for public causes even harder. “ I saw my brother die in front of my eyes after being hacked by the locals. My family could never overcome their loss, but this was not just one instance, such killings continue to happen in the state. I want no family to undergo what we underwent after losing our breadwinners,” she said. Preliminary inquiry had revealed that their public opposition to the encroachment of a 200-acre water body for over three decades was the cause of their murder. “While government officials and the local body were aware of the encroachment, the killing could have been avoided had they prevented this blatant disregard for law. But my family members had to pay the price for a public cause,” she said. Annalakshmi lives in Inam Puliyur village in Srirangam with her family cultivating organic crops on her three-acre farm land. She has chosen to remain single to raise her nephews after the demise of her brother. She also has to look after her mother and a sister with learning disabilities. “There have been several instances when social activists were either killed or forced to commit suicide in the last two years alone, but such incidents have gone unnoticed,” says she. Two years after the killings, Annalakshmi has found that the path to justice has been more traumatising than the incident. To take the killers to their fateful end, she has been running from pillar to post to keep the accused behind bars until the trial ends. She continues to object to their bail pleas whenever they come up for hearing. Annalakshmi says the uninterrupted supply of liquor in the state through government machinery has been fuelling many such crimes, and she vows to take up the issue. As an organic farmer, she suffered losses in the recent rain and says farmers’ problems have been ignored by all governments. “I have incurred losses of Rs 50,000 from the samba crops. But now when I am preparing for kuruvai, I don’t have enough water to meet the requirement,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/daughter-of-murdered-activist-son-takes-political-plunge/articleshow/81356438.cms||Sampath Kumar
March 6, 2021||Dehradun||'Yoga only link between different cultures'||On the fifth day of the International Yoga Festival, yoga scholars gave a message to the world from Rishikesh on Friday that yoga is the only way to connect all cultures of the world. Yoga scholar Swami Atamswroopanand from Swami Niranjanananda Yoga centre, Bihar, said that yoga is a spiritual heritage of India. Many from across the world reach Rishikesh for learning this ancient practice to lead a healthy and stress-free life. He added that suicide rates have increased with people leading stressful lives. Yoga scholars Chaudhary Brijpal Singh and Acharya Vipin Joshi were also present in the festival organised by the state tourism department in association with TOI, at Ganga Resort in Rishikesh. Apart from teaching about yoga techniques, the winner of MasterChef season 1, Pankaj Bhadoriya, talked about the importance of a healthy diet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yoga-only-link-between-different-cultures/articleshow/81355197.cms||MS Nawaz
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: To-be groom, kin booked for cheating||Mumbai: Four persons from Vasai, including a prospective groom, a civil engineer, were booked for cheating after calling off the marriage alleging they had been ignored by the bride-to-be, a doctor, during the pre-engagement ceremony in Wada on February 28. On Thursday, the girl’s family approached Wada police. The girl’s father said he had spent money on the ceremony and had given gifts to the boy’s family. He said the decision to call off the alliance has affected the future marriage prospects of his daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-to-be-groom-kin-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/81358476.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Pune||Citizens say no adherence to CoWIN slots, hosps tell beneficiaries to be patient||Pune: Several city hospitals are “not honouring” the online CoWin appointments for vaccination and are instead giving the jabs on the basis of the token system, citizens have complained. Hospital authorities, however, said citizens should be more patient considering that the system has just started and issues with the CoWIN server continue. As per the system, citizens taking a token at the hospital are eligible for the vaccination first even after having a confirmed online appointment on CoWIN. Wakad resident Ankit Jaina, whose both parents are aged 61, was surprised that despite having a confirmed CoWIN appointment for their vaccination at a Chinchwad hospital, he was told on reaching there that he had arrived late for the token. “The hospital staff told us that we were supposed to reach there at 9am for the token. All 250 tokens given out at the hospital for the day were exhausted by 9.30am,” he said. Jain pointed out that while booking an appointment on the CoWIN app, two options of “forenoon” and “afternoon” were given. He had chosen the afternoon slot and accordingly went to the hospital after noon on Thursday. Manish Ekbote had a similar experience when he took his 70-year-old mother and 80-year-old aunt to another private hospital on Friday. “We had an online appointment and picked the afternoon slot. On reaching the hospital, I was told that online appointments were not being honoured and that citizens were to come at 9am to take one of the 100 tokens given out. My mother and aunt could not get the jab,” he said. Vivek Kapur, 51, said, “I went to Jijamata Hospital, Pimpri, after scheduling a CoWIN appointment for Thursday. The staff said they do not accept vaccinations scheduled on CoWIN and said they issue only 200 tokens after 7am. I reached the hospital after 1pm as I had an afternoon slot. I had to return home without the vaccination.” An official from Inlaks and Budhrani Hospital told TOI, “Even if people have pre-registered online and have been given a slot, there is no appointment system per se. The hospital cannot give an appointment. People have to come to the hospital in time to get the jab. Tokens are the only way for us to manage the crowd that gathers, including those walking in and those with an appointment.” An official from Jijamata Hospital said, “It is sometimes not possible to vaccinate more than the target number of 200 per day. But we do not turn away those who already have a booked slot for that day.” The vaccine incharge at a Chinchwad hospital, which was visited by one of the citizens who faced rejection, said, “We have a vaccination capacity of 200 a day. The CoWIN server is still very slow, and keeps hanging. Hence both categories of beneficiaries — online appointments and walk-ins — presently have to be given tokens to manage the crowd.” Sassoon Hospital dean Murlidhar Tambe said senior citizens should not rush to any particular vaccination centre but should try centres closer to their homes. The surge of citizens at Sassoon Hospital and the frequent CoWIN server issues have resulted in a long waiting time of over 5-6 hours for beneficiaries. “We have trained manpower who can vaccinate over 200 beneficiaries in two hours. But the frequent server issues are affecting the experience,” he said. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region), said, “The token system is only meant for on-spot registrations and does not apply for self-registered beneficiaries getting an appointment online. But the hospitals can take a call on how best they want to manage the system, though there are no directives from the Centre or the state government for a token system. If 200 beneficiaries are to be vaccinated per day at a site, some slots should be reserved for those who get the appointment online. The remaining slots can be kept for the walk-ins and second dose beneficiaries.” (With inputs from Piyush Bhusari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-say-no-adherence-to-cowin-slots-hosps-tell-beneficiaries-to-be-patient/articleshow/81356433.cms||Neha Madaan
March 6, 2021||Kolkata||Fresh faces add colour to TMC’s poll race||Kolkata: A number of celebrities are set to add sheen to Bengal’s assembly elections. Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced the names of a galaxy of first-time candidates from the entertainment and sports world. This apart, three sitting MLAs—Bratya Basu (Dum Dum), Chiranjeet Chakrabarty (Barasat) and Indranil Sen (Chandernagore)—along with actor Soham Chakraborty (Chandipur) will also contest the polls this year. Among the new Trinamool contestants are Manoj Tiwary (Shibpur), Bidesh Bose (Uluberia East) Raj Chakraborty (Barrackpore), June Mallah (Midnapore), Sayantika Banerjee (Bankura), Kanchan Mallick (Uttarpara), Saayoni Ghosh (Asansol South), Koushani Mukherjee (Krishnagore North), Aditi Munshi (Rajarhat-Gopalpur) and Lovely Maitra (Sonarpur South). Actor June is clear about not looking to be a star contestant. “I’ve been with Didi since 2010. The fact that I have been given a tough seat means I am not being seen as a wallpaper. Thanks to Didi for having faith and confidence in my abilities,” she said. June belongs to the Mashishadal raj baari. “I am no outsider. I want to highlight Didi’s work. I don’t want to merely talk about wanting to work but will do it.” Actor Saayoni aims to be a bridge between Banerjee and voters. “I come from a middle-class family. My mother dedicated 30 years to a government job. My father ran a paan shop at Lake Gardens while studying and then started his business. In 2014, I lost my brother. I have been in the entertainment world for over a decade. Now, I am starting a new journey,” she said, adding her concern was to bust “BJP’s false promises”. “I promise not to be a star contestant,” said director Raj, known for his organizational skills. “I am a people’s leader. My father was a clerk at Rishi Bankim Chandra College in Naihati. I have grown up in this locality and I know life at the grassroots level. I will win the polls by convincing my voters of my integrity,” he said. On his agenda are four crucial issues. “Women’s security tops my priority. I will ensure there is no muscle-flexing in my constituency. I will bust the myth about fair-weather netas and ensure I am always accessible to my voters even after polls. This is true especially for the elderly. My phone will always be available,” said Raj, who wants entrepreneurs to operate without any pressure. “My constituency will be the ideal place for any businessman.” Footballer Bidesh is stepping onto a different field. “This is a surprise from Didi. I am humbled and honoured. I hope to live up to her trust and expectations,” said the former India international player. Bose had an illustrious career with Mohun Bagan between 1977 and 1987 and won a host of trophies with them. He was also part of Mohun Bagan team that faced New York Cosmos, who had Pele on their side. “I have entertained people with my football. Now, I will try to make people happy with my work. You need a platform to work for the people and this is an ideal one for me,” he added. Sayantika is relying on her people’s connect to reach out to voters in Bankura. She started doing macha shows since 2012. “Every season, I did over 100 shows, interacting with the common man. I know rural Bengal like the back of my hand. Women often come up to me to share their problems. I am like a sister to them, their jadoo ki jhappi,” she said. Chiranjeet Chakrabarty, who had wanted to retire from politics, will be contesting from Barasat for the third time in a row. “Since Mamata wants me to contest, I will go by her decision. I will give my 100%. This time, I feel my margin will be higher than earlier,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-faces-add-colour-to-tmcs-poll-race/articleshow/81356442.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Arthritis drug may lower risk of Covid-19 mortality, reveals study||NEW DELHI: Tocilizumab, an anti-inflammatory drug used for treating arthritis, helps increase survival among patients suffering from severe Covid-19. India’s first multicentre randomized controlled trial on the use of Tocilizumab to treat the infection has concluded this. The study was conducted at 11 public and private tertiary-care hospitals in the country. According to the results of the trial published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, a total of 180 patients were recruited at the centres, 90 of whom received Tocilizumab (TCZ) and standard care, whereas the other 90 received only standard care. While there was no difference in mortality and need for ventilation among the two groups of patients when moderate and severe categories of patients were considered together, a sub-group analysis of the severe patients in the two groups showed a lower mortality (8/50; 16%) among those who received Tocilizumab compared with those who did not (14/41; 34%) in 28 days. Dr A S Soin, national lead investigator of the trial and chairman of Medanta Liver Institute, said Tocilizumab was shown to be safe as the reported adverse events did not differ between patients who received the anti-inflammatory drug and those who received standard care. He added that this was the first phase-3 study to demonstrate that while routine use of TCZ on all hospitalized Covid patients was not warranted, Tocilizumab improved survival among patients with severe symptoms. Earlier, some of the studies suggested showed that the anti-inflammatory drug did not reduce death risk in patients. Dr Soin said Covid-19 is not going away any time soon. “This study plugs an important gap in knowledge on Covid treatment and gives a clear direction on the timing of the drug. Incidentally, in the last month, two major studies — the RECOVERY Trial from the UK and the REMAP-CAP study — have revealed similar findings that TCZ reduces mortality among patients with severe Covid,” he added. Apart from Medanta, Fortis, Apollo, Medeor, Nayati, SGPGI Lucknow, BJMC Pune and PGIMS Rohtak also participated in the study. There is no known cure for Covid-19 as yet. In the absence of any specific treatment, researchers worldwide are experimenting with many existing drugs used for other diseases to re-purpose them for treating the viral infection caused by the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/arthritis-drug-may-lower-risk-of-covid-19-mortality-reveals-study/articleshow/81357889.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Car shop owner, client booked for cheating bank||Aurangabad:The city police on Friday registered a case of cheating against a leading car showroom owner and a customer who purchased a car from the said showroom, following a complaint by a public sector bank. According to the complaint, a person submitted a quotation of over Rs 11 lakh to the bank for purchasing a car. On screening the proposal, an amount of Rs 9.37 lakh was sanctioned in July 2019. However, the customer allegedly purchased another car worth Rs 7.40 lakh. Kranti chowk police inspector Ganpat Darade said that Pankajkumar Sahu (47), manager of Amarpreet-based branch of State Bank of India, has stated in the complaint that the car showroom owner and the customer kept the bank in the dark about the actual price of the vehicle being purchased. The duo have been booked for cheating, forgery, forgery for cheating and criminal breach of trust, said the officer. Darade said the complaint states that the quotation of a vehicle with higher price was submitted and another vehicle of lower price bought, which amounts to cheating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/car-shop-owner-client-booked-for-cheating-bank/articleshow/81353350.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 6, 2021||Trichy||Class XII mid-term exams from today||Trichy: Class XII state board students will appear for their first mid-term examination on Saturday. The exams which will go on till March 13 will be a prelude for around 34,000 students in the district who will appear for board examination in May this year. This is also the first full-fledged written examination that students would appear after a gap of almost a year due to the lockdown. While schools reopened for state board students of classes 9-12 from February 8, the examination was cancelled for classes 9-11. Teachers are rushing to complete the syllabus before the board examination as the mid-term will be an indication of how well the students are prepared for the examination. Usually schools will conduct two mid-term tests - quarterly and half yearly exam - before the annual or board examination besides class tests. “Because of the extraordinary situation created by Covid-19 pandemic, we are conducting the first mid-term examination now which can also be construed as model examination ahead of the board examination for students of Class 12,” said S Anbusekaran, district convenor of the examination. “While the syllabus is reduced to 65% in each subject, 50% of the syllabus will be covered this mid-term and the rest will be covered in the second mid-term scheduled in the second-half of April this year,” said R Arivazhagan, Trichy district chief education officer. Students of classes 9-12 underwent a computer-based initial learning level assessments in January to assess their understanding in subjects without classroom education. The test was conducted at the high-tech labs in government high and higher secondary schools. D Renuka Devi, a student of class 12 from government model girls higher secondary school from Manachanallur, said she is excited about the examination as she will be appearing for it after a long gap. She expects the questions to be moderate in terms of the difficulty considering the fact that they got less time for classroom education. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/class-xii-mid-term-exams-from-today/articleshow/81356441.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mum sizzles, but no heat wave||Mumbai: The city continued to sizzle on Friday too as India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 37.3 degrees. This was a meagre drop from 38.1 degrees a day back. Weathermen said this could not be termed as a heat wave. “On Friday, departure was 4.4 degrees. For the same to be called a heat wave, departure needs to be 4.5 degrees for two days or more,” said scientist Shubhangi Bhute of IMD Mumbai. On Thursday, the maximum recorded by IMD Santacruz was 38.1 degrees, which was 5.2 degrees above normal. On Friday, the maximum recorded by IMD Santacruz was 37.3 degrees, which was 4.4 degrees above normal, while IMD Colaba recorded a maximum of 34.5 degree, which was 3.2 degrees above normal. Relative humidity recorded at Colaba and Santacruz was 61% and 55% respectively. Colaba recorded a minimum of 22.5 degrees and Santacruz 20.6 degrees. The all-time highest maximum temperature recorded for March was 41.7 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-sizzles-but-no-heat-wave/articleshow/81357918.cms||Richa Pinto
March 6, 2021||Trichy||Bonded labourers: FIR yet to be filed against employers||Trichy: The release certificate for four boys, who were rescued from a construction site in Trichy’s Thillai Nagar, where they were forced to work as bonded labourers, was issued a few days back after a long deliberation. They were rescued under Operation Smile. Revenue divisional officer (RDO), Trichy, issued the release certificate to two 16-year-old boys, one from Bihar from Odisha each and two 15-year-old boys from Odisha on March 3.“The release certificate from the revenue department will only help the boys get the compensation of Rs 20,000 from the labour department and the rehabilitation measures,” state coordinator of the Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) H Natharsha Malim told TOI.The Thillai Nagar police, under whose jurisdiction, the boys were subjected to work as bonded labourers, were yet to file a case against Rajkumar of SR construction that allegedly employed the boys and an agent Ganga Poojari and Mukundar, who allegedly procured the boys from their parents.“Despite repeated attempts, the case is yet to be registered. The registration of the case and the conviction in the court will get the boys full compensation,” said Malim.The boys had been rescued from the construction site of Trichy Corporation by a team including labour department, anti-child trafficking unit (ACTU) police, BBA, child labour elimination and effective rehabilitation society (CHEERS) on February 15. Preliminary enquiry revealed the families of the Odisha boys were paid Rs 2,000 each and the family of Bihar boy was given Rs 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bonded-labourers-fir-yet-to-be-filed-against-employers/articleshow/81356443.cms||Gokul Rajendran
March 6, 2021||India||‘Good to see quota candidates in merit list’||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday said it is extremely encouraging that people belonging to reserved categories are getting into merit list without availing quota and reiterated that such candidates will have to be adjusted in the general category. It also upheld the Madras HC order, which had directed the Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Recruitment Board to prepare a fresh selection list after including the successful reserved category candidates in the general category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/good-to-see-quota-candidates-in-merit-list/articleshow/81359019.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Trichy||Gandhi Market relocation a sticky issue for all parties||Trichy: Among issues raised in the coming Assembly election for Trichy East assembly segment will include failed attempts in relocating Gandhi Market from the heart of the city to the outskirts. While traders are demanding political parties to assure that the market will remain undisturbed, residents are urging parties to relocate the congested market for the city’s development. The deadlock seems to have put political parties in a fix to avoid losing vote bank on either side.Although efforts to shift Gandhi Market’s wholesale operations to Kallikudi integrated vegetable market complex failed since 2017, the district administration had an opportunity to shift the market during the Covid19 lockdown. With a court order restraining functioning of the market citing public safety, the market had operated from temporary locations for about eight months between March and November 2020. The traders at the market had thrust enormous pressure on major political parties including AIADMK and DMK to stall relocation bids. With the assembly election around the corner, traders have brought up the market relocation issue once again. “We have approached DMK, AIADMK and MNM party leaders, asking them to include assurance not to shift the market in their manifesto. We will support the party that helps us continue operating from the same place,” said G Kamalakannan, president, Gandhi Market Retail Traders Development Association. With more than 20,000 votes spread across several assembly segments but mostly in Trichy East, the traders said that they will boycott the party that attempts market relocation. On the other hand, residents are irked over the traffic congestion and have been urging major political parties to relocate wholesale operations of Gandhi Market to Kallikudi. “Political parties must try to convince traders about the advantages of relocating for the city’s growth. Day by day, traffic congestion is increasing,” said Mohamed Isham, a resident of Uyyakondan Thirumalai. Political parties are playing a safe role by not taking sides. A suggestion to identify a new market location, closer to the existing market is being contemplated by parties as a strategic move to avoid earning the ire of both traders and residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gandhi-market-relocation-a-sticky-issue-for-all-parties/articleshow/81356454.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 6, 2021||Delhi||Need to keep guard up, officials told at LG-chaired meet||New Delhi: Delhi Disaster Management Authority has directed the authorities to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and continue the cluster-based surveillance to keep the pandemic in check. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal chaired a DDMA meeting on Friday to review the Covid situation in the capital. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain, Dr VK Paul from NITI Aayog, AIIMS director R Guleria among others participated in the meeting where a presentation on the existing Covid situation was made. Delhi reported 312 Covid cases on Friday, which is one of the highest in recent weeks. Every day, around 60,000 people are being tested for the infection in city. “While appreciating the efforts made by all agencies in effectively controlling Covid-19 in Delhi, emphasised the need to continue to be vigilant without lowering our guard and ensuring strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Baijal tweeted. Vaccination was also discussed in the meeting. “Stressed upon the need to make vaccine coverage more inclusive and equitous by way of greater outreach and focused information, education and communication campaign, with special emphasis on marginalised sections without access to digital platform,” the LG tweeted. The districts are likely to carry out awareness campaign based on vaccination, so that more eligible people are motivated to get the Covid shots. The government has permitted people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 with 20 different co-morbid conditions to take the shots in the second phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/need-to-keep-guard-up-officials-told-at-lg-chaired-meet/articleshow/81357924.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 73-year-old gives Rs 1 crore, ‘suitress’ weds another||MUMBAI: A 73-year-old collection agent in a finance company was duped of more than Rs 1 crore after a woman lured him into sharing money with her, promising to marry him and take care of him through his old age. Jeron D’Souza transferred the money to Shalini Singh’s bank account when they met over a cup of tea at a restaurant in Bandra in 2018. D’Souza complained to Andheri police in December 2020 and a case was registered on Thursday, after police learnt that Shalini, employed with a private bank’s customer care service, married Dinesh Singh recently after fleeing to her village during lockdown with the money. Police mentioned the names of the married couple in the FIR. “We registered a case against them for duping the senior citizen. No arrest has been made. A probe is on,” said senior inspector Vijay Belge. The couple was booked under IPC sections 34 (common intention), 406 (breach of trust) and 420 (cheating).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-73-yr-old-gives-rs-1cr-suitress-weds-another/articleshow/81356457.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 6, 2021||Goa||Mandrem, Morjim beaches to be cleared of illegal structures||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has disposed of appeals by five different resort owners in the Mandrem and Morjim coastal belt. It has asked the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) to go ahead with demolition of the illegal structures by the resorts on these turtle nesting beaches. The tribunal permitted the GCZMA to carry out the demolitions as per the authority’s earlier orders. NGT has said that the resort owners themselves are not objecting to demolition of the structures built after 1991. Their only objection is over structures built prior to 1991. Only the “limited question with regard to constructions existing prior to 1991 be reconsidered” and those structures which came up post 1991 should be demolished, NGT said. However, the tribunal has said that where structures are retained, it should be ensured that there is compliance of all requirements necessary for preservation of turtle nesting sites. The GCZMA had originally issued the demolition orders between 2016 and 2017 in the case of the five resorts. The resort owners had subsequently approached the high court over the matter. In 2019, the HC asked the GCZMA to consider the matter afresh. The authority then gave the owners of the structures a personal hearing and passed the demolition orders yet again in December 2019 after which the resort owners filed appeals before the NGT. NGT noted that the three-member GCZMA committee had found a number of violations by the resorts, including putting up hundreds of beach beds, construction of permanent structure with rooms, blasting of music system towards the shore at high volume. Earlier, the Goa forest department had told NGT that the illegal constructions were adversely affecting preservation of the Olive Ridley turtle nesting sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mandrem-morjim-beaches-to-be-cleared-of-illegal-structures/articleshow/81356599.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Trichy||Woman passenger rescued from smugglers||Trichy: A woman passenger who landed at Trichy international airport from Dubai on Thursday morning was ‘abducted’ allegedly by a five-member gang of gold smugglers. However, swift action by Trichy city police led to her rescue and arrest of two of the accused. According to police, the woman, Mumtaj, 30, from Sankarapuram, Kallakurichi, claimed she was given a pair of socks by an ‘unknown’ person at the Dubai airport. She said she reportedly sensed that there was gold in paste form inside the socks. Fearing arrest, she returned it to the person and left for India. However, as she came out of Trichy airport, a gang approached her and asked for the gold given by the person in Dubai. Since she feigned ignorance about it, they bundled her into a car and took her to a hotel. Meanwhile, acting on a complaint from her younger brother M Sudhakar from airport colony, a police team led by the airport police inspector M Periyasamy launched a search and traced them to a hotel in Trichy city. “We rescued the woman and arrested two people. Search is on for the others,” Periyasamy said. Police suspect that the owner of the hotel where the woman was lodged may have had a hand in the abduction. The gang members have been cvidentified as N Mubarak Ali from Kambarasampettai in Trichy district, J Shahul Hameed, Mubarak Ali and Nagoor Gani from Mela Chinthamani, Trichy district and Anwar from Pandamangalam, Namakkal district. Police said the woman had converted to Islam after her mother married a Muslim man about a few years ago. Mumtaj had worked in Dubai for a few years and returned to Kallakurichi during the Covid-19 pandemic. She however, went back to Dubai about a month ago and returned to meet her family in Trichy dristrict in the early hours of Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-passenger-rescued-from-smugglers/articleshow/81356447.cms||Gokul Rajendran
March 6, 2021||Aurangabad||2 held for suicide bid at AMC office||Aurangabad: Two people were arrested after they attempted suicide at the premises of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) office on Friday to protest against deputy municipal commissioner for preventing action against an illegally constructed structure. One of the protestors, identified as Naresh Pakhre, sat on the boundary wall of the building’s terrace and demanded action against a ‘social activist’ and deputy commissioner for allegedly shielding his property. He threatened to jump if action was not initiated. A team from the City chowk police station rushed to the spot and somehow brought him down. Around the same time, his accomplice poured kerosene over himself and tried to immolate. The alert policemen as well as the security guards present there prevented him from taking the extreme step. The duo claimed to have taken the extreme step to protest against civic authorities for ignoring illegal construction and encroachment at Kalda corner. While being taken away by the police, they shouted slogans against a social activist, AMC’s deputy commissioner and civic authorities for failing to act on their complaints. In their statement to the police, the duo said for the past three years, they have been lodging a complaint against an illegal construction that has allegedly come up on an encroached land but the authorities are siding with the owner of the property. When contacted, inspector Sambhaji Pawar said that an offence under IPC section 309 has been registered against the duo. “We have counselled and convinced these activists to abstain from taking any such extreme step. They have been advised to opt for legal course,” said Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-held-for-suicide-bid-at-amc-office/articleshow/81353363.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 6, 2021||Pune||Keep stress at bay and build strength with yoga||Pune: The daily practice of yoga can help one deal with the stress and anxiety stemming from the ongoing pandemic, while also build immunity and strength. Many doctors have also recommended half-an-hour of yoga to Covid-19 patients to help them recover faster and better. The Times of India in partnership with Yoga Institute, Mumbai, has launched the campaign “Yoga At Your Doorstep”. A series of sessions are conducted at housing societies every Sunday as part of the campaign. Senior citizens and children are also encouraged to participate in these sessions, which will be organized on the premises of their own housing societies. This Sunday, the session will be organized at Unit C society Tower 18–23, Blue Ridge Township in Hinjewadi, from 7am to 8am. The event will include demonstrations of a few important yoga poses by skilled instructors, tips for improvement of health and some fun games at the T23 play area at the podium inside the society. Residents of the housing society, interested in participating in the event, can register online www.yogaatyourdoorstep.com or at The Times of India kiosk to be set up at the venue on Saturday and Sunday. A letter will be put up on the notice board of the society and WhatsApp messages will be sent on the residents’ groups to encourage them to participate in this entertaining as well as educational session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/keep-stress-at-bay-and-build-strength-with-yoga/articleshow/81355255.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nashik||Fall in Gangapur dam sparks save water call||Nashik: Mayor Satish Kulkarni has voiced the need to plan water utilisation considering the fast depleting water level of Gangapur dam complex, which provides water to most parts of the city. Data from the water resources department shows that the dam complex is filled to 54.38% of its capacity. During the corresponding period last year, the water stock in complex was 74%. The mayor said that the water supply department of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC)) must draw up a plan as soon as possible so that the water stock lasts till mid-June. “We are still three-and-a-half months away from monsoon. The water level of the Gangapur dam complex has reduced excessively as compared to last year,” he said, adding that a meeting will soon be called to review the situation and make necessary plans. The NMC sources 80% of its water requirement from Gangapur dam complex, while the remaining 20% comes from Darna and Mukane dams. The total capacity of the three dams (Gangapur, Gautami and Kashyapi) in the complex is around 9,350 million cubic feet (mcft). Gangapur dam, on Friday, had 3,030 mcft water, or 54% of the total capacity. Kashyapi dam had 1,336 mcft water, or 72% of the total capacity. Gautami dam had 692 mcft water, or 37% of the total capacity. Darna dam has a total capacity of 7,149 mcft, but had only 5,074 mcft water on Friday, which is 71% of the total capacity. Mukane dam has a total capacity of 7,239 mcft. The water level of the dam was recorded at 4,834 mcft on Friday, with 67% of total storage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fall-in-gangapur-dam-sparks-save-water-call/articleshow/81353362.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 6, 2021||Trichy||Rebuilding of EB Road median begins||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation on Friday commenced civic work for rebuilding the damaged median on East Boulevard (EB) Road. Although the tender was floated months back and with a contractor identified subsequently, the civic body was delaying the work while the damaged median was posing a threat to road users. The 16km stretch will be demolished to make way for a new one. On Friday, heavy machinery started demolishing the weak median. “The old median’s height was one foot, we will increase it to 2.5 feet. We can complete the work in a couple of months,” a corporation official said. While the actual proposal had a provision to grow decorative plants atop the median, corporation has withheld it citing the possibility of stray cattle feeding on them. “We need the road to be relaid as it was damaged recently, encroachments ought to be cleared for smooth traffic movement,” P Ganapathy, a resident of Sankaran Pillai road added. Corporation sources, however, said that the road will not be relaid anytime sooner as it was laid only a few months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rebuilding-of-eb-road-median-begins/articleshow/81356478.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Trichy||EC flying squad seizes Rs 5cr cash from SBI van in Ariyalur||Trichy: A flying squad team in Ariyalur district on Friday seized Rs 5 crore cash from a vehicle belonging to a nationalized bank. As proper document was not available with the officials commuting with the money, the election officials seized the cash and moved to the district treasury for further investigation.Election department officials said that a team comprising zonal deputy tahsildar S Saravanan was in surveillance at Sathamangalam village as model code of conduct (MCC) is in force ahead of Tamil Nadu assembly elections. A van approaching Ariyalur town with the ‘State Bank of India on duty’ sticker was intercepted and inspected by the squad.Officials said that the van with bank employees and security officials was carrying Rs 5 crore in cash from Kumbakonam to Ariyalur town. However, it is not clear whether the vehicle was heading to load cash in the ATM or to a branch of the nationalized bank. “There was an inconsistency in the names of the officials mentioned in the record book. So we had to seize the cash,” a senior official in the district administration said. The bank management was told to approach the appealing committee comprising senior officials from the district administration to submit appropriate documents for retrieving the seized cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ec-flying-squad-seizes-rs-5cr-cash-from-sbi-van-in-ariyalur/articleshow/81356481.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Mumbai||Sonu Sood warns about fake loan scheme using his name||MUMBAI: Bollywood actor Sonu Sood said on Friday that some people had started a fake loan service using his name and have got people to transfer Rs3,500 as legal fees for processing Rs 5 lakh loans for 60-month tenures. The fraudsters created a fake approval letterhead under the name of ‘Sonu Sood Foundation’. The letters showed the bank account number created under the foundation. The actor has filed a case with UP police and will also file one with Mumbai Police. The fraudsters claimed in the letter that cash deposits would not be accepted. EMIs for the loans will be Rs7548.49 a month, they claimed. Sood has warned the fraudsters and on social media urged fans to be cautious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sonu-sood-files-plaint-with-mum-police-against-persons-misusing-his-name/articleshow/81357962.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 6, 2021||Jaipur||23-year-old rape survivor set on fire in Rajasthan, critical||JAIPUR: In a tragic incident, a 23-year-old rape survivor was set on fire by an unidentified person at her residence in Dhan Mandi area of Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district in the wee hours of Thursday. She has sustained 90% burn injuries and suffered damage to some vital organs. First she was rushed to the Sriganganagar hospital from where she was shifted to the SMS Hospital in Jaipur after her condition became critical. Police have detained rape accused Pradeep Bishnoi, but he didn’t turn out to be the person caught on the CCTV camera located near the crime spot. The incident has been highlighted by former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, who blamed the incumbent Congress government of the state for the deteriorating law and order situation. Hanumangarh SP Preeti Jain said Bishnoi has been detained by the police station concerned and is being questioned. “The CCTV footage confirmed that Bishnoi is not the one who set the survivor on fire. We are trying to find out if he is behind the crime. Police are trying to identify the accused seen in the footage and working on some leads,” said Jain. The victim runs a beauty parlour in Dhan Mandi area. She was separated from her husband last year and has been living with her grandparents in Goluwala. She had filed a rape case against Bishnoi in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-survivor-set-on-fire-critical/articleshow/81359020.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ranchi||All-woman team to manage Ranchi rly station on March 8||Ranchi: This March 8, on the occasion of International Women’s Day, Ranchi railway station will be manned and managed by the women personnel of Ranchi railway division, said officials. While female loco pilots will drive passenger trains originating from the station, the station will be completely manned by women constables of the Railway Protection Force. Even the booking windows will be manned by women clerks and there will be women ticket collectors and train ticket collectors on board. “We want to send out a message that the women employees of Ranchi railway division are equally able and capable to excel in every sphere of the functioning of Indian Railways,” a senior official of the division said on condition of anonymity. As per the plan, there will be an all women crew on board the 68037 Ranchi-Lohardaga-Tori Memu passenger, which will depart from the station at 8.55am. The loco pilot, assistant loco pilot, traffic guard, train ticket examiner and on board RPF personnel will all be women. There will be as many as 25 RPF women constables, who will replace their male counterparts across various key points of the station such as entry, exits, platforms, baggage checks and grievance redressal kiosks. The station’s pointsperson and signalling in-charge will also be women personnel. All these deployments will be made for an eight hour shift, beginning 6am. “We have pooled in our women personnel from different parts of the division for the day. Only the station master will be a male. All the women personnel will head back to their respective points of posting thereafter,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/all-woman-team-to-manage-ranchi-rly-station-on-march-8/articleshow/81354753.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Ranchi||NCP boss Pawar to address rally in Ranchi||Ranchi: Hussainabad MLA and the state president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Kamlesh Kumar Singh, on Friday said that their party chief Sharad Pawar will address a state-level party workers’ meet at the Harmu ground on Sunday. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Singh said that Pawar will be accompanied by other national officer bearers of the NCP — including Rajya Sabha MP Praful Patel, Fauzia Khan, Dheeraj Sharma and Soniya Duhan. Pawar being a former Union agriculture minister is expected to speak on the farm laws during the rally. Singh said: “We are the largest constituent of the United Progressive Alliance in the country after the Congress and we have extended our support to Hemant Soren’s government in the state without any conditions. Our national leadership is visiting the state in order to meet party workers and strengthen our presence in Jharkhand so that we are in a position to contest more seats in the Lok Sabha as well as the Vidhan Sabha polls.” “We are expecting more than 20,000 party workers at the rally. The visit of the top party leadership will surely enthuse NCP workers in the state,” Singh said. On being asked how many parliamentary and legislative constituencies were they eyeing to contest in the forthcoming elections, Singh said: “We will contest in at least three parliamentary and around a dozen legislative constituencies in Jharkhand in the future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ncp-boss-pawar-to-address-rally-in-ranchi/articleshow/81356475.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Vadodara||Nine astrologers booked for Rs 32 lakh fraud in Gujarat||VADODARA: The police have booked nine astrologers for duping deceased Narendra Soni of Rs 32.85 lakh in the past two years. Soni had consulted several astrologers to overcome his financial problems and ended up paying them all a huge amount. The police have formed two teams to track down the astrologers from Vadodara and Ahmedabad. “Narendra’s son, Bhavin told us that his father was under immense stress to repay debts and they were not finding a good buyer for their house. So he contacted several astrologers to seek a solution. The astrologers offered to perform some rituals and took lakhs of rupees from Soni,” said P D Parmar, Sama police inspector. Bhavin told the cops that a few astrologers had also come to their home to perform some rituals and had asked them to dig up the floor. According to the police, on instructions of an astrologer Hemant Joshi, Narendra employed a man named Swaraj to dig up kitchen floor in their house by paying Rs 35,000. They found three urns, one of which was full of bones and other with ornaments. When Swaraj sought more money to dig further, Narendra refused. Later Narendra contacted many other astrologers, one of whom even found a snake from the complainant’s house. They all asked Narendra to pay money and perform rituals to ensure that their house gets sold for getting rid of his debts. Meanwhile, Narendra came in contact with Ashok Mistry and Sanjay Mistry and decided to sell off his house to them. The buyers paid him Rs 23.5 lakh but Narendra couldn’t transfer the house in their name as it was already mortgaged. When Mistry duo sought their money back, Narendra came under pressure as he had no money to pay. “It is then that he decided to commit suicide with his family,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nine-astrologers-booked-for-rs-32-lakh-fraud/articleshow/81355194.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ranchi||In Bokaro, affluent class prefers sadar hosp to pvt centres for taking Cov jabs||Bokaro: The affluent class in Bokaro is choosing to get their first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine in district hospital instead of private ones. Of the 14 hospitals earmarked for inoculating the senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities, it is the sadar hospital, located in ANM Hostel in Camp–2 area here, which is witnessing the maximum footfall. As per district health department figures, nearly 1,500 people are taking the jab on a daily basis and most of them are choosing sadar hospital. For instance, as of Friday morning, 631 senior citizens took their first shot, of which only 93 had took it in private hospitals. Among those getting vaccinated are retired officers and employees of Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL). Going by the district health officials, it is not about free jabs but the exemplary work the government-run healthcare facilities did last year when the pandemic was at its peak that is attracting the opulent class to sadar hospital. These days, the visitor’s gallery at the hospital is teeming with beneficiaries ever since phase-2 of the vaccination drive started on March 1. Waiting for their turn, senior citizens are trying their hand at selfies and striking up conversations with the others on how they sailed through the lockdown. Dr B B Lal, who worked at Bokaro General Hospital, said, “The way sadar hospital or the district health machinery performed last year, starting from testing, contact-tracing to containing the virus, it has built immense trust among the people and I decided to take the shot there.” A 70-year-old businessman named S Aggarwal said he had visited sadar hospital for taking the shot but had to return home due to the rush. But he isn’t complaining as Aggarwal doesn’t mind going there twice for “he only trusts sadar hospital when it comes to taking the jab”. He said, “I’ll be going there again on Monday when my turn comes up. I have more faith in sadar hospital because the government is strict when it comes to storing the vaccine, including keeping it in ice-lined refrigerators. Moreover, the staff there never open the vials until the beneficiaries arrive at the premises in order to avoid wastage. For Covid vaccination purpose, or for that matter, testing, sadar hospital or any government health centre is the best.” Even the top administrative officials in Bokaro are taking the jab at sadar hospital, which is further building confidence among the well-to-do. On Friday, Bokaro DC Rajesh Singh, SP Chandan Kumar Jha and his entire team of administrative officials took their second shot. “People from different socio-economic backgrounds are turning up in large numbers at sadar hospital. The vaccine centre here is doing exceptionally well,” Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/in-bokaro-affluent-class-prefers-sadar-hosp-to-pvt-centres-for-taking-cov-jabs/articleshow/81354558.cms||Divy Khare
March 6, 2021||Vijayawada||14.4 lakh devotees visited Tirumala temple in February||Tirupati: The Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala received a hundi collection of Rs 90.45 crore in the month of February during to rising pilgrim footfall. TTD executive officer KS Jawahar Reddy said about 14.41 lakh devotees visited the temple in February, the highest since the outbreak of Covid-19. However, the numbers are still less when one looks at the corresponding figures last year, when 21.08 lakh devotees visited Tirumala. The TTD also sold 76.61 lakh laddus to visiting devotees in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/14-4-lakh-devotees-visited-tirumala-temple-in-february/articleshow/81354061.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Ranchi||Question Hour disrupted, ruling parties blame BJP||Ranchi: With the Vidhan Sabha witnessing unruly scenes for the sixth consecutive day on Friday, the ruling and the opposition camps accused each other of avoiding discussions on issues affecting common people. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said: “The BJP is least bothered in running the House. With the proceedings getting stalled repeatedly, the masses will suffer,” he said. CPI(ML) state secretary Janardhan Prasad said, “The BJP lawmakers are giving more importance to their political agenda than the issues concerning the public during the session. The disruption of question hour has prevented the raising of important issues. The BJP could have facilitated discussions and prompted the government to take positive steps.” CPI(M) secretariat member Prakash Viplav said that the hindering of Vidhan Sabha proceedings was a serious issue. The opposition should act responsibly. “However, they are not only blocking the functioning of the assembly but are also protesting in a childish manner,” he said. BJP state spokesman Pratul Shahdeo said that the JMM’s accusations against his party was a “classic case of a pot calling a kettle black”. He pointed out that the JMM had stalled proceedings in the House for a prolonged period over the SPT and the CNT Acts during the tenure of the Raghubar-Das led government. “We are demanding discussion on genuine issues including law and order, naxalism and jobs for the youth. The government, however, is stopping our MLAs,” Shahdeo said. Reiterating a similar view, BJP MLA Raj Sinha said that the government was running away from discussing important issues. Sinha added that he want to raise the water crisis and the law and order problem in Dhanbad during this session, but has not got a chance yet. Speaking on the issue, an assistant professor of Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University, Reena Nand, said, “There should be decorum in the Vidhan Sabha. People watch how their representatives behave. All the MLAs should cooperate in bringing out positive outcomes from the session instead of being self-centred.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/question-hour-disrupted-ruling-parties-blame-bjp/articleshow/81356589.cms||Sanjay Sahay
March 6, 2021||Ranchi||BSL, JSCA meet over proposed Rs 250-cr international stadium||Bokaro: A delegation of Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL) met the office bearers of Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) in Ranchi to work out the modalities for transfer of land for the proposed cricket stadium in Bokaro. The cost of the project will be around Rs 250 crore. BSL team, led by its director in-charge Amarendu Prakash, also took a tour of the JSCA stadium and its various infrastructure and facilities. Former JSCA president Amitabh Choudhary was also present at the meeting. The BSL team reviewed various parts of the stadium, including the dressing room, clubhouse, gym, VVIP room, etc. Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan was also present at the meeting. The conditions which BSL has put before JSCA for transferring 20 acre land for construction of international cricket stadium at Balidih on National Highway-23 were also discussed. It was learnt that BSL and JSCA reached agreements on various points. Sources said Chaudhary, while discussing with Prakash, said that in every parameter the proposed stadium will be a state-of-the-art facility. Prakash said, “Some points have been discussed about the terms and conditions of transfer of land with the JSCA team. We hope that it would be finalised soon and the project would move quickly.” Narayan said, “The meeting was very positive. It is expected that soon after this meeting, the process of land transfer will be completed. Construction of an international cricket stadium in Bokaro will make the city come on the world map.” Notably, a JSCA team had visited the site of the proposed stadium last Saturday. They also held meeting with Prakash and Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh. Before finalising the land transfer process, the BSL management had placed conditions before the JSCA members asking for a few rights over branding and seating. According to sources, BSL has sought adequate advertising rights for Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) inside and outside the stadium. Adequate seats for SAIL officers and seats for invited guests of SAIL in VVIP box and SAIL’s representatives in the management committee of the stadium have been demanded. This will be the third international cricket stadium in Jharkhand after Ranchi and Jamshedpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsl-jsca-meet-over-proposed-rs-250-cr-international-stadium/articleshow/81354704.cms||Divy Khare
March 6, 2021||Ranchi||Hemant to woo investors, promote Jharkhand in Delhi||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren will meet entrepreneurs and industrialists from diverse sectors in New Delhi on Saturday to promote Jharkhand as an investors' destination and seek their opinions on the new industrial policy of the state. Officials in the chief minister's office said the meeting dubbed as 'Emerging Jharkhand Stakeholders’ Conference' will be held over lunch at the Taj Palace hotel. It will primarily focus on food processing, electrical and electronics, apparel and textile, electric vehicles, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, and light engineering sectors. The officials also said Soren will highlight the key provisions of the draft industrial policy which aims to replace the one implemented by the erstwhile Raghubar Das government in 2017. The new policy document will offer additional incentives to the entrepreneurs across the priority sectors if they set up their units in the state. “The new Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (JIIP) focusses on creating five lakh jobs and raising investments to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore in the coming years. The focus will be on strengthening the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sectors and the revival of the manufacturing sector. Special attention will be given to sick units,” a well-placed source in the CMO said. The policy also proposed to offer a capital subsidy of 30% to pharma companies in investments, 100% exemption in stamp duty and 80% reimbursements in SGST for five years. It also explores opening up to private healthcare providers and has provisions for 25% capital incentive subsidy on private superspecialty hospitals which will have a minimum of 150 beds and investments above Rs 50 crore. In the tourism sector, new hotels and resorts will be provided electricity bill exemption up to Rs 10 lakh and 30% subsidy for investments up to Rs 12 crore, the source added. Besides wooing the prospective investors, Soren and his battery of senior officials will also try to showcase the proposed 93-acre plastic park in Deoghar, the proposed 34-acre leather park in Gopalgunj in Dhanbad and the 35-acre pharmaceutical park in Chanho block of Ranchi. Saturday’s meet will also be Soren’s first with the entrepreneurs since he took over as the chief minister in 2019 end. Soren and his party, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) were critical of the Das government’s Momentum Jharkhand Global Investors’ Summit of 2017, where the then government had claimed to have fetched investment proposals to the tune of Rs 1.10 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-to-woo-investors-promote-jharkhand-in-delhi/articleshow/81356554.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 6, 2021||Ranchi||Fire guts cables worth over Rs 1 crore in Dhanbad rly div||Sindri: Cables worth more than Rs 1 crore belonging to the signal and telecom department of Dhanbad rail division of East Central Railways were gutted in a fire that broke out at the cable stock in Hill Colony on Friday afternoon. It took nearly four hours for five fire tenders to douse the flames. The senior officials were unwilling to say anything on record except that they were busy managing the situation and losses caused due to the fire would be calculated later. Cable rolls were kept in the open on a plot owned by the railways in Hill Colony, situated near the residences of rail SP and deputy SP. Dozens of railway quarters and private residences are also located there. According to reports, the railway signal and telecom department is upgrading its system in the entire division for which the cables were procured and kept there for onward transmission. Around 12:30pm, locals spotted a spark in the cable and informed the fire office. By the time the fire tenders arrived, several cable rolls were engulfed in the the flames, forcing the fire department to call more tenders. All senior railway officials, including DRM Ashish Bansal, were present at the spot. The railway staff were also pressed into service to save the rest of the cable rolls from getting damaged in the fire. Meanwhile, RPF and GRP personnel had to resort to mild lathicharge to disperse the mob that had gathered there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fire-guts-cables-worth-over-rs-1-crore-in-dhanbad-rly-div/articleshow/81354608.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 44 fresh cases||Ranchi: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand continued to fall as the state reported 44 fresh cases against 49 recoveries on Friday. The number of active cases in the state as of Friday was 481. No casualty was reported on Friday, keeping the death count from the virus to 1,091. State capital Ranchi alone reported 28 fresh infections, whereas the other districts recorded cases in single digits. Meanwhile, a total of 18,754 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Friday. Of which, 11,483 received their first dose, while 7,271 got their second jabs. As per the data provided by the health department, 3,37,309 people have been administered the first dose of vaccine in the state till Friday, while 54,489 beneficiaries have received their second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-44-fresh-cases/articleshow/81356502.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 6, 2021||Surat||At 101, Surat reports highest rise in Covid cases in 90 days||SURAT: The fresh Covid-19 cases in Surat city crossed the 100-mark on Friday, which is the highest daily rise in over three months. Officials of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said that with the 101 new coronavirus cases reported on Friday, the case tally in the Diamond City reached 41,094. “The Athwa zone continued to report the highest number of cases among the eight zones of the city with 35 fresh cases. It was followed by Rander (16) and Limbayat (14),” said an SMC official. SMC once again urged citizens coming from outside the city to get themselves tested for Covid-19 to prevent the spread of the infection. Meanwhile, the enforcement teams of the civic body penalized 149 people for not wearing face masks and collected Rs 1.49 lakh as fine for violation of Covid-19 guideline. Senior SMC health officials had recently held a meeting at SMIMER hospital to review the preparedness to deal with rising Covid-19 cases. “We have been asked to be prepared to handle more cases. We are monitoring the situation very closely,” said an official from SMIMER hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/at-101-surat-reports-highest-rise-in-covid-cases-in-90-days/articleshow/81354376.cms||---
March 6, 2021||Nagpur||Accept cash surety from Varavara Rao: HC to G’chiroli court||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday directed release of poet PV Varavara Rao on cash surety of Rs50,000. Justice Anuja Prabhudessai directed the Gadchiroli sessions court to send his release order to Taloja Central Jail, Mumbai, by email or any other electronic mode after he furnishes the surety amount. Currently, the poet is recuperating in Mumbai’s Nanavati Hospital.The 82-year-old had been earlier released on temporary bail on February 23 on medical grounds by the high court. However, the Gadchiroli court had refused to accept his two solvent sureties of Rs50,000 on the ground that they were from Telangana. His counsels — Firdos Mirza and Nihalsing Rathod — pointed out to the HC these difficulties faced by him.They informed that the petitioner is still undergoing treatment and requested them to release him on cash surety and also extend the time to furnish the solvent sureties. They submitted principal seat’s order of March 1 releasing the petitioner on cash sureties in a similar case.“Considering the fact that the petitioner has been ordered to be released on temporary bail in view of his medical condition, and he hasn’t been able to procure solvent sureties, he is permitted to furnish cash surety. Time to furnish solvent sureties in terms of February 23 order extended by two weeks,” the judge said before disposing of his plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/accept-cash-surety-from-varavara-rao-hc-to-gchiroli-court/articleshow/81356581.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Finance minister justifies govt’s external borrowings||Vijayawada: Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath on Friday justified the state government’s move to go for external borrowings, citing increasing debt and revenue deficit due to Covid-19. “The pandemic has crippled the economy of every state and every country. Despite the revenue deficit, the government provided financial benefits to people through different schemes during this critical period as a huge majority lost their source of income due to lockdown,” the minister said, adding that the initiatives also increased the debt burden on the state exchequer. Buggana said the previous government did not take any initiative to fill the revenue gap, leading to financial instability, which continues even after seven years of bifurcation. “However, the economy has seen an upward trend after Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy took over as chief minister. The state’s revenue, which was Rs 3,540 crore in June 2019, went up to Rs 5,781 crore in June 2020,” he added. While admitting that the government had to go for borrowing to implement the welfare schemes, the minister said the fiscal deficit, which was 12.9% in the first quarter of 2020-21, came down to 5.5% in the third quarter and stood at 3% after the fourth, which is a positive sign. The state was second in the country in terms of GST collection from June to December 2020, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/finance-minister-justifies-govts-external-borrowings/articleshow/81354071.cms||Gopi Dara
March 6, 2021||India||Nitish ‘surprised’ as minister sends brother to inaugurate official event||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday expressed ‘surprise’ at his animal and fisheries resources minister Mukesh Sahani sending his brother to inaugurate an official function Vaishali the previous day. “I am surprised. I came to know about the incident through newspapers. I will look into it,” he said in the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nitish-surprised-as-minister-sends-brother-to-inaugurate-official-event/articleshow/81359029.cms||Abhay Singh
March 6, 2021||Vijayawada||AP to launch premium branches offering registration services||Amaravati: In a move to take services in registration offices to the next level, the state government has decided to open premium branches in major cities. Notwithstanding its plans to make registration services available at village and ward secretariats, the government is readying plan to provide premium services at select branches. These services will be on par with the services being offered by some top banks which are luring in high-end customers on the pretext of priority customers. The stamps and registration department is readying a blueprint to develop the premium branches. The premium branches will have air-conditioned waiting lounges along with cafeteria. “We have decided to open the premium sub-registrar offices in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Kurnool and Tirupati on a pilot basis,” said special chief secretary (revenue) Rajath Bhargava. He directed the officials to expedite the plans to launch the special branches in the four big cities in the state. Majority of sub-registrar offices across the state are functioning from dilapidated buildings with poor infrastructure. Although the department is making a significant amount of money through stamp duty and registration charges, it has failed to provide basic infrastructure to public. People who visit sub-registrar offices are made to stand for hours together outside the offices. The department had failed even to upgrade the main server that handles the load from the sub-registrar offices resulting in delay in completing the process in the field. Old computers, scanners and other equipment in sub-registrar offices test the patience of the public. Curiously, stamp vendors and document writers are calling the shots in sub-registrar offices as the officials and public are dependent on them to guide them in the laws related to registration. Taking these experiences into consideration, the state government has decided to upgrade the infrastructure in sub-registrar offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-to-launch-premium-branches-offering-registration-services/articleshow/81354083.cms||Samdani MN
March 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Ration deadline for February extended||Amaravati: Taking the delay in distribution of ration through mobile dispensing units (MDUs) into consideration, the civil supplies department has decided to issue February quota ration till March 10. The March quota of rice will be distributed along with the February quota. Civil supplies commissioner Kona Sasidhar said that about 86 per cent of the quota was disbursed in February and they have decided to extend the deadline to draw the previous month quota to facilitate those who could not get it in time. “It is a common phenomena that only around 85 per cent quota of the ration is distributed every month. We have achieved this target in the very first month of launching the door-to-door supply of ration through MDUs despite some technical glitches in the first few days,” said Sasidhar. He said that they have, however, decided to extend the deadline in view of some complaints from the public that they could not draw the ration before the month-end. He said that they have directed all the MDU operators to issue February month ration for another five days. He said that they have overcome all the technical issues involved in operating the MDUs and are successfully distributing rice at doorsteps of people. He said that the distribution would be improved in the next few weeks with both MDU operators and people getting used to the new system. Sasidhar said that they have also decided to provide portability facility at the MDU operators for migrant workers. He said bio-metric devices would work even in off-line mode making it easy for distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ration-deadline-for-february-extended/articleshow/81354096.cms||Samdani MN
March 6, 2021||India||313 lions died in Gir sanctuary in 2 years||The death of 313 lions in Gir sanctuary in 2019 and 2020 figured prominently in the Gujarat assembly proceedings on Friday, with the opposition demanding to know the cause of such high mortality. Ganpat Vasava, forest minister, said that of the 71 lions which died in the two-year period, 69 died of natural causes. Of the total 90 lioness deaths, 77 died of natural causes. Among cubs, 144 died of natural causes and eight of other causes, adding up to 152 cub deaths in two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/313-lions-died-in-gir-sanctuary-in-2-years/articleshow/81359039.cms||---
