March 7, 2021||World||Imran Khan wins trust vote amid opposition boycott||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Saturday won the trust of the national assembly by securing 178 votes, six more than the required number, to ensure his tenure in the office following a major setback in the recent senate polls. It was a foregone conclusion after the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an anti-government alliance of opposition parties, decided to boycott the session and the government warned its party members of disqualification if they voted against Khan. The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf-led government had no option other than seeking a trust vote from the national assembly after its candidate for the general senate seat from Islamabad, Abdul Hafeez Shaikh, lost to the former PM and opposition’s candidate Yousaf Raza Gilani. The total strength of the national assembly is 342. The opposition enjoys the support of 160 members, while the government and its allies have 180 lawmakers. Two seats are currently vacant. Khan needed 172 votes to win the confidence vote. Announcing the result, speaker Asad Qaiser said: “Today, PM Imran Khan has secured 178 votes.” Addressing the house after securing the trust vote, Imran thanked government lawmakers, including his allies, for staying by his side. He said the way senate elections were conducted in Pakistan was embarrassing. Khan lashed out at his political opponents and called Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) chief and former president Asif Ali Zardari and former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif “thieves”. “These thieves were blackmailing my government for an NRO,” he said. The NRO refers to the National Reconciliation Order under which Benazir Bhutto and many others were able to return to Pakistan from exile as cases against them were dropped. The term is now commonly used to describe an attempt to use an ordinance to allow someone to escape the legal process. Khan said Zardari was commonly referred to in phrases such as ‘Ek Zardari sab pe bhaari (One Zardari dominates everyone else)’ and ‘Mr 10%’ because of his corrupt practices. The PM further said that Sharif had faked sickness to go abroad so that he could avoid the legal consequences of his corruption and theft. He criticised Yusuf Raza Gilani, who had defeated PTI’s Hafeez Shaikh in the recent Senate polls, as one of the most corrupt politicians in the country. “Just look at his (Gilani's) wealth and assets before he became the PM and do a comparison with his assets after he became the PM. The picture will be clear,” Imran said. As the national assembly proceedings began, the situation outside parliament became violent as dozens of PTI supporters clashed with PML-N leaders who were addressing a press conference. The situation turned ugly when the politicians and the PTI supporters started pushing each other and exchanging harsh words. TV footage showed PML-N’s Musaddiq Malik being hit from behind, following which he and ex-PM Shahid Khaqan Abbasi chased down the man who pushed them to deliver some retaliatory blows. A shoe was thrown at senior PML-N leader Ahsan Iqbal as he stood on a platform and shouted slogans criticising the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/imran-khan-wins-trust-vote-amid-opposition-boycott/articleshow/81369753.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 7, 2021||India||J&K poll panel orders re-poll in 2 DDC seats as candidates were PoK residents||SRINAGAR: The Jammu & Kashmir State Election Commission ordered a re-poll in two district development council seats in north Kashmir because the elected female contestants were residents of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. In two separate orders, the State Election Authority of Jammu & Kashmir concluded that each contesting candidate in Drugmulla (Kupwara) and Hajin-A in Bandipora don’t have Indian citizenship and have provided incorrect information in Form 6, meant for their enrolment as voters. The SEC order said the nominations secured by the two candidates to contest the election by making false declarations about their citizenship was illegal, improper, and liable for automatic rejection ab initio. It said the polling process undertaken in these segments had been totally vitiated. The re-poll, according to SEC, shall be held by redrawing the list of candidates and the election must be conducted under applicable election rules/ guidelines on a date to be notified by the election authority through a separate order. One Soomia Sadaf had contested from Drugmulla DDC seat, Kupwara. The state poll panel had received a complaint regarding Soomia’s citizenship status that alleged, among other things, that she had entered India via an illegal route, and that she had suppressed vital facts regarding her citizenship. Similarly, the election authority maintained that it was found that another woman, Shazia Begum, had contesting DDC polls from Hajin-A in Bandipora and couldn’t substantially prove her Indian citizenship. It said she had entered incorrect information in the declaration regarding being an Indian citizen in Form 6. Both women married Kashmiri militants in PoK and entered this part of J&K when former CM Omar Abdullah allowed Kashmiri militants stuck in PoK to return in 2011. Hundreds of Kashmiri militants had returned home with families they had raised in PoK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-poll-panel-orders-re-poll-in-2-ddc-seats-as-candidates-were-pok-residents/articleshow/81369776.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 7, 2021||India||ACB files FIR in multi-crore loan default case||JAMMU: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of Jammu Police on Saturday registered an FIR in the multi-crore loan default case involving Jammu & Kashmir Cooperative Housing Corporation Ltd (JKCHC), whereby large amounts of the loan were diverted and state land encroached and sold illegally. Searches were conducted in this regard and incriminating documents and articles recovered from the residence of then MD of JKCHCL Brij Bhushan Sharma. In a written statement, an ACB spokesperson said that a preliminary enquiry was registered based on a complaint received from the GAD J&K to look into allegations of J&K Cooperative Housing Corporation. “JKCHC had defaulted in repayment of loan amount amounting to more than Rs 40 crore raised from HUDCO. J&K government was the guarantor and 70% of the capital was owned by the government,” a police spokesperson said. The complaint revealed as of July 26, 2017, an amount of Rs 90 crore including interest was outstanding against the corporation. “An enquiry revealed that JKCHCL availed around 27 loans from HUDCO from 1991 to 2001 for acquisition and development of lands for constructing housing colonies in J&K. The probe revealed that the chairman, managing directors and other officials who were at the helm of affairs in JKCHCL had diverted and misappropriated loan amounts to the tune of over Rs 23 crore for various other purposes. It indicated that the management of JKCHCL in conspiracy with each other and other unknown officials had deliberately defaulted in the repayment of the loans,” an official said. The investigation revealed that illegal modifications were carried out in the norms and by-laws of JKCHCL and government land and community land encroached for the development of housing schemes which were later sold off for a profit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/acb-files-fir-in-multi-crore-loan-default-case/articleshow/81369787.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
March 7, 2021||India||J&K Police to deport 148 Rohingyas||JAMMU: As many as 148 Rohingya immigrants were detained by Jammu Police during a day-long exercise on Saturday. Official sources said that all immigrants were summoned by the police at Maulana Azad Stadium for verification of documents like identity cards and refugee cards. “The exercise was aimed at verifying the number of Rohingyas who have illegally settled in Jammu city. On Saturday, as many as 148 persons were found without valid documents. These illegal immigrants will be deported,” an official source said. “Illegal immigrants staying in the UT were sent to a holding centre. This was done under Section 3(2)e of the Foreigners Act. The immigrants were not having any valid travel documents required under Section (3) of the Passports Act,” said a source. CRPF troops were deployed with police at the Maulana Azad (MA) Stadium where the Rohingyas families were summoned as a security measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-police-to-deport-148-rohingyas/articleshow/81369802.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
March 7, 2021||Goa||FC Goa want AIFF to act against Fall, referee||Panaji: FC Goa have written to the All India Football Federation’s (AIFF) disciplinary committee to act against Mumbai City defender Mourtada Fall, keeping in mind the “safety and well-being of players on the field.”  The towering Senegalese defender, who did duty for FC Goa for the last two seasons and moved to Mumbai along with coach Sergio Lobera, was involved in a controversial foul on midfielder Princeton Rebello during the first leg semifinal on Friday.  In the second minute of second half stoppage time, Fall came up with a two-footed challenge on Princeton, leaving him with a dislocated toe. Referee Pranjal Banerjee flashed the yellow at the Mumbai defender, but Goa believe a more-stricter punishment is needed.  “Mourtada Fall was treading the line on multiple occasions and the referee never chose to either warn him or reprimand him and it culminated in the challenge on Princeton Rebello which we believe by most global standards is a straight red card for serious foul play,” Goa manager Kartik Menda wrote in the club’s complaint to AIFF on Saturday.  A protest was also filed immediately after the conclusion of the match on Friday. Goa have asked the disciplinary committee to review Fall’s yellow card and act in accordance with Article 78 (b) of the AIFF disciplinary code which states that the panel is responsible for “rectifying obvious errors in the referee’s disciplinary decisions.” “While we don’t question the character and intentions of Fall, his actions unfortunately put the safety of the players on the field in jeopardy and the officials on the pitch failed to protect them,” said Menda, pointing to earlier challenges on Ortiz – which he skipped – and goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh during a corner-kick. The club has also questioned how referee Banerjee officiated two successive Goa matches, having taken charge of the concluding league clash against Hyderabad FC at the same venue on Sunday.  Incidentally, Banerjee also officiated the league encounter between these two teams when Mumbai playmaker Hugo Boumous was shown the red card for abusing the referee. Boumous was later banned for four matches.  “We are at a loss to understand how the same referee gets appointed time and again,” said Menda. “While the appointment is one matter, we would like to use this opportunity, (keeping the utmost of respect in mind for the commendable job the referees are doing and the significant scrutiny they are under) to point out that Banerjee has had a rather soft approach to hard handed tackles and this has led to players from the opposition taking liberties in challenges that has led to players of ours getting injured in a severe manner.”  According to the club’s complaint, Edu Bedia and Alberto Noguera were repeatedly targeted against Hyderabad FC, as a result of which the captain suffered two hairline fractures. Scan reports have been provided to the AIFF as proof.  “We clarify that we hold no prejudice against Banerjee and Fall and we do believe the best intentions and the spirit of the game was upheld. However, if such actions go unpunished, we are likely to see further repetitions of incidents across the leagues,” said Menda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-want-aiff-to-act-against-fall-referee/articleshow/81369934.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 7, 2021||World||Bridging Borders: India grooves to Pak girl's Pawri video; Mobeen says ‘we can be such great nations together’||It's just a five second video of a Pakistani teenage girl with a put-on accent. “Ye humari car hai, aur yeh hum hai, aur ye humari pawri ho rahi hai (This is our car, this is us and this is how we party),” she says. But a month after it was first posted on Instagram, multiple versions of the video continue to be celebrated online on either side of the border in a rare instance of joyful sharedness between the two strife-torn neighbours. The video posted by Dananeer Mobeen, a 19-year-old student from Islamabad, has found an afterlife with umpteen memes, jokes, videos and promotional ads on social media. Even national netas are using it in political campaigns. Bollywood celebs such as Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh and Randeep Hooda have put out memes and videos based on her posts. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia used #PawriHoriHai for Delhi civic polls ad. Punning on the word, pawri (party), they posted images posted with the caption, “Only ‘Pawri’ to focus on education, asking for votes on education.” BJP chief J P Nadda tweaked words from the video to make his point at a BJP rally in Bengal and CPM’s Sitaram Yechury used memes to poke fun at PM Modi over the Gujarat stadium naming. Relishing her post, even Indian soldiers deployed in a snow-clad hilly location in a forward area made a video of themselves in which they said, “Yeh hum hain, yeh humari gun hain and aur yeh humari patrolling ho rahi hai.” There’s much more. Government bodies such as Delhi Commission for Women and UP Police have used “Pawri” to spread awareness. A tweet by the UP Police read, “Ye hum hain aur hamari car hain, agar late night pawri aapko disturb kar rehi hain, toh yeh humara number hain 112.”  SBI, Paytm, Netflix, Dominos, Zomato, Swiggy and Oyo Rooms have all used memes based on the video for promotional ads. Common people shot videos with their kids outside their homes, saying this is our home, this is us and this is us having fun. “My video has shown the power of social media and how strong an impact it can have. There is so much love to share. It has given us an opportunity to see it clearly…We can be such great nations together and share a dialogue of peace,” said Mobeen, who had first posted her video on Feb 6, told Pakistan media. The original video has nearly 8 million views. There’s also an Indian angle to her fame. Music composer Yashraj Mukhate (of Rasode Mein Kaun Tha fame) put her words to tune which helped in creating a stronger social media buzz around the clip. The 19-year-old social media influencer, accompanied by friends, had shot the mobile video in the Nathiagali hills of northern Pakistan. Mobeen aka Geena likes music, plays drums and has posted several song videos on social media. A painter, she also likes sharing cooking recipes. Since the clip went viral, Mobeen has been flooded with acting and modelling offers but she aspires to join Pakistan’s civil services. Interestingly, the Pakistani girl ’s video went viral in India at a time when the two rival countries, after years of hostilities and tense border, issued a joint statement to renew ceasefire along the LoC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/bridging-borders-india-grooves-to-pak-girls-pawri-video-mobeen-says-we-can-be-such-great-nations-together/articleshow/81370282.cms||Surendra Singh
March 7, 2021||World||In Biden-era first, US defence secretary set to visit India this month||NEW DELHI: In the first such top-level visit after the Biden administration took charge in Washington in January, US secretary of defence Lloyd J Austin will be in India later this month to discuss measures to further strengthen bilateral defence cooperation. Austin’s visit to India, as part of his tour of a few Indo-Pacific countries, will take place even as a summit meeting of leaders of the “Quad” countries of India, the US, Australia and Japan is also slated for this month. The Quad countries had taken part in the 24thedition of the top-notch 'Malabar’ naval exercise in November, with the four stressing their commitment to "support a free, open, inclusive Indo-Pacific as well as a rules-based international order" in a strong strategic signal to China. During his visit to India, Austin will hold delegation-level talks with his counterpart Rajnath Singh on the bilateral defence ties as well as discuss regional and global issues of mutual interest, with the Indo-Pacific region being a key focus area, said officials. The visit will come at a time when India is going full steam ahead with its induction plan for the advanced S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile systems from Russia despite the threat of US sanctions. The S-400 deliveries to India will begin in October this year, under the $5.43 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) contract inked with Russia in October 2018. All five mobile squadrons of the S-400 air defence systems will be progressively delivered by 2023. The Biden administration is yet to clearly spell out its stand on the waiver being sought by India from the US law CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act), which was enacted in 2017 to prevent countries from buying Russian weapons or Iranian oil. The US has, incidentally, imposed financial sanctions on China and Turkey for inducting the S-400 systems from Russia. The expansive bilateral defence partnership between India and the US has seen the two ink four “foundational military pacts”, with the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geospatial Cooperation (BECA) being the last to be concluded in 2020. India had earlier inked the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) with the US in 2002, which was followed by the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016, and then the Communications, Compatibility and Security Arrangement (COMCASA) in 2018. The US has also bagged lucrative Indian defence deals worth over $21 billion just since 2007, with latest ones for 24 MH-60 ‘Romeo’ multi-role naval helicopters and six more Apache attack choppers for $3 billion being inked last year, as was earlier reported by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/in-biden-era-first-us-defence-secretary-set-to-visit-india-this-month/articleshow/81370392.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||In Biden-era first, US defence secretary set to visit India this month||NEW DELHI: In the first such top-level visit after the Biden administration took charge in Washington in January, US secretary of defence Lloyd J Austin will be in India later this month to discuss measures to further strengthen bilateral defence cooperation. Austin’s visit to India, as part of his tour of a few Indo-Pacific countries, will take place even as a summit meeting of leaders of the “Quad” countries of India, the US, Australia and Japan is also slated for this month. The Quad countries had taken part in the 24thedition of the top-notch 'Malabar’ naval exercise in November, with the four stressing their commitment to "support a free, open, inclusive Indo-Pacific as well as a rules-based international order" in a strong strategic signal to China. During his visit to India, Austin will hold delegation-level talks with his counterpart Rajnath Singh on the bilateral defence ties as well as discuss regional and global issues of mutual interest, with the Indo-Pacific region being a key focus area, said officials. The visit will come at a time when India is going full steam ahead with its induction plan for the advanced S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile systems from Russia despite the threat of US sanctions. The S-400 deliveries to India will begin in October this year, under the $5.43 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) contract inked with Russia in October 2018. All five mobile squadrons of the S-400 air defence systems will be progressively delivered by 2023. The Biden administration is yet to clearly spell out its stand on the waiver being sought by India from the US law CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act), which was enacted in 2017 to prevent countries from buying Russian weapons or Iranian oil. The US has, incidentally, imposed financial sanctions on China and Turkey for inducting the S-400 systems from Russia. The expansive bilateral defence partnership between India and the US has seen the two ink four “foundational military pacts”, with the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geospatial Cooperation (BECA) being the last to be concluded in 2020. India had earlier inked the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) with the US in 2002, which was followed by the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016, and then the Communications, Compatibility and Security Arrangement (COMCASA) in 2018. The US has also bagged lucrative Indian defence deals worth over $21 billion just since 2007, with latest ones for 24 MH-60 ‘Romeo’ multi-role naval helicopters and six more Apache attack choppers for $3 billion being inked last year, as was earlier reported by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-biden-era-first-us-defence-secretary-set-to-visit-india-this-month/articleshow/81370345.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Ambani SUV case: Bizman wrote of police harassment to Maharashtra CM||THANE: A day after the body of Mansukh Hiren (48), whose vehicle with gelatin sticks inside it had been found parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was found in a Thane creek, sources said the Thane resident had written to the chief minister, the state home minister as well as Thane and Mumbai police commissioners on March 2 seeking protection due to alleged harassment by police. Hiren’s autopsy report accessed by TOI on Saturday revealed “minor abrasions on his face on the left side, the upper part of the nostril, the right cheek up to the chin and the right eye”. The report stated that his ribs, cartilages, lungs and pericardium were intact, but reserved the cause of death. On February 25, an SUV laden with explosives was found parked near Antilia on Carmichael Road. Police had also found a threat letter addressed to the Ambani family. Hiren had claimed that he was the owner of the SUV and that it had been stolen from Mulund-Airoli Road, where he had parked it on February 17 after it had developed a snag. Read AlsoMukesh Ambani case: SUV ‘owner’ found dead in Thane creekMUMBAI/THANE: On a day the body of Mansukh Hiran (48), owner of the Scorpio found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was found by police in the Reti Bunder creek near Mumbra and opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis levelled charges against assistant inspector Sachin Waze and demanded anSources said a letter sent by Hiren to the CM and other authorities mentions in detail the visits he had made to police and the questions he was being asked by various investigating agencies. In the letter, he purportedly stated, “Interrogation from the various agencies have (sic) disturbed my peace of mind and in spite of being a victim I am treated as an accused.” The letter further read, “I am being harassed, without having any knowledge about the culprits, who not only committed theft of my said vehicle but also misused and abandoned the same as mentioned herein above. I have already given my explanation and statements that how my said vehicle was stolen and I am victimised, but still unnecessarily suffering harassment at the instance of policemen and news reporters as mentioned hereinabove.” Read AlsoExplosives scare near Mukesh Ambani's house: SUV owner found deadMansukh Hiren, whose explosives-laden vehicle was found parked near the residence of RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani, was found dead in Thane on Friday. According to police, Hiren died by suicide after jumping into Kalwa creek. A Scorpio with 2.5 kg of gelatin sticks, an explosive material, was foundOn Saturday, the cause of his death was reserved in the post-mortem report. The viscera will be sent for chemical analysis to the state forensic lab. Hiren’s family initially refused to accept his body and relented only after senior police officers intervened. A senior police officer said the post-mortem report revealed Hiren might have died 12-24 hours before the autopsy was conducted at 7.45pm on Friday. Sandeep Khambe, a family friend of Hiren’s, demanded a free and fair probe into his death. Sam Newton, who is the owner of the SUV according to the state home minister, resides in Kopri. “During the lockdown Newton regularly helped cops and even arranged refreshments,” said Avinash Jadhav, MNS Thane district chief. Jadhav said he had tried to contact him but he did not take calls. Mumbai Police, meanwhile, claimed on Saturday that assistant inspector Sachin Waze was not the first to reach the spot where the explosives-laden vehicle was found. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis had alleged on Friday that Waze reached there before the local cops. Fadnavis also said Waze was in touch with Hiren. But Waze denied it and said he may have spoken to Hiren but does not remember. The anti-terror squad, which has now taken over the probe in the Antilia case, has recorded the statement of the Ola cab driver who had dropped Hiren to CST on February 17 after his SUV developed a snag. He reportedly said Hiren had booked the car to go to Crawford Market but changed the location to CST later. Police also said there was no police officer by the name of “Tawde” who had called Hiren to Ghodbunder on Friday night. Hiren had received a call from an automobile trader at 8.32 pm. Police questioned the trader and ruled out foul play. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said it was important for the image and prestige of the state government to uncover the truth. “It is wrong to politicise Hiren’s death and put the government in the dock. There are doubts about whether Hiren’s death was a suicide or murder. He was an important witness in the case,” Raut said. BJP’s Ashish Shelar targeted the state government and questioned the presence of an “encounter specialist” at the time of Hiren’s post-mortem in Thane. “He (the encounter cop) is neither part of Thane police nor the ATS which is probing the case. It gives an impression there is something this government wants to hide,” Shelar said. The home minister had been praising Thane and Mumbai police and their achievements on Friday but within half an hour, he announced that the probe would be handed over to ATS, Shelar added. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ambani-case-bizman-wrote-of-harassment/articleshow/81370533.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
March 7, 2021||India||CPM cadres revolt after veterans denied tickets||NEW DELHI: At least two CPM district committees are believed to have requested the party leadership on Saturday to make an exception to its two-term MLA norm for candidate selection, even as posters openly sympathetic to several CPM ministers and senior leaders who didn't find a place in the list approved by the party's state committee on Friday appeared in various places across the state. Five senior ministers — E P Jayarajan, Thomas Isaac, G Sudhakaran, AK Balan and C Raveendranath — and leaders who enjoy a great degree of respect, like P Jayarajan in Kannur and Raju Abraham in Ranni, are out of the CPM's list unless the state secretariat, which meets on Monday, decides to heed the pressure from the rank and file. Though quite not on that scale, the growing unrest among party cadres is reminiscent of the pro-Achuthanandan marches in 2016 and 2011 when the party denied the veteran leader a ticket. The protests were most vocal in Kannur where P Jayarajan, the popular long-time former district secretary of the party, won’t be contesting. Several party supporters vented their angst on social media, saying the party would have to pay a heavy price for denying Jayarajan a seat. Kannur District Sport Council vice-president Dheeraj Kumar decided to quit his post to register his protest. “P Jayarajan is a living martyr. He has been with the CM from the time of the Thalassery riots. If he cannot understand this, who else can? The CM should intervene and find a lasting solution,” he said. Jayarajan, however, distanced himself from all protests in his name and warned of legal action against those who persisted. Reacting swiftly, the party expelled Dheeraj from its primary membership. In Alappuzha, posters appeared in public places, and even on the Martyrs’ Column, protesting against the denial of seats to Sudhakaran and Isaac for one more term. It is also learnt that the CPM Alappuzha district secretariat, which met on Saturday, decided to demand that the state committee revoke the decision on its two-term norm. In Pathanamthitta, too, the district secretariat decided to take up the issue of denial of a ticket to Raju Abraham with the state committee, which is to meet on Monday. The party state committee has decided to allocate Ranni, the sitting seat of Abraham, to Kerala Congress (M). There have been similar demands for the candidature of speaker P Sreeramakrishnan from Ponnani. Posters appeared in the constituency proclaiming “Urappanu Keralam, Urappayum Venam Sreeramakrishnan' (loosely translated as “Kerala is for sure but ensure Sreeramakrishnan too”). “The party has taken the issue of posters against the state committee’s decision not to allow seats for two-term MLAs seriously,” a top CPM leader said. “It was after discussing the matter twice at the state committee meeting that the party decided not to allow yet another chance for two-term MLAs. So there is no chance for the decision to be revoked,” he added. The decision to field Dr P K Jameela, wife of minister A K Balan, who is very close to CM Pinarayi Vijayan, has also caused widespread outrage among the rank and file. While those like Jameela are getting tickets, the party leadership is ignoring popular faces in the party, party sympathisers say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cpm-cadres-revolt-after-veterans-denied-tickets/articleshow/81370637.cms||---
March 7, 2021||---||CPM cadres revolt after veterans denied tickets||NEW DELHI: At least two CPM district committees are believed to have requested the party leadership on Saturday to make an exception to its two-term MLA norm for candidate selection, even as posters openly sympathetic to several CPM ministers and senior leaders who didn't find a place in the list approved by the party's state committee on Friday appeared in various places across the state. Five senior ministers — E P Jayarajan, Thomas Isaac, G Sudhakaran, AK Balan and C Raveendranath — and leaders who enjoy a great degree of respect, like P Jayarajan in Kannur and Raju Abraham in Ranni, are out of the CPM's list unless the state secretariat, which meets on Monday, decides to heed the pressure from the rank and file. Though quite not on that scale, the growing unrest among party cadres is reminiscent of the pro-Achuthanandan marches in 2016 and 2011 when the party denied the veteran leader a ticket. The protests were most vocal in Kannur where P Jayarajan, the popular long-time former district secretary of the party, won’t be contesting. Several party supporters vented their angst on social media, saying the party would have to pay a heavy price for denying Jayarajan a seat. Kannur District Sport Council vice-president Dheeraj Kumar decided to quit his post to register his protest. “P Jayarajan is a living martyr. He has been with the CM from the time of the Thalassery riots. If he cannot understand this, who else can? The CM should intervene and find a lasting solution,” he said. Jayarajan, however, distanced himself from all protests in his name and warned of legal action against those who persisted. Reacting swiftly, the party expelled Dheeraj from its primary membership. In Alappuzha, posters appeared in public places, and even on the Martyrs’ Column, protesting against the denial of seats to Sudhakaran and Isaac for one more term. It is also learnt that the CPM Alappuzha district secretariat, which met on Saturday, decided to demand that the state committee revoke the decision on its two-term norm. In Pathanamthitta, too, the district secretariat decided to take up the issue of denial of a ticket to Raju Abraham with the state committee, which is to meet on Monday. The party state committee has decided to allocate Ranni, the sitting seat of Abraham, to Kerala Congress (M). There have been similar demands for the candidature of speaker P Sreeramakrishnan from Ponnani. Posters appeared in the constituency proclaiming “Urappanu Keralam, Urappayum Venam Sreeramakrishnan' (loosely translated as “Kerala is for sure but ensure Sreeramakrishnan too”). “The party has taken the issue of posters against the state committee’s decision not to allow seats for two-term MLAs seriously,” a top CPM leader said. “It was after discussing the matter twice at the state committee meeting that the party decided not to allow yet another chance for two-term MLAs. So there is no chance for the decision to be revoked,” he added. The decision to field Dr P K Jameela, wife of minister A K Balan, who is very close to CM Pinarayi Vijayan, has also caused widespread outrage among the rank and file. While those like Jameela are getting tickets, the party leadership is ignoring popular faces in the party, party sympathisers say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/kerala/cpm-cadres-revolt-after-veterans-denied-tickets/articleshow/81370634.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Budget session after March 15, more funds to departments: Telangana CM KCR||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the loss to the state exchequer due to the pandemic is Rs 50,000 crore. Stating that the budget session is likely to begin after March 15, the CM said the state government will focus on revenue mobilisation by auctioning government land in the city to fund various welfare schemes. He said the effect of Covid-19 and the prolonged lockdown was such that the overall impact on the state’s coffers has now touched Rs 1 lakh crore. At a review meeting with senior officials on 2021-22 state budget which will be presented in the assembly, the CM said the government is planning to garner Rs 25,000 crore from auctioning of government land. He said the budget session is likely to continue for 10 to 15 days. Generally, budget sessions begin in the first week of March, but in view of graduates MLC elections, the state government is planning to start the session after the MLC polls on March 14. Reviewing the budget proposals for major departments, the CM said the upcoming budget would be encouraging with higher allocations to various sectors as the state economy has started recovering and revenues are increasing. “For some sectors, allocations will be more compared to the previous budget,” he said. Sources said the state government is likely to make allocations for new schemes such as unemployment allowance and also make budgetary provisions for government employees for pay revision. While continuing all welfare schemes such as Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima, loan waiver, pensions, scholarships, Kalyan Lakshmi-Shaadi Mubarak, KCR Kits and other schemes, he said sheep rearing scheme would be continued. “Yadavs and Golla Kurmas have been earning well under the scheme. Apart from the 3.70 lakh units of sheep which have already been disbursed, another three lakh units will be distributed and allocations made in the current budget,” KCR said. KCR said the Centre had praised the sheep rearing scheme and Telangana has emerged as the state with highest sheep population. “This scheme along with integrated fisheries development scheme will be continued in the state,” he said. The chief minister said the modalities for budget estimations have been prepared and department wise details will be finalised from Sunday. “From Sunday, the finance minister will hold meetings with various departments like R&B, panchayat raj, municipal administration, education and irrigation departments separately along with officers concerned on budget requirements and allocations,” he said. Once the budget proposals are ready, the CM will hold a final review meeting to give final touches to the budget presentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-budget-session-after-mar-15-more-funds-to-depts/articleshow/81370728.cms||---
March 7, 2021||---||Denied ticket, TMC netas make a beeline for BJP||KOLKATA: Several Trinamool Congress leaders on Saturday made a beeline for BJP after being dropped from the party’s list of candidates for the assembly elections that will be held in an unprecedented eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Leading them was Sonali Guha, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s aide for over three decades, who not only spoke to Mukul Roy but said she was ready “to work for BJP” even if not given a ticket. The list of dissenters included five-time MLA Sital Sardar, Jotu Lahiri, Dipali Saha and Dinesh Bajaj. Guha, a four-time MLA from Satgachia, said she was closely associated with Banerjee since 1989. “I never thought of deserting Didi [Mamata Banerjee], but she did. It is unbelievable. I was with her even when she lost the 1989 Lok Sabha polls. I do not know what I did to deserve this. The last time I met her she blessed me and asked to meet her after winning the polls. So, being denied a ticket was a shock. That is why I contacted Mukul Roy and told him I will join the BJP on Monday,” she told TOI. Guha never lost in Satgachia since 2001. Former chief minister Jyoti Basu had been winning the seat since 1977, but he last contested in 1996. “I never thought that there would be a day when I will have to quit Trinamool. I had wanted to die in the battle fighting for Didi. I do not want to contest on a BJP ticket. I made it clear to Mukulda. In BJP, there are many ticket seekers; I do not want to create any problems. If I am given an honourable post, I will campaign for BJP. Today, some people contacted me from Kalighat, but I refused to talk to them. I had expected Didi’s call on Friday night and stayed awake. The call never came,” she said, adding that she had kept quiet when she was removed from the deputy speaker’s post, but not anymore. Shibpur MLA Jotu Lahiri was equally quick to turn to BJP. “I was betrayed (by TMC) and so I have joined the BJP.” The octogenarian feels BJP will give him his due. Long-time MLA from Howrah, Sital Sardar said he had been winning Sankrail since 1996. “I cannot bear this humiliation. I am physically fit to serve the people. I was not consulted when my name was dropped. So, I left. At this age, honour matters,” he said. Former MLA Dinesh Bajaj said he too will join BJP soon. “I had wanted honour, but I was insulted. Hence, I decided to quit Trinamool. I was unhappy not seeing my name on the list, after which I met Mukul Roy. I am confident to win if BJP gives me a ticket.” Dipali Saha, outgoing MLA of Sonamukhi in Bankura, said she had joined BJP on Saturday because she was frustrated. For Moinuddin Shams, the outgoing MLA of Nalhati, it is a different issue. An advocate by profession, Shams decided to quit Trinamool on Friday after he was dropped as a candidate. The son of former Forward Bloc leader Kalimuddin Shams said he first tried to reach his father’s party for a ticket. However, FB told him the Left Front list had been declared. “I will contest from Nalhati anyway,” he said. Several pockets in North 24 Parganas saw protest on Saturday. Supporters of Shankar Adhya, ex-chairman of Bongaon Municipality, demanded his candidature from North Bongaon. They blocked the road and burnt tyres to stall traffic. On Habra-Naihati Road, Trinamool supporters blocked the road demanding Dhiman Ray be dropped as Ashoknagar candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/denied-ticket-tmc-netas-make-a-beeline-for-bjp/articleshow/81370695.cms||Debashish Konar
March 7, 2021||---||Rift in Assam Congress over seats to AIUDF||SILCHAR: Dissatisfied with the Congress-led grand alliance’s seat-sharing policy, All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev on Saturday sent a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi expressing her desire to resign from her post and quit the party. Dev is unhappy about Congress giving away a majority of the 15 seats in Assam’s Barak Valley to its ally AIUDF to contest in the polls that will be held in phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); She flew down to New Delhi to express her grievances before the party chief. The former Silchar MP reportedly opposed the candidature of former party MLA Rumi Nath from Barkhala. Dev wanted Papon Deb to be fielded from the constituency. Incidentally, Nath was expelled from Congress last year for her alleged anti-party activities.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Babita Sharma, Assam Congress’s media wing chief, said in a statement that Dev did not resign from the party. Dev could not be reached for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/assam/rift-in-assam-congress-over-seats-to-aiudf/articleshow/81370856.cms||BB Goswami
March 7, 2021||India||Rift in Assam Congress over seats to AIUDF||SILCHAR: Dissatisfied with the Congress-led grand alliance’s seat-sharing policy, All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev on Saturday sent a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi expressing her desire to resign from her post and quit the party. Dev is unhappy about Congress giving away a majority of the 15 seats in Assam’s Barak Valley to its ally AIUDF to contest in the polls that will be held in phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); She flew down to New Delhi to express her grievances before the party chief. The former Silchar MP reportedly opposed the candidature of former party MLA Rumi Nath from Barkhala. Dev wanted Papon Deb to be fielded from the constituency. Incidentally, Nath was expelled from Congress last year for her alleged anti-party activities.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Babita Sharma, Assam Congress’s media wing chief, said in a statement that Dev did not resign from the party. Dev could not be reached for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rift-in-assam-congress-over-seats-to-aiudf/articleshow/81370863.cms||BB Goswami
March 7, 2021||India||ED summons Mehbooba in J&K Bank scam case||NEW DELHI: Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, who is under investigation in connection with the J&K Bank scam, has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the case, sources said. Two-and-half months ago, ED had seized Rs 28 lakh in ‘unexplained’ cash from the premises of a close aide of the former CM, Anjum Fazili. According to sources, the agency had seized evidence related to J&K bank scam during searches at Fazili’s premises in Srinagar and Delhi in December last year. The probe into the bank revealed irregularities such as sanctioning of huge loans without collaterals to entities that had defaulted and their accounts turned NPAs. Two former chairmen of J&K Bank have been accused of being in league with the political establishment and allegedly appointing people at key positions in the bank to facilitate loan scam. Accounts were opened in J&K Bank in alleged violation of KYC guidelines, using fictitious documents. Besides Mehbooba Mufti, former J&K CM and National Conference President Farooq Abdullah is also being investigated in the scam. Abdullah, during his tenure as CM, had allegedly opened a “duplicate” account of the J&K Cricket Association in the J&K Bank with his personal authorisation as the then president of JKCA. Later, ED had claimed that its investigations revealed serious charges of loan frauds to the tune of Rs 7 crore against the former CM and some of his close aides. Searches were carried out at Fazili’s residence in December after ED registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in the J&K Bank scam. During the searches, the agency had recovered Rs 21.38 lakh from Srinagar and Rs 6.62 lakh from Delhi. Reacting to ED raids on Fazili, Mehbooba had termed the action as “witch-hunt” and that raids were conducted on “anyone and everyone close” to her. The Anti-Corruption Bureau of J&K has filed chargesheets in the J&K Bank scam in which it has accused two of its former chairmen of several irregularities, including loan frauds and appointments. During August-September last year, ED had carried out several searches across India and unearthed evidence of loans issued on fictitious documents and to ineligible business groups lacking adequate collaterals. In one case, Rs 250 crore was allegedly sanctioned to a fictitious cooperative housing society in Srinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-summons-mehbooba-in-jk-bank-scam-case/articleshow/81370987.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Cremation of Nepal shooting victim rushed?||PILIBHIT: The body of the farmer who was shot dead by Nepal police on Thursday was handed over to Indian officials on Friday after an autopsy. Govinda Singh, 26, had been killed in police firing when he and three others were out in sugarcane fields at Bhoomi Dan village in UP’s Pilibhit. “Police made me cremate his body at night even though our faith does not allow last rites to be performed after sunset,” Govinda’s father said on Saturday. Singh was just back from the police station where, he said, police “was not keen” on taking his complaint. “They declined to take my complaint against Nepal police,” Gurdev added. When asked about the allegations, Puranpur circle officer Lallan Singh declined to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cremation-of-nepal-shooting-victim-rushed/articleshow/81371074.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 7, 2021||India||Hand over cops who have taken refuge, Myanmar tells India||AIZWAL: Myanmar has requested the Mizoram administration to send back eight policemen who have reportedly crossed over to the northeastern state to take refuge, following last month’s military coup in the neighbouring country, an official said. Mizoram shares a 510-km-long porous border with Myanmar, where mass demonstrations are being held in protest against the declaration of a year-long emergency by the country’s armed forces. “I have received a letter from the deputy commissioner of Falam district in Myanmar seeking the detainment and handover of eight police personnel to Naypyitaw as a friendly gesture,” said Maria CT Zuali, the deputy commissioner in Champai district. A top official of the state’s home department had said on Friday that 16 people from Myanmar have crossed over to India over the last few days, of which 11 have claimed that they were police personnel. He also said that the union home ministry has been apprised of all the developments, and the state government is waiting for a “direction” from the Centre. Assam Rifles DIG Brigadier Digvijay Singh said security has been stepped up along the border to stop infiltration from the trouble-torn country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hand-over-cops-who-have-taken-refuge-myanmar-tells-india/articleshow/81371100.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Remove PM Modi’s image from vaccine certificates: Election Commission to government||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission has asked the health ministry to exclude the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Covid-19 vaccination certificates being issued to beneficiaries in poll-bound West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. Citing its standing instructions of December 24, 2004 asking for removal of images of living political functionaries on government advertisements that seek or purport to project their achievements as no “political functionary can use public resources...to enhance his own personal image”, the poll panel in a letter written to the health ministry on Thursday said the instructions should be scrupulously followed in letter and spirit. “If necessary, the ministry may find technical solution to the issue of excluding these four states and UT of Puducherry by using appropriate filters etc,” it stated. Sources in the health ministry said the ministry will peruse the instructions of EC and then comply with the poll panel’s directions. After receiving a complaint from TMC recently against the use of PM’s image on Covid vaccination certificates in West Bengal, the EC had sought a response from the health ministry. The ministry in a letter to EC on March 4 pointed out that the vaccination drive was launched well before assembly polls in four states and one UT were announced. EC, while noting that Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16 while poll schedule was announced on February 26, said, “this is to advise you that instructions of the commission are scrupulously followed in letter and spirit”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/remove-pm-modis-image-from-vaccine-certificates-election-commission-to-government/articleshow/81371340.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Covid-19: India sees 18,700 new cases, highest in almost 2 months||NEW DELHI: Daily cases of Covid-19 in India continued to inch upward, with Saturday’s count at a 59-day high of over 18,700 as Maharashtra logged more than 10,000 cases for the second day running. Deaths from the virus, however, dropped to 99 after two days of 100-plus tolls. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemicIndia reported 18,765 new cases on Saturday (with Assam’s data yet to come in), the highest single-day tally since January 6. Although 18,894 infections were recorded on January 28, more than 6,000 of these were backlog cases from Chhattisgarh. On Friday, 18,307 fresh cases were recorded. With this, the seven-day rolling average of daily Covid-19 cases in India rose for the 20th consecutive day to 16,311. The average has been rising uninterruptedly since February 14, reflecting a resurgence of the pandemic in several states after five months of overall decline at the national level. Read AlsoExplained in 6 charts: Covid surge in 8 states; Maharashtra, Punjab lead active caseloadAs India continues to witness an upward trajectory in Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Saturday advised some of the most-affected states to return to the "test, track and treat" strategy to curb the spread of the virus. The Centre has also rushed high-level teams to Maharashtra and Punjab as the twoMaharashtra reported 10,187 new cases, a day after hitting the 10,000 mark on Friday with 10,216. The state’s Pune district recorded as many as 1,925 cases, followed by 1,217 in Nagpur and 1,188 in Mumbai. Maharashtra also recorded 47 fatalities. TOI interview: ‘There’s nothing like herd immunity at the moment … we must take our vaccines, continue with Covid protocols’While Kerala added 2,791 cases, around the same as Friday’s count, Punjab numbers surged again. The state recorded 1,179 new cases, the second time in three days that the tally crossed 1,000. This was the highest single-day count in Punjab since October 1. Cases also zoomed in neighbouring Haryana, which reported its highest tally of 323 since December 30. In Chandigarh, too, fresh cases surged to 122, the highest since December 1. Cases were inching up in several other states. Tamil Nadu recorded 562 new infections of the virus, Gujarat 571, Madhya Pradesh 467, Delhi 321, Rajasthan 233, Bengal 259. In each of these states, Saturday’s tally was the highest since different dates in the month of January. Following a spike in cases, the Rajasthan government has decided to set up checkposts at the entry points of each district. Karnataka, another state reporting a spike recorded 580 new cases and five more fatalities on Saturday. It had reported 677 cases on the previous day. Of the fresh cases, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 367.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-sees-18700-new-cases-highest-in-almost-2-months/articleshow/81371922.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Tikait’s stir formula: 1 village, 1 tractor, 15 men for 10 days||AGRA: With the massive farmers’ protest completing its 100 days at Delhi’s borders on Saturday, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has appealed to the farmers to follow the formula ‘1V-1T-15M-10D’ — one village, one tractor, 15 men for 10 days — to strengthen the movement. BKU has directed its cadre in every district to implement the plan with one of its senior members saying the formula will help farmers to continue the protest for years. Tikait’s formula would also ensure a large number of farmers to participate in the stir and then return to their villages for farming, BKU leader Dharmendra Malik said. He claimed that leaders of farmers’ groups are constantly urging the government for renewal of the stalled talks, but the government is not interested. BKU’s state president Rajveer Singh Jadoun said, “Tikait has come up with a formula to strengthen and continue the movement. As part of this formula, 15 people from every village should stay at the protest venue for 10 days and then the next lot of 15 should replace them. The first lot of protesters can return home and tend to the fields. The formula will enable farmers to continue the protest for several years.” Tikait has been stating in ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ that if the Centre does not repeal the new agri laws, farmers will bring in 40 lakh tractors to Delhi and lay siege to the Parliament complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tikaits-stir-formula-1-village-1-tractor-15-men-for-10-days/articleshow/81371981.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 7, 2021||India||Varavara Rao discharged from hospital||MUMBAI: Poet and activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, was discharged from Nanavati Hospital here on late Saturday night, sources said. The Bombay High Court on February 22 granted Rao, 82, interim bail on medical grounds for six months. He later requested the court that he be allowed to furnish cash sureties until solvent sureties could be found. The court had granted the request on Monday. It had earlier directed that he be released immediately on bail after being discharged from hospital. Rao had been admitted to the private hospital due to ill-health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/varavara-rao-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/81372012.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Covid-19: ‘Test, track, treat’, states told as cases rise||NEW DELHI: The Centre has urged states and UTs witnessing a steep rise in daily new Covid-19 cases to go back to the fundamentals of ‘test, track and treat’ that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic. Besides, states have also been advised to expand vaccination for priority population groups on a mission mode in districts reporting higher infections. States like Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and UTs of Delhi and Chandigarh have in the recent past seen increased positivity rate and increased number of daily positive cases. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday reviewed the ongoing public health measures of surveillance, containment and management of Covid-19 cases in these states in wake of the sharp rise in daily new cases of Covid-19 and the high number of active caseload being reported from these eight states/UTs. The Centre pointed out that nine districts in Delhi, 15 in Haryana, 10 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Odisha, nine in Himachal Pradesh, seven in Uttarakhand, two in Goa and one in Chandigarh continue to be of concern as these districts are seeing a decrease in total tests being conducted, low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in weekly positivity rate and low number of contact-tracing of Covid-19 positive cases. These states together can pose high risk of transmission to the neighbouring states and UTs, the health ministry said during the review meeting providing a granular analysis of the Covid-19 response in the districts to the states and UTs for further action. States have been asked to collaborate with private hospitals to open up vaccination time-table for a minimum of 15 days and maximum of 28 days at a time. They have been asked to increase the share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing, refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing cluster of cases and carry out an average close contact-tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case. The Centre also rushed high level public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab on Saturday in view of the increase in daily new Covid-19 cases being consistently reported from these states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-test-track-treat-states-told-as-cases-rise/articleshow/81372023.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Covid vaccine by six companies to be available by year end: Vardhan||AGRA: Around 24 pharma companies were conducting trials for the Covid-19 vaccine and the vaccines of six different companies would be made available in the market by the year-end, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday. The health minister while inaugurating a Covid-19 diagnosis and research centre at the ICMR’s National JALMA Institute for Leprosy and Other Mycobacterial Diseases in Agra, also reiterated that India is supplying vaccines to 60 countries. Secretary, department of Health Research, and director general of ICMR, Prof. Balram Bhargava said, “ICMR has been very robust in managing Covid-19... it is the effort of ICMR which brought the vaccine for Covid-19 with 81% efficacy in a time-bound manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vaccine-by-six-companies-to-be-available-by-year-end-vardhan/articleshow/81372027.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 7, 2021||India||More than 2 crore Covid vaccine doses administered||NEW DELHI: India administered over 2 crore doses of Covid vaccine till 7PM on Saturday, crossing another milestone in the world’s largest vaccination drive that was rolled out on January 16.  Of the total of 2.06 crore vaccine doses given, 69.72 lakh health and 65.02 lakh front-line workers received the first dose of the vaccine, whereas 35.22 lakh health and 1.97 lakh front-line workers have also got the second dose. While the second phase of the drive was launched on March 1 extending the coverage to people above 60 years and those between 45 and 60 years age with specific co-morbidities, more than 30.05 lakh beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 4.60 lakh beneficiaries aged 45 and above with co-morbidities have been immunised. Around 11.64 lakh vaccine doses were given till 7 pm on Saturday, which included 9.44 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated for first dose and 2.19 lakh receiving their second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-than-2-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered/articleshow/81372041.cms||Sushmi Dey
March 7, 2021||India||‘Stalked’ by duo, Dalit girl kills self||CHANDIGARH: Fed up of being allegedly stalked by two brothers, a Dalit girl killed herself by consuming poison at a village in Bhiwani district late Friday. Based on her brother’s complaint, police booked the accused duo for abetting the suicide and violating the SC/ST Act.  Police were conducting raids to arrest the accused. The teen’s body was handed over to her kin after autopsy. Last month, her family filed a police complaint but the brothers allegedly threatened them of dire consequences besides hurling casteist abuses. “We are verifying the facts and looking for the accused,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stalked-by-duo-dalit-girl-kills-self/articleshow/81372040.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||MPs & family members to get Covid shots from March 9||NEW DELHI: Special arrangements have been made to vaccinate MPs and their family members, above 60 years and those aged between 45-60 with co-morbidities, against Covid-19 from March 9, a day after the Houses reconvene following the recess during the Budget session. While MPs will be vaccinated at the Parliament House medical centre, their families will be able to get the jab at CGHS dispensaries in North and South Avenue. The welfare branch of Parliament, which is coordinating the special vaccination drive, said in a bulletin on Saturday that members will require to register themselves online and those above the age of 60 will need to show their official ID cards and Aadhaar for getting themselves vaccinated. Members between 45 to 59 years who have co-morbidities will require certificates from registered medical practitioners along with their identification documents. The vaccination facilities will also be extended to MPs in their respective parliamentary constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mps-family-members-to-get-covid-shots-from-march-9/articleshow/81372050.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Indian scientists develop platform to detect effect of alcohol on RBCs in blood||NEW DELHI: Indian scientists have developed a platform to detect the effect of prolonged alcohol exposure on red blood cells (RBCs) through high-resolution measurements. The device that shows reduction in size of RBCs on alcohol exposure can be tuned for a point-of-care screening of multiple conditions that alter the size and count of RBCs in blood. Although it is known that alcohol affects RBCs, the exact physiological changes are very subtle and difficult to measure. To overcome this challenge, scientists from Raman Research Institute (RRI), led by Professor Gautam Soni, have developed an electro-fluidic platform that can detect the changes by measuring the cell size in enhanced resolution. Cell volume changes are an important biomarker for multiple diseases, especially blood-related conditions. Accurate measurement of volume changes of RBCs has applications in detection and mechanistic studies of diseases such as sickle cell anaemia and malaria. Similarly, small volume changes of RBCs could also be an indicator of malnutrition, a statement of the department of science and technology said. The research work, recently published in ACS Sensors journal of the American Chemical Society, was carried out by three RRI researchers under the guidance of Dr Soni and Dr V Sundaramurthy from the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore. “We introduce a high-resolution device for quantitative electro-fluidic measurement of changes in RBC volume upon alcohol exposure. We present an exhaustive calibration of our device using model cells to measure and resolve volume changes down to 0.6 fL. We find an RBC shrinkage of 5.3% at 0.125% ethanol (the legal limit in the US) and a shrinkage of 18.5% at 0.5% ethanol (the lethal limit) exposure,” says the research paper. “Further, we also measure the time dependence of cell volume shrinkage (upon alcohol exposure) and then recovery (upon alcohol removal) to quantify shrinkage and recovery of RBC volumes. This work presents the first direct quantification of temporal and concentration-dependent changes in red blood cell volume upon ethanol exposure,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-scientists-develop-platform-to-detect-effect-of-alcohol-on-rbcs-in-blood/articleshow/81372057.cms||Surendra Singh
March 7, 2021||India||‘Reserved’ pradhan seat foxes village with no SCs||BIJNOR: Residents of Amipur Sudha village are in a fix after the pradhan seat in their village was reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates. Locals said that with a population of over 6,000 Amipur Sudha is a minority dominated village and “there is no family in the village belonging to the SC”. Officials claimed reservation of seats is done on the government’s direction based on the latest census. When contacted, Bijnor district panchayat raj officer Satish Kumar said, “There were instructions from the government that reservation is to be declared on the basis of the 2011 census. According to the census report, there are 398 SCs here. During verification, no SC was found in this village. We have sent a report to the higher authorities on the issue.” The three-tier panchayat polls are slated to take place in the state in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reserved-pradhan-seat-foxes-village-with-no-scs/articleshow/81372059.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 7, 2021||India||Alert BSF men gun down intruder from Pakistan in Bikaner||JAISALMER: Alert BSF troops gunned down a Pakistani intruder at Anupgarh in Bikaner’s Ganganagar district late on Friday. Soon after, the area was cordoned off and a search operation was launched although it didn’t yield results. Senior BSF officers at Kailash border outpost said the troops noticed suspicious movement along the border and spotted the intruder trying to enter Indian territory. The jawans challenged him but he reached the border fencing. When BSF jawans warned him again, he began running towards the Pakistan border following which the troops shot him dead. While searching the body, jawans found some Pakistani currency on him. Security analysts said it could have been a dummy drive by Pakistani agencies to check the level of preparedness along the border. BSF held a flag meet with Pakistan Rangers and submitted a protest note in connection with the alleged infiltration bid. BSF tried handing over the body but Pakistan Rangers refused to accept it. It was later buried near the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/alert-bsf-men-gun-down-intruder-from-pakistan-in-bikaner/articleshow/81372063.cms||Vimal Bhatia
March 7, 2021||---||Ex-cricket mates in rival dressing rooms||KOLKATA: They have combined well for years to lead Bengal to prominence on the cricket field. Even off the field, Manoj Tiwary and Ashok Dinda have remained the best of friends. But this assembly election will see them in rival camps with Tiwary fighting for the Shibpur assembly constituency seat as a TMC candidate, while Dinda has been named the BJP candidate for Moyna constituency in East Midnapore. “Yes this will be something different,” Dinda told TOI. “Except local club cricket and IPL, I don’t remember playing against each other,” he added. But the pacer feels fighting for votes will not harm their personal relationship. “Politics and friendship are different. Jersey colours do not make you a different person,” Dinda, who retired from cricket last month, said. Tiwary thanked Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee for having faith in him as he took his maiden step into politics. Both Tiwary and Dinda got a chance to return to their roots. Although it was the CM who chose Shibpur constituency for him, Tiwary felt comfortable as he had grown up in Howrah. Moyna, too, will be close to Dinda’s heart as he comes from neighbouring Noichunpur village, near district headquarters Tamluk, East Midnapore. Asked whether he was apprehensive about who his rivals would be, Tiwary said, “I look at it like my game. I always focused on what I could do on the ground and not lose sleep over my opposition. It will be the same here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ex-cricket-mates-in-rival-dressing-rooms/articleshow/81372069.cms||Archiman Bhaduri
March 7, 2021||India||Ex-cricket mates in rival dressing rooms||KOLKATA: They have combined well for years to lead Bengal to prominence on the cricket field. Even off the field, Manoj Tiwary and Ashok Dinda have remained the best of friends. But this assembly election will see them in rival camps with Tiwary fighting for the Shibpur assembly constituency seat as a TMC candidate, while Dinda has been named the BJP candidate for Moyna constituency in East Midnapore. “Yes this will be something different,” Dinda told TOI. “Except local club cricket and IPL, I don’t remember playing against each other,” he added. But the pacer feels fighting for votes will not harm their personal relationship. “Politics and friendship are different. Jersey colours do not make you a different person,” Dinda, who retired from cricket last month, said. Tiwary thanked Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee for having faith in him as he took his maiden step into politics. Both Tiwary and Dinda got a chance to return to their roots. Although it was the CM who chose Shibpur constituency for him, Tiwary felt comfortable as he had grown up in Howrah. Moyna, too, will be close to Dinda’s heart as he comes from neighbouring Noichunpur village, near district headquarters Tamluk, East Midnapore. Asked whether he was apprehensive about who his rivals would be, Tiwary said, “I look at it like my game. I always focused on what I could do on the ground and not lose sleep over my opposition. It will be the same here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-cricket-mates-in-rival-dressing-rooms/articleshow/81372075.cms||Archiman Bhaduri
March 7, 2021||India||EC authorises spl observers to monitor, settle forces deployment matters in WB||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission has given full authority to its special observers in poll bound West Bengal to monitor the state-wide deployment of police and Central para military forces and intervene where they notice any deviation from the approved poll security plan. The special observers, described by a senior EC functionary as “the face of ECI in the field”, will ensure that the security forces’ presence allays any fear in the people’s minds about coming out to cast their vote, given the past incidents of poll-time political violence in the state. As per EC’s directions conveyed on Thursday to the special observers — former Bihar chief electoral officer Ajay Nayak (general observer) and retired IPS officers Vivek Dubey and Mrinal Kanti Das (both police observers) — they shall be in full charge of ensuring equitable area domination by the forces and also see to it that all critical polling booths are properly covered in the deployment plan. “The special observers shall ensure that the people of West Bengal are able to reach the polling stations to exercise their democratic right. Any fear in their minds should be removed and forces deployed in a way that it instils a sense of confidence in the electors to come out and vote,” an EC functionary told TOI on Saturday. As part of their responsibility to oversee the statewide implementation of deployment plans — which, as per EC’s earlier instructions, are to be drawn up by a panel comprising the state chief electoral officer, state nodal police officer and star Central armed police forces coordinator — the observers will be free to decide on ways to assess the implementation of deployment decisions, including making field visits to the ‘critical’ and ‘vulnerable’ areas as they think fit. For this purpose, the EC has put at their disposal two helicopters requisitioned from the home ministry. One chopper is for West Bengal and will be stationed in Kolkata, while the other chopper has been stationed at Guwahati, sources told TOI. “The special observers have been given a free hand to monitor the poll process and also make interventions at their level to ensure a free and fair election, barring decisions relating to transfers of poll-related officers which will be taken at the level of ECI. They are the face of the Commission in the poll-going states/UTs,” an EC functionary told TOI. Around 1.2 lakh Central para-military personnel will be deployed in West Bengal amid apprehensions of political violence in the TMC ruled state, voiced by many parties including BJP and CPM. As per a report sent by the home ministry to EC on January 9, 2021, there were 23 political killings in 2018 panchayat elections in West Bengal and 693 incidents and 11 killings in 2019 Lok Sabha poll. Between June 1 and December 31, 2019, there were 852 incidents of political violence and 61 deaths. The trend continued with 663 incidents and 57 deaths in 2020 and 23 clashes and 2 deaths between January 1 and January 7, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-authorises-spl-observers-to-monitor-settle-forces-deployment-matters-in-wb/articleshow/81372086.cms||Bharti Jain
March 7, 2021||---||EC authorises spl observers to monitor, settle forces deployment matters in WB||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission has given full authority to its special observers in poll bound West Bengal to monitor the state-wide deployment of police and Central para military forces and intervene where they notice any deviation from the approved poll security plan. The special observers, described by a senior EC functionary as “the face of ECI in the field”, will ensure that the security forces’ presence allays any fear in the people’s minds about coming out to cast their vote, given the past incidents of poll-time political violence in the state. As per EC’s directions conveyed on Thursday to the special observers — former Bihar chief electoral officer Ajay Nayak (general observer) and retired IPS officers Vivek Dubey and Mrinal Kanti Das (both police observers) — they shall be in full charge of ensuring equitable area domination by the forces and also see to it that all critical polling booths are properly covered in the deployment plan. “The special observers shall ensure that the people of West Bengal are able to reach the polling stations to exercise their democratic right. Any fear in their minds should be removed and forces deployed in a way that it instils a sense of confidence in the electors to come out and vote,” an EC functionary told TOI on Saturday. As part of their responsibility to oversee the statewide implementation of deployment plans — which, as per EC’s earlier instructions, are to be drawn up by a panel comprising the state chief electoral officer, state nodal police officer and star Central armed police forces coordinator — the observers will be free to decide on ways to assess the implementation of deployment decisions, including making field visits to the ‘critical’ and ‘vulnerable’ areas as they think fit. For this purpose, the EC has put at their disposal two helicopters requisitioned from the home ministry. One chopper is for West Bengal and will be stationed in Kolkata, while the other chopper has been stationed at Guwahati, sources told TOI. “The special observers have been given a free hand to monitor the poll process and also make interventions at their level to ensure a free and fair election, barring decisions relating to transfers of poll-related officers which will be taken at the level of ECI. They are the face of the Commission in the poll-going states/UTs,” an EC functionary told TOI. Around 1.2 lakh Central para-military personnel will be deployed in West Bengal amid apprehensions of political violence in the TMC ruled state, voiced by many parties including BJP and CPM. As per a report sent by the home ministry to EC on January 9, 2021, there were 23 political killings in 2018 panchayat elections in West Bengal and 693 incidents and 11 killings in 2019 Lok Sabha poll. Between June 1 and December 31, 2019, there were 852 incidents of political violence and 61 deaths. The trend continued with 663 incidents and 57 deaths in 2020 and 23 clashes and 2 deaths between January 1 and January 7, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ec-authorises-spl-observers-to-monitor-settle-forces-deployment-matters-in-wb/articleshow/81372081.cms||Bharti Jain
March 7, 2021||India||Customs to quiz Kerala CPM ex-secretary’s wife||KOCHI: The Customs Commissionerate (Preventive) has served a notice to Vinodini Balakrishnan, wife of former CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, summoning her to its Kochi office on March 10 for questioning. Customs sources said Vinodini has been summoned after the agency traced the IMEI number of one of the six iPhones given by Unitac MD Santhosh Eappen to Swapna Suresh to a SIM card reportedly registered in Vinodini’s name. Swapna Suresh is the prime accused in the cases related to gold and currency smuggling through diplomatic channels. The SIM card was found to have been used in the phone for a particular period of time. Vinodini was being summoned to get clarity on the issue, sources said. Customs sources said more high-profile people are likely to be summoned for questioning in the coming days in connection with cases linked to the gold smuggling. They hinted that Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan could also be summoned, as the Customs higher-ups are of the opinion that all persons referred to in the affidavit filed in the high court on Friday have to be questioned to ascertain the facts behind the statements given by Swapna. The agency had issued a summons to the Speaker on Friday, hours after Customs commissioner Sumit Kumar filed a statement before the high court that Swapna has revealed that the currency smuggling was carried out “at the instance of the chief minister and the Speaker with the help of the consulate”. After TV channels reported about the summons issued to Vinodini, Eappen said he had given the phones to Swapna Suresh and that he had no connections with Kodiyeri Balakrishnan or his wife. Vinodini too is learnt to have dismissed the allegation stating that she does not know Eapen and that she didn’t receive any phone from him. Meanwhile, the Customs commissioner took a dig at LDF over the protest march to the customs office in Kochi in his Facebook page on Saturday. The march was held to protest alleged misuse of central agencies for political gains. “A political party trying intimidation. Will not work,” the commissioner commented. The agency has also issued a summons to Thiruvananthapuram native Divya S, directing her to appear before it in connection with the probe into the gold smuggling case on Monday.  In a statement submitted before the high court on Friday, the Customs had said that in her 108th and 164th statements, Swapna Suresh had made shocking revelations about the chief minister, the speaker and some ministers of the state cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/customs-to-quiz-kerala-cpm-ex-secretarys-wife/articleshow/81372092.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||New rules can put curbs on digital media: Editors Guild||NEW DELHI: The Editors Guild of India on Saturday asked the government to put in abeyance the new information technology rules on grounds that they will “fundamentally alter” and put “unreasonable restrictions” on digital media. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, were notified by the Centre on February 25 and have been framed to regulate digital media, including OTT platforms and digital news service providers, bringing them, for the first time, within the ambit of government supervision. Taking exception to the content of the rules, the Guild said the government can’t “overwhelm India’s constitutional safeguards” for free media in the name of controlling an “unfettered social media”. “The Rules, issued under the IT Act, 2000, fundamentally alter how publishers of news operate over the internet,” the Guild said. “They empower the Union government to block, delete, or modify published news anywhere in the country without any judicial oversight and mandate all publishers to establish a grievance redressal mechanism. Various provisions in these rules can place unreasonable restrictions on digital news media, and consequently media at large,” the statement said. The Guild also said the digital media rules have the potential to “seriously undermine” media freedom in India and expressed concerns over the government not consulting all stakeholders before notifying the “far-reaching rules”. It also said the government should suspend them and hold consultations with stakeholders. As per the rules, online platforms are required to share information about their platforms with the government, set up a threetier grievance redressal mechanism and divulge details of the “originator” of content on social media platforms when asked by government or courts. This, many social media platforms have said, will erode the provisions of ‘end-to-end’ encryption and will have an adverse impact on individual privacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-rules-can-put-curbs-on-digital-media-editors-guild/articleshow/81372097.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Allahabad||NCPCR tells DM to probe charges against pvt hosp over girl’s death||Prayagraj: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) took cognizance of news reports of the death of a three-year old girl at the gate of a private hospital in Prayagraj and asked the district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami on Saturday to initiate an inquiry into allegations of medical negligence and submit report within 24 hours. On Friday, the deceased girl’s father Mukesh Mishra, a resident of Karhenda village of Prayagraj’s Kareli area, had alleged that he had admitted his daughter to the private hospital near Jhalwa 20 days ago. The hospital falls under the jurisdiction of Kaushambi’s Pipri police station. The DM had on Friday ordered a probe by ADM (City) A K Kanaujia and chief medical officer Dr Prabhakar Rai. “Kaushambi police had sent the body for post-mortem on Friday. A probe has been ordered after taking cognizance of tweets that a minor girl was ousted from the private hospital without stitches after abdomen surgery,” the DM said. “Today, the NCPCR has asked The DM for an inquiry and submit findings within 24 hours,” said ADM (City). ADM city and CMO visited the private hospital and checked the records of the girl. City magistrate Rajnish Mishra, CO Kotwali Satyendra Mishra and CO Chail, Kaushambi Shyamkant visited the family and condoled the death. They assured the family that a thorough inquiry would be done and the guilty punished. CO (Chail) Shyamkant said an FIR was registered on Saturday on the complaint of family. “The post-mortem has been performed and the report is awaited,” he added. The last rites of the girl were performed by the family in presence of police. Meanwhile, management of the private hospital accused of medical negligence held a press conference in the city on Saturday. Medical director of the hospital Dr Pramod Kumar rebutted the allegations and said, “The girl was admitted in ICU for 16 days. We performed surgery twice with her father’s consent. The family was charged Rs 6,370 for the same. When her condition did not improve, we advised them to shift her to Children’s Hospital under MLN medical college on March 3 and she was admitted there on the same date. We had put the stitches in, but what happened after we discharged her is not known to us.” Authorities of the private hospital told TOI that the girl was admitted on February 15 with acute intestinal obstruction. She underwent surgery with consent on February 24 wherein the affected portion of intestine was removed. On March 2, she had to be operated upon again due to leakage from intestine and was referred to SRN Hospital on March 3 for advanced care where she was admitted at 12.40pm the same day. When TOI spoke to Dr Mukesh Veer Singh, head of pediatrics department at Children’s Hospital, which comes under SRN Hospital of MLN medical college, he said, “The girl child was admitted on March 3 and remained under our supervision till March 4 evening when the girl’s father left with the kid without informing us.” TOI also spoke to Dr J K Singh, the surgeon who treated the girl at Children’s Hospital, and he said, “We monitored the girl continuously since she was admitted till March 4 evening when her father took her away. I had spoken to the doctor who treated her at the private hospital and had told her father that the girl’s condition is not good.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ncpcr-tells-dm-to-probe-charges-against-pvt-hosp-over-girls-death/articleshow/81369066.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizagites pool funds to build gate at heritage site||Visakhapatnam: As part of efforts to conserve the city’s heritage, Vizagites raised funds, constructed a protective gate and placed informative signs at the foothills of Pavuralakonda Buddhist hilltop monument near Bheemili to prevent trespassers and bikers from performing stunts and littering the heritage site. Residents managed to get a permission letter from the state archaeology department and pooled funds among themselves to set up the iron gate. The gate was inaugurated on Saturday evening by schoolchildren. Besides heritage enthusiasts Jayshree and Sohan Hatangadi, who took the initiative of placing the gate and raising funds for it, 18 heritage lovers made financial contributions for the structure, which required around Rs 1.3 lakh. On Saturday, at a ribbon-cutting ceremony, children from nearby Urban Residential School Y Vasu and Harshavardhan, handed over the keys of the gate to the assistant director of state archaeology department Venkat Rao. The gate-opening ceremony was preceded by a clean-up drive from the foothill upto the 10-acre heritage site on Pavuralakonda hill by around 50 students and 30 volunteers. “It is heartening to see that children and everyone present taking a vow to protect the heritage site for the next generation. With the signs and gate in place, people have come to know about the significance of the place and vehicular traffic would not be allowed to go up the 1.5 km hill road to the site,” added Jayshree Hatangadi. Earlier, rampant trespassing and littering had damaged the site, which also houses a Dutch ruin. In January, videos and photos of racing and stunt biking by youngsters at the 2,000-year-old heritage site shared on social media had enraged and upset citizens, who took the consent of the archaeology department to set up the gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizagites-pool-funds-to-build-gate-at-heritage-site/articleshow/81369409.cms||Sulogna Mehta
March 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||32 youths from Maoist-hit tribal belt clear SSC exam||Visakhapatnam: Thirty-two tribal youth, including four women from Maoist-affected areas in the Vizag tribal belt, have been selected for various paramilitary forces through Staff Selection Commission examinations. They were trained for the SSC examinations by Visakha Rural police. According to sources, 484 tribal youth from interior pockets of Maoist stronghold areas in various mandals were brought to Paderu for special physical training and coaching for the written test of the SSC exams. The programme, ‘Spoorthi’, was designed by Visakha Rural police with the help of ITDA project officer and a skill development institute at Paderu. An entrance test was held and attended by 1,500 tribal youngsters. As many as 484 were selected. “The tribal youth were given training at Youth Training Centre (YTC) in Paderu and Visakhapatnam as well. We have provided better teaching faculty from different parts of the state for various subjects. We provided them with lodging and food, free of cost, last year,” said Visakha Rural SP Boddepalli Krishna Rao. Those who cleared the test met Krishna Rao and anti-Maoist operations OSD Satish Kumar at the district police office on Saturday. Tribal youngsters from interior pockets of Maoist stronghold areas were brought to Paderu for physical training and coaching for the written test of the SSC exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/32-youths-from-maoist-hit-tribal-belt-clear-ssc-exam/articleshow/81369350.cms||Siva G
March 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||‘Will work to remove cases against Kapus’||Visakhapatnam: YSRC Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy promised the Kapu community that he would strive for the removal of cases lodged against them during the Ratnachal train burning case at Tuni a few years ago. Addressing members of Kapu community during the Kapu meeting at Muralinagar here on Saturday, the YSRC general secretary reminded members that the cases registered against them at the time of the Kapu agitation during the tenure of the TDP government were removed by the YSRC after it came into power even as the Tuni train arson cases registered by railway police are pending. Vijayasai said he would discuss the cases with Union railway minister Piyush Goel and see to it that Kapus are not harassed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/will-work-to-remove-cases-against-kapus/articleshow/81369258.cms||Siva G
March 7, 2021||Patna||Drunk man bites cops||PATNA: When four policemen on a routine patrol tried to arrest a 30-year-old drunk man, who was urinating at a public place and abusing passersby, they didn't expect the man to bite back, literally. The man identified as Ratan Kumar sank his teeth into all four cops who tried to nab him at Balughat Dhulan under the Town police station area of Muzaffarpur, police said on Saturday. Sikandarpur outpost in-charge Harendra Kumar said a home guard jawan, Sunil Kumar, was bitten so badly that he started to bleed. “The incident took place on Thursday night. Ratan Kumar was remanded in judicial custody on Friday evening after production before a court,” Kumar said. The officer said Ratan is an auto-rickshaw driver and is a native of Nazirpur village under Ahiyapur police station. “On Friday, when the alcohol effect subsided, Ratan begged for forgiveness from the police personnel, but it was of no use. We had never faced such a situation before,” he said. The in-charge said Ratan was found to be highly intoxicated in the breathalyser test. “Test showed the presence of 208.9 mg alcohol in his blood. He was taken to a hospital for a check-up and was produced before the court,” he said. Kumar said all four police personnel washed their bite injuries with disinfectant after reaching the outpost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drunk-man-bites-cops/articleshow/81369075.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Patna||Students of engineering college clash in Chhapra||CHHAPRA: Two groups of senior and junior students of L N J P Institute of Technology clashed on the campus on Friday night and ransacked the college property after heated exchange of words between them. Students involved in the clash were from 2018 and 2019 batches. Saran SP Santosh Kumar said no FIR was lodged in connection with the clash. Principal of the college, S N Sharma, said the two groups of students pelted stones at each other around 1am. “Glass panes of several windows were damaged. After finding no solution, we informed the police,” he added. A team from Mufassil police station rushed to the college to bring the situation under control. The police team camped at the college even on Saturday. The principal said an inquiry committee has been formed to identify those involved in the clash and assess the exact loss of college property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-of-engineering-college-clash-in-chhapra/articleshow/81369125.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Patna||Speaker: Govt officials should behave well with lawmakers||PATNA: State assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha has welcomed a circular issued by the state government, asking the officials handling the state’s bureaucracy to observe protocols in their interaction with the elected members of the House. He said observance of protocols by government officials in their interaction with the elected members of the House would help improve the image of the bureaucracy and also strengthen the democratic roots in the country, as the members of the legislature constitute one of the pillars of democracy. Sinha said in pursuance of their public duty, the members of the state legislature have to either personally meet the officials or talk to them on telephone in which case observance of the protocol on the part of the latter was necessary. The Speaker said workshops should be held at the district level to sensitise the newly-appointed officials towards the need for observance of the protocols. Incidentally, the issuance of the directive by the state government follows the high-level meeting that the Speaker held with the chief secretary and heads of other departments in the state assembly secretariat, insisting that the undignified behaviour of the officials with the elected members of the House would not be tolerated. The meeting was held on February 17, two days before the start of the Budget session of the state legislature. Accordingly, he also asked the additional chief secretary of the parliamentary affairs department to issue a general directive to all the officials concerned, pointing to the need for the observance of protocols by the officials in their interaction with the elected members of the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/speaker-govt-officials-should-behave-well-with-lawmakers/articleshow/81370125.cms||Abhay Singh
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Residents’ ire at official apathy, poor infra in Banjara, Jubilee||Hyderabad: Residents of Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills wards complain of poor infrastructure and rue that Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials have turned a blind eye towards their apathy.  Relocating commercial establishments, protecting the lung spaces/ open areas from encroachers and providing them pavement to walk were their demands. Lack of fire safety measures, pollution, space crunch, ground water pollution, traffic menace and rash driving were the other concerns aired. “We met the zonal commissioner of our area. She said that a part of the pavement can be used by hawkers and loans have also been granted to street vendors. An exclusive vending zone should come up for hawkers and vendors. Resident cannot even walk on pavements,” said Praveena Sarvepalli, president of MLA colony residents welfare forum. Another resident questioned how constructions surface inside sa crematorium. “Rooms have been built inside the crematorium. Apart from pavements being encroached, the commercial establishments in our locality have turned the colony into a tinder box. ” said PGS Ram resident of MLA colony. Residents are also approaching court. The condition was much the same in Jubilee Hills road number 56 where locals say that construction activity has further increased their woes. “We already suffer as commercial establishments turn our locality into a noisy stretch. Now due to construction activity in the wee hours, our sleep is going for a toss. I also complained to the cops regarding the same. Authorities should take appropriate measures to ensure tax payers do not suffer,” said Sangeeta Varma resident of road number 56 Jubilee Hills. The onus of ensuring that encroachments do not surface and illegal constructions are not built lies with GHMC assistant city planner (ACP) of the circle. Jubilee Hills ACP Krishna Kumari did not pick the call when TOI contacted her. We met the zonal commissioner of our area. She said that a part of the pavement can be used by hawkers and loans have also been granted to street vendors. An exclusive vending zone should come up for hawkers and vendors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-ire-at-official-apathy-poor-infra-in-banjara-jubilee/articleshow/81370207.cms||Nabinder Bommala
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman gets a cake surprise at vaccine hospital on 100th birthday||MUMBAI: Prabhavati Khedkar, an Andheri resident who marked her 100th birthday on Friday, was surprised to find a cake waiting for her at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) Covid-19 hospital of the BMC when she arrived there to receive the coronavirus vaccine. Her family said that according to the Gregorian calendar, Khedkar was born on March 5, 1921, and officials who noticed the date on her Aadhaar card decided to have an impromptu cake-cutting for her. “It was a very kind gesture for them to have organised something like this. We least expected it. Even though we celebrate Aaji’s birthday as per the Hindu calendar, which falls on Holi, still, for them to have noticed the date and brought a cake to have her cut it was very nice. Aaji was very touched,” said Khedkar’s granddaughter-in-law, Ruchita, who, along with her husband, accompanied the centenarian to the centre. She said the arrangements were well done and a wheelchair was kept ready. Khedkar was born in Ballari and moved to Mumbai after her marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-gets-a-cake-surprise-at-vaccine-hosp-on-100th-bday/articleshow/81371076.cms||Richa Pinto
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||UK strain scare: 5% of positive samples to be sequenced in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state government has decided to send 5% of the RT-PCR positive cases randomly for genetic sequencing to ascertain the presence of different variants of Covid-19 in Gujarat. The decision has come in the wake of three Covid-19 cases in Surat which tested positive for the UK strain. A K Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health) at Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), said that three persons, including a 17-year old boy from Athwa zone area, a 45-year-old man, and a 49-year-old woman from Adajan, had tested positive for the UK strain. “All have recovered now, and none suffered serious health issues,” he said. The three were found to have the strain during the random sampling by the health department. More importantly, said state health department officials, the boy had a travel history to Delhi, but two others had no such history, indicating that the strain is already active in the state and can infect more. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that they have decided to send random 5% of the confirmed positive cases samples for genetic sequencing to identify the strains if any. “The surveillance on the ground has already been strengthened, along with testing of the passengers on the inter-state borders, airports and railway stations,” she said, adding that other major cities have not recorded any foreign strain case so far. On an average, the state is recording about 520 daily positive cases. Thus, the daily strain testing may account for about 26 cases. The samples are typically sent to Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) in Gandhinagar and National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for genetic sequencing. Apart from the UK strain, globally two other strains from South Africa and Brazil have been reported. India has already recorded the first cases of all these strains so far. Ravi and other senior officers had carried out a video conferencing with the district collectors and health officers on Saturday to take stock of the precautions. As health department officials pointed out, the discovery is important in the light of the steadily rising cases in the state for the past 10 days in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uk-strain-scare-5-of-ve-samples-to-be-sequenced-in-guj/articleshow/81369974.cms||Parth Shastri
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||ArcelorMittal proposes over Rs 45k crore investment in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: UK-based world’s largest steel manufacturer ArcelorMittal Group is likely to further invest in Gujarat in the coming days at multiple locations. Indian-origin promoter of the company, chairman & CEO L N Mittal met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kevadia on Saturday. Mittal also met CM Vijay Rupani in Ahmedabad. Officials present in the meeting said the group has pledged fresh investment in Gujarat ranging between Rs 45,000 and Rs 65,000 crore. Mittal also reportedly discussed the issues of his company’s dispute with Ruias-promoted Essar Group. However, the state government is said to have informed that as the matter is subjudice, the company can pursue the matter in the court of law, said sources. When contacted, a company official while confirming Mittal’s meeting with PM Modi and the Gujarat CM, refused to divulge any further details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/arcelormittal-proposes-over-rs-45k-cr-investment-in-guj/articleshow/81369933.cms||Kapil Dave
March 7, 2021||Patna||Mukesh Sahani accepts his mistake, should be pardoned: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday said animal and fisheries resources minister Mukesh Sahani should be pardoned as he has accepted his mistake and also promised not to repeat it in the future. Mukesh had sent brother Santosh as his representative to inaugurate a government function at Hajipur in Vaishali on Thursday, leading to an uproar in both Houses of the state legislature on Friday, demanding his resignation. “Mukesh Sahani ji has assured me that he would not repeat such mistakes in the future and he himself has realized his fault. There is no need to pursue this issue further. Now, he (Mukesh) should be pardoned,” Nitish said while responding to a media query at the local TPS College where he had gone to inaugurate a life-size statue of its founder Thakur Prasad Singh and other newly built buildings on the college premises. “Sometimes, a person doesn’t know about all rules and regulations. Mukesh Sahani ji has realized his mistake and also explained it the media,” Nitish said. “It is not proper if a family or party member attends a government event officially, instead of the minister,” Nitish said. “The minister told me that he did not do that intentionally. Sahani claimed that he had no idea about all these things,” the CM said. “Party workers/supporters and well-wishers of a minister can go to any event. But no one can represent a minister officially at any government event,” the CM clarified. Nitish thanked the opposition for bringing the incident to his notice. Accompanied by state’s education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, the CM visited different parts of the college and also inaugurated its renovated buildings. Patliputra University vice-chancellor Surendra Pratap Singh and Patna University VC Girish Kumar Choudhary were also present on the occasion. Earlier, TPS College principal Prof Upendra Prasad Singh welcomed the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sahani-accepts-his-mistake-should-be-pardoned-nitish/articleshow/81370117.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Three Bihar parties to try luck in Assam polls||PATNA: Altogether three Bihar-centric regional parties have decided to try their luck in the assembly polls in Assam. While CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) and former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP have decided to go solo, Bihar’s main opposition RJD has decided to contest in alliance with the Congress-AIUDF-led Grand Alliance in Assam. Sources in JD(U) said the party has made up its mind to contest at least 32 assembly seats out of a total of 126 in Assam on its own. JD(U)’s Assam in-charge and MLC Gulam Rasool Baliyawi, and Bihar’s rural development minister Shrawan Kumar reached Guwahati on Friday to take a final call on the number of seats the party would contest. Sources said Balyawi and Shrawan would hold a series of meetings with local JD(U) leaders and workers at different places in Assam on March 6 to take stock of the situation. Both leaders are expected to hold a press conference in Guwahati on March 7 to announce the party’s plans.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); JD(U) Assam unit convener, Samsul Alam, is likely to file nomination papers from the Rupohihat constituency, which is going to the polls in the first phase. March 9 is the last date of filing nomination for the first phase. JD(U) is yet to release the name of 32 seats it wants to contest. “The number of constituencies and the name of candidates will be decided by our national leaders,” Alam told TOI over the phone. A few days ago, RJD submitted a list of 16 seats to the Congress-AIUDF led alliance and expressed its desire to contest mainly from constituencies, which have a large presence of Hindi and Bhojpuri speaking people from Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); “Though Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF has given us a green signal to contest from 12 seats, out of the 16, the Congress is yet to convey its message. We are waiting for Congress response. If Congress gives us a respectable number as part of seat-sharing among the allies, RJD will contest as a partner of the grand alliance. Otherwise, we will go solo and our number of seats may go above 20,” RJD’s Assam state president Shonarul Shah Mustafa told TOI over the phone on Friday. Mustafa said AIUDF has allowed RJD to contest altogether 12 seats namely Tezpur, Barchalla, Biswanath, Tinsukia, Doomdooma and Dibrugarh seats in the first phase, Katigorah, Ratabari and Sipajhar in the second phase, while Bilasipara East, Chenga and Gauhati West in the third and the last phase. Of these 12 seats, 10 were won by BJP and its allies in the 2016 assembly polls, while two seats—Doomdooma and Chenga- by Congress. “Congress may not allow RJD to put up candidates from Doomdooma, Chenga and a few more seats. In such a situation, the RJD is ready to leave a few seats for Congress,” Mustafa said. RLSP has so far decided to contest altogether 72 seats in all three phases. The party’s Assam state president Hazrat Ali on Friday released a list of 13 seats for the first phase where RLSP would put up its candidate. “RLSP’s candidates for the first phase seats will file their nomination papers on March 9,” Ali told TOI over the phone on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-bihar-parties-to-try-luck-in-assam-polls/articleshow/81375331.cms||Madan Kumar
March 7, 2021||Patna||Three Bihar parties to try luck in Assam polls||PATNA: Altogether three Bihar-centric regional parties have decided to try their luck in the assembly polls in Assam. While CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) and former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP have decided to go solo, Bihar’s main opposition RJD has decided to contest in alliance with the Congress-AIUDF-led Grand Alliance in Assam. Sources in JD(U) said the party has made up its mind to contest at least 32 assembly seats out of a total of 126 in Assam on its own. JD(U)’s Assam in-charge and MLC Gulam Rasool Baliyawi, and Bihar’s rural development minister Shrawan Kumar reached Guwahati on Friday to take a final call on the number of seats the party would contest. Sources said Balyawi and Shrawan would hold a series of meetings with local JD(U) leaders and workers at different places in Assam on March 6 to take stock of the situation. Both leaders are expected to hold a press conference in Guwahati on March 7 to announce the party’s plans.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); JD(U) Assam unit convener, Samsul Alam, is likely to file nomination papers from the Rupohihat constituency, which is going to the polls in the first phase. March 9 is the last date of filing nomination for the first phase. JD(U) is yet to release the name of 32 seats it wants to contest. “The number of constituencies and the name of candidates will be decided by our national leaders,” Alam told TOI over the phone. A few days ago, RJD submitted a list of 16 seats to the Congress-AIUDF led alliance and expressed its desire to contest mainly from constituencies, which have a large presence of Hindi and Bhojpuri speaking people from Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); “Though Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF has given us a green signal to contest from 12 seats, out of the 16, the Congress is yet to convey its message. We are waiting for Congress response. If Congress gives us a respectable number as part of seat-sharing among the allies, RJD will contest as a partner of the grand alliance. Otherwise, we will go solo and our number of seats may go above 20,” RJD’s Assam state president Shonarul Shah Mustafa told TOI over the phone on Friday. Mustafa said AIUDF has allowed RJD to contest altogether 12 seats namely Tezpur, Barchalla, Biswanath, Tinsukia, Doomdooma and Dibrugarh seats in the first phase, Katigorah, Ratabari and Sipajhar in the second phase, while Bilasipara East, Chenga and Gauhati West in the third and the last phase. Of these 12 seats, 10 were won by BJP and its allies in the 2016 assembly polls, while two seats—Doomdooma and Chenga- by Congress. “Congress may not allow RJD to put up candidates from Doomdooma, Chenga and a few more seats. In such a situation, the RJD is ready to leave a few seats for Congress,” Mustafa said. RLSP has so far decided to contest altogether 72 seats in all three phases. The party’s Assam state president Hazrat Ali on Friday released a list of 13 seats for the first phase where RLSP would put up its candidate. “RLSP’s candidates for the first phase seats will file their nomination papers on March 9,” Ali told TOI over the phone on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-bihar-parties-to-try-luck-in-assam-polls/articleshow/81375334.cms||Madan Kumar
March 7, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Man, son hacked to death, another shot||PATNA: Three people were killed and 11 others, including 4 policemen, were injured in a group clash and firing over land dispute at Chai Tola Mukhbira under Kasim Bazaar police station area in Munger district late Friday evening. The deceased were identified as Jai Jairam Sao (55), his son Kundan Sao (25) and one Ram Sagar Mahto (22). Ram had nothing to do with the dispute, police said. Kotwali police station SHO Pankaj Kumar Singh was among the 4 policemen injured in stone pelting. Jairam’s wife Sangeeta Devi, daughter Priyanka Kumar and daughter-in-law Priyanka Devi were also injured. The two sides clashed over 12 kattha land. Munger civil surgeon Dr Ajay Kumar Bharti told TOI over phone on Saturday that Jairam and Kundan had multiple deep cut injuries on neck, chest, abdomen and head. “Ram was shot in his head,” he said. Munger SP Manavjit Singh Dhillon said over phone that Jairam’s another son and Army man Chandan Kumar was arrested for firing, resulting in Ram’s death. He said one Rameshwar Mahto had leased 12 kattha and 3 ‘dhur’ land to Jairam’s brother-in-law Om Prakash Sao at Chai Tola five years back. “The plot was disputed. Rameshwar’s brothers Kundan Kumar Mahto and Parmeshwar Mahto also claimed their share in it,” the SP said and added that Om Prakash had already created a house on the plot. “A consensus was reached between both sides that Om would vacate the place after getting paid,” he said. “But Om on Friday morning started constructing a boundary wall. Kundan and Parmeshwar opposed it. A scuffle took place in which Jairam and his son Kundan took part and got injured. Police reached the spot and controlled the situation. FIRs were lodged from both sides,” he said. Dhillon said the women from both sides again started heated arguments in the evening. “Chandan fired at least four rounds and Ram was killed. Chandan, who was opposed to his maternal uncle Om Prakash’s decision to vacate the plot, had reached the village on leave to teach the Mahtos a lesson,” he said. Soon thereafter, those from Rameshwar’s family surrounded Jairam’s house and started pelting stones. Chandan fled from the spot but rest of the family got trapped inside. The SP said police team on patrolling nearby rushed to the spot where they were also pelted with stones. They had to fire at least four rounds in the air to disperse the mob and ensure safety of women trapped inside Jairam’s house. Till then, Jairam was already killed and Kundan died later,” he said. Dhillon said Jairam’s daughter Priyanka lodged an FIR against 17 persons of Mahto family while arrested Ranjeet lodged a counter FIR against nine persons of Sao family. He said Ranjeet is Parmeshwar’s one of the eight sons and slain Ram was his maternal nephew. “A third FIR was lodged by the police for stone pelting on them,” he said. The SP also said Jairam’s family members demanded Chandan’s release as he was the only male member left to lit the pyre. “However, the plea was not entertained as he is the prime accused,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-son-hacked-to-death-another-shot/articleshow/81369101.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Male spotted deer killed in road accident||Hyderabad: A fully grown male spotted deer was killed in a road accident near Pakhal Wildlife Sanctuary in Warangal district on Friday night. The local residents who were passing by saw the body lying in the middle of the road and shifted the animal to the side. They immediately informed the forest department, said district forest officer (DFO) T Ravi Kiran. The incident took place around 8.30 pm when the deer was trying to cross the road that passes through the forest when an unidentified vehicle hit the animal. “We were informed that a truck hit the deer and escaped from the spot. The deer succumbed to injuries before we could shift it to the rescue center,” said the DFO. The officials of the forest department said that the deer breathed its last when they were shifting it to the rescue center at Warangal. Further, the DFO informed that road kills are very rare in the region and that it is a very unfortunate incident. In a similar incident last year, a leopard was killed when an unidentified vehicle ran over it on the Hyderabad-Nagpur national highway at Seethagondi in Adilabad’s Gudihathnoor mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/male-spotted-deer-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/81370202.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Patna||Over 17,000 get shots as Covid vax drive gathers pace in Bihar||PATNA: Over 15,000 senior citizens and 2,463 people above 45 years of age with comorbidities took Covid-19 vaccine shots on Saturday. Vaccination for this priority group had started on March 1. In six days, at least 50,000 of them have been inoculated in the state. In addition, 4,796 frontline and healthcare workers got their first jab on Saturday. Similarly, 21,661 healthcare workers got their second jab. As per State Health Society, no adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) case was reported during the day. Meanwhile, the state recorded just 22 Covid cases on Saturday. These new cases were reported from 10 districts, including Patna. In Patna, nine more people tested positive for the virus on Saturday. Lakhisarai and Muzaffarpur recorded three new cases each and Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Gaya, Jamui, Nalanda, Saran and Supaul one case each. Altogether 28 people recuperated from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 99.28%. Even though the state’s Covid tally has reached 2,62,728, there were just 332 active cases on Saturday. Number of Covid cases in Bihar has dropped at a time when several other states are witnessing a spike in new cases. Six states – Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand – and two Union territories – Delhi and Chandigarh – have been asked by the Centre to return to the fundamentals of “test, track and treat”. These states and UTs have of late seen a spike in Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-17k-get-shots-as-covid-vax-drive-gathers-pace-in-bihar/articleshow/81369011.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Married daughter is eligible for compassionate appointment: HC||Vijayawada: Rejecting applications of a married daughter for compassionate appointment under ‘bread winner scheme’ just because she’s married is ‘arbitrary’ and ‘unjust’, the AP high court said in a recent judgement. Justice Battu Devanand, while allowing the petition for compassionate appointment, noted that a daughter can not lose her status as a member of her parents’ family just because of her marriage. One Ch Damayanti had moved the high court in 2014, seeking directions for compassionate appointment in Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation after her father, who worked as a driver in the corporation, died in harness. APSRTC had rejected the application of the deceased driver’s wife on the grounds that she did not have the required qualifications. Later, Damayanti applied for the job under ‘bread winner scheme’ but her application too was rejected on grounds that she was married and the rules stipulate that only the son or unmarried daughter is eligible for compassionate appointment. Justice Devanand, after hearing arguments from both sides, observed that if a son is eligible for compassionate appointment irrespective of his marital status, a daughter should also be entitled to the same benefit. Discriminating daughters based on their marital status appears to be arbitrary and unjust, he said. “A child remains a child to the parent, whatever be their gender. Relationship of children with their parents cannot be governed by their marital status. Both daughters and sons have equivalent rights and duties with respect to their parents,” he said. He further noted that according to Maintenance and Welfare of Parents & Senior Citizens Act of 2007, Parliament did not differentiate between children based on their marital status and obligation was cast upon sons, daughters, grandsons and granddaughters equally to look after parents. The court held the clause by the APSRTC—of not including married daughters, especially in case where the married daughter is the only child—as “illegal and arbitrary” and allowed the petition by setting aside the clause. It also directed APSRTC to consider the application of the petitioner to give her appointment within six weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/married-daughter-is-eligible-for-compassionate-appointment-hc/articleshow/81369276.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 7, 2021||Patna||Tejashwi demands reservation in private sector||PATNA: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav wants the NDA government to introduce reservation in the private sector. Addressing an event at his residence on Saturday, the leader of opposition in the state assembly accused the government of intentionally doing away with reservation in public sector bodies by privatising them. “Today our Constitution is in danger. Baba Saheb (Dr B R Ambedkar) had provided for reservation in the Constitution to bring the marginalised and oppressed sections of our society into the mainstream. But this double engine government is cleverly doing away with reservation by privatising public organisations like the railways, BSNL and Air India,” said the younger Yadav scion at the event organised by Ravidas Chetna Manch. Repeating the slogan of ‘jitni aabaadi, utni hissedari’, Yadav said that the demands of people belonging to the reserved categories would have been fulfilled had his government come to power in Bihar. “Only the government of the poor could have fulfilled your demands. In fact, more than half of the demands which you have raised were there in our manifesto, but they (NDA) formed the government through the back door. I did not lose this election, rather I was made to lose.” Praising the work of Sant Ravidas, Yadav urged the people to follow the ideology of the 16th-century Bhakti saint. He also lauded his party MLA Shivchandra Ram for organising the event. RJD MLA from Morwa, Ranvijay Sahu praised Yadav for his concern for the poor and people belonging to the suppressed sections. Lalu health update: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday gave a health update on his father, Lalu Prasad Yadav, to the media on the sidelines of the event organised by Ravi Das Chetna Manch. He said his father’s kidney was only 25% functional, his blood creatinine level high, and he was also experiencing some difficulty in breathing. Tejashwi expressed hope that the RJD chief’s health would improve soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-demands-reservation-in-private-sector/articleshow/81369083.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 7, 2021||Patna||BJP to support one zila parishad candidate in every constituency||PATNA: With three-tier panchayati raj elections in the state round the corner, the BJP has decided to support one zila parishad candidate in every constituency. The panchayati raj elections will be held for the posts of mukhiyas and sarpanchs in the panchayats as well as for the election of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members besides the ward members in every panchayat. Addressing the two-day meeting of the BJP’s 415-member working group here on Saturday, state BJP president Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said the party would extend support to one zila parishad candidate from among all the contestants in every constituency. The party’s respective district core committees will first select the prospective zila parishad contestant in their districts. The party’s state headquarters will give its final stamp on the name of the zila parishad contestant. Among the participants in the party’s working group meeting were district presidents and district incharges. Jaiswal said the purpose behind the two-day conclave of the state working group was also to decide the mass mobilisation programmes that would be taken up in the future. However, the standing programmes included the celebration of the party’s foundation day at the booth level on April 6, besides the birth anniversary celebration of B R Ambedkar on April 14 as ‘Samrasta Day’. Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi dwelt at length on the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ campaign. State panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary also addressed the participants and presented the background on the coming three-tier panchayati raj elections. The party’s national co-incharge of the state Harish Dwivedi also addressed the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-to-support-one-zila-parishad-candidate-in-every-constituency/articleshow/81370130.cms||Abhay Singh
March 7, 2021||Allahabad||Baswar plant that turns plastic waste into fuel made operational||Prayagraj: At a time when the prices of diesel has touched new height in the country, a processing plant has been made operationalised at Sangam city which converts plastic waste into diesel. This is the first such project in the entire state which would convert any kind of plastic waste into fuel. Being operationalised at the Baswar processing plant of Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC), the plant would be operated on the basis of ‘build and operate project’. City mayor, Abhilasha Gupta Nandi inaugurated this plant at Baswar, on Thursday. Another highlight of the plant is the fact that this plant would run with diesel and gas processed in this plant only. “Single-use plastic wastes, produced in the municipal limits of the city is harming the environment because of which single-use plastic has been banned by the municipal corporation. By this plant getting operated, this menace would be taken care of”, said environmental engineer of PMC, Uttam Verma. So far, organic fertilizer and RDF prepared from the garbage of the city is being produced by the processing plant and now diesel will also be prepared, informed the official. Apart from this, organic manure is being supplied to big organisations which are providing this organic manure to farmers all over the country. Around 400-500 metric tons of garbage is brought and processed everyday from the city area by the Municipal Corporation at the Baswar waste disposal unit. Talking of the produce of the processing plant, Verma said, “About 1200 to 1400 liters of diesel will be synthesized in 24 hours with 2 quintals of plastic waste and it would also manufacture about 200 to 250 kg of carbon, which can be used as fuel”. Apart from this, the construction work of electric crematorium at Baswar is at its completion stage. This crematorium would be used to dispose the dead animals found in the city limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/baswar-plant-that-turns-plastic-waste-into-fuel-made-operational/articleshow/81369081.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Need to move towards renewable energy’||Hyderabad: Stressing on the need to move towards renewable energy, Ashok Jhunjhunwala, institute professor, IIT Madras said that India has abundant solar and wind power to generate renewable energy for at least the next 25 years. Delivering the keynote address virtually on ‘Towards 100% renewable energy in India’ at the R&D Showcase, IIIT Hyderabad, he said that the electricity cost will also reduce if solar and wind energy is used for electricity. Grid storages are needed to store power produced through energies, he added. “Solar or wind power costs about Rs 2.5 per kWh. Even if we add storage and other costs, it would be around Rs 4.5 per kWh,” he said, adding that India can set up solar and wind farms across the country. He said that while solar farms can be set up in states like Rajasthan, where there is 12 hours of sunlight, wind farms can be built on coasts and in the ocean. Giving the example of IIT Madras, he said that the institute is currently spending over 75 lakh per month on electricity and by using solar or wind power, the cost can be reduced by Rs 30 lakh. “There are about 40,000 commercial complexes in India. They can tie up with independent power producers to get renewable energy, which will be available at lower cost. Currently, it is viable to provide 24x7 renewable energy to these complexes and in near future, it can be extended to everyone,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/need-to-move-towards-renewable-energy/articleshow/81370208.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Patna||Man shot in gang rivalry||PATNA: A man with criminal antecedents was shot dead in a suspected gang rivalry at Bargania Bazaar in Sitamarhi around 7pm on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Rakesh Jha, 30, of Pachtaki Yadu village under Bargania police station area. Sadar SDPO Ramakant Upadhyay said Rakesh entered inside one Raj hotel in a bid to save his life. “However, the two shooters chased him and fired several rounds, killing him in the hotel lobby,” he said. Bargania police station SHO Amita Singh said at least nine cases, including of loot and extortion, were lodged against Rakesh. She said the police suspect he was killed in a gang war. “Rakesh had a PDS shop in his wife’s name. It was shut four months back following some irregularities. He had recently entered into a partnership to open a petrol pump in Sitamarhi,” she said. Singh said he was scheduled to sign an agreement for the pump on Saturday. “None of the eyewitnesses is ready to tell anything to the police out of fear,” the SHO said. She said the shooters had reached on a bike. “Two bullet injuries were visible on his chest. Five empty cartridges were seized from the spot,” the SHO said, adding the body was sent for postmortem and raids were going to nab shooters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-shot-in-gang-rivalry/articleshow/81369119.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: In SoU’s mrig vatika, come see a Chitroshat, Khadagmrug & Aja!||AHMEDABAD: What do you call an Indian peacock, the country’s national bird in Sanskrit? Mayur. That was an easy one. How about a giraffe, Indian rhinoceros or a goat? They are called Chitroshat, Khadagmrug and Aja, in that same order. As you take a jungle safari near the Statue of Unity (SoU) at Kevadia, you will come across names like ‘Vitrak’, ‘Vanaar’ and ‘Shrugal’. These are Sanskrit names of leopard, monkey and a fox. In line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision to promote Sanskrit language, all signboards, names of trees and animals at the zoological park all bear their Sanskrit identity. “Kevadia (is the) only place in India where many guides conduct tours in Sanskrit. An initiative inspired by Hon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary (forest & environment) in a tweet on March 5. It needs to mention that the ancient language, which has influenced the many spoken languages like Gujarati, Assamese, Oriya, Bengal, Hindi, Nepali, Punjabi, Kashmiri and Marathi, among others, is the mother tongue of less than 25,000 people, according to the 2011 census of Indian languages. The section for herbivores species reads Mrug Vatika while the one for carnivores has the words Mrugendra Vaas on the plaques on display. The safari area, also known as zoological park has a section for Indian One-Horned Rhinoceros which reads Ghandhak Nivas. Similarly, for the Indian Bison it reads Mahisa Vaas. In the case of exotic species, there is a signage that reads: ‘Pardesi Prani’. What’s more? The forest authorities have trained 15 local tribals to speak in Sanskrit and they have already begun guiding the tourists. In his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme recently, Modi mentioned about this initiative and also shared a clip of a female tour guide describing the world’s tallest statue purely in Sanskrit language. “India is a land of many languages that are a symbol of our culture and pride,” Modi said. The guides can even answer queries in Sanskrit. The Jungle Safari covers 375 acres at seven different levels ranging from an altitude or elevation of 29 metres to 180 metres, on the right bank of the Narmada River, near the Statue of Unity. The park is a home to more than 186 species of fauna, covering various biomes of Africa, Australia, Asia and America. Visitors will also be able to spot India’s endangered species, which includes the magnificent big cats such as Asiatic Lion, Royal Bengal Tiger and Leopard. The safari route has been designed such that the visitors can view animal activities, spot reptiles and watch birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-sous-mrig-vatika-come-see-a-chitroshat-khadagmrug-aja/articleshow/81369945.cms||Bharat Yagnik
March 7, 2021||Patna||Nitish: Verdict in hooch tragedy case a warning to ban violators||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday welcomed the Gopalganj court verdict awarding death sentence to nine persons and life imprisonment to other four women in a hooch tragedy case. “Such punishments will create fear among people that they will get similar harsh punishment for committing such a crime,” he said. Responding to a media query, Nitish said the case was thoroughly investigated. “It is a big thing,” he said and added that people should understand that liquor ban in the state was in their interest. In a landmark judgment, the Gopalganj court on Friday convicted all the 13 surviving accused persons in the illicit liquor case. One of them had died pending trial. Nineteen people had died in Khajurbanni area of Gopalganj on August 16, 2016 after consuming spurious liquor just four months after the Nitish government banned sale and consumption of alcohol across the state on April 5, 2016. Nitish also said he keeps reviewing the liquor ban issues on a regular basis. “I have asked senior officials of the home department, police headquarters and the prohibition & excise department to sit together every day in the state headquarters and take feedback from different districts regarding enforcement of liquor ban. They will act together on the basis of inputs received. Now, this is being done every day,” the CM said. Replying to another query, Nitish said, “The Gopalganj tragedy happened in the year when the state government enforced total prohibition across the state. Even at that time, I had warned people against consuming spurious liquor, which will kill them.” Recalling the recent incidents of hooch deaths, the CM said, “Frequent incidents of consumption of spurious liquor are reported from few places in the state. The administration takes necessary action after conducting a thorough probe into such incidents. I will request people to remain alert and serious towards the liquor ban. There is no personal gain for me in enforcing the liquor ban. Mahatma Gandhi too was in favour of liquor ban.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-verdict-in-hooch-tragedy-case-a-warning-to-ban-violators/articleshow/81369044.cms||Madan Kumar
March 7, 2021||Patna||No clue about one accused in hooch tragedy case: SP||PATNA: Efforts are on to trace Rupesh Shukla, the prime accused, who is still absconding in the Khajurbanni hooch tragedy case in which 19 persons had died in 2016. The court of ADJ-II Law Kush Kumar in Gopalganj on Friday awarded death penalty to nine men of the same family and rigorous imprisonment to four women in the case under the provisions of the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016. A separate trial is on against four other accused whose names had surfaced at a later stage. Rupesh from Siwan is among those four. The court has declared him an absconder. It was Rupesh who had supplied large consignment of methyl alcohol (spirit) and homeopathy medicines to death convict Nagina Pasi for manufacturing the spurious liquor, Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar told TOI over phone on Saturday. When asked, Kumar said a technical team was working to nab Rupesh. “Till now, there has been no clue about his location,” he said. The SP said he would review the matter soon so that further necessary directions could be issued for locating and arresting Rupesh. Gopalganj special public prosecutor Ravi Bhushan Srivastava, who had argued the hooch tragedy case against the accused, said Rupesh’s property had already been attached on the court order. “The court has declared him an absconder and police filed another chargesheet against him and three others namely Jamal Ahmed alias Jamal Shah, Kundan Kumar and Angad Prasad alias Angad Kumar afterwards in 2017 in the hooch case,” he said. Srivastava said Jamal, Kundan and Angad were on bail granted by the Patna high court. “None of these four accused and the 13 convicts had been granted bail by the lower court in Gopalganj,” he said. Srivastava said it may take some time for concluding the trial against these four accused as charges were yet to be framed against them. He said investigation of the case had been closed by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-clue-about-one-accused-in-hooch-tragedy-case-sp/articleshow/81369065.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 7, 2021||Patna||Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar: Special arrangements for women tomorrow||PATNA/CHHAPRA: The health department has planned several initiatives for vaccination of women against Covid-19 on International Women’s Day on Monday. Patna civil surgeon Dr Bibha Kumari said priority would be given to women beneficiaries on Monday as far as Covid vaccination is concerned. “Apart from elderly women and those with comorbidities in the age of group of 45 to 59 years, we have also requested frontline women workers from Jeevika and anganwadi centres to take the vaccine shots on Monday. Hospitals have been asked to keep at least 100 chairs reserved for women for Covid vaccination,” she added. In Saran also, the district health department officials have planned mega immunisation drive for women beneficiaries on Monday. “Only women staff will be deployed at some of the session sites on International Women’s Day,” Saran civil surgeon Dr M Jha said. Altogether 1,169 senior citizens have so far been vaccinated in Saran district since March 1. Dr Jha said special arrangements have been made for senior citizens at the sadar hospital in Chhapra and at other centres for Covid vaccination. Hari Madhav Singh (92), former administrative officer of Rajendra Memorial Medical Institute (Patna), who took the vaccine jab on Friday, said he was happy with the arrangements made at the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-vaccination-special-arrangements-for-women-tomorrow/articleshow/81369001.cms||H K Verma
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||International Women’s Day: Stop neglecting health, doctors advise women||Nagpur: Right from managing households, office work to social engagements — women are considered great in multitasking. But, it has been very common for them to neglect their health issues. Rising cases of heart diseases, diabetes and hypertension in women are enough evidences of the fact that women neglect their health. This year, the theme for International Women’s Day is ‘Choose to Challenge’. This is because the World Health Organization (WHO) has conducted a worldwide survey in which 62% women said they don’t have time to monitor their health. According to doctors in Vidarbha, this number could be even more in the region, as nearly 90% of rural women neglect their health. TOI spoke to doctors in different domains and asked them what they would like to tell the women on the day. “As per our hospital’s cancer registry, 9,381 confirmed cases of cancer were reported in the last 2 years. Out of them, 50% were women. This number is alarming. About 30% of the women patients were having breast cancer and a large number of them had reported in 3rd or 4th stage only. This is because these women neglect early symptoms,” said Dr BK Sharma, honorary consultant at RST Cancer Hospital in Nagpur. Gynecologist Dr Laxmi Shrikhande said women had a stressful pandemic year. “Aftereffects of lockdown created many health issues for women. Especially in my field, unwanted pregnancies, non-availability of safe abortion services, and mental stress due to lockdown were the major problems. Women kept on neglecting their health, which resulted in more serious illnesses,” she said. Rheumatoid arthritis is three times more common in women than in men, lupus arthritis is 9 to 15 times more common, and osteoarthritis is two times more common in women than men, said rheumatologist Dr Parikshit Sagdev, while stressing that women are at higher risk. “Most types of arthritis can be controlled and further complications can be prevented with modern medicines. However, it needs to be diagnosed in time,” said Dr Sagdev. If symptoms such as joint pain, swelling and stiffness or redness in the joints appear for more than six weeks, a rheumatologist should be consulted, he said. Dietitian Malvvika Fulwwani said women should think whether they really consuming healthy food or not. “High sugar intake is linked to increased appetite and weight, on the contrary a diet rich in protein and fibre reduces appetite and makes you feel full for a longer time,” she said. “If you really want to eat healthy, opt for whole foods which are neither processed nor refined and avoid ultra-processed foods which may contain artificial flavours, emulsifiers or other additives,” she added. Problems During Pandemic Non-availability of sexual and reproductive health services Movement restrictions, travel bans, lockdowns etc created mental issues Many gained excessive weight, many felt depressed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/international-womens-day-stop-neglecting-health-doctors-advise-women/articleshow/81381487.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 7, 2021||Patna||Final year students to write exams from April 27: Patna University||PATNA: With a view to regularizing its academic calendar, Patna University (PU) is planning to conduct different examinations and publish the results as soon as possible. According to the university’s examination controller, R K Mandal, the step will be taken to regularize the academic calendar, which was disturbed last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While the BA, BSc and BCom final year students will write their exams from April 27, the Part II examinations will begin on May 12. “The principals of all PU colleges have been directed to complete the courses on time so that examinations are held according to the schedule finalized by the university. However, if they find it difficult to cover the syllabi in time, they should inform the university by March 15,” Mandal told this newspaper. No decision regarding the date of commencement of Part I examinations has yet been taken. The controller said, “The exams of third semester postgraduate students are also expected to start in May. On the other hand, the examinations of first semester students, whose classes have begun a few days back, will be held later.” In the meantime, PU is taking necessary steps to allot hostels to all the needy students on a priority basis so that they do not face any inconvenience in attending classes or taking their exams. B N College principal Raj Kishore Prasad welcomed PU’s move to conduct the degree examinations without causing unwarranted delay. “Classes of Part II and Part III students have already started in the online mode. Hence, their courses are likely to be completed in time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/final-year-students-to-write-exams-from-april-27-pu/articleshow/81368971.cms||B K Mishra
March 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Online edu amid Covid runs into digital divide||Vijayawada: Only 46% of students have access to online learning, a phone survey by Young Lives India has shown. Adolescents from the poorest and rural households mostly remain excluded from online learning across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The survey was carried out to study the impact of Covid-19 on the education, employment, food security and mental health of respondents in the two Telugu states. Findings from the survey show that one in every five 19-year-old student in 2020 was not engaged in any form of learning in both states. Interestingly, students in rural areas had more access to in-person classes than their urban counterparts—26% compared to 18%, respectively. Since the lockdown was lifted, there has been a strong recovery in employment levels for young people, exceeding pre-pandemic rates: the rates now stand at 53%, compared to 42% before the lockdown. However, employment rates of young women—especially those in the 25 to 26 age bracket—stand at 41% compared to 45% before the lockdown. The survey clarifies that this was the third call made to respondents to analyse recovery in the post-lockdown scenario. Results of the second and third calls point to an increasing trend in youngsters entering agriculture. Around 51% were engaged in agricultural activities in call three, compared to 55% in call two and 39% before the pandemic. The report also shows that about 55% of younger respondents and 37% of older respondents are self-employed. Five per cent of households contacted reported they had run out of food in the past 12 months. On a more positive note, levels of anxiety and depression reported fell from 11% in call two to 8% in call three. A rural Backward Caste family that incurs heavy expenses to treat a congenital health condition in their four-year-old son said their already precarious financial condition was further exacerbated with the lockdown. “We have gone through a tough time during the pandemic. We are daily wage labourers. My wife could not go to work due to the lockdown. We had to face problems securing food. We are accustomed to our regular work, but other than that we cannot do anything else. We travel five to six kilometres for work but due to the lockdown, we were not permitted to go out, and could have only one meal a day,” the report quotes a respondent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/online-edu-amid-covid-runs-into-digital-divide/articleshow/81369296.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
March 7, 2021||Surat||Surat: 122 accused in 2001 SIMI meeting case acquitted||SURAT: A Surat court on Saturday acquitted 122 persons accused of participating in a meeting organised by banned outfit Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) in December 2001, for lack of evidence. Initially, there were 127 accused booked under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Five of them died during the course of the trial. Chief judicial magistrate Amit Dave acquitted all the accused who were arrested for being members of SIMI and attending a meeting at Rajeshree Hall in Navsari Bazaar area of Surat on December 27, 2001. The Centre had through its notification dated September 27, 2001 banned SIMI. The accused belonged to different parts of Gujarat as well as from Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The court observed that the prosecution failed to produce satisfactory evidence to establish that the accused persons belonged to the SIMI and had gathered to promote the activities of the banned outfit. “The court also observed that the prosecution also failed to prove that the alleged unlawful literature was recovered from the spot. The court took note of the failure of police in taking approval of the central government before arrest of the accused as per UAPA norms,” said M M Shaikh, a defence lawyer. P4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/122-accused-in-2001-simi-meeting-case-acquitted/articleshow/81369963.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 7, 2021||Patna||‘Women at the core of Covid fight’||PATNA: Prominent women personalities from the state representing different fields have hailed this year’s theme for the International Women’s Day, ‘Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world’. They said women stood at the frontlines in times of Covid as healthcare workers, caregivers, innovators, community organizers and effective national leaders in combating the pandemic. Deputy CM Renu Devi said the pandemic has highlighted women’s decision-making ability. “Indian women possess strength and power. They have always been courageous and brave in all their endeavours. I believe that every woman has the power and potential to achieve excellence,” she told this newspaper. Patna mayor Sita Sahu said this year’s theme highlights the acts of courage and determination of ordinary women. “Women have always had equal participation in all walks of life. It’s high time that people acknowledge their participation,” she said. Jamui MLA and ace shooter Shreyasi Singh said the theme of this year’s women’s day aptly aligns with her belief that women as human beings are more resilient. “In my sports and career, I have seen how the track women have fought their way through. The most important thing is that women today have a voice and they are using it to demand equal opportunities for themselves.” Sheikhpura DM Inayat Khan said, “It’s important that women realize their true potential and have faith in themselves and their capability.” Harjot Kaur Bamhrah, managing director of Women Development Corporation, said, “Women have always performed their roles adequately in every possible way and have been participating actively in any task during the pandemic.” Patna civil surgeon Dr Bibha Kumari Singh said the disproportionate burdens that women carry is also at the forefront in the current situation. “We need to acknowledge and give due credit to women for carrying double burden of their homes and workplace,” she said. Social activist Sudha Varghese, however, said it is very difficult to accept women as leaders as the society has not understood the sense of gender equality yet. Popular women rights campaigner Prashanti Tiwari, however, said celebrating and championing women for just one day in the entire year was unfortunate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-at-the-core-of-covid-fight/articleshow/81369007.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Varanasi||Locals rush to clean Ganga & ghats, remove 16 tonne waste||Varanasi: The launch of mega Ganga cleanliness drive in the name of ‘Ganga Swachchta Abhiyan’ witnessed an overwhelming response from local denizens as over 1,900 volunteers thronged the ghats along river Ganga and removed 16 tonne of waste material from water surface and ghats in one hour on Sunday morning though only 1,600 had registered. The drive has been initiated to make the sanitation drive initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a grand success by sensitising and involving locals, said divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal while participating in the cleanliness drive at Assi Ghat. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “The cleaning of ghats is already being ensured by the Varanasi Municipal Corporation. The basic objective behind launch of this mega drive is to make the people realizing that keeping Ganga and its ghats clean is their responsibility as well.” As per the schedule prepared by divisional forest officer (social forestry division) and coordinator of District Ganga Samiti, Mahavir Kaujalgi, the volunteers had started reaching the areas allotted to them after registration on both the banks of the river in a stretch of 8km at 6.30am. An oath-taking ceremony was also organized for all participants after which the mega drive for cleaning ghats and river water surface near banks continued from 7am to 8am. Videography and photography with the help of drones was done to monitor the work. The officials marked the beginning of the drive from the same Assi Ghat from where the PM had kicked off the countrywide sanitation drive in November 2014. The volunteers started work at all ghats between Ravidas Ghat and Rajghat and on the opposite bank. Health officer Dr NP Singh said 700 sanitary staff of VMC and 600 of rural areas were also engaged under the supervision of 10 sanitary supervisors to assist volunteers. The waste taken out from the river water and removed from ghat steps and platforms was sent to Khidakiya ghat by boats to be further dispatched to the solid waste management plant at Karsada, said Singh adding the volunteers removed over 16 tonne waste in an hour. The DM said that response of people, social and voluntary organization had been overwhelming in the inaugural episode. Many organisations including Namami Gange, Malviya Mission, Brahmdev Vidyalaya, Kashi Foundation and over a dozen organisations assisted in the drive, he said adding that this drive will be organised on any one Sunday of each month while banks of other tributaries like Varuna and Asi rivers will also be included in this cleanliness drive in future. Singh said that different government department, forces and civil defence volunteers will also contributed in this drive, which will also help in improving the city's ranking in annual Swachchta Survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/locals-rush-to-clean-ganga-ghats-remove-16-tonne-waste/articleshow/81380418.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Udaipur||No hotel room in Udaipur sans RT-PCR -ve report||UDAIPUR: With a surge in the number of Covid positive cases in Udaipur, the district administration has tightened norms to prevent any alarming situation. Fresh directions have been issued to the tourism department, airlines companies, hotels and airport authorities to strictly adhere to the pandemic protocols. Besides Maharashtra and Kerala, now travellers from Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and Haryana too, would be required to carry RT-PCR negative reports not older than 72 hours on their arrival in Udaipur. The need to impose restrictions was felt after 29 people, including 24 students of the government blind school, tested positive recently in Ambamata area. Curfew has been imposed around the school and adjoining Chheepa colony. The relief was that of the 105 samples tested in the containmemt area, only 3 tested positive on Saturday. People have been asked to remain inside homes while the officials ensured supply of edible items and essential commodities during the scheduled time. The district-level taskforce meeting was held on Saturday which was attended by representatives of all the major government departments. Collector Chetan Ram Deora asked hotels, tour operators and airline companies to be extra vigilant in dealing with visitors from the six states where cases are surging. Screening-sampling facilities would now be strictly monitored at the airport, railway stations and bus stands. School functions have been deferred till further orders. Snack stalls and eateries would be under scanner and people would be penalised for violation of social distancing and not wearing masks. The collector directed the tourism department to constitute teams which would regularly visit hotels and scrutinise the details of the guests. “We have asked the hoteliers not to take bookings or give rooms to visitors who do not have the RT-PCR negative reports. If anyone from the six restricted states happens to get a room, the hotel would get the corona test done and the visitor would have to stay inside the room until the negative report is attained. If anyone happens to turn out positive during the stay period, the hotel would immediately inform the case to the medical department,” Deora said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/no-hotel-room-in-udaipur-sans-rt-pcr-ve-report/articleshow/81370206.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Patna||Livability survey: Bouquets, brickbats & grey areas for Patna||PATNA: The state capital’s improved ranking in the Ease of Living Index, 2020, released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs this Thursday, has bouquets, brickbats and a few grey areas that need improvement. The Index ranks Patna as the 33rd most liveable Indian city among 49 others that have a population of 10 lakh and above. The city's civic body, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), secured the sixteenth rank in the Municipal Performance Index (MPI) based on its planning, governance, services, technology and finance. Mayor Sita Sahu attributed the PMC's improved ranking to a combined team effort. “I am happy that the PMC was placed higher in the ranking this time. It’ll encourage people to perform better in future,” she said. Education, healthcare, housing, electricity, and drinking water supply were among the parameters used to assess the city's quality of life. Under the Citizen Perception Survey (CPS), which contributed 30% to the overall score, electricity supply figured among the top five rated parameters. “The electricity supply system of Patna has proved significantly over the past few years. Even during the peak summer days, we hardly experience any power outage,” said Pankaj Mishra, a resident of Kankarbagh. Under the CPS undertaken between January 16 and March 20, 2020, Patna scored 77.5 out of 100 points. Despite not being in the top average score of the first three pillars, Patna residents were satisfied. Sunita Gupta, a high school teacher, believes that the city's education sector has improved. “The standard of education in Patna has always been high, and now, the government is steadily trying to restore our educational facilities to their previous glory,” she said. Patna ranked 14th in the economic ability criterion that evaluates economic development and economic opportunities that the city has to offer. Priyranjan Pathak, an IT professional said, “I have rented a flat in the East Boring Road area as I am originally from Ranchi but work here. According to the location and space of the apartment, the rent is fairly reasonable. The rent and accessibility of housing in the city is quite affordable.” However, a disappointing 44th position on the sustainability index, which includes environment, green building, energy consumption and city resilience remains a parameter requiring the attention of the authorities. Utkarsh Kumar, a UPSC aspirant, rued the lack of employment and job opportunities in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/livability-survey-bouquets-brickbats-grey-areas-for-patna/articleshow/81370169.cms||---
March 7, 2021||---||Three Bihar parties to try luck in Assam polls||PATNA: Altogether three Bihar-centric regional parties have decided to try their luck in the assembly polls in Assam. While CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) and former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP have decided to go solo, Bihar’s main opposition RJD has decided to contest in alliance with the Congress-AIUDF-led Grand Alliance in Assam. Sources in JD(U) said the party has made up its mind to contest at least 32 assembly seats out of a total of 126 in Assam on its own. JD(U)’s Assam in-charge and MLC Gulam Rasool Baliyawi, and Bihar’s rural development minister Shrawan Kumar reached Guwahati on Friday to take a final call on the number of seats the party would contest. Sources said Balyawi and Shrawan would hold a series of meetings with local JD(U) leaders and workers at different places in Assam on March 6 to take stock of the situation. Both leaders are expected to hold a press conference in Guwahati on March 7 to announce the party’s plans.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); JD(U) Assam unit convener, Samsul Alam, is likely to file nomination papers from the Rupohihat constituency, which is going to the polls in the first phase. March 9 is the last date of filing nomination for the first phase. JD(U) is yet to release the name of 32 seats it wants to contest. “The number of constituencies and the name of candidates will be decided by our national leaders,” Alam told TOI over the phone. A few days ago, RJD submitted a list of 16 seats to the Congress-AIUDF led alliance and expressed its desire to contest mainly from constituencies, which have a large presence of Hindi and Bhojpuri speaking people from Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); “Though Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF has given us a green signal to contest from 12 seats, out of the 16, the Congress is yet to convey its message. We are waiting for Congress response. If Congress gives us a respectable number as part of seat-sharing among the allies, RJD will contest as a partner of the grand alliance. Otherwise, we will go solo and our number of seats may go above 20,” RJD’s Assam state president Shonarul Shah Mustafa told TOI over the phone on Friday. Mustafa said AIUDF has allowed RJD to contest altogether 12 seats namely Tezpur, Barchalla, Biswanath, Tinsukia, Doomdooma and Dibrugarh seats in the first phase, Katigorah, Ratabari and Sipajhar in the second phase, while Bilasipara East, Chenga and Gauhati West in the third and the last phase. Of these 12 seats, 10 were won by BJP and its allies in the 2016 assembly polls, while two seats—Doomdooma and Chenga- by Congress. “Congress may not allow RJD to put up candidates from Doomdooma, Chenga and a few more seats. In such a situation, the RJD is ready to leave a few seats for Congress,” Mustafa said. RLSP has so far decided to contest altogether 72 seats in all three phases. The party’s Assam state president Hazrat Ali on Friday released a list of 13 seats for the first phase where RLSP would put up its candidate. “RLSP’s candidates for the first phase seats will file their nomination papers on March 9,” Ali told TOI over the phone on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/assam/3-bihar-parties-to-try-luck-in-assam-polls/articleshow/81370164.cms||Madan Kumar
March 7, 2021||Kanpur||Bodies of two missing farmers found in Kanpur Dehat||KANPUR: Panic prevailed after two farmers were found dead by the roadside under mysterious circumstances near Bairi-Rania road under the limits of Shivli Kotwali police area of Kanpur Dehat district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Ram Shankar, 50, and Desh Raj Pal, 48, residents of Kuriyanpurwa and Madrapurwa under the limits of Shivli Kotwali police area respectively. A pickup loader was also found lying inside a ditch in an abandoned state close to the spot from where the dead bodies of farmers were recovered. Their family members said that they had gone to guard crops in their farms on late Friday night. It was when they did not return from fields on Saturday morning, they launched a frantic search and found their bodies lying at the Bairi-Rania road. They also discovered a pickup-loader lying in a ditch nearby. They immediately alerted the Police Control room. Police said, “preliminary findings indicated that it may be the incident of a roadside accident”. “A team of experts from FSL (Forensic Science Laboratory) inspected the spot and we are waiting for a post-mortem examination report. On the basis of registration number of pickup, we are trying to locate the whereabouts of its owner to ascertain the connection of loader with two dead bodies,” said Inspector Shivli Kotwali Pramod Kumar Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bodies-of-two-missing-farmers-found-in-kanpur-dehat/articleshow/81369352.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Patna||39 pairs of special trains cancelled this month||PATNA: Railways has cancelled altogether 39 pairs of special passenger trains either originating or passing through East Central Railway (ECR) till March 25. While 30 trains have been diverted to different routes, four of them are short-terminated. Railways has taken this decision due to non-interlocking (NI) work being carried out at Muzaffarpur station and track doubling work between Nandganj and Gazipur station under Varanasi division of the North Eastern Railway. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways has cancelled Raxaul-Patliputra special (03215/03216) till March 19 and Patliputra-Narkatiaganj special (05201/05202) from March 9 to 19. Patna-Darbhanga special (03357/03358) is cancelled from March 9 to 19 due to NI work at Muzaffarpur Junction. Similarly, Kolkata-Muzaffarpur special (03157/03158) will not run from March 9 to 17 while Howrah-Muzaffarpur special (05271/05272) will be cancelled from March 9 to 16. Likewise, Sitamarhi-Anand Vihar special (04005/04006) will be cancelled from March 11 to 19 while Raxaul-Anand Vihar special (04017/04018) will not run between March 10 and 18. Raxaul-Lokmanya Tilak Mumbai special (05547/05548, 05267/05268) will not run from March 10 to 17 from Lokmanya Tilak Mumbai end. Besides, Muzaffarpur-Ahmedabad special (05269/05270) will remain cancelled from March 11 to 20 and Raxaul–Anand Vihar special (04007/04008, 04015/04016) from March 10 to 19. Valsad-Muzaffarpur special (09051/09052), Saharsa-Aand Vihar special (05529/05530) and Amritsar-Jayanagar special (04673/04674. 04649/04650) are cancelled till March 19. Railways has also cancelled Anand Vihar-Raxaul special trains (04016, 04008, 04018) on March 12, 14 , 16, 17 and 18 while short-terminated Kolkata-Gazipur special (03121/03122) at Balia and Gazipur-Kolkata special (03125/03126 ) at Varanasi during this period, he said. Also, at least 30 special passenger trains have been diverted on different routes. For instance, Gwalior-Barauni special (04185/04186) has been diverted to Hajipur-Sahpur Patori-Barauni route while Barauni-Bandra special (09038) is diverted to Sahpur Patori-Hajipur-Chhapra-Siwan-Gorakhpur route. Muzaffarpur-Anand Vihar special (02557/02558) and Bhagalpur-Gandhidham special (09452) are diverted to Sahpur Patori-Hajipur–Siwan–Chhapra-Gorakhpur route. Also, Raxaul-Howrah special (03021/03022) is short-terminated at Barauni and Bhagalpur–Muzaffarpur special (03419/03420) at Samastipur during this period. Besides, Gorakhpur-Hatia special (05028) is to be controlled by 15 minutes between Chhapra and Muzaffarpur and Kamakhya-Udaipur special (09710) by 210 minutes between Katihar and Muzaffarpur. Besides, Jayanagar-Lokmanya Tilak Mumbai special (01061) route hs been diverted via Aunrihar-Bhatni-Chhapra till March 24 and Anand Vihar–Raxaul special (04016/04018) to Aunrihar-Mau-Fefana–Chhapra route. Similarly, Delhi-Jayanagar special (02562) has been diverted via Aunrihar-Bhatni-Chhapra and Ambedkar Nagar-Kamakhaya special (09305) to Aunrihar-Bhatni-Chhapra route on March 18 only. Likewise, New Delhi-Dibrugarh Rajdhani special (02503/02504 ) is diverted via Aunrihar-Mau-Fefana from March 22 to 24 while Dibrugarh–New Delhi Rajdhani special (02505) will run via Fefana-Mau-Aunrihar route on March 22, the CPRO said, adding Lokmanaya Tilak-Raxaul special (05268) is also diverted via Aunrihar–Bhatni–Chhapra route on March 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/39-pairs-of-spl-trains-cancelled-this-month/articleshow/81370139.cms||Kumod Verma
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to set up checkposts at entry points as Covid cases rise||JAIPUR: Following a spike in Covid cases, the state government has decided to set up checkposts at the entry points of each district.  On Saturday, the state reported 233 new infections taking the overall tally to 3,21,356. With no fresh fatalities, the state’s toll stood at 2,789. Also, airports and North Western Railway have been asked to strictly follow the state government’s order to make Covid negative report compulsory for passengers travelling from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab. Similar orders for passengers travelling from Maharasthra and Kerala has come into effect recently. The order was issued by Abhay Kumar, principal secretary (home). For the past three days, cases have been on the rise. On March 4, March 5 and March 6, the state reported 156, 195 and 233 cases. While cases are increasing, the health department is continuously monitoring the situation and conducting surveillance to find out if there was any change in the strain of the virus. Dungarpur has witnessed spike in cases in past week. In Sarwara area, more than 100 persons have tested positive in seven days. “On Saturday, 29 persons were found infected from the same Sagwara area, which is currently a zero-mobility zone. A team of 18 healthcare workers including four doctors for a population of 3,000 are taking samples for tests,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, chief medical health officer (Dungarpur). Banswara, which is the bordering district with MP and Gujarat, has strengthened surveillance. The health department has also issued directions to increase tests for strengthening surveillance. “The Centre is emphasizing to remain alert despite cases having reduced. In a fresh order on Friday, we have directed chief medical health officers of the state to increase the number of RT-PCR tests,” said a health department official. 14 school kids infectedFourteen girls of a residential school at Atoon in Bhilwara district have been found infected with Covid in the last two days. This comes after the health department tested 360 students after one girl was found infected on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-set-up-checkposts-at-entry-points-as-cases-rise/articleshow/81370209.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||‘Test, track and treat’, Centre tells Goa, 7 others as Covid cases rise||NEW DELHI: The Centre has urged states and UTs witnessing a steep rise in daily new Covid-19 cases to go back to the fundamentals of 'test, track and treat' that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic. Besides, states have also been advised to expand vaccination for priority population groups on a mission mode in districts reporting higher infections. States like Goa, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and UTs of Delhi and Chandigarh have in the recent past seen increased positivity rate and increased number of daily positive cases. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday reviewed the ongoing public health measures of surveillance, containment and management of Covid-19 cases in these states in wake of the sharp rise in daily new cases of Covid-19 and the high number of active caseload being reported from these eight states/UTs. The Centre pointed out that nine districts in Delhi, 15 in Haryana, 10 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Odisha, nine in Himachal Pradesh, seven in Uttarakhand, two in Goa and one in Chandigarh continue to be of concern as these districts are seeing a decrease in total tests being conducted, low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in weekly positivity rate and low number of contact-tracing of Covid-19 positive cases. These states together can pose high risk of transmission to the neighbouring states and UTs, the Union health ministry said during the review meeting providing a granular analysis of the Covid-19 response in the districts to the states and UTs for further action. States have been asked to collaborate with private hospitals to open up vaccination time-table for a minimum of 15 days and maximum of 28 days at a time. They have been asked to increase the share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing, refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing cluster of cases and carry out an average close contact-tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case. The Centre also asked the states to ramp up their health infrastructure to provide effective clinical management to all patients as a surge in cases also affects the case fatality rate in those districts. “Accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Make optimal use of the available vaccine doses and focus on critical districts,” the health ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/test-track-and-treat-centre-tells-goa-7-others-as-covid-cases-rise/articleshow/81371252.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Patna||Bihar ranks 8th in digitization of land records||PATNA: Bihar has shown a remarkable jump from 23rd to 8th rank in the country in digitization of land records and its quality, according to the annual index report released by a Delhi-based think tank NCAER on Thursday. The annual land records and services index for 2020-21 prepared by the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) revealed that the state’s endeavour towards modernizing land records and offering citizen centric services led to a total score of 64.8 in 2020-21 as against 28.8 in 2019-20, an increase of 125%. In contrast, the mean NLRSI score across 32 states/UTs has increased by 16.6% in 2020-21 from 38.7% in 2019-20 to 45.1% (out of the maximum score of 100 points). With the surge in its performance, Bihar has joined the coveted list of top 10 to 8th position compared to 23rd rank in 2019-20. However, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha were adjudged the best performing states in land digitization. Nearly all states and union territories — 29 out of 32 — showed a gradual improvement in their efforts to digitize land records compared to the previous year. The data was primarily collected on two aspects — the extent and quality of digitization of land records. Madhya Pradesh retained the top spot for the second year in a row followed by West Bengal, Odisha, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. While MP and Tamil Nadu maintained their respective positions, West Bengal moved up from sixth to second position. Odisha and Maharashtra, which were second and third in 2019-20, respectively, dropped one rank each. Apparently delighted over the state’s performance, revenue and land reforms department minister Ram Surat Kumar said the biggest improvement in Bihar was in digitization of maps, followed by digitization of textual records and registration. Referring to the latest index data, the minister said the state recorded a 76% increase in the quality of land records. “The state has launched citizen centric land record services on the back of the digitization underway in the state,” he added. He revealed that the citizens can now view, download and apply for online mutations, lagan (revenue) payment, correction and submission of grievances. The state has already digitized 3.78 crore ‘jamabandis’ (textual records) and 7,3086 cadastral maps (spatial records). In addition, the registration process has been linked to the records and online payment can be done, he revealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-ranks-8th-in-digitization-of-land-records/articleshow/81369026.cms||Ramashankar
March 7, 2021||Patna||Covid fails to hit Bihar’s credit-deposit ratio||PATNA: Even though the coronavirus pandemic severely disrupted economic activities last year, the credit-deposit (CD) ratio of the state at 44.54% till December last year did not appear to have taken any big hit. Rather, on a comparative scale, it was more than the 42.98% CD ratio reported in December 2019. Incidentally, the CD ratio of the state during the second quarter (July to September) of the current fiscal was 43.11, implying that it increased by 1.43% in the third quarter (September to December). Also, the CD ratio in the first quarter of the current financial year was 43.41%, followed by 43.11 in the second quarter and 44.54% in the third quarter. This transpired at the state level bankers’ committee (SLBC) meeting held on Saturday. According to the agenda papers for the SLBC meeting, the total deposits in various banks operating in the state fell during the current fiscal till December, but the investment by the bankers increased during the same period. While the bank deposits fell by Rs 3,049 crore, the credit extended by the bankers increased by Rs 3,901 crore over the last fiscal. The SLBC agenda paper also said three districts had less than 30% CD ratio in the current fiscal till December. These districts are Munger (26.90%), Saran (29.47%), and Bhojpur (29.47%). Overall, 17 districts had CD ratio less than 40% during the same period. According to the SLBC agenda papers, performance of the two banks in the loaning activities was less than 20% of the target, while that of 10 other banks was less than 40%. It was also revealed at the meeting that the total credit disbursement under the annual credit plan (ACP) for the current fiscal was 54.16% of the target till December 2020. Interestingly, the disbursement under the ACP was 54.48% of the target till December 2019. The gap is being seen as not so wide. During the current fiscal, the credit disbursement performance of 20 banks was 54.16% of the target. Implicitly, the bankers will have to pull their strings to maximise the credit disbursement activities during the fourth quarter (January to March 31) to gain some respectability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-fails-to-hit-bihars-credit-deposit-ratio/articleshow/81370165.cms||Abhay Singh
March 7, 2021||Patna||At 38.4%, female sterilisation is most-used contraceptive method||PATNA: Men are averse to using contraceptives in Bihar and believe that adopting family planning methods is a woman’s responsibility, especially, when it comes to sterilisation. According to the National Family Health Survey-5 data for Bihar, female sterilisation was the most-used contraception option accounting for 38.4% of all family planning methods, and male sterilisation was a negligible 0.1%. Social workers, doctors and women activists point at the patriarchal mindset and lack of awareness as reasons for men pushing their partners to use contraception, with female sterilisation topping the list. Apart from this, only 0.8% of couples opted for the intrauterine device (IUD) or postpartum IUD, 2% opted for pills, 4% opted for condoms and 1.1% for injectables. As per NFHS-4 (2015-16), male sterilisation was nil, and female sterilisation was 20.7%, which shows that female sterilisation has nearly doubled, but male sterilisation has shown a marginal increase of 0.1%. Renowned gynaecologist Dr Usha Didwania said not just sterilisation, even in other methods such as taking pills or going for IUD it is the woman who has to get it done. She added, in many cases, doctors do suggest men go for sterilisation and even counsel them, but still, men avoid it and send their wives. “There are cases when a woman is too weak and has already gone three caesareans. In such a case, we ask men to come forward for sterilisation, but they rarely come forward,” said Dr Didwania. The use of family planning methods has doubled, but the quality of services provided has dipped from NFHS-4 (2015-16) to NFHS-5 (2019-20). In 2019-20 data, only 46.4% of users in Patna were told about the side effects of family planning, and only 18.6% of non-users were informed about family planning by a health worker. Quality of care is measured as whether users were told about the side-effects of the current method of family planning and whether healthcare workers ever talked to female non-users about family planning. UNICEF (Bihar), communication specialist Nipurnh Gupta stressed the need for awareness and cited the patriarchal mindset as the main reason for men not opting for sterilisation. Gender Alliance president Prashanti Tiwari, who works in the field of sexual health in slum areas, said when to have children and how many are decided by men but when it comes to family planning methods, men think it is a woman’s responsibility. As per the data of NFHS-5, in many other fields, women lag behind men in Bihar. For instance, the literacy rate for women in the age group of 15 to 49 years was 57.8% for women in the same age group it was78.5% for men. On the other hand, while 63.5% of women were anaemic, the percentage for anaemic men was less than half of the women and was 29.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/at-38-4-female-sterilisation-is-most-used-contraceptive-method/articleshow/81368987.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Strategise to counter BJP, Owaisi advises CM Jagan||Tirupati: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen leader and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday cautioned chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy against Hindutva forces allegedly attempting to destabilise him by creating communal discord in the state. He suggested Jagan draw up effective strategies to tackle the BJP, which he said has been aggressively promoting its Hindutva agenda in Andhra Pradesh in the last few months. Owaisi addressed a public meeting in Adoni in Kurnool where MIM has fielded its candidates for the ensuing municipal elections. He also campaigned for MIM candidates at Hindupur in Anantapur district. Both Adoni and Hindupur have a substantial population of voters from the minority communities and Dalits. Referring to the recent temple desecration incidents in different places in Andhra Pradesh, Owaisi said Hindutva forces were behind the attacks. “The BJP has been silently but aggressively promoting its Hindutva agenda in Andhra Pradesh, which the Jagan government should be wary of,” Owaisi said. The Hyderabad MP further said while the BJP has been trying its best to restrict former chief minister and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu to his home, Jagan should draw up strategies to effectively counter the BJP. “Else, there will be tougher days ahead for the chief minister,” he cautioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/strategise-to-counter-bjp-owaisi-advises-cm-jagan/articleshow/81369338.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 7, 2021||Patna||Manjhi to visit Kolkata tomorrow to finalise seats||PATNA: HAM(S) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi will visit Kolkata on March 8 to explore the possibilities of alliance with like-minded parties and finalise the number of seats his party will contest in the West Bengal assembly elections. HAM(S) spokesperson Amrendra Tripathi said Manjhi will return to Patna on March 10. The two-day visit of Manjhi assumes significance in the wake of his earlier announcement to contest 26 seats in the 295-member West Bengal assembly elections beginning on March 27. Manjhi had addressed his party workers in West Bengal on February 17 and 18. West Bengal HAM(S) president Krishna Singh said Manjhi’s visit will boost the morale of the party workers. “Preparations for the election are in full swing. However, the announcement on the seats will be made by the central leadership,” he added. Kolkata, Howrah, Durgapur, Burdwan besides the areas close to Bihar border have a sizeable population of Dalits and Bihari workers. HAM(S) is trying its luck in the West Bengal assembly polls for the first time. Earlier, the party’s state president, B L Basantri, had said talks were underway to reach an agreement with NDA constituents. However, the deal is yet to be finalized. Apart from HAM(S), JD(U) and LJP are also set to contest the West Bengal elections. The small parties in Bihar don’t have much political clout in West Bengal, but they want to contest some seats close to Bihar border having sizeable presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-to-visit-kolkata-tomorrow-to-finalise-seats/articleshow/81370146.cms||Ramashankar
March 7, 2021||Patna||Slain IndiGo manager’s wife demands CBI probe||PATNA: Slain IndiGo station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh’s wife Neetu Singh on Saturday sent an email to CM Nitish Kumar urging for a CBI inquiry into his murder. The probe should be monitored by the high court, she demanded. “Rupesh’s wife has sent the email to CM secretariat on Saturday,” his elder brother Nandeshwar Singh told TOI in the evening. Rupesh, 42, was shot dead in front of his apartment at Shankar Path in Punaichak under Shastri Nagar police station area in the state capital on January 12. Patna police on February 3 paraded one Rituraj, claiming that he had shot Rupesh to take revenge for a road rage incident in which he was thrashed by the slain airline manager in November last year. The family had been demanding a CBI inquiry into the case soon after police cited the road rage motive behind the murder. Rupesh’s another brother Dinesh Singh said the family is not satisfied with the police claim of petty road rage and that, too, two months back, as the motive behind his murder. “Police may be shielding some big names who conspired in the killing of Rupesh. Road rage story is just to misguide us. This is the reason we want a CBI inquiry into the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/slain-indigo-managers-wife-demands-cbi-probe/articleshow/81370114.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 7, 2021||Patna||Gaya college goes hi-tech||GAYA: Magadh University vice-chancellor (VC) Rajendra Prasad on Saturday inaugurated complete cashless arrangements at Mirza Ghalib College, the only deficit grant postgraduate minority constituent college functioning under MU. Now, students will pay the fee for admission, registration and examination through online mode only. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, MU was well ahead of other universities in the state as far as availability of e-content is concerned. It was of great help to the students,” the VC said at the event. Praising the cashless arrangements made by Mirza Ghalib College, the VC said, “It would help check corruption and ensure transparency in money transaction. However, there is a need to remain cautious from cybercrime threat.” College governing body secretary Shabi Afreen Shamsi said, “It is the only minority institution in Bihar having 12 postgraduate departments. The college will soon have a digital library. New course in fine arts would also be launched.” MLC Sanjeev Shyam Singh was guest of honour at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-college-goes-hi-tech/articleshow/81369130.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Over 300 research demos exhibited at R&D showcase of IIITH||Hyderabad: Over 300 research demos were exhibited at the annual R&D showcase of the International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT Hyderabad), which was held in virtual mode on Saturday. Currently in its 20th edition, the event attracts more than 3,000 visitors every year from research, academia and industry. This year’s virtual research expo has featured IIIT-H’s 22 research centres, including Kohli Centre of Intelligent Systems (KCIS), the recently launched Smart City Research Centre, and Applied Artificial Intelligence (AI) Research Centre (INAI), among others. The inaugural keynote was delivered by Ashok Jhunjhunwala, institute professor, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, on ‘towards 100% renewable energy’. Some of the research demos featured at R&D Showcase 2021 Title: KiteCam Authors: Abhinav Navnit, Aftab M. Hussain Description: A low-cost and low-energy consuming alternative to current aerial surveillance systems, it was developed by researchers at the Center for VLSI and Embedded Systems Technology, IIIT Hyderabad. While the present surveillance architecture relies heavily on unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), which are said to be energy taxing as well as limited in flight duration and prone to security issues, the KiteCam setup consists of a kite, a small camera module, lightweight lithium polymer batteries and a power management module. The total setup weighs around 42 grams and can be fixed on any common quality kite. The module is placed on the kite at an optimum position to ensure maximum stability for the camera. The test flight, which weighed 42.13 grams travelling at a wind speed of 5 kmph, has taken 4,365 photos in 35 minutes duration. The total energy consumed is 2.7 kilojoules. It can be used for disaster relief planning, wildlife monitoring, border monitoring, etc. Title: LiDAR guided Small Obstacle Segmentation Authors: Aasheesh Singh, Aditya Kamireddypalli, Aryan Sakaria, Vineet Gandhi, K Madhava Krishna Description: Researchers from the Robotics Research Centre of IIIT Hyderabad developed a method to detect small obstacles on the road, which is critical for autonomous driving. They came up with an idea to distinguish between drivable and non-drivable space occupied by small obstacles. While the nature of small obstacles classification is such that deep neural networks face difficulty in leaning an effective class boundary due to its diminished visual signal when placed on the road, the researchers used LiDAR guided Small Obstacle Segmentation and tried to overcome this problem as it gives depth estimates accurately up to a distance of 100 meters. Title: eSkinDoctor Developed by: A deep-tech startup named eSkinDoctor Description: By uploading a picture of the affected area, the system diagnoses the skin problem within minutes by using an Artificial Intelligence engine. The users have to upload a photograph of the infected area and answer few questions to get the pre-diagnosis. Skin problems such as acne, pimples, skin allergies, fungal, bacterial & viral infections, herpes, among others can be diagnosed by using the startup’s website. Title: Centaur — a wearable robotic device Developed by: A startup named Astreak Description: Astreak developed Centaur to help people with lower-limb immobility walk again. The team developed a unique gait training device, which will be a transitionary tool between a wheelchair and full-fledged gait training. It combines the precision of robotics and the ease of data for everyday gait training. Centaur can work completely without power and can be operated with the most basic technical expertise. It provides the patient with a safe and comfortable structure to perform various gait training exercises. Moreover, the data collected from the device can be instantly viewed by physicians and adjustments could be made instantly and effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-300-research-demos-exhibited-at-rd-showcase-of-iiith/articleshow/81370222.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 21 lakh vaccinated since January 16, crisis of doses in few districts||JAIPUR: The health department has achieved the milestone of crossing 20 lakh Covid inoculations since January 16, and half of them were achieved in the last six days. After some sites in Bundi, Karauli and Nagaur districts announced shortage of doses, the health department brought the situation under control by supplying excessive doses from Udaipur to continue the process. On Saturday, 2,17,336 first doses and 22,989 second doses were given to beneficiaries, taking total vaccinations to 21,31,443 since the launch of the drive from January 16. “We have crossed 21 lakh vaccinations if we add both the doses. On the third day this week, we did more than 2 lakh vaccinations and in the last six days, more than 10 lakh inoculations were done,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). Health minister Raghu Sharma said the state has demanded more supplies from the Centre and Niti Aayog, as Rajasthan is a leading state in vaccination and requires a regular supply of doses to keep the drive rolling. The state has more than 5 lakh doses of vaccine available, but they are scattered at hundreds of sites. The health department is monitoring the availability of vaccines at each site to ensure that the drive should not be affected. “If we maintain the vaccination pace, the stock will end by Tuesday as Sunday is an off day,” said Mahajan. Besides, some districts have started reporting shortage of vaccines, but the health department is taking measures to deal with the situation by doing inter-district transfer of doses. After the matter of doses was taken up with the Centre, it has informed the state they will supply Covaxin doses on Monday. Besides, more than 6 lakh doses of Covishield are expected to arrive on March 9 and March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/21l-vaccinated-since-jan-16-crisis-of-doses-in-few-dists/articleshow/81370221.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Bakre likely to be next Lokayukta||PANAJI: State government has shortlisted the name of retired justice of high court of Bombay at Goa, U V Bakre who is presently the chairman of the Goa Human Rights Commission (GHRC) to be appointed as the new Lokayukta for Goa. A senior officer said that Bakre’s name has been sent to the leader of opposition Digambar Kamat for his consent. After his consent, the government will write to the chief justice of Bombay high court.  The term of the previous Lokayukta PK Misra ended on September 17, 2020. Misra held the position of chairman of rights commission before being appointed as the Lokayukta. There are at least 75 cases pending before the Goa Lokayukta. In January, the high court extended the time frame by two months for the state government to appoint the new Lokayukta. The state government had approached the high court seeking an extension after being unable to find retired Supreme Court judges or retired high court chief justices willing to move to Goa to take up the post. The high court had directed the state to appoint a new anti-corruption ombudsman by December 2020. A Panaji-based lawyer Aires Rodrigues had approached the high court seeking a direction to the government to appoint the Lokayukta. After the government failed to get consent to appoint a Supreme Court judge or a retired chief justice of the high court, the state amended the act so that a retired high court judge could be appointed as the Lokayukta. Stung by several indictments by the Lokayukta in cases involving corruption by public functionaries, the government amended the act to severely dilute the powers of the institution. The amendments have omitted provisions enabling complaints against public functionaries on allegations of nepotism, lack of integrity, mal-administration and improper or corrupt motive. As per the notification, Upa-Lokayukta could be any person of eminence in the public life. The Upa-Lokayukta must be one of “impeccable integrity and outstanding ability having special knowledge and expertise of not less than twenty years in matters relating to anti-corruption policy or public administration, finance, including insurance and banking or law management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bakre-likely-to-be-next-lokayukta/articleshow/81371026.cms||Murari Shetye
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||Urgent core committee meeting of BJP sets political temperatures soaring in U’khand||Dehradun/Gairsain: In a move that sent political temperatures soaring in Uttarakhand on Saturday, an urgent meeting of the BJP core committee was convened in Dehradun for which party MLAs who were in the midst of the budget session at Gairsain were called back to the state capital, many of them on choppers, triggering rumours of “major changes” in the government and a possible replacement of the CM ahead of the next year assembly polls. The core committee meeting which went on for over two hours was presided by BJP national vice-president and former Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh – who was deputed as observer by the party - and the BJP’s state in-charge for Uttarakhand, Dushyant Kumar Gautam. Though BJP’s state president Bansidhar Bhagat, in a precise statement to media, said that the core committee meeting was pre-scheduled and it was aimed to discuss the preparations of 4th anniversary of Trivendra Rawat government in Uttarakhand, many party workers questioned about the timing for such discussion, amid budget session, as well as the way it was conducted. Commenting on speculations of expansion of cabinet, Bhagat said that no such discussions happened in the meeting. When was questioned about change of CM, Bhagat responded that its all in the media and not in party. “CM badalne ki charcha core committee meeting me nahi hui. Bus media me hi hoti rahi,” he added. BJP senior leader who was present in the core committee meeting told TOI that chief minister left the meeting in 22 minutes and party’s vice president and observer for the core committee meeting Raman Singh had one-to-one discussions with MPs and many MLAs. While CM started the committee meeting after Bhagat, Raman Singh called him for discussion separately. He left after that and then many others had brief chat with Singh in closed door,” added the senior party leader. While the party MLAs were still trying to know what called for a sudden core committee meeting from which CM left in just 20 minutes, they all were again called to CM office where the chief minister brief them about 4thanniversary celebrations which has to be celebrated on the lines of ‘batein kam kaam zyada’. (talk less work more) Meanwhile, HRD minister Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank also met Raman Singh separately where topics like working of government in Uttarakhand were discussed. Nishank’s program to Doon was also sudden for the local intelligence unit as they received the one early in the morning only. Earlier, after a Business Advisory Committee meeting, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik had tabled a proposal to run the session on Saturday and Sunday, and the proposal was passed in the House. However, the sudden political developments saw an abrupt end to the budget session on Saturday afternoon and several BJP lawmakers were rushed to the state capital, with some of them being brought in helicopters. BJP insiders pointed out that the meeting was called at the last minute. The presence of Raman Singh as an observer in the meeting set tongues wagging in the political corridors of Uttarakhand. A BJP source told TOI, “The issue of CM is settled for the time being. The leadership issue was discussed but there is no threat or talk of change of guard for the time being. There were some members who were not pleased with the developments and had some issues. They informed party seniors about their concerns. BJP is open to all kinds of suggestions and this healthy practice is a part of our functioning. Majority of the party MLAs are in support of CM Rawat and there is nothing more to the issue. Raman Singh and Dushyant Kumar took the feedback from the legislators and met the MPs.” Besides, former CM Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank separately met Raman Singh to discuss political issues and party’s four-year completion in power in Uttarakhand on March 18. At present, three cabinet berths are lying vacant and possibilities are high that they would be filled on coming March 18. Quick to react on the issue, former CM Harish Rawat tweeted that there were discussions of a political instability in Uttarakhand and “some people are ready in Delhi and Mumbai.” He further wrote that it appears that regular change of guard has become a political destiny for Uttarakhand. To hide its failure, change of face is the only answer with the BJP and people will never forgive the BJP for the political instability in Uttarakhand, Harish further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/urgent-core-committee-meeting-of-bjp-sets-political-temperatures-soaring-in-ukhand/articleshow/81369756.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||TMC, BJP clash on Amherst St||Kolkata: For the second time in 10 days, a major clash broke out in the Amherst Street area, with Trinamool alleging they were attacked by BJP workers in an attempt to take over the local party office. At least one person was injured in the fight that took place around 7 pm on Friday, hours after Trinamool announced its candidates for the upcoming assembly elections. The clash took place on Balai Singha Lane, a few hundreds metres from City College. The BJP refuted claims of being involved in the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-bjp-clash-on-amherst-st/articleshow/81369754.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Locals complain of foul smell in Kalyan||Kalyan: The Kalyan residents on Friday night complained of a foul smell of gas or chemical in their localities, that left many with breathing proble`1ms. This is the first time in 30 years, claimed locals, that the smell had spread over a large area in Kalyan, apart from the neighbouring Dombivli MIDC region. —Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-locals-complain-of-foul-smell-in-kalyan/articleshow/81370240.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Escape attempts by inmates at Colvale jail exposes security lapses||PANAJI: The escape bid by two inmates at the Colvale Central Jail on Friday evening is the latest addition to the run of such attempts witnessed at the prison. The jail, that houses 400-plus inmates at any given time, saw four such attempts last year. On Friday, two accused, one of rape and the other of murder, were untraceble after they were let out of their cells for a routine evening stroll. They were later found sleeping on the jail’s rooftop, probably waiting for an opportune time to escape, once again exposing lacunae in the prison’s security system. Jail authorities have said that security has been enhanced after last year’s escape attempts. But there is a need to post security guards at every entry/exit point within the jail premises, said an official. He added that security guards who are on duty when prisoners tried to escape should be terminated if found guilty for dereliction of duty, rather than placing them under suspension. “Mere suspension doesn’t work as a deterrent," he said. "Some security personnel posted in the jail premises run side businesses such as being motorcycle pilots, selling vegetables or some other kind of job,” said a senior officer acquainted with the jail functioning. That is the reason, he said, a few months ago, they had requested the government to appoint or designate inquiry officers to conduct an inquiry when a guard is suspected to have helped any prisoner in escaping. “The government is yet to grant our request. Unless a guilty jail guard or other security personnel is terminated, they will not feel the heat," he said. "They don’t care when they are suspended. In fact, suspension suits them. They get paid for a suspended period, plus they are free to do their personal work during that period.” Most of the time, the official said, it is seen that prisoners make daring escape plans thanks to insider help. Unless that is taken care of, the problem will not be resolved, he said. Every time a prisoner has escaped or there has been an attempt, the security arrangements at the jail have been reviewed, he said. There is a three-tier system in place, and even if more guards are posted, it will not help unless they work sincerely, he said. The guards, he said, are given a break after every two hours of duty. The relief of two hours is granted so that they remain alert and vigilant. “Yet, you will find them sitting on chairs lazily or standing idly,” he said. If jail inmates have access to cellphones, most of the time, the culprits are jail guards, he said. Initially, they smuggled phones inside in shoes. “One guard cut his shoes intricately from inside, and hid the mobile, but he was caught,” he said. Some attempted to take mobiles inside by placing them in their underwear. “Normally, undergarments are not checked. When we suspected that some smart guards are using this method, we started asking them to do push-ups, and the mobiles would tumble out,” he said. A few months ago, surprise checks were conducted in the cells, in which earphones and chargers were found, indicating the use of cellphones by inmates. Things will improve once the central tower has CCTV cameras covering the entire premises from all sides and all entry points have metal detectors installed, he added. “We are expecting metal detectors and CCTV cameras installed shortly,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/escape-attempts-by-inmates-at-colvale-jail-exposes-security-lapses/articleshow/81370631.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Rs 2cr gold bars seized||Kolkata: The Customs on Saturday intercepted 10 people at Birati station and seized 40 gold bars weighing 4.6 kg valued at Rs 2.15 crore. The accused persons, residents of Bongaon, had reportedly sneaked the gold into the country through the India-Bangladesh border. Customs officials also seized 90 khukuris at Dinhata. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-2cr-gold-bars-seized/articleshow/81369772.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Mahadik accuses Satej of tax evasion||Kolhapur: BJP functionary Dhananjay Mahadik on Saturday accused district guardian minister Satej Patil of using his clout within the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) to evade taxes on the properties he jointly owns with his family members. The allegations have been refuted by the Patil camp led by mayor Nilofer Ajrekar and senior corporator Sharangdhar Deshmukh. It has been learnt that the recent police case against Mahadik — for not adhering to Covid norms during his son’s wedding in Pune — fuelled the feud once again between the traditional political rivals. “We have accessed documents from the property tax department. They show that the minister and his family members own several properties — including in a mall and a water park. The properties have been rented out, but the taxes charged on these properties are very low. We believe there have been tax evasions to the tune of more than Rs 10 crore in the past several years. The KMC should recover the amount within 8-10 days. Otherwise, we will go on a fast in front of the KMC building,” Mahadik said. While Patil was not available for comment, Deshmukh said: “Tax is being paid as per the assessment done. If they want an investigation, so be it. The properties developed have helped over 2,000 youths get employment. However, each of the organisations run by Mahadik have been doomed due to their wrong-doings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mahadik-accuses-satej-of-tax-evasion/articleshow/81368261.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||TSWB discusses pending cases, illegal encroachments||Hyderabad: A meeting to discuss cases presented in the high court and other courts with regard to the waqf properties was held on Saturday. The meeting was headed by Mohammed Saleem, chairman of Telangana State Waqf Board along with law officers and standing council of the waqf board.  “The government has issued GO 5 to ban or cancel registrations executed on waqf properties in the state. The board is going to send the waqf record to the revenue department to get it recorded,’’ he said. Dargah Hazrath Saif Nawaz Jung at Mamidipally (V) Balapur, Ashoorkhana Ali Saad at Mamidipally (V) Balapur, Dargah Baba Sharfuddin Pahadishareef and its attached land in survey number 99/1 ad measuring acres 2131.38 guntas, Masjid-e-Alamgir and Eidgah at Guttalabegumpet and Dargah Hazrath Maqdoom Biyabani at Aloor Chevella issues were taken up in the meeting. Illegal construction continues at Guttalabegumpet waqf property. The case is still in pending in court. Around 50 acres of waqf land at Hafizpet has been encroached, board stated. Court has reserved the judgment in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tswb-discusses-pending-cases-illegal-encroachments/articleshow/81370227.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||T sees 170 new cases, one death||Hyderabad: Telangana on Saturday recorded 170 new cases of Covid-19 and one death. With this the total count of cases so far in the state stands at 2.99lakh while death toll is 1,640. While 2.96 patients have so far recovered, there are 1,936 active cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) is stable at 0.54% while the recovery rate is currently stable at 98.80%. The country average CFR is currently 1.4% while the average recovery rate in the country is 97%. On Saturday, 40,712 samples were tested for the virus. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 28 new cases while Medchal Malkajgiri recorded 15, Rangareddy recorded and Karimnagar recorded 12. Apart from Wanaparthy, Narayanpet, Medak, Jogulamba Gadwal and Jayashankar Bhupalpally, all other districts recorded cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-170-new-cases-one-death/articleshow/81370233.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Varanasi||Cleanliness drive along Ganga begins today||Varanasi: In an effort to sensitise the people for considering the river Ganga and its tributaries as their responsibility, a mega cleanliness drive between Aadi Keshav Ghat and Ravidas Ghat will be kicked off by the district administration with the cooperation of various departments, social and voluntary organisations at 7 am on Sunday. The drive would continue on a monthly basis by including river Varuna, Asi and other tributaries in the future. Divisional forest officer (social forestry division) and nodal officer for the event Mahavir Kaujalgi said, “So far 1,600 individuals and people associated with different social and voluntary organisations have been registered as volunteers for this drive, although participation is open for all. A registration process was followed to ensure that area for working during this drive remains decided to avoid congregation at any place.” “The volunteers will throng particular ghats and sites at 6.30 am,” said Kaujalgi adding, “divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and other officials will also reach different ghats. After an oath for keeping the Ganga clean is administered, the special drive will start at 7 am and continue till 8 am. Each volunteer will cover 5 mt area and articles like spade, etc., and would be made available to them by Varanasi Municipal Corporation.” He added, “The VMC sanitary staff will also be present to remove the waste material collected by the volunteers to dispose of immediately. River police has also arranged 47 boats to assist in this drive.” “Basic objective behind the launch of this drive is to sensitise people and connect them with Ganga and its tributaries by considering their cleanliness and conservation as their personal responsibility,” he further informed TOI and added that the drive would be conducted on a monthly basis and apart from the areas of trans-Ganga, other tributaries like Varuna and Assi will also be included in it in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cleanliness-drive-along-ganga-begins-today/articleshow/81369199.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Varanasi||Eager to play first ODI againstSA to prove our worth: Mithali||Kanpur: Indian women’s cricket team captain Mithali Raj and her team members were eagerly awaiting the first one-day international (ODI) match against South Africa to be played at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium, Lucknow on March 7 to prove their worth. Addressing the media in a pre-match virtual press conference from Ekana Stadium in Lucknow on Saturday, Raj said that her team has some young players and a five one-day series would give an opportunity to young players to prove their talent. “Moreover, the series will also give an opportunity to prepare the team for the World Cup. Also, the first ODI will also give an opportunity to develop coordination among the players and attain a good rhythm in batting and bowling,” she added. “The wicket of Ekana Stadium is appearing good one and I think Indian team should put 250-plus runs on the board,” she told reporters. Talking about the team’s fitness during quarantine time and practice sessions, the Indian captain said, “All players are professional athletes. Though we were out of the field, all kept themselves fit at their places.” At Lucknow, the team got four good days of training. Players have got the feel of centre wicket and that has encouraged them to avail the opportunity. Here, the support staff is in touch with all members and girls are training themselves in their room too, she added. Replying to a question that the visiting South African team is better prepared and settled, the Indian captain said: “The visiting side has played a couple of matches before reaching here and they were in action. Compared to them, the Indian side is going in the field after around one year. But, we are not rusty. Everyone has kept herself fit and trained. This is the right time to begin the preparation for the World Cup and play cricket positively.” About herself, Raj said that she was back in the field after around 480 days. During this period she worked on herself, training at Hyderabad and was fully fit. “I am looking for runs in the ODI series. And I would like to begin my cricket from West Indies matches where I had played last. Though I have not played matches, I would like to be in runs.” When she was asked about her gameplan, combinations and whether she has identified the areas which need more attention, Raj said, “The series is important for the team as all players will play together after a long time and they should get the right start in their home conditions. Moreover, they would get an opportunity to achieve their form and rhythm and play as one unit with co-players.” Talking about coach WV Raman, the Indian captain praised his efforts and said he was very helpful and had kept the dressing room environment positive. That reflected in the field too. He helped seniors in sorting out their problems and put confidence among young players. So, all members have faith in him. As a player and as a coach, he has always shared his experiences with the players. When her attention was drawn that a large number of cricket fans would be in the stadium, Raj said it was good to play in stadiums before cricket fans. “Their support boosts the morale of players and teams. If the team performs better, then cricket fans would come to the stadium and that would be good for women’ cricket.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/eager-to-play-first-odi-againstsa-to-prove-our-worth-mithali/articleshow/81369230.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Former Ranji player from Andhra Pradesh held for cheating again||HYDERABAD: Former Ranji player B Nagaraju, who was earlier allegedly involved in 10 cases of cheating, was arrested yet again by Hyderabad police on Saturday. Police said they have registered nine more cases recently in addition to the previous 10. The 25-year-old youngster from Andhra Pradesh allegedly impersonated information technology minister KT Rama Rao’s personal secretary B Tirupathi and called nine corporates demanding money for the swearing-in ceremony of minister KTR, as chief minister of the state, police said. The accused collected Rs 39.22 lakh from different companies for erecting hoardings at LB Stadium and issuing advertisement in various media. The cricketer, an MBA graduate hailing from Srikakulam of AP, had represented AP in the Ranji Trophy between 2014 and 2016. Since 2018, he was been allegedly committing offences by impersonating the minister’s personal secretary by targeting corporates, realtors, hospitals and education institutions for extorting money. After nabbing the accused, police seized Rs 10 from his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-ranji-player-held-for-cheating-again/articleshow/81370238.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Photos of former K’taka CM, Kerala fin min in booklets||Hyderabad: The key organisers of Indus Viva, a multilevel marketing business, used to distribute booklets with photographs of former chief minister of Karnataka and finance minister of Kerala giving awards to the accused, to gain people’s confidence. Cyberabad police said that few members of this MLM scheme approached them after they did not get the promised commission. The members were promised Rs 1,000 when they introduced two members in the first week. They would get Rs 2,000 by introducing four members in the second week, Rs 4,000 by introducing eight members in the third week. On the ninth week, if a member enrolled 512 members, they would get an incentive of Rs 2.56 lakhs. At all high-class business meetings, which were held in star hotels to attract customers, the organisers used to park high-end cars to impress prospective members that they would win those costly cars if they met the given targets. According to the police, most of the health and beauty products which the accused sold to their members were priced at Rs 3,597 each. Members who enrolled 150 members were sent on an all-expenses paid trip to Goa and were put up at a five-star hotel. Those who met a target of above 400 members were sent to Dubai, Malaysia, Hong Kong, China, or South Africa. The accused held virtual meetings with their prospective customers in the past. They were mostly targeting unemployed youth and women. “Since people are very particular about health and beauty, the accused decided to offer products mostly related to these two by making false promises,” Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/photos-of-former-ktaka-cm-kerala-fin-min-in-booklets/articleshow/81370236.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Fresh cases go above 300 again, docs say be careful||New Delhi: The capital saw 321 new Covid-19 patients on Saturday, the second consecutive day in March on which the daily count crossed the 300-mark, while the positivity rate rose to 0.6% amid a sudden surge in incidences. 53,062 people were tested in the preceding 24 hours, including 28,685 RT-PCR tests and 24,377 rapid antigen tests. On Friday, three new fatalities and 312 fresh cases were registered, the highest count in nearly one-and-a-half months. It was also a significant jump from 261 cases registered on Thursday. On Saturday, one more fatality was recorded, taking the death toll to 10,919, according to the latest health bulletin. January 1 had seen 585 Covid cases, and 384 patients were recorded on January 4. It had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down the next month and on February 26, 256 new cases were recorded, the highest daily count in February. The number of active cases stood at 1,779 on Saturday, while the positivity rate rose to 0.6% from 0.53% on Friday. Health experts and doctors have attributed this ‘sudden rise’ in the number of cases to complacency among people, not following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and ‘assuming all is well now’. “People aren’t wearing masks or following social distancing. Also, travel to other countries has resumed, which could be leading to more cases,” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, said. He added that more cases are also reflected in the increase in hospital admissions. “Till about two weeks ago, we were getting one to two patients for admission due to Covid-19. The number has now gone up to five to six,” the Lok Nayak hospital director said. According to government data, 573 people are admitted at different hospitals in the national capital due to mild to severe symptoms of Covid-19. There are 879 under home isolation and six are recuperating at various Covid Care Centres. “The increase in positivity rate is worrying. It signals a rising trend in new cases, possibly due to increase in public movement and non-adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour or the presence of mutant strains of the virus or both,” say experts. They stress on the need to increase surveillance to detect new cases or clusters of infection in time. “We need to go back to the basics to prevent any further spread of the disease. Meaning, testing, tracing and isolation has to be followed aggressively,” said a senior doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fresh-cases-go-above-300-again-docs-say-be-careful/articleshow/81370243.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Elephant raid: Forest dept starts assessing damage||Kolhapur: Following confirmation that the tusker — which had showed up at Senapati Kapshi, around 60km from Kolhapur city — has retreated from the area, the forest department started conducting the panchanama of farm and property damages on Friday. It is believed the tusker had come from the Ajara taluka (located towards the south of the district, near the forest areas in Karanataka). The elephant had first been observed here on February 25. For the first time, an elephant had covered such a long distance to reach the vicinity of the large town. R R Kale, the deputy conservator of forest, said: “The tusker has damaged large tracts of the farm. I personally visited some places and found three coconut trees and some sections of sugar cane fields damaged. Once the panchanama is completed, we will start disbursing the compensation to the farmers as we have done in many cases, especially in the Ajara-Chandgad section.” Kale said two wild tuskers are known to be present in Ajara and five in the Sawantwadi section, which is in Sindhudurg district. Plans are being chalked out to drive the elephants in the Ajara section to the jungles in neighbouring Karnataka. The forest officials are planning to bring trained elephants from Karanataka to drive away the wild ones. “We are in talks with the Karanataka forest department to arrange for trained elephants and necessary manpower. The tuskers come to the upper ranges mainly in the search of food and water,” said Kale. Over 1,400 incidents of raids by bison and over 400 incidents of raids by tuskers had occurred last year. The forest department had disbursed around Rs 88 lakh as compensation to the farmers whose fields were damaged. Off late, the compensation amount has been increased manifold by the state government due to pressure from farmers and local leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/elephant-raid-forest-dept-starts-assessing-damage/articleshow/81368302.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolhapur||34 cases emerge in Kolhapur, active case-count declines||Kolhapur: As many as 34 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death were reported from Kolhapur district on Saturday. Maximum confirmed cases (20) were reported from Kolhapur city. The death toll in the distriict stands at 1,746. The number of active cases declined to 372 from 386. The active case count declined for the first time since the last two weeks. Out of the 50,634 confirmed Covid-19 cases registered in the district so far, 48,516 have recovered from the viral infection. 26 cases in Sangli Sangli district reported 26 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The total number of cases in the district has reached 48,659, of which 46,666 have been cured, 1,762 have been succumbed and 231 are currently undergoing treatment. More sr citizens turn up to take vaccine The turnout of senior citizens almost doubled in a day. While 4,320 senior citizens received the jab on Thursday, around 8,867 benefiiciaries had taken the vaccine by Friday evening. Officials attributed the increase in turnout to the speedy registration being done across the district, the 120 vaccination centres that have been opened and allowing private hospitals to administer the vaccine. To cope up with the high turnout, the administration has placed an order of over 30,000 vials of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/34-cases-emerge-in-kolhapur-active-case-count-declines/articleshow/81368320.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Preacher booked for provocative statements||Hyderabad: Hussainialam police have registered a suo moto case against Islamic preacher Ilyas Sharfuddin for allegedly making and circulating provocative statement over social media. The FIR filed by Y K Prasad, sub-inspector of police Hussainialam police station was registered under IPC sections 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion) 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes). The complainant alleged that the 2.37-minute-long video is aimed at promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of a particular religion. The complainant also alleged that he insulted the religious beliefs of a class of people with the deliberate intention malicious and promoted the feeling of enmity by circulating the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/preacher-booked-for-provocative-statements/articleshow/81370246.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 19 goats drink nullah water, die||MUMBAI: Around 19 goats were found dead near a nullah in Palghar on Thursday. They reportedly drank water from the nullah. While the carcasses have been sent for autopsy to ascertain the cause of death, the water samples have also been sent for testing by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/19-goats-drink-nullah-water-die-in-mumbai/articleshow/81370270.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Police sets up community desk for transgender persons||Hyderabad: After Cyberabad police, on Saturday, set up an exclusive transgender community desk at Gachibowli police station, a couple of corporates in Cyberabad came forward during this event offering jobs to transgender people with the educational qualifications. “The desk will be the focal point for all grievance redressal among the transgender community in Cyberabad Commissionerate. It provides support to file cases in offences related to violence or discrimination against any transgender person,” Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said in a press note. The transgender community desk was set up by Cyberabad Commissionerate in collaboration with Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) and Prajwala NGO. Officials said that the desk will be managed by a police liaison officer and a transgender person, who is designated as a community co-ordinator. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-sets-up-community-desk-for-transgender-persons/articleshow/81370244.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC sets aside Rera’s order, says part of building not covered by law||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has set aside a Rera order that last December directed the developer of New Cuffe Parade in Wadala to pay compensation to one of the flat purchasers. The adjudicating officer (AO) under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (Rera) had directed Macrotech Developers (Lodha Group) to pay Rs 2 lakh compensation and additional Rs 2.7 lakh for carpet area deficit to the flat purchaser. The high court declared that the developer did not have to register the project, Lodha Dioro, up to the 40th floor as a “phase” under Rera. This is because the tower had already received part occupancy certificate (OC) prior to August 1, 2017. The high court bench of Justice K K Tated and Justice Riyaz Chagla on March 1 held that the AO had no jurisdiction to determine the registration of the project or phase, which is “solely with the sphere of powers of the authority”. The developer had moved the high court against the AO’s order, which had also said that the luxury project “ought to have avoided a situation where ducts pass through bedrooms”. The developer, in a petition through advocate Prashant Gawali, sought a declaration that the phase of Lodha Dioro till 40 floors is not required to be registered under Rera. When Rera came into force on May 1, 2017, ongoing projects needed to be registered within three months. Sharan Jagtiani, counsel for the builder, said part OC was received on June 8, 2017, for 40 floors of Lodha Dioro and the complainant's flat was located on the 25th floor. He said that “on a proper interpretation of Rera” a project or its phase, including “part of a building” which has received even part OC within three months of the act coming into force, “is not required to be registered under the act”. Counsel Mayur Khandeparkar with advocate P D Gandhy for the complainants, Sanjay and Paromita Phulwaria, refuted the developer’s contention and raised the preliminary issue of maintainability of its petition. Khandeparkar said that once the AO had passed orders on the complaint and has held it has jurisdiction, the developer cannot directly approach the high court. The developer has a remedy under the act to first approach the appellate tribunal set up under Rera. The high court noted that MahaRera had said it gets jurisdiction to entertain only those complaints which are related to registered projects. In December 2017, acting on a complaint from a flat purchaser, the full bench of MahaRera had already held that the Lodha Dioro till 40th floor did not need registration and had dismissed the complaint alleging delay and for registration of project. The AO had on a second complaint in November 2018 held that a complaint for violations of Rera provisions is tenable “even when the project is not registered” with Rera. The high court held that the AO’s order was “contrary to provisions of the act as well as decision of this court and the Supreme Court”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hc-sets-aside-reras-order-says-part-of-bldg-not-covered-by-law/articleshow/81371211.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Vax centres see chaos at shift change, morning hrs||Nagpur: Vaccination centres at private and public hospitals had some anxious moments with incidents of arguments and verbal duel being reported on Saturday morning. In view of huge crowding, the NMC has extended the vaccination timing till 10pm in two shifts — 8am to 3pm and 3pm to 10pm. Though it has streamlined the process at most of the centres, officials found handling the rush difficult, especially during morning hours and at 3pm, when the shift changes at public centres. TOI came across complaints from Indira Gandhi Rughnalaya (IGR), Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital and a private hospital in Mankapur where beneficiaries were engaged in confrontations with the staff in the morning. Nitin Yete, a resident of Laxmi Nagar, said at IGR over 200 people were asked to go back. “Walk-in and registered beneficiaries were mixed up. The staff made a count of 100 and asked the remaining people waiting for two hours to come next day. We put our foot down and demanded that all of us be given token for same day. Initially, they were reluctant but agreed when we warned that we won’t allow anyone’s vaccination there,” he said. Kunal Hospital director Dr Shishir Shrivastav said private hospitals are managing the drive smoothly but it means additional work for their staff. “We desperately need assistance from civic body, NGO and youngsters. We are willing to take care of clinical part. The old people are unable to operate the Co-Win app and our staff is doing that too. We can double the vaccination number if we get outside assistance for technical issues,” he said. Dr Shrivastav said a couple of beneficiaries was upset and entered into arguments with the staff. “Such incidents can be avoided if volunteers come forward to help senior citizens,” he said. A 77-year-old man said he waited for four hours at Pachpaoli centre before losing his cool. “I don’t know how to operate the app. Everyone is going in but they are not allowing me,” said the man who was a walk-in beneficiary. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said they have appealed to beneficiaries to come during evening hours and avoid crowding centres as far as possible. “People on morning walks queue up at IGR. We are seeking help of NGOs and corporators to sensitize local residents that if they come with pre-registration, it becomes easier for all. Registration process is going on at each zone. There is hardly anyone in the evening,” he said. TOI visited a couple of centres and found those hosting pre-registered beneficiaries didn’t see any fracas. Daga Hospital Covid vaccination in charge Dr Gajanan Parkhe said they are witnessing rush but since all are coming as per their slot, things are easier. At afternoon, the IGGMCH centre too was functioning smoothly. Around 4pm, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital (LMH) centre closed for the day as all their registered beneficiaries were vaccinated. “Morning hours are hectic but our staff help out those who face problems or couldn’t book an appointment,” said LHM centre in charge Dr Richa Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vax-centres-see-chaos-at-shift-change-morning-hrs/articleshow/81369782.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||PD Act against 19-year-old||Hyderabad: Ramgopal police invoked the Preventive Detention (PD) against a19-year-old man who was involved in peddling ganja in the city. In the month of February, the 19-year-old was arrested by Ramgopal police. Police said that the accused was a repeat offender, and had earlier been booked under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act . Police said that he has been supplying ganja. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pd-act-against-19-year-old/articleshow/81370249.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Lukewarm response to Covid vaccination in Secunderabad||SECUNDERABAD: A lukewarm response has been received from the general public on the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme in Secunderabad Cantonment. According to Bollarum General Hospital’s resident medical officer, Dr Ramakrishna, a total of 59 people were vaccinated on Saturday, the second day of vaccinations. Availability of slots and delay in registering names in the online system could be reasons for the lukewarm response, cited the hospital RMO. “We hope that the inoculation will pick up after a couple of days,” he added. SCB sanitation workers also took the jab for the second consecutive day, apart from the general public. “No adverse reports were received from the people who took vaccine doses,” said Dr Ramakrishna. “We are also doing offline registration at the hospital premises for the sanitation workers, but it is mandatory that the general public register their names in the official portal. For vaccination, it takes nearly 45 minutes per head. After registration, vaccine doses will be given and then beneficiaries are kept in a separate room for observation,” said Dr Ramakrishna, explaining the inoculation process. Currently, the vaccination programme is being conducted only at Bollarum General Hospital for entire Secunderabad. On day one, 50 people were given the vaccine at the hospital. Of them, 30 were from the general public and remaining 20 were sanitation workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lukewarm-response-to-covid-vax-in-secbad/articleshow/81370253.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Randomization of EVMs begins||Coimbatore: The first phase of randomization of electronic voting machines (EVMs) was held at the office of the deputy director of public health at Race Course here on Saturday morning. Collector K Rajamani, who is also the district election officer, inaugurated the drive in front of representatives of political parties. The EVMs were later sent to strongrooms in assembly constituencies.The district has 4,427 polling stations in 10 assembly constituencies, where 5,316 EVMs, 5,316 control units and 5,894 VVPAT will be used. As many as 496 EVMs, 496 control units and 550 VVPATs will be sent to the Mettupalayam assembly constituency that has 413 polling stations.Machines for the Mettupalayam assembly will be kept at the Nanjai Lingammal Polytechnic College. Armed guards will be deployed at the strongrooms. CCTV cameras have been installed.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/randomization-of-evms-begins/articleshow/81370255.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Active Covid cases dip to 364; 3,359 people get vaccinated||Coimbatore: The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district dipped to 364 on Saturday, when 59 patients were discharged from treatment centres, even as it recorded 48 new cases. Of the 56,030 people who were tested positive for the virus in the district so far, 54,982 have recovered.While the recovery rate continues to grow, the spike in daily cases is keeping health department officials on vigil. However, in a huge relief for them, the district didn’t see any new Covid-19 clusters emerging on the day.The Covid-19 toll has, meanwhile, gone up in the district by one to 684.Officials said the new cases were spread across the district. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said there were no new cases from Saravanampatti and Thudiyalur clusters. “We haven’t seen any new area or family with more than three cases. Corporation officials have screened the neighbours of positive patients in those two clusters and traced their contacts, but none have tested positive. As such, the clusters aren’t growing.”It was also the day when 3,359 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district. The vaccination centres are administering the doses only between 9am and 5pm. “While the Union government has said vaccination could be done 24 hours, the CoWIN portal becomes inaccessible by 4pm-6pm, as the data collection for the day begins,” said a health department official.The district has so far vaccinated around 33,000 workers, which is around 80% of the target. “Frontline workers, however, continue to hesitate to come forward to get inoculated. We have hardly achieved 25% of the target,” the official said.A notification regarding allowing primary health centres and private hospitals to administer Covaxin is yet to reach the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-covid-cases-dip-to-364-3359-people-get-vaccinated/articleshow/81370257.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Take action on orders promptly: HC to CS & DGP||Chennai: The Madras high court directed the Tamil Nadu chief secretary and the DGP to issue circulars to all subordinates instructing them to comply with court orders and directing them to consider representations/appeals within a stipulated period. “They shall not create a situation for contempt to be filed to comply with the orders,” Justice S Vaidyanathan said. This apart, it has been reported that in several cases involving heinous offences, chargesheets are not filed within the stipulated time aiding the accused to wander freely in society, the court added. The judge made it clear that a copy of this order must be sent along with the circular and the same should be forwarded to the registrar of the court within two weeks. The issue pertains to a plea moved by policeman V Kumaran, seeking a direction to the Chennai commissioner of police to consider appeals preferred by him dated August 1, 2009 and December 28, 2019. According to the petitioner, a false case was registered against him under sections 363 (kidnapping), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 307 (murder) of IPC on May 5, 2008 by the Pathrivedu police station, Tiruvallur. He was issued a charge memo on October 29, 2008, by the deputy commissioner of police (traffic). The petitioner sent a letter dated November 10, 2008, requesting the deputy commissioner to defer departmental inquiry until the criminal case comes to an end. Despite his request, assistant commissioner of police, Porur traffic sub-division, was appointed inquiry officer in the departmental proceedings. By order dated July 15, 2019, the petitioner was dismissed from service based on the inquiry report. Aggrieved, Kumaran preferred an appeal to the commissioner, which is pending till date. Meanwhile, Tiruvallur mahila court, through an order dated September 25, 2019, acquitted him of the charges. Recording the submission, the judge said, “Of late, it is noticed that several orders of this court, issuing directions to dispose of representation/appeal, have not been complied with, within the time prescribed by this court and the authorities are sleeping over the matters, as a result of which, many contempt petitions are pending.” In addition to the above, it was also reported that in several cases involving heinous offences, charge sheets have not been laid even after registration of FIRs long back, as a result of which, the accused are allowed to wander freely in the society, after getting either anticipatory bail or default bail and indulge in further crimes., the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/take-action-on-orders-promptly-hc-to-cs-dgp/articleshow/81370256.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Parked auto goes up in flames||Coimbatore: An autorickshaw, which was parked on roadside at Anjugam Nagar at Chinnavedampatti, went up in flames in the early hours of Saturday.The Saravanampatti (law & order) police said S Karthikeyan, 24, of Muniyappan Temple Street, had parked his auto in front of his house around 10pm on Friday, before he went to sleep. “Around 1.50am on Saturday, his neighbour T Vignesh saw the auto in flames and alerted him.”Residents in the area put out the fire and informed the Saravanampatti police. Karthikeyan hadn’t, however, lodged a police complaint till Saturday evening. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the auto’s registration certificate was with a private finance firm under hypothecation. Karthikeyan had bought the auto in his wife’s name in 2018.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/parked-auto-goes-up-in-flames/articleshow/81370258.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chennai||‘Child labour up nearly threefold during pandemic’||Chennai: The Covid-19 pandemic has reversed the progress made on child rights and in containing child labour practices, according to a rapid survey of 818 children in 23 districts of the state and Karaikal. Since the pandemic, child labour among vulnerable communities in Tamil Nadu and Karaikal has increased almost three times, mainly due to economic crises at home, family pressure and inaccessibility to online classes, the survey conducted by Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL) said. The survey, ‘Covid-19: Reversing the Situation of Child Labour,’ says that most children were boys between 15 years and 18 years, who were pushed to take up jobs to supplement their family income. The survey was conducted between September and November 2020 in 23 districts in Tamil Nadu including Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Perambalur, Chengalpattu, Theni, Tiruppur, and Kanyakumari, and in Karaikkal. A majority of the children surveyed belonged to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and their families worked in informal sectors. The survey found that 231 of them were already working and did not go to school before the pandemic, and this number, jumped to 650 after the pandemic struck. This is almost three times as compared to the pre-Covid-19 situation. A large number of the children joined the manufacturing and the service sector, working as hawkers, bakery stores, domestic helps, cycle repair workers and vegetable sellers. Nearly 1 out of 5 children said that they often faced physical, mental, and verbal abuse from their employers. A few girls also complained of instances of sexual harassment. “Apart from poverty, several children couldn’t afford to buy a smartphone and were idle. A few also joined work since they were bored and received the money in return for work... they are now unsure of returning to school,” said R Vidyasagar, former child protection specialist at UNICEF. Most of the children surveyed were studying in government schools and only 43% of them had attempted to attend online classes, while 24% had completely stopped attending classes.  “Over the last two decades, we were seeing a decline in child labour and increased school enrollment, but now 76% of school-going children have started working. Where are our authorities who’s duty is to protect children and bring them back to schools?” said R Karuppusamy, convenor of CACL- Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Child rights experts urged the state authorities to activate all child protection structures and bring them back to schools. “Their families also need to be strengthened, by linking them to social schemes and departments concerned. Every district authority must also conduct surveys and assess the ground reality. They cannot remain silent,” said A.Devaneyan, zonal convener of CACL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/child-labour-up-nearly-threefold-during-pandemic/articleshow/81352603.cms||Aditi R
March 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Solapur dist reports 104 Covid cases||Kolhapur: Solapur district, covering city and rural areas, reported 104 new cases of Covid since Friday late night and one death due to the infection. Of the fresh cases, Solapur city added 37 patients, which includes 24 men and 13 women. Four patients were discharged after recovering. The city has 12,610 has reported Covid cases, including 664 deaths, 448 active cases and 11,498 recoveries. Meanwhile, Solapur rural recorded 67 new cases, which included 44 men and 23 women. As many as 55 patients were discharged. A 79-year-old woman from Mohol taluka died due to Covid. Except for three talukas, all others reported new patients in single digit. Madha registered 15 cases. Karmala and Malshiras reported 11 cases, each. No patient was found in Mohol taluka. Solapur rural has 40,913 patients, of them, 1189 have died, 542 patients are undergoing treatment and 39,182 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-dist-reports-104-covid-cases/articleshow/81368325.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Shops stay shut, but citizens defy ‘stay indoors’ appeal||Nagpur/Amravati: Citizens exhibited a carefree approach during the first day of this weekend’s restrictive Covid regulations, even though the number of positive cases has crossed the 1,000-mark in the last two days. Though the commercial shops were closed, the decision to allow opening of vegetable and fruit markets, including meat outlets, led to regular rush at the market places. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, who visited several market places like Dahi Bazaar and Sitabuldi, tried to reiterate the appeal to follow Covid norms. He reviewed the enforcement of the restrictive regulations. Meanwhile, in Amravati, after allowing relaxation in a semi-lockdown situation since Saturday morning, the administration has set up 20 special squads to keep an eye on violation of rules. “Four deputy collectors will monitor the special squads till Monday,” said collector Shailesh Naval, adding, “violators will be fined.” Shaikh Hussain, office bearer of the agents’ association of Mahatma Phule market at Cotton Market, said farmers brought lesser quantity of vegetables and fruits than usual. “There was less crowd at the market and the shopkeepers, too, tried to maintain Covid distancing, fearing heavy fines,” he said. NMC’s nuisance detection teams were present at most market places, including Mahal and Itwari, where some shopkeepers were pulled up for allowing rush at their outlets. There was less crowd at the Ganeshpeth inter-district bus stop as traders from other talukas and districts avoided coming to city due to the closure of commercial centres and most wholesale markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shops-stay-shut-but-citizens-defy-stay-indoors-appeal/articleshow/81369791.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Jail inmates to get vax soon, says official in Maharashtra||Additional director general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand on Saturday said a drive would be launched soon to administer Covid-19 vaccines to inmates lodged in prisons across the state. “I have issued instructions to all jail superintendents to get the inmates vaccinated against Covid-19 in consultation with district collectors, civil surgeons, deans, municipal commissioners in their respective districts,” said the official. “It will take some time to consult experts and decide if an inmate is required to be given vaccine in jail or at a government centre,” said Ramanand.An NGO has sought permission from the Pune district collector for giving the shots to Yerawada jail inmates while the Nashik Road Central Prison officials are gearing up for the vax drive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jail-inmates-to-get-vax-soon-says-official-in-maharashtra/articleshow/81371291.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chennai||New bus lounge for arrivals at Chennai airport||CHENNAI: The city airport opened a bus lounge to increase the capacity of its arrival terminal. Passengers arriving on planes that are parked far from the terminal are ferried to the terminal by shuttle buses. This new lounge adds not only space for passengers, but also for parking shuttle buses in the airside. More than 300 passengers can use the new lounge, set up across 2,500sqm with facilities like escalators, staircases, waiting area and others, a senior official said. The lounge will also help transit passengers. “The lounge will be useful as a good number of flights land in remote bays. The new lounge will also have an aerobridge connection. Since there are not many aerobridges, airlines can drop passengers to the terminal using shuttle buses. There is also more space for shuttle buses to park,” a source said. “The lounge has been constructed to enhance the capacity of the domestic security hold area. The entry to the current arrival area from airside will be closed and the security hold area for departure will be connected end-to-end for free movement of passengers to all the departure gates at ground floor level,” a senior official said. “The shifting of operations helps in providing additional space for remote arrival passengers and more space for parking of coaches,” he added. Transit passengers can also access the departure security hold area directly. This facility also enables the separation of passengers and coaches for arrival and departure flights. The lounge will be equipped with amenities, like restrooms, three elevators, an escalator, drinking water fountain, fire fighting systems, public address system, security camera and others. The move also helps in handling more flights, particularly regional ones which operate using small aircraft and require shuttle buses to bring passengers to the terminal. A few years ago, the airport opened a bus lounge for departing passengers, but aerobridges could not be accommodated because of the expansion work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-bus-lounge-for-arrivals-at-city-airport/articleshow/81370262.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolhapur||186 fresh Covid cases in Satara||Kolhapur: The district reported 186 fresh cases and one death due to the infection since Friday late at night, taking the total number of cases to 59,677. The death toll has now risen to 1861. Khatav taluka recorded 38 new cases, Koregaon taluka added 37 cases, including 13 from Koregaon town and 12 from Apsinge, 14 people tested positive in Maan taluka. Phaltan taluka added 14 patients, Karad taluka added 10 cases, which included nine from Karad town. Khandala and Wai taluka reported nine and eight cases, respectively Three people tested positive in Jawli and one case was added in Patan taluka. A 64-year-old woman from Karad succumbed to Covid. As many as 56,006 patients have recovered while 1,810 patients are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/186-fresh-covid-cases-in-satara/articleshow/81368333.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Biker fined Rs 2,700 for 27 rides without helmet||Salem: City traffic police officials have fined a motorist Rs 2,700 for crossing Five Roads area on a bike without wearing helmet 27 times in the past 15 days.One of the officials identified the traffic rule violator as Thangarasu, of Karuppur. “Employed with a private hospital in the city, he has to pass through the Five Roads area, where we have installed automatic number-plate recognition cameras, to reach the workplace and return home. We got his contact details by tracking his vehicle registration number.”The officer said while Thangarasu had received a number of e-challans on his mobile phone from the regional transport office for the traffic rule violation, the latter had ignored them. “We have warned him not to ride two-wheeler without wearing helmet and asked him to pay the fine at the earliest.”The Salem city police had installed 20 automatic number-plate recognition cameras on Five Roads area in the city at a cost of Rs9 lakh on December 1, 2020.“We have booked 40,815 people with the help of these cameras for violating traffic rules and regulations since then,” said a senior police officer with the traffic wing. “However, only 4,072 of them have paid the fine till date.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/biker-fined-rs-2700-for-27-rides-without-helmet/articleshow/81370261.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Missing man’s kin get packet with his ID cards, cellphone||PUNE: The family of a 28-year-old man, who was reported missing since February 28, on Friday received a packet via courier containing his identity cards and cellphone. The packet also contained a note that claimed the man was murdered. The anonymous note read, “I didn’t want to kill him, but if I had spared him, he would have killed me.” The police are examining camera footage from the Hadapsar outlet of the private courier company, from which the packet was sent, to ascertain the sender’s identity. The man’s 29-year-old brother had lodged a missing person’s complaint with the Alankar police on March 1, stating that his brother had been missing since the previous day. The police have been looking for the missing man in Hadapsar, Karvenagar and Wagholi. The man’s friends and other persons in contact with him have been questioned. Senior police inspector Santosh Barge of the Alankar police said, “We have yet to trace the missing man. We can’t say anything right now; our investigation is on.” A source close to the investigation said the police suspect that the man, who is unmarried, left the house over financial troubles. He reportedly had a financial dispute from a man from the neighbourhood. The police questioned the man, who hails from Rajasthan, but it proved fruitless. Police said the missing man was seeking a Rs8-9 loan to purchase a car and start his own driving school. It has yet to be ascertained if he managed to secure the loan. The police are also considering the possibility that the man was kidnapped for ransom, the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/missing-mans-kin-get-packet-with-his-id-cards-cellphone/articleshow/81369806.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Sunflower oil price rises to Rs 150 per litre from Rs 85||Salem: Sunflower oil has become costlier by around 90% over a year, with the price touching Rs 150 per litre from Rs 85 in the comparable period last year.K Rajaraman, one of the wholesale merchants, attributed the price rise to drop in import of sunflower oil, the demand for which, he said, was still high among the consumers.He said the Indian firms used to import sunflower oil from France, Norway, Australia and Russia. “Sunflower oil production was badly hit in those countries after the outbreak of Covid-19 last year. Hence, they have cut down on the import.” According to him, one litre of refined sunflower oil was sold for Rs 85 in the local retail shops in March last year. “The price may cross the Rs 150-mark in the coming days, if the demand continues to sustain in the market.”Consumers have, meanwhile, requested the state government to supply more palm oil through ration shops, by taking their plight into account. R Aruna Preetha, a resident of Fairlands in the city, said, “The state government has been supplying two litres of palm oil for Rs 50 per cardholder. It will be helpful for the poor and the middle-class people if the quantity is increased to four litres.” Pointing out that a family of four would need at least four litres oil for a month, she said the palm oil that was being supplied through ration shops presently was not adequate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sunflower-oil-price-rises-to-rs-150-per-litre-from-rs-85/articleshow/81370263.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad Inc slams talk of fresh lockdown||Aurangabad: Local industries, business communities and even people’s representatives have opposed any plans to introduce a strict lockdown in Aurangabad as a measure to curb the spread of nCoV. Markets in Aurangabad saw heavy rush on Saturday following reports of possibility of a new lockdown. Flooded with calls enquiring the same, Aurangabad commissioner of police Dr Nikhil Gupta, district collector Sunil Chavan and civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey took to social media and cleared the air. They said that a surge in the Covid-19 cases had been noticed in Aurangabad. Any decision regarding a lockdown would be taken following a high-level meeting at the collector’s bungalow on Sunday evening. Leading industrialists Ram Bhogle, Mansingh Pawar and Rishi Bagla unanimously questioned whether a lockdown was needed in present situation and appealed to the administration to do ‘lateral thinking before choosing to impose lockdown’ They unanimously stated that ‘Lockdown imposes suffering and loss of earnings on poor. Revenue loss to the government and business loss are other important aspects to be considered.’ Echoing them, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel said the administration should abstain from arbitrarily imposing lockdown. “We stand by the state and the administration in the fight against this pandemic. If they impose complete lockdown, we want the administration to arrange food for the poor and needy people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-inc-slams-talk-of-fresh-lockdown/articleshow/81368337.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Consent sought for using postal ballot||Coimbatore: To increase voter participation, the district administration has directed polling officials to complete distribution of Form 12-D by Tuesday.People with disabilities, those aged above 80, those affected by Covid-19 and those eligible for casting postal ballots should fill up the consent form when officials visit their residence.Until recently, only government officials and uniformed service personnel assigned for election duty were eligible to vote through postal ballots. After the Bihar assembly election, the Election Commission of India extended the opportunity to senior citizens and disabled people.There are 64,680 people aged above 80 and more than 20,000 disabled voters in the district. “Postal ballot has not been made compulsory for them. Instructions were given to booth-level officials to distribute 12-D application forms to willing citizens at their doorsteps across the district. Those who obtain the form should return it before March 16,” said an official.Disabled voters will have to submit the disability certificate issued by the government. Those affected by Covid-19 should be provided the application forms only after consultation with nodal health officer, the official said.“After the final list of candidates in each constituency is prepared, a team will be formed to distribute and collect ballots in each constituency,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/consent-sought-for-using-postal-ballot/articleshow/81370265.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 37,000 people get vax in priority groups||HYDERABAD: A total of 37,658 beneficiaries across priority groups were vaccinated on Saturday in the state. Among the elderly above 60 years of age and people with comorbidities between 45 and 59 years of age, 92% of the target set for vaccination in the government sector was met, while in the private sector 86% of the target was met. From Sunday, Covid vaccination for the elderly and persons with co-morbidities will be conducted at all district hospitals, area hospitals, community health centres as well as at designated private hospitals, officials said. Till date, a total of 3.74 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated for first dose and 1.70 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated for the second dose. The total vaccinations have come to 5.73 lakh. Meanwhile, the state government has been conducting several online awareness meetings on the vaccine. “Frequent reminders are required for administration of the second dose. Many healthcare and frontline staff do not understand the importance of the second dose,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/37k-people-get-vax-in-priority-groups/articleshow/81370268.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Baby needs Rs 16 crore drug, ex-secretary of BJP goes to PM for Muslim couple||COIMBATORE: A Coimbatore couple who face the risk of losing their second child, too, to spinal muscular atrophy — a genetic disorder caused due to loss of nerve cells in the spinal cord and brain stem — if they fail to raise Rs 16 crore to buy drug Zolgensma, has been offered a helping hand by Vanathi Sreenivasan, national president of the Mahila Morcha of the BJP. The former Tamil Nadu BJP secretary has requested PM Narendra Modi to waive off the GST and import charges that form 35% of the drug’s cost. Vanathi Sreenivasan on Friday tweeted about her request to the PM seeking financial assistance for eight-month-old Zuha Zainab. She has also enclosed a copy of her letter that was copied to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and health minister Dr Harshvardhan. She wrote that Zainab’s parents Abdullah and Ayisha have resorted to crowdfunding to save the life of their daughter. “I request you to waive GST and import duty and grant them assistance under PMNRF to help the baby get medicines as early as possible,” her tweet said. Spinal muscular atrophy is a debilitating condition that causes weakness and contraction, affecting a child’s ability to crawl, walk, sit up, control head movements and eventually even breathe and swallow. It affects one in every 6,000 to 10,000 children worldwide.  The Podanur couple, who had lost their first son to the same disorder in 2018, saw their worst fears come true when their second child born in June 2020, too, developed symptoms. “She would not be able to move her hands and legs and her head would not stand at all, exactly like how our first child suffered,” says Abdullah. “When she was two months old, suspecting the same disorder, we went to Royal care Hospital, who after sending her blood tests to Netherlands confirmed that she too had had spinal muscular atrophy,” he said. “This time, the pediatric referred us to Bangalore Baptist Hospital, who told us about drugs available, how some parents managed to source it and connected us to an NGO and crowdfunding platform,” he said.  Abdullah through the platform and other fundraising videos said that he could have managed even if it was a few lakhs, but Rs 16 crore is too big a sum for him or his family to source and has requested for help from anyone who can even with a small amount. Through crowdfunding platform impact guru, they have hardly raised Rs 1.27 lakh so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/baby-needs-rs-16cr-drug-ex-secy-of-bjp-goes-to-pm-for-muslim-couple/articleshow/81370280.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Swarnim Vijay Mashaal reaches Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Swarnim Vijay Mashaal, from the eternal flame of the National War Memorial in Delhi, reached TA 110 Battalion here on Saturday.Station commander Colonel Piyush S Katal, along with 250 defence personnel from tri-services and NCC cadets received the flame. It will be positioned at quarter guard of the battalion till March 15.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the golden jubilee celebrations last December to commemorate India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, which led to creation of Bangladesh. He also lit four torches meant to be carried to the cities and villages of the 1971 war heroes, who had received gallantry awards. It was also decided to bring back soil from the villages of the awardees and from areas where major battles were fought in 1971 to the memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/swarnim-vijay-mashaal-reaches-coimbatore/articleshow/81370275.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Two FIRs against Milind Ekbote over Haj House remarks||PUNE: Two FIRS were registered with the Kondhwa police against Samasta Hindu Aghadi leader Milind Ekbote, accusing him of criminal conspiracy and promoting enmity between different groups by posting objectionable comments on social media on March 2 while opposing the construction of a proposed Haj House in the city. The first FIR was registered by Satish Kale, the vice-president of Sambhaji Brigade and a businessman, and the second by glass businessman Shafazali Siddiqui on Friday. The Pune Municipal Corporation has proposed the construction of the Haj House in Kondhwa. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Namrata Patil told TOI on Saturday, “We have not arrested Ekbote, but we shall be summoning him for questioning in the two FIRs. We shall collect official correspondence of Ekbote with the Pune municipal commissioner. We shall analyse the comments/videos posted by Ekbote on social media and decide on our action. The complainants in the FIRs have alleged that Ekbote had misused the name of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj for creating tension.” Senior inspector Sardar Patil from the Kondhwa police said, “Ekbote had posted the video on social media on March 2. We are conducting investigations to find out when and where had delivered the speech.” Ekbote could not be contacted. Kale, an electric businessman from the NIBM Road area, stated in his FIR, “Ekbote, the working president of Samasta Hindu Aghadi, in his speech posted on social media had defamed a community over the construction of the Haj House. He threatened that he would not allow the project work to commence because it could create law and order problems.” Siddiqui’s FIR read that Ekbote and others had intentionally made the video viral for defaming a community. The police mentioned charges related to criminal conspiracy and malicious intent to outrage religious feelings, among others, under the relevant sections of the IPC and the Information Technology Act in the FIRs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-firs-against-ekbote-over-haj-house-remarks/articleshow/81369808.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Check sought on duplicate name entries during RTE admissions||Aurangabad: As the enrolment of beneficiaries for the 25% reserved seats in schools under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009, has been started, educational activists have sought an effective check on duplicate entries during the registration process.Activist Prashant Sathe said the modus operandi involves the submission of multiple entries using different combinations of first and last names with marginal spelling differences that can be rectified later in order to seek admission in the top schools.“For example, the surname ‘Gaikwad’ is written as ‘Gayakwad’ while applying the second time for the same beneficiary; or first name ‘Anjalee’ is registered as ‘Anjali’. Such errant practices are affecting the rights of other genuine beneficiaries,” he said.As per the official schedule, the enrolment beneficiaries for admissions under the RTE Act for 2021-22 is scheduled to go on till March 21 through the designated portal of the state government. The total number of registered schools from Aurangabad district has gone up marginally to 603 this year — up from last year’s 584.When contacted, Aurangabad zilla parishad education officer (primary) S P Jaiswal said any attempt by parents to enrol duplicate entries would lead to cancellation of all the entries.“Parents should note that if any such practice gets exposed at any point during admission, their ward will be eliminated from the process. In the wake of complaints of duplicate entries during RTE admissions, we will improve the scrutiny process with special focus on multiple spellings of same names,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/check-sought-on-duplicate-name-entries-during-rte-admissions/articleshow/81368350.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Temperature dips but Mumbai swelters as humidity level goes up||MUMBAI: The city reported a 4.5 degree drop in maximum temperatures on Saturday as compared to a day earlier with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Santacruz observatory recording maximum temperature of 32.8 degrees Celsius, lower than 37.3 degrees recorded on Friday. However, despite the dip, Mumbai weather continued to stay uncomfortably hot owing to the high humidity levels. The relative humidity recorded by the IMD Colaba observatory was 75% and IMD Santacruz observatory was 64%. The entire past week has seen temperatures soar high and on March 4, the maximum temperature touched 38.1 degrees, beating the highest maximum temperature recorded in March last year of 37.5 degrees which was logged on March 17, 2020. For now, the IMD has forecast that for the next 24 hours, maximum temperature would be hovering around 34 degrees while minimum temperatures could be 22 degrees along with mainly clear skies. Weather officials said that the prevalance of north easterly winds was one of the reasons for the hot weather. On Saturday, the maximum temperature recorded by the IMD Santacruz observatory was 32.8 degrees Celsius while the Colaba observatory recorded maximum temperature of 32.2 degrees. The minimum temperature at Colaba was 23.5 degrees while at Santacruz it was 23 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/temp-dips-but-city-swelters-as-humidity-level-goes-up-in-mumbai/articleshow/81372031.cms||Richa Pinto
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Lessons learned from Covid, new infrastructure will help for years to come||By: Prabhdeep KaurA year ago, Chennai reported its first case of Covid-19 this week, and most people were not ready for what unfolded after. Though initially most cases were reported among travelers from cities with international airports, it was simply a matter of time before Covid-19 emerged in major Indian cities. With a population of nearly 8 million, Chennai was a likely hot spot. As I drove to work during lockdown, it felt as if we were in a war zone fighting an invisible enemy. We tried our best to rapidly learn from global experiences to inform local policies and save lives and livelihoods. Tamil Nadu responded effectively with a strong political will, by adding infrastructure to its existing vast network of government hospitals and labs and partnering with the private sector. As cases began rising in May 2020, strategies were modified. The congregation and Koyambedu clusters taught us a lot about the importance of field-based public health approaches to reduce disease spread. Northern Chennai, the first hot spot, provided lessons on designing and scaling strategies such as active search of cases at the household level, testing of all symptomatic, fever camps that brought testing closer to home and extensive contact tracing. Meticulous data analysis to map the most affected streets followed by extensive testing proved very effective. The pandemic also boosted partnerships with the private sector for surveillance, diagnosis and treatment. All healthcare and frontline workers went beyond the line of duty, putting their lives and families at risk. Over months, even as the lockdown was gradually eased, cases continued to decline. With improvement in treatment modalities, deaths among those hospitalized also fell. Though science taught us that masks were the most effective tool to prevent Covid-19, usage was not uniform, and coverage remained below 50%. Amid this battle, the discovery of multiple effective vaccines in less than a year was a pleasant surprise. The fight against Covid-19 is not over yet. We must continue with precautions, especially mask compliance, given the risk of a second wave and overcome vaccine hesitancy. Most importantly, we must realize that this is neither the first pandemic nor the last one. We can convert the challenge into an opportunity to build a more robust health system. Strengthening of urban primary care should be one of Tamil Nadu’s priorities. We need responsive surveillance systems to identify clusters and prevent outbreaks, and a lab in every district to detect pathogens of public health importance. Expanding the network of field-level health workers is also necessary. Many healthcare workers and I felt a sense of despair for the lives lost. However, it has further strengthened my belief in the public health system to ensure that this should never happen again. The writer is the deputy director of the National Institute of Epidemiology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lessons-learned-from-covid-new-infrastructure-will-help-for-years-to-come/articleshow/81370278.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||School students give classes a miss as fear of exam vanishes||Coimbatore: Teachers said the percentage of students attending the school has come down significantly after the state government’s announcement to give all pass to the students in classes IX to XI. According to them, only 60% to 70% students of these classes was attending the school presently on weekdays. T Arulanantham, state auditor, Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers’ Association, said about 90% students was attending the schools regularly in January, when the schools were reopened. After the government decided to give all pass to the students in classes IX to XI, he said the attendance percentage had come down by at least 30% in many government and aided schools in the district.“Because of the government’s move, we cannot question the students about taking leaves regularly. Remaining students are attending the classes only because of the uncertainty over how the marks will be calculated. Despite the shortage of attendance, teachers are teaching complete portions to help students understand the basics and prepare them for higher classes,” he said.Arulanantham said the number of students attending the classes on Saturdays had come down by another 30%. “It will be better if the government cancels the classes on Saturdays. Teaching five days a week itself is more than sufficient for even Class XII students, who have to appear for public examinations.”S Arunan, state president, Tamil Nadu Government Employees Teachers Welfare Federation, said the state government should conduct at least school-level tests. “Otherwise, students will not learn the subjects seriously. It looks like the school education department is planning to conduct entrance examination to enrol students to Class XI. To take up the same, students should study properly. Also, if they don’t learn the present class subjects, they will struggle in the higher classes next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-students-give-classes-a-miss-as-fear-of-exam-vanishes/articleshow/81370272.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Awareness camp for unemployed youth||Hyderabad: Ministry of MSME (Micro small and Medium Enterprises) and MSME Institute of Hyderabad conducted a two-day industrial motivation camp awareness programme on unemployed youth to create awareness on entrepreneurship, self-employment, and MSME schemes. The camp was held in collaboration with the Center for innovation and incubation (CII) of NIT Warangal on Friday at Homi Bhabha Centre For Science Education, Mumbai. The programme sought to raise awareness to motivate entrepreneurs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/awareness-camp-for-unemployed-youth/articleshow/81370271.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: SIT set up to probe Army exam paper leak cases||PUNE: The city police on Saturday formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe into the two cases related to the army recruitment exam paper leak. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta constituted the Special Investigation Team (SIT) with the deputy commissioner of police (crime), Shrinivas Ghadge, at its helm. There will be two inspectors and several other police personnel in the team to investigate the cases registered with the Wanowrie and the Vishrantwadi police stations. Serving and retired army personnel were arrested for leaking the army recruitment exam paper for the post of general duty (GD). The police have maintained that there might be an insider’s hand in leaking the exam paper. On March 2, the crime branch arrested two serving Army havildars, posted on exam duty, for their role in the soldiers’ recruitment exam paper leak case registered with the Wanowrie police. They were identified as Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) and Uday Dattu Awati (23). Apart from them, the city police arrested five men in the two separate cases. Kishor Mahadev Giri (40) of Malegaon in Baramati and Madhav Sheshrao Gite (38) of Vishrantwadi were arrested in connection with the Wanowrie case. Gite retired from the army on January 31, the police said. In the case registered with the Vishrantwadi police, two ex-servicemen, Mahendra Sonawane and Ali Akhtar, and civil defence cook Azad Khan were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sit-set-up-to-probe-army-exam-paper-leak-cases/articleshow/81369807.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Sensitivity must towards seniors, say citizens||Photographs and videos of senior citizens standing in long queues under a scorching sun, being bodily carried in apparent discomfort, pushed on wheelchairs or needing help to reach vaccination centres have evinced strong reaction from citizens. They feel the authorities have scant respect to the elderly and also those with comorbidities who have been permitted to be vaccinated from March 1. Terming it as utter lack of planning by the government, the citizens say the approach to the programme is very similar to how the nation treated migrant labour in April-May last year. A sudden announcement of lockdown left them with no avenues to earn livelihoods and forced them back to their hometowns on foot, broken-down vehicles, atop trucks etc. What happened with the migrants and what is happening now with the elderly clearly shows that apathy and insensitivity is the hallmark of Indian authorities, says ad guru Sanjay Arora. “What should be an aberration is the norm. I think this is a legacy of the British Raj civil service which was created to control and manage a colony. Unfortunately, that blue-blooded attitude towards the common man continues. A total overhaul is needed to sensitize the ‘ruler’ that the ‘ruled’ is a fellow-countryman and human being,” he adds. Agrees Anasuya Kale Chhabrani, secretary of NGO Together We Can, “It’s not just insensitivity, the authorities also lack sense of responsibility towards the weaker section of society. While the migrants were financially weak, senior citizens are emotionally weak. Of the attitude that these lives don’t matter, the authorities don’t want to increase their workload and thus shrugs off its duties.” Experts also feel that such inconsiderate actions also reflect how far removed the planners sitting in their ivory towers are from ground reality. “This was proved once again when the vaccination for senior citizens began. From the Co-Win app crashing to the utterly heartless and ill-planned operations at the hospitals, everything paints a heart-rending picture. Don’t the planners understand that senior citizens have all kinds of problems from not being able to climb stairs to sometimes not even being able to walk without support. They are being made to wait under the harsh sun with no shade or place to sit & no arrangements for drinking water. Shouldn’t there be some accountability for this, shouldn’t some heads be rolling for this utter callousness or is everything going to end with the typical ‘chalta hai’ attitude of ours,” says Arora. Questioning if similar nightmarish scenes be imaginable in any genuinely civilized country in this day and age, Supantha Bhattacharya, associate professor and director of PG English at Hislop College, says, “Last year we were witness to the inhuman way in which the migrant workers were treated by the system. The sheer apathy and humiliating disregard in which our “superfluous” senior citizens are held becomes evident by their treatment at these vaccination centres. Hang your heads in shame, those responsible for this mismanagement.” While Tejinder Singh Renu, honorary secretary of Vidarbha Taxpayers’ Association, feels comparing that current situation with what happened with migrants is incorrect, he strongly condemns the hardships elderly are facing. “Choosing hospitals with facility available on third floor without lift is unimaginable. Senior citizens deserve respect and should have been given much improved vaccination procedure. Many are unable to use digital platforms to book their slots, furthermore the delay makes them more impatient. Dedicated helpline number with instant booking on phone could make this procedure easier. More hospitals should be added to ease rush; likewise citizens too need to keep patience,” says Renu. Chhabrani suggests taking support of NGOs in managing the vaccination drive. “NGOs should be provided a list of registered and non-registered senior citizens so that they can divide them area-wise and allot specific time slots. Volunteers can be present at spot to help the citizens,” she adds. Political scientist Anjali Gaidhane feels that the only solution to this is doubling up the efforts and finding out means to provide relief to the elderly. “Given the fact that we do not have the required infrastructure to vaccinate the elderly population of more than 6 lakh in Nagpur, it goes without saying that the problems are bound to arise. Now that the private hospitals too have been allowed to administer the vaccine at a cost of Rs250, those who can afford should choose that as an alternative,” she says. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B agrees that there were some glitches in the process. “This vaccination is totally different from the usual drives. More than 6 lakh people come in the category which is getting vaccinated now and we started the process with limited centers. People came in large numbers and faced issues,” he says. Adding that these problems can’t be fixed in a day or two, the commissioner assured that the civic body is taking best efforts. “We are increasing numbers of both, private and government hospitals. While earlier there would be a single window system, now we have different sections for pre-registered and walk-in patients and this has eased out things tremendously in the last two days. We have also started free-of-cost guidance for registration at our zonal center and are also providing shade, drinking water and other facilities at centers,” said Radhakrishanan. The commissioner has appealed to citizens to pre-register and go at the allotted time slot. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari says that to ensure less commotion, staffers are working in double shift. “The vaccination is now taking place between 8am to 10pm. I am personally visiting the centers to make sure that senior citizens do not face any challenges. The NGOs should step up and go door-to-door to help people register for the vaccines. Hardships will be much less if people pre-register,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sensitivity-must-towards-seniors-say-citizens/articleshow/81369813.cms||Manka Behl
March 7, 2021||Pune||4 vandalise new café over land dispute||Pune: The Koregaon Park police on Friday night booked four men on the charge of vandalising a café, newly constructed on a plot coming under the Sangamwadi town planning scheme in Koregaon Park, around 4.30pm — two days before it could be inaugurated on March 7. An FIR was filed by café owner Uday Kotnis (53). Kotnis said in his FIR, “Four men abused, beat two of my employees and vandalised the café with iron pipes. One of the suspects claimed that he and others had vanalised the café because the property belonged to his father-in-law.” Senior inspector Dilip Shinde said on Saturday, “There is a dispute between the two groups pending in the civil court over the issue of possession of the property, where the café was built. But as per an interim court order, Kotnis was earlier allowed to take possession of the land.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-vandalise-new-caf-over-land-dispute/articleshow/81369811.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Jaggi urges parties to free temples from govt control||Coimbatore: Jaggi Vasudev, founder of Isha Foundation, has written to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and opposition leader M K Stalin, to include his demand of freeing temples from the ‘government’s clutches’ in their election manifestos. Isha volunteers handed over the letters to the leaders on Saturday. “The Hindu religious and charitable endowments department recently informed the Madras high court that 11,999 temples have no revenue to perform even daily puja, 34,093 temples are struggling with less than Rs 10,000 as annual income and of 44,121 temples under its control in Tamil Nadu, more than 37,000 do not get enough revenue to appoint more than one person, who has to carry out all tasks including priestly and caretaker duties,” the letter said. “Hence, I request the leaders to declare their intent with regard to freeing temples in government control.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jaggi-urges-parties-to-free-temples-from-govt-control/articleshow/81370281.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Yarn export ban will reduce prices: Apparel industrialists||Tirupur: Apparel exporters here have sought the Union government’s intervention to check incessant surge in yarn prices.Usually, yarn prices increase with cotton prices, said R Sakthivel of Daffodil Fashion. “Prices go up by Rs 2 to Rs 5 per kilogram. But, this time, there has been a continuous increase, disproportionate with cotton prices. Since December, yarn prices have increased by Rs 65 per kilogram, which is expected to go up. Yarn prices have never gone up so steep in the last few decades,” he said.Exporters are struggling to take new orders and to process existing orders because of the price rally, Sakthivel said. “Its impact would become visible within two months. A lot of apparel units might shutdown due to lack of orders and it will have a ripple effect on the industries depending on them.”Most of the yarn mills in the northern part of the country that used to make a significant percentage of yarn are functioning with 50 to 60% of workforce since the lockdown, said another exporter. “Now, most of them prefer to export yarn rather than sell it in the local market, leading to yarn shortage. This has triggered panic buying,” he said.About 90% of the products exported from Tirupur are core products that can be made in any other country, said V Elangovan, president of the Buying Agents Association. “Already countries like Bangladesh and Vietnam have an advantage over us due to the free trade agreement. In this situation, if we demand retailers in European countries to revise the price, then chances are high that we might lose our orders. It will be very difficult to regain our place.”The government should immediately ban yarn export to bring down prices, Elangovan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/yarn-export-ban-will-reduce-prices-apparel-industrialists/articleshow/81370277.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 7, 2021||Coimbatore||40-year-old man beats parents to death||Dharmapuri: A 40-year-old two-wheeler mechanic murdered his father and mother by beating them with an iron rod over a property dispute at Indur village in the district on Friday night and surrendered before police on Saturday morning.An investigation officer identified the deceased as P Ramachandran, 65, and his wife Chinnarajee, 60, of Indur village. They were farmers. “Ramachandran had a piece of land and his son Ramasamy, who was an alcoholic, had urged his parents to register the property in his name.”Ramasamy, the officer said, was married with two children. “On Friday night, he reached home drunk and argued with his parents. At one stage, he attacked his parents using an iron rod and they sustained to their head injuries on the spot.”On Saturday morning, Ramasamy went to Indur police station and narrated the incident to the cops. Based on his confessional statement, police arrested him and retrieved the bodies, which were sent to the government hospital in Dharmapuri town for postmortem.Police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/40-year-old-man-beats-parents-to-death/articleshow/81370276.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Have no intention of changing name, say Karachi bakery owners||HYDERABAD: Days after the iconic Karachi bakery in Mumbai rolled down its shutters, after being involved in a controversy over its “Pakistani” name, the Hyderabad-based owners told STOI that they have no intention of changing the brand name. They also dismissed claims about the Bandra outlet shutting down because of the controversy. “We are closing it only because the lease agreement with the building owner has expired. Also, the rentals are very high. We will neither change the name nor pull out of Mumbai. We will service patrons from a new location in the city,” said Rajesh Ramnani, a member of the family, while admitting to the controversy “saddening” the family. “We are also a little scared. But we have to carry our legacy forward. There are a lot of memories attached to this place. I still remember how we used to spend time in the store after school since I was nine,” he said. Earlier this week, a tweet by MNS leader, Haji Saif Shaikh, claimed that bakery was forced to close down following protests: “After massive protest on Karachi Bakery for its name #Karachi led by vice-president of MNS - @mnshajisaif Karachi bakery finally closes its only shop in Mumbai,” he wrote aand even used party chief, Raj Thackeray’s name in it. In November 2020, Haji Saif Shaikh had even sent a legal notice to the owner saying the word “Karachi” hurt the sentiments of ordinary Indians and the Army because it is a Pakistani city. Claims of a protest were, however, dismissed by Lekhraj Ramnani, head of the family. He said, “This bakery has been established here by my father and grandfather. We were born in Karachi and hence we chose the name. It is important to remember that Karachi was also part of India before partition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/have-no-intention-of-changing-name-say-karachi-bakery-owners/articleshow/81370279.cms||Moulika.KV
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman accuses ex-boyfriend of rape and assault||MUMBAI: An aspiring model has lodged a complaint of rape against her former boyfriend at the DN Nagar police station on Thursday. Police said the 32-year-old accused and the woman were living together since 2018. According to her complaint, he made false promises of marriage and forced her into a sexual relationship. She has also alleged that he got physically and verbally abusive. No arrest has been made. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-woman-accuses-ex-boyfriend-of-rape-and-assault/articleshow/81370298.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Four arrested for stealing 14 vehicles||Pune: The Hadapsar police on Friday arrested four men on the charge of stealing 14 vehicles for joy rides. A police patrol member, Nitin Mundhe, spotted three men riding triple-seat on a motorcycle without a number plate and signalled them to stop but they picked up speed and fled. The patrol team intercepted them after a hot chase. They were arrested after questioning revealed their involvement in a series of vehicle thefts.The fourth suspect was arrested later. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-arrested-for-stealing-14-vehicles/articleshow/81369818.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Wellness package for women||Hyderabad: Celebrating the International Women’s Day, a private hospital in the city announced a free wellness health package for the female Covid-19 frontline warriors, which includes women police personnel and women doctors, in Hyderabad. Those eligible for this offer can avail it at the hospital between March 8 and 31. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wellness-package-for-women/articleshow/81370285.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Cops detain Marne under MPDA Act||Pune: The rural police on Saturday night detained gangster Gajanan alias Gajan Marne under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act for a year at the Yerawada central jail. In a joint action, the rural police and the Satara police took Marne into custody from his hideout at Medha village in Satara. Superintendent of police (Pune rural) Abhinav Deshmukh said, “We have detained Marne under the MPDA (Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities) Act based on the detention order issued by the district collector, Rajesh Deshmukh, on March 2.” The Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Raigad police had registered eight FIRs against Marne and others for taking out a cavalcade after he was released from the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai on February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-detain-marne-under-mpda-act/articleshow/81369816.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Duo held in Pune for assaulting dog||PUNE: Two men were arrested from Nana Peth on Saturday on the charge of brutally thrashing a stray dog with an iron rod a few days back.  The Samarth police identified the arrested as Farid Nur Sayyad (34) and Ashraf Mahmud Shaikh (29). Sub-inspector Suresh Choudhar of the Samarth police told TOI, “The two men were arrested on Saturday evening and will be produced before the court on Sunday.” Activists Neena Rai and Padmini Stump, founder of Mission Possible Foundation, Pune had filed the FIR in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-held-for-assaulting-dog/articleshow/81369820.cms||Neha Madaan
March 7, 2021||Bareilly||To run trains, team inspects PTR track to decide on safety measures for wildlife||Pilibhit: A joint team of officials of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR), North Eastern Railway’s construction division and the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) on Saturday inspected a 7-km stretch of meter gauge railway track passing through the core area of Mala forest range. The aim was to assess how to protect wildlife if trains are run on this line after broad gauge conversion. Giving details, deputy director of PTR Naveen Khandelwal said train service is currently suspended on this stretch. Two years ago, the railway authorities had applied for permission from the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) for the conversion of the meter gauge track to broad gauge on Pilibhit-Mailani section. Now, on NBWL’s order a three-member committee comprising deputy director of PTR, senior WII scientist Kaushik Banergee, and DGM of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited RL Saxena has been set up. It has been tasked to file a report on the requirements of PTR for the safety and unhindered movement of the wildlife around the railway line within two months. Thereafter, the process of issuing a ‘no objection certificate’ to NER for gauge conversion will begin, Khandelwal said. “For facilitating the team to assess the need for underpasses for the wildlife and other safe options, we installed 15 camera traps along the railway line to monitor the frequency of wildlife movement, especially of tigers, sloth bears and leopards. This will give us precise indication about the required safety measures,” said Khandelwal. Tiger expert Banergee who reviewed the threats to tigers by the broad gauge trains advised NER to maintain a speed limit of 20 km per hour while passing through the core area. “To ensure it, the railway authorities will install the required number of speedometers at the railway track duly equipped with auto sensors. The PTR will secure the authority of monitoring the trains’ speed along with the railway authorities,” said Khandelwal. The PTR authorities will also require from NER a written guarantee of maintaining the assigned speed limit and penalties to be imposed in case it is breached, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/to-run-trains-team-inspects-ptr-track-to-decide-on-safety-measures-for-wildlife/articleshow/81367935.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu techie hunts virtual bugs, pockets big bucks||CHENNAI: Laxman Muthiyah is a bounty hunter who claims his reward without stepping out of his home in Sembakkam, Chennai. His hunting ground is the virtual world and his prey the bugs that bother Facebook, Instagram and most recently Microsoft. In fact, Microsoft paid the 27-year-old self-taught independent security researcher Rs 36 lakh ($50,000), his highest bounty till date, for spotting vulnerability in the company’s online services that “might have allowed anyone to takeover any Microsoft account without consent”. In 2019, Laxman won a bug bounty of $40,000 from Facebook for finding a similar account takeover vulnerability in Instagram. In the half-a-dozen years that he has been a bug spotter, Laxman has collected a bounty of around Rs 80 lakh from various tech giants. But Laxman is no child prodigy nor a geek from his school days. He finished schooling, scoring 80%, from Devakottai and Karaikudi in Sivaganga district and did his engineering from a college on Chennai’s outskirts. The turning point was a workshop on ethical hacking Laxman attended at the Guindy College of Engineering in 2011. After that he focussed on learning about such programs. It helped that his family business was dealing in computer spare parts. In 2013, while still in college, Laxman collected his first bounty of $4,500 (Rs 2.8 lakh) for identifying vulnerabilities in Facebook. He’s been at it ever since, except for a year as a web developer at a private firm fresh out of college. “In the initial days, my family was worried as they could not understand what I was doing. When I quit my job after one year despite my employer offering to double my salary, my parents wondered what I was up to,” recalled Laxman. And, it hasn’t been smooth sailing all the way, says Laxman. There was a lull of four years before he was able to identify a bug in Instagram in 2019, during which period he kept his spirits up by updating his skills and reading blogs by fellow security researchers. “On the work front, all those who can relate to what I do and can have a conversation about it are in the virtual world. Over time, I have come to terms with it,” said Laxman. Google co-founder Larry Page is Laxman’s idol. He eventually wants to become an internet entrepreneur like Page.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-techie-hunts-virtual-bugs-pockets-big-bucks/articleshow/81370287.cms||Srikkanth D
March 7, 2021||Chennai||1 year of Covid: A battle won, a war still on||CHENNAI: A year ago on March 7, as she walked to isolation ward 214 at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, matron Vijayalakshmi S decided to forgo her PPE. Standing a metre away with her N95 mask on, she told the 45-year-old patient that he had tested positive– the first case of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu. “I wanted the patient to look into my eyes. I wanted him to know that our team will be by his side until he is discharged,” she said.  While the fear was visible on the patient’s face, it was hidden behind the masks and face shields of young doctors and nurses posted to the ward. Yet, they fought hard. Nearly 28 days later, doctors declared the patient fit for discharge. By then many things had changed — several health workers and their families, including Vijayalakshmi’s, were infected. The stigma and fear surrounding the virus had grown large, and the country was under a lockdown while officials worked overtime to upgrade infrastructure and evolve robust contact tracing systems. Asymptomatic patients were shifted to newly set up Covid care centres so hospitals could focus on those needing the most help. The state’s top priority was protecting healthcare providers.  “Most doctors and nurses returned to Covid wards after being treated for the infection because they trusted the system,” said Dr R Jayanthi, the then dean of RGGH. By August, when the bed occupancy level went up to 90% in most hospitals, healthcare providers were trained to manage the situation.  More than 70% of tests were conducted at 69 government labs for free. “Despite the expense and cumbersome purchase process, we stuck to gold standard RTPCR,” said Tamil Nadu Medical Service Corporation managing director P Umanath. “The turnaround time for results came down from 48 hours to four hours in weeks after we added labs and infrastructure. Now, the testing capacity has gone up by nearly 3,000 times.” The medical services corporation also ensured there was enough stock of medicines and even offered them to a private hospital at the same cost as purchased by the corporation. Officials kept themselves updated with global research. “Protocols and strategies changed every day. For instance, we initially ordered 3,000 ventilators, but when we knew the requirement for oxygen pipelines was more, we increased capacity in tertiary care hospitals by nearly six times. This infrastructure will stay for years after the pandemic ends,” said principal health secretary J Radhakrishnan. On Saturday, Vijayalakshmi was a theatre assistant, where she was posted in February after the hospital resumed more services. “The pandemic is still not over. We may have more patients again. When that happens, we will be able to prevent complications and death in most,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1-year-of-covid-a-battle-won-a-war-still-on/articleshow/81370291.cms||Pushpa Narayan
March 7, 2021||India||Kid killed as villagers fete jawan for medal||ALWAR: A six-year-old boy died while five other children were injured during celebratory firing at a procession to mark an Army jawan’s success in Alwar’s Badpura village on Saturday. None was arrested till the time of going to press. When Ramvir Gujjar, who was awarded a Sena medal for showing exemplary courage in taking on a terrorist in J&K, returned to his native place this week, village elders decided to celebrate his achievement by organising a procession. Residents of adjoining villages, including several children, also joined the procession on Saturday. “During the rally, some people started firing celebratory shots, one of which hit six-year-old Aman who died of excessive bleeding on the spot. Five other children sustained pellet injuries and were rushed to a hospital,” said a source. Sources said the shot that killed Aman was fired by Gujjar’s brother from a double-barrelled gun. Additional superintendent of police (Alwar) Sriman Meena said they hadn’t permitted any procession in the village. “The matter is under investigation and the culprit will be arrested soon,” he added. Gujjar didn’t respond to TOI’s repeated calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kid-killed-as-villagers-fete-jawan-for-medal/articleshow/81372180.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Teacher on his way to give tuitions robbed, 3 held||3 held for robbing tuition teacher: A teacher on his way to give tuitions was robbed at knifepoint by three robbers in southeast Delhi’s Kalindi Kunj. Police have arrested the three accused who allegedly dragged him to the bushes and robbed him. The incident happened on March 1 at 8.15 pm when robbers put a knife on the neck of the teacher who was attacked and overpowered.IANS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teacher-on-his-way-to-give-tuitions-robbed-3-held/articleshow/81370293.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Inmate trying to flee jail charged for rape, murder||PANAJI: A day before one of the inmates tried to flee the Colvale jail, a court has directed that charges be framed against him for rape and murder of a woman last year. The court also rejected his bail application on the same day. “The offence committed by the accused is heinous in nature against the woman and against the public. There is every possibility that the accused may threaten the boyfriend of the deceased and the witnesses. The accused is also a native of Odisha and a labourer. Therefore, there are chances that he may not appear during the trial and there is a possibility that he may flee,” the court had stated in its order pertaining to 23-yr-old Upendra alias Rupendra Naik prior to his escape attempt. Naik and another inmate who went missing from the central jail were traced at 3 am on Saturday sleeping within the jail premises. Newly appointed inspector general of prisons (IGP) Venancia Furtado while confirming that the two were found within the jail premises, said it would have been difficult for the two prisoners to escape as there is a three-tier security in place at the jail, while the outer wall is five meters high. An unnatural death was initially registered as no one had identified the body partly decomposed that was found lying in thick bushes near the Kadamba depot at Paithana, Salvador-Do Mundo, and thereafter and FIR was lodged against unknown persons. Public prosecutor C Simoes representing the complainant who was the deceased’s fiancé, stated that there is prima facie material on record to show that the accused along with a juvenile accused, raped and murdered her and thereafter destroyed the evidence. The court directed Naik to answer charges of rape, murder and destruction of evidence. A team of Goa police was deputed to Odisha to trace Upendra and he was brought to Goa in February last year. Porvorim police initially received a phone call from an unknown person informing that an unknown female was lying near the Kadamba depot and police registered a case of unnatural death. When the autopsy was conducted, the doctor opined that the cause of death was “asphyxia as a result of or object which was ante mortem and fatal in a female with ante mortem injuries over genitalia.” Police teams were deputed to identify the deceased after which the complaint was filed by the deceased’s fiancé against the two accused who were staying at Paithana, Salvador-Do Mundo. The juvenile apprehended at the construction site confessed to his involvement and was admitted at Apna Ghar as he was 16 years of age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/inmate-trying-to-flee-jail-charged-for-rape-murder/articleshow/81370296.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||NDA’s new deputy commandant takes charge||Pune: Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan took charge as deputy commandant and chief instructor of the National Defence Academy (NDA) on March 1. He is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Pune (1986), Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, Naval War College Mumbai and National Defence College , New Delhi. He was commissioned into the Indian Navy on January 1, 1988 and specialized in gunnery and missile systems in 1994. He has served on frontline ships of the Indian Navy, including as the commissioning crew of guided missile destroyer and INS Mysore. His Command assignments include a coast guard IPV, Missile vessels INS Vibhuti and INS Nashak, missile corvette INS Kuthar and guided missile frigate INS Sahyadri (commissioning crew). He was Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Fleet, Vishakhapatnam, before assuming charge as deputy commandant and chief instructor at NDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ndas-new-deputy-commandant-takes-charge/articleshow/81369831.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Veteran theatre, film, TV actor Shrikant Moghe no more||PUNE: Veteran stage, film, and television actor Shrikant Moghe passed away late on Saturday at the age of 91 due to age-related illnesses. Moghe was educated across Maharashtra, including in Pune’s SP College and held a degree in architecture, but it was his passion for theatre that took hold as a career. His family included his poet-lyricist brother Sudhir, who passed away almost seven years ago, and his son Shantanu and daughter-in-law Priya Marathe, both actors. He became known for his long association in theatre with Pu La Deshpande, acting in lead and supporting roles in a number of his plays. He also directed some plays, most notably Varyavarchi Varaat and the satire Tujhe Aahe Tujpashi. Aside from theatre, his appearances in films also created a mark in Marathi cinema, with him taking acting credits in no less than 50 films. He worked with the filmmaker Jabbar Patel in Sinhaasan and Umbartha. “I have seen his journey over many years, and I saw his wonderful sense of music, especially the various branches of Indian classical music, added to his taste in Urdu, him being a fluent speaker of the language. Besides, he was a great presence on the set, with his sense of humour, intelligence and his taste in colours and forms.  In the film Sinhaasan, he managed to bring in humour even in a dark, political drama. Whenever we attempted an experiment in theatre, he would be the first to admire,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/veteran-theatre-film-tv-actor-shrikant-moghe-no-more/articleshow/81369826.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Lucknow||Myneni-Bhambri duo clinches UP Open||LUCKNOW: It was a special day for top seed Saketh Myneni who not only won the doubles title in parternship with Yuki Bhambri but also set up singles final clash with Zane Khan of the US in the UP Open World Tennis Tour (WTT) $15,000 ITF men’s tennis at Vijayantkhand Stadium here on Saturday. In the doubles finals, experienced duo Yuki Bhambri and Saketh Myneni played in tandem to score a 6-2, 6-3 win over giant killers Kaza Vinayak Sharma and N Vijay Sundar Prashanth. The doubles’ winner pair received 10 points $930 (Rs 68,000) while the runners-up received 6 points $550 (Rs 40,250) in prize money. In the singles semi-finals, former Davis Cup winner Saketh Myneni beat Aidan Mchugh of Britain 6-3, 6-4 in 1 hour and 38 minutes’ match. Myneni broke Mchugh in the 6th game of the first set. In the second set, Myneni raced to 3-1 lead breaking the 20-year-old British player in the second game. However, Mchugh hung on and broke Myneni in the 5th game and held on to his serve to level the score at 3-3. Myneni did not let Mchugh make a comeback immediately breaking him in the 8th game of the set. In the second semi-final, Zane Khan of the US maintained his splendid run ousting fifth seed Eric Vanshelboim of Ukraine 6-4, 6-1 in a match spanning 1 hour and 33 minutes. Winners and runners-up of the doubles event were awarded by Lucknow divisional commissioner Ranjan Kumar, treasurer, Indian Olympic Association, Anandeshwar Pandey and tournament director Punit Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/myneni-bhambri-duo-clinch-up-open/articleshow/81371321.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Plea for hyacinth removal from Mula river||Pune: The uncontrolled growth of water hyacinth in the Mula river, which passes through the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) area, has aggravated mosquito breeding, causing discomfort to citizens in many areas of the KCB for the last few days. Pramod Kumar Singh, ceo, KCB, has written to the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to take necessary steps to remove hyacinth from the river. “Since the river area doesn’t fall under our jurisdiction, we can’t undertake cleaning work. The source of hyacinth is from the PCMC area. We have highlighted this issue in two letters sent to them recently. We have urged them to take measures as citizens living along the river in our area are facing mosquito menace,” Singh added. Ashok Uplup, chairman of a housing society at Gandhaknagar, said, “Our society, located near the Mula river, has now become a hotbed of mosquito breeding. Swarms of mosquitos have disturbed our life. We have requested the authorities to find a permanent solution to address the matter.” Abhay Savant, former elected member of the KCB, said, “The river is mainly polluted in the PCMC area. They need to keep a tab on drainage water being released into their areas” Vikas Dhakne, additional commissioner, PCMC, said, “We have called a special meeting with our health department to find a solution and take counter measures to address the menace on a priority basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plea-for-hyacinth-removal-from-mula-river/articleshow/81369835.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 7, 2021||Pune||Rake trials on Vanaz-Garware College ‘priority’ Metro stretch in one month||Pune: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) is planning to start trials on the Vanaz-Garware College stretch in a month after the successful run on the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation-Dapodi section.The rakes arrived recently and the MahaMetro would mount them on the viaducts in the next few weeks to initiate the trials. Detailed planning is under way for the installation. The Vanaz-Garware stretch is a part of the Line 2 — the completely elevated Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor.The trial runs would be conducted on smaller stretches in the initial stage as the work of some portions of the viaduct is still under way. The work of laying tracks has been completed where the viaduct is ready. The pending work of the viaduct is expected to get over in a few days. Hemant Sonawane, the general manager (public relations) of MahaMetro, said, “We have sped up the viaduct work in the Vanaz-Garware College priority section. The work of tracks and poles for the overhead traction is on in full swing. The trials will begin in phases either by this month end or early next month (April).”The MahaMetro had conducted trials of the rake on the PCMC-Dapodi stretch (a part of Line 1, from PCMC to Swargate) in phases. The trials were on for almost a year. The rake was operated on the entire section in the last stages of the trials. A similar strategy would be adopted for the 5km Vanaz-Garware College stretch as well. An official from the MahaMetro said, “The works were pending in two crucial stretches — near Paud Phata and ahead of Shivteerthnagar on Paud Road. We are hoping that the viaducts at both locations will be ready soon as most hurdles that delayed the work has been cleared.” In addition to this, the MahaMetro has also accelerated the work of stations in Vanaz-Garware College section”.The Paud Phata Metro section joins Paud Road and Karve Road. The viaduct takes a sharp turn along the curve. It is also a busy junction in terms of road traffic. Hence, the completion of work in this stretch stands important for the Metro as well as for the road users.“The start of the trials is the most crucial part of the project as it checks various parameters — alignment of tracks, gradient, curves and alignment of viaducts,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rake-trials-on-vanaz-garware-college-priority-metro-stretch-in-one-month/articleshow/81369841.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu man facing gallows claims not guilty, HC judges visit crime spot||COIMBATORE: Two judges of the Madras high court on Saturday visited a crime scene at a village near Thudiyalur in Coimbatore district, and held inquiry over the rape and murder of a minor girl in March 2019. In the rare move, senior judges Justice P N Prakash and Justice T S Sivagnanam spent at least two hours at the village and held inquiry with the victim’s family members and villagers. The case relates to the rape and murder of a seven-year-old child in which the accused was sentenced to death by a Pocso court. Since it was a death sentence, the case was referred to the HC and was pending before the judges. While forensic report based on DNA test said that traces of two DNAs were found in the semen collected from the girl’s body and one of it matched with that of Santhoshkumar, who was sentenced to death, the source of the other DNA trace was being probed. The convict, meanwhile, told the HC that he was innocent, and his defence team claimed there were contradictions in the DNA report. Police, who did not allow mediapersons anywhere near the village, said those taking photos or videographs of the judges or the inquiry will face criminal cases. Later, the judges met subordinate judicial officers at the combined court complex. It was on March 31, 2019, that the Class I student, playing in front of her home went missing. The next day her body was found dumped near her house. Around 15 days later, K Santhoshkumar (34) of Uliyampalayam in Coimbatore was arrested. The postmortem report revealed that the girl had been raped before she was murdered, and traces of semen were noticed in the private part of the victim. Samples were duly was sent to forensic science laboratory in Chennai for DNA match. While Santhoshkumal undergoing trial for offences under POCSO Act, forensic experts submitted DNA reports and claimed that traces of two DNAs were found in the semen collected from the girl’s body and that one matched with Santhoshkumar. The special court continued the trial and sentenced Santhoshkumar to death on December 27, 2019. It also directed the Thudiyalur all-women police station to conduct a separate investigation to trace the another person. Police collected blood samples from 11 friends of the accused and relatives of the minor girl and sent them to the forensic science laboratory in Chennai. Results are still awaited. Besides the automatic referred trial, Santhoshkumar also approached the Madras high court in January 2020 and sought legal aid. The court also appointed a lawyer from the panel of legal aid counsel. During appeal arguments, the defence counsel claimed that there were a lot of contradictions in the DNA analysis report and that the condemned convict claimed that he was not involved in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-man-facing-gallows-claims-not-guilty-hc-judges-visit-crime-spot/articleshow/81370295.cms||A Subburaj
March 7, 2021||Patna||Patna: Property dealer stabbed for resisting loot dies||PATNA: Three unidentified criminals stabbed property dealer Vinay Krishna, 50, with an iron rod when he resisted their bid to snatch his bike and other valuables in the city on Friday night. Vinay, also an active BJP worker, died during treatment around 5am on Saturday. The incident took place in front of SL Misser petrol pump on Bypass road near Begumpur under Bypass police station around 9.30pm when he was returning home from a housewarming party. Showing courage despite being injured, Vinay had chased the criminals and rang up his friend Ranjeet Kumar for help. He narrated the incident to his family members in the hospital. One of his family friends said besides being associated with BJP for several years, Vinay was an affluent person and property dealer having several acres of land in his name in Begumpur and surrounding areas. His family friend said Vinay had gone to attend a housewarming party of a person from where he had to meet Ranjeet, who owns a warehouse alongside the Bypass road. “Vinay was hardly 50 metres away from the warehouse when three youths standing on the roadside stopped him and tried to loot his bike and other valuables. However, Vinay resisted the loot attempt,” he said. He said one of the youths was having a piece of iron road used in building construction. “He stabbed Vinay in the abdomen with that rusted rod. All three fled on foot. Vinay gave them a chase and rang up Ranjeet, who reached there immediately,” he said. Bypass police station SHO Sanjeet Sinha said efforts were on to identify the killers. “They are suspected to be local criminals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/property-dealer-stabbed-for-resisting-loot-dies/articleshow/81369844.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||BSF guns down Pak intruder in Bikaner sector||JAISALMER: BSF jawans on Friday night killed a Pakistani intruder at Anupgarh in Ganganagar district under Bikaner sector. After the incident, the area was cordoned off and a search operation launched, though it did not yield any results. During a body search, some Pakistan currency was found on the intruder. Security analysts said it could have been a dummy drive to check the level of preparedness of the armed forces along the border by Pakistani agencies. Protesting the incident, the BSF held a flag meeting with Pakistan Rangers and submitted a protest note. The BSF tried to hand over the body, but Pakistan Rangers refused to take it. The body was later buried near the border. According to senior BSF officers at Kailash border outpost, around 8pm on Friday, jawans saw some movement in Pakistan area and detected an intruder trying to enter India through BP No. 368/1 Though the jawans challenged him, the intruder reached near the fencing. When the BSF warned him again, he started running towards Pakistan following which the border force fired at him and killed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-guns-down-pak-intruder-in-bikaner-sector/articleshow/81370305.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Lucknow||Delhi, Chennai stun rivals to seal berth in hockey finals||Fazal Khan Lucknow: Delhi edged past Bhopal while Chennai defeated Lucknow in the semi-finals to secure their berth in the finals of the All-India SBI Inter-Circle hockey tournament at Mohammed Shahid Stadium. In the first semi-final of the day, Bhopal started off on the front foot when Syed Mansoor Ali scored for his team in the 4th minute of the game. Mohammad Naeem too hit a goal in the 23rd minute. Kunal Rawat gave a breakthrough to Delhi in the 18th minute of the game. Stepping up the attack, Deepak Bhalla (41st minute) and RRS Shahi (56th minute) ensured Delhi’s 3-2 victory over Bhopal. In the second semi-final, hosts Lucknow were defeated by Chennai 2-0. Faustus Leo scored the first goal for Chennai in very first minute of the game followed by another goal by Suresh in the 15th minute. Delhi and Chennai will clash for the title on Sunday. An award ceremony will be held at Anandi Water Park & Resorts at 5pm which will be followed by a ‘kavi sammelan’. Press XI outshine Jal Kal XI : In a keenly contested match, Press XI defeated Jal Kal XI by a narrow margin of one run in the ongoing Lucknow Nagar Nigam Cricket Tournament at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Saturday. Batting first, Press XI scored 148 runs (five wickets) with the help of impressive innings by Sudhir Tiwari (69 not out) and Abhishek Mishra (40). In reply, Dheeraj Verma's 46-run knock and 45 by Raja Dhanuk went in vain as Jal Kal XI fell short by one run scoring 147 in stipulated 20 overs. Brief scores: Press XI: 148/5 (Sudhir 69, Abhishek 40, Anish 23; Murli 2-17), Jal Kal XI: 147/3 (Dheeraj 46, Raja 45; Rajeev 1-27, Pranchal 1-31); Man of the match: Sudhir Tiwari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/delhi-chennai-stun-rivals-to-seal-berth-in-hockey-finals/articleshow/81371388.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Delhi||After long gap, Forest dept finally begins recruitments||New Delhi: Delhi forest and wildlife department, which has been facing an acute shortage of manpower for the past few years, has started the recruitment process with the appointment of 11 wildlife guards and four forest rangers. Two retired wildlife inspectors have also been appointed on a contractual basis. Online examinations to recruit 211 forest guards are underway across the country, while the exams for wildlife inspector will be conducted in the second week of this month. The functioning of the forest department — whose work is to protect the green cover, rescue wildlife and prevent wildlife crimes — has been affected with no appointments for many posts for the last few years. A senior forest official said that the present staff is overburdened. “For instance, few ground staff members are available for inspection if we receive many complaints related to damage done to trees. For rescue of animals, we are mostly dependent on NGOs,” the official said. The 11 wildlife guards’ posts have been lying vacant for a long time and after the fresh appointment, seven have joined duty while four are expected to report soon. Before the recent appointment of four rangers, only one wildlife ranger on deputation was available in the department. The four rangers, who will soon join duty, will have to undergo mandatory training of 18 months as their posts have statutory power. Similarly, all seven posts of wildlife inspectors, who are mainly tasked with preventing smuggling of wildlife articles and ensuring wildlife rescue, were lying vacant following the retirement of the lone officer in December last year. “We have appointed two wildlife inspectors on contract basis and for the permanent appointments, an examination will be conducted in the second week of March. The posts of wildlife inspector also have statutory power and after recruitment, they will have to do training of 18 months,” said an official. The forest department had only a total of 108 posts but National Green Tribunal (NGT) created 290 new posts in 2019. On NGT direction, 211 forest guards have to be appointed. However, the forest department received over 7 lakhs applications from candidates across the country for 211 posts of forest guards. “Considering the huge number of applicants, it was decided to organize online exams across the country. However, the process of conducting online exams was delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. The exams which began on March 1 will continue till March 7. After exams, the selected candidates will have to go for a physical test,” said an official. Of the total new posts created by NGT, 66 foresters, one veterinarian, two compounders and one legal advisor will be recruited for the first time and the process of their recruitment is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-long-gap-forest-dept-finally-begins-recruitments/articleshow/81370315.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man killed at Ahmedabad's Yamraj parlour over rent||AHMEDABAD: In a case of tragic irony, a man was stabbed to death when he went to Yamraj Pan Parlour in Vastral to collect 3 months’ worth of rent. Bipin Prajapati was killed on Friday allegedly by his tenants. Nita Prajapati filed a complaint of murder and abetment against Dashrath Thakor, and Hitendra Parmar, who had rented the shop in Vadshree Shopping Centre in Vastral from her husband for Rs 17,000 a month. Ramol police have arrested Parmar, 23. According to the FIR, when Prajapati, a painting and masonry contractor, did not return from work by 8.30pm Nita called him around 8.45pm. “He said he was at our shop in Vastral to collect pending rent. He said he would be home in 45 minutes. I waited an hour and called back but his phone was switched off. My daughter then called Kashyap Trivedi, who lives on the fifth floor of Vadshree Residency, to check if Bipin was still at the shop. Trivedi said my husband’s motorcycle was there but the shop’s doors were closed. After taking a look inside, he told us to get there immediately,” said Nita. “When I got there, I saw my husband with stab wounds to his head and chest. He was dead,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-killed-at-yamraj-parlour-over-rent/articleshow/81369857.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||‘Violent’ Nigerian dies of suspected drug overdose||Panaji: A case of unnatural death of a Nigerian national was registered by Anjuna police after he was suspected to have died of drug overdose. Police said that around 5.30am on Saturday, a taxi driver stopped his car for help near a restaurant as his Nigerian passenger had become violent. Thereafter, the staff of the restaurant called the police to the spot. On seeing the police, the Nigerian became more violent and assaulted the owner and a staff of the restaurant. Police, with the help of restaurant staff, managed to calm the foreigner and shifted him to a private hospital in Anjuna. As per the taxi driver, the Nigerian might have consumed drugs due to which he was violent, police said. Anjuna PI Suraj Gawas said the restaurant owner, Sandesh Chandrakant Pilankar, a resident of Arpora, lodged a complaint against the Nigerian for assaulting, abusing and threatening him and his staff. Anjuna police then registered an FIR. “A letter was later received from the private hospital stating that the Nigerian national, who was admitted in the hospital, died of suspected drug overdose,” Gawas said. Police said that around 5.30am on Saturday, a taxi driver stopped his car for help near a restaurant as his Nigerian passenger had become violent. Thereafter, the staff of the restaurant called the police to the spot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/violent-nigerian-dies-of-suspected-drug-overdose/articleshow/81370314.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||‘Private hospitals must adhere to PMJAY protocol or face de-empanelment’||PUNE: The Centre on Saturday warned the private hospitals of serious action, including expulsion from the panel of facilities under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (PMJAY), if they do not maintain transparency about the walk-in slots for Covid-19 vaccination or turned away people with scheduled appointments. The National Health Authority’s chief executive officer, R S Sharma, told TOI, “These are early days and we want to take control of the situation. It is a worrying trend that some private hospitals are not being transparent about the slots available and inoculating people as per their own whims,” he said. “We do not even have to launch an inquiry as we have all the data and metadata. The errant hospitals can directly face de-empanelment for going against the central programme and protocol,” said Sharma.  Citizens from different states complained about walk-ins being given preference over registered beneficiaries. The Union health department has issued a warning in this regard. The private hospitals should make a clear distinction between a reserved booking and an unreserved booking, said Sharma. “Priority must be given to those who have reserved their slots,” he said. The hospitals had access to the facility management dashboard and should use it to prepare vaccination timetables and declare the vacant slots, Sharma added. While the number of registration for vaccination is slowly picking up — 13.38 lakh people were inoculated till 3pm on Friday, private hospitals would be strictly monitored from the next week. Notices would be issued in case of norms violation, said Sharma, who also heads the empowered committee for the administration of Covid-19 vaccines. The current scheduling system allows people to book a slot between 9am and 5pm and walk-ins are allowed only if slots are available after 3pm. The state officials stressed that there is no shortage of vaccine supply and they have 44 lakh doses with them as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/refusal-to-vaccinate-people-with-appointments-to-cost-hospitals-spot-in-pmjay-empanelled-list-centre-in-maharashtra/articleshow/81372043.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 7, 2021||Lucknow||Announcement of women’s football league illegal: UPFS||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Football Sangh (UPFS) on Saturday said that the announcement for holding of state women's football league is fake and no such move has been initiated by the All-India Football Federation (AIFF). In a statement, UPFS president Sanjay Sinh said, "Despite AIFF opposition, Mohd Shahid called an AGM last year in violation of rules and took over as UPFS general scretary in an unauthorised manner. He has now announced holding of women's football league which is illegal." Claiming that AIFF had not directed Mohd Shahid to hold any such event, he said tha no referee or player should participate in the event, otherwise disciplinary action could be initiated against them. He said UPFS was planning to take legal action against Mohd Shahid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/announcement-of-womens-football-league-illegal-upfs/articleshow/81371459.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Netas get media gagged; Karnataka minister sees a plot||BENGALURU: On the day six ministers in the BS Yediyurappa cabinet secured a court injunction restraining media from airing or publishing anything defamatory about them, the state’s home and law minister Basavaraj Bommai talked of attempts to destabilise the state, politically.  He said the police suspect some forces of trying to blackmail elected representatives after honey-trapping them with the aim to create political instability in the state. He said their suspicion stems from the fact that even after five days of the Ramesh Jarkiholi CD case becoming public, neither the woman has come forward nor the complainant has disclosed anything.  “Such long delays either by the woman or complainant can only mean one thing: A bigger political conspiracy could be at play to create political instability in the state,” he said. Meanwhile, political circles are agog with speculation that some more ministers and MLAs might be moving court on Monday to gain similar restraint orders against the media. Ministers B Basavaraj, K Sudhakar, BC Patil, Shivaram Hebbar, ST Somashekar and KC Narayana Gowda on Friday had moved court after water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi resigned after a CD was leaked to the media. After hearing their plea, the court on Saturday restrained 67 media outfits from airing or publishing any defamatory content about the six ministers.  However, the ex-parte order passed by additional city civil and sessions judge, Mayo Hall unit, clarified that media houses can publish authenticated and true news after verification without making defamatory remarks about the six ministers. These six ministers were part of 17 rebel MLAs who tendered their resignation from the House in July 2019.They sought injunction order follows social activist Dinesh Kallahalli claiming he was in possession of more CDs about a minister and two key personalities. “Ex-CM Kumaraswamy has spoken about a Rs 5-crore deal and some others that sex CDs of 19 MLAs will be released in the next couple of days. We have directed police to probe all these angles,” Bommai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/netas-get-media-gagged-karnataka-minister-sees-a-plot/articleshow/81372276.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Senior citizens overtake frontline workers in Aurangabad vax drive||Aurangabad: Within six days of rolling out the third phase of the vaccination drive for citizens above the age of 60 years, as many as 6,483 senior citizens in Aurangabad city have taken the first dose of the vaccine, indicating an overwhelming response to the drive among the elderly.  The senior citizens have overtaken the frontline workers (FLW) in the vaccination drive within no time. Only 5,974 frontline workers have taken the first jab so far since the launch of the second phase in February 2. Dr Neeta Padalkar, health officer of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Saturday said none of the elderly citizens who have taken the vaccine has reported any major adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) “The overwhelming response of the senior citizens to the vaccination drive will have a far-reaching positive effect,” she said. Surekhan Bhalerao, a senior citizen who took the Covid vaccine on Saturday, said, “The vaccine is a relief in the fight against Covid-19 and offers a shield to vulnerable groups. I took the first dose along with my husband without any fear,” she said. Along with the elderly, citizens above 45 years of age with comorbidities are also getting the vaccine in the third-phase of Covid drive. A total of 1,485 such beneficiaries got the first jab within six days by Saturday as per the official data. A total of 13,683 health workers have taken the first dose while another 5,265 have received the second dose within the AMC limits. Also,44 frontline workers have taken the second jab.  While AMC has increased the total number of vaccination centres to 13, six private hospitals in the city will start giving the jab from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/senior-citizens-overtake-frontline-workers-in-aurangabad-vax-drive/articleshow/81368444.cms||Prasad Joshi
March 7, 2021||Lucknow||Ram temple funds drive touched 10cr Indians: Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary||AYODHYA: Crowdfunding for the Ram temple, which ended last week had touched over 10 crore families in 4 lakh villages across India in a well-coordinated drive that included a meticulously-built digital network, bridging volunteers, banks and the temple trust. Forty-nine control rooms were set up across the country to ensure transparency and seamless coordination. Talking to reporters in Delhi, general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai, said, contributions for temple construction have crossed Rs 2,500 crore, based on bank receipts till February 4. “This was the world’s biggest funds-raising campaign and people can still donate online through the new Trust website — https://srjbtkshetra.org/donation-options. Foreign devotees are requested to wait a little more. They will be notified on completion of FCRA formalities,” he said. “Around 9lakh VHP cadre split into 1.75 lakh teams to launch the door-to-door campaign across the country and funds were deposited in banks by 38,125 karyakartas.  To ensure transparency, 49 control rooms worked round-the-clock with 23 qualified karyakartas and chartered accountants monitoring deposits from the nodal centre at Delhi. The app created by Hyderabad-based Dhanusha Infotech Company helped in the operations,” he said. An audit of the funds-raising campaign would be completed by March-end. “Devotees have made their contributions. From the North-East, people of Arunachal Pradesh contributed Rs 4.5 crore, Manipur Rs 2 crore, Mizoram Rs 0.2 crore, Nagaland Rs 0.3 crore, Meghalaya Rs 0.9crore. Devotees from Tamil Nadu contributed Rs 85 crore and Kerala Rs 13 crore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-funds-drive-touched-10cr-indians-rai/articleshow/81371528.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Raped by witch doctor, pharmacist tries to kill self||AHMEDABAD: A 29-year-old woman from Vadaj on Friday filed a complaint with police alleging that a witch doctor, whom she had approached to get back her husband who had abandoned her around two years ago, raped her and shot nude videos using which he blackmailed her and took Rs 2.50 lakh from her. The woman had tried to die by suicide on Friday by consuming sleeping pills from the medical store of a Naranpura hospital where she worked. In her complaint with Vadaj police, the woman, said she had met the accused, Anand Vaghela, a resident of Ellisbridge, around two years ago after her husband abandoned her. She said her cousin introduced her to Vaghela, who promised he would ensure that her husband returned to her. Vaghela told her that he would have to perform tantric rituals after which her husband would start loving her. She followed his advice and performed the rituals. During this, they began chatting on WhatsApp. Later, he took her to various hotels in the city and raped her. She alleged that he secretly filmed the acts and blackmailed her. She claimed Vaghela even threatened her to kill her family. She tried to avoid Vaghela, but he thrashed her brother near Naranpura a year ago and began stalking her and harassing her when she went to her workplace. As he continued to harass her, she took sleeping pills and tried to commit suicide on Friday. She was admitted to a hospital after which a medico-legal complaint was filed. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/raped-by-witch-doctor-pharmacist-tries-to-kill-self/articleshow/81369864.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Delhi||CM: AAP works for education of poor||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated the new premises of the Rashtriya Shoshit Parishad, a social organisation that works for the upliftment of Dalits. The CM said that all political parties had conspired for the last 70 years to ensure Dalits and the exploited remained poor while the rich became richer. The CM added that in the last five years, Aam Aadmi Party has brought a revolution in the education sector in Delhi and has worked to fulfil the dream of Baba Saheb Ambedkar who believed education is the key for the Dalit community to equate with the rest of the society. Kejriwal said Delhi government has launched a scheme, Jai Bheem Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana, to financially support Dalit students who need to attend any private coaching institutes for exams, and thousands of students are taking advantage of it. For higher studies, the Delhi government provides collateral-free loans up to Rs 10 lakh for college. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-aap-works-for-education-of-poor/articleshow/81370348.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Goa||Arguments in Tejpal case likely to conclude tomorrow||PANAJI: Arguments in the trial against Tehelka founder-editor Tarun Tejpal for allegedly raping a woman at a starred hotel in the state are likely to conclude on Monday. The 7-year-old case, which saw many twists and turns, is nearing its completion as the defence concluded its arguments before the court on Saturday. The survivor has completed her deposition before the additional sessions judge. Special public prosecutor Francisco Tavora told TOI that he had concluded his arguments on Thursday and he will reply to the rejoinder on Monday. Tavora said that when he concluded the arguments in the case on Thursday, he told the court that be allowed to reply to Tejpal’s lawyers’ arguments after they conclude. We have completed the arguments in the case, Tejpal’s counsel Rajeev Gomes told TOI. Gomes said that they may also reply to the prosecution on Monday after the reply to the rejoinder. In September 2017, a Mapusa court had framed charges against Tejpal for allegedly raping a junior colleague at a five-star hotel at Bambolim in November 2013. Tejpal had pleaded ‘not guilty’, paving the way for a trial. The cross-examination of the survivor began on October 21, 2019. Earlier, Tejpal had, through a criminal revision application, challenged the framing of charges by the additional district and sessions court. On December 20, 2017, the high court of Bombay at Goa had dismissed Tejpal’s application. Tejpal has been charged for offences under sections 354 (assaulting or using criminal force on a woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 354-A (outraging modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrong confinement), 376 (rape), 376(2) (f) (person in position of trust or authority over women, committing rape of such women) and 376(2) (k) (rape of a woman by a person being in position of control or dominance over the woman).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arguments-in-tejpal-case-likely-to-conclude-tomorrow/articleshow/81370373.cms||Murari Shetye
March 7, 2021||India||Supreme Court may resume some physical hearing from middle of March||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court, which is hearing cases through video-conferencing since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will commence hybrid physical hearings from March 15. The SC has issued the standard operating procedure for the hearings. Several bar bodies and lawyers have been demanding that physical hearings should resume immediately. “On an experimental basis, the final hearings/regular matters listed on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays may be heard in the hybrid mode, as may be decided by the bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the courtrooms; all other matters shall continue to be heard through video/tele-conferencing mode,” said the SOP.  “In any such matter as may be listed for hybrid hearing, all the counsels appearing for one party can appear either through physical presence or through video/tele-conferencing,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-may-resume-some-physical-hearing-from-middle-of-march/articleshow/81372280.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Eye check-up for sex workers||Kolkata: A group of 80 sex workers in Kalighat, the majority of whom have blurred vision and eye pain — a common side effects of sexually transmitted diseases — underwent eye check-up at a camp held by Disha Eye Hospitals in association with New Light NGO on Saturday as part of International Women’s Day celebrations this week. “Since the rehabilitation activities require sharp vision, I realized they needed eye check-up,” said Urmi Basu, founder and executive director of the NGO. “A lot of them have cataracts and many need rectification of the refractive error and require glasses,” said Ananya Ganguly, a doctor at the camp. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eye-check-up-for-sex-workers/articleshow/81370299.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Panel makes cycle-friendly infra plans for New Town||Kolkata: A committee has been formed, involving officials of Hidco, NKDA, traffic police, NGOs and other stakeholders, to promote cycling in New Town and it has made several plans to develop bicycle-friendly infrastructure in the area. In the first meeting, held recently, a number of decisions was taken. The authorities will start highlighting the advisory to set up cycle stands in all big residential and commercial complexes in New Town like it has been done at Hidco Bhavan. A software will be developed for automatic cycle recognition on the streets of New Town through the 500-plus CCTV cameras being installed across the township using artificial intelligence, video analytics and RFID tags. Students will also be involved in observing ‘Cycle Safety Week’ as an awareness campaign. New Town has recently been shortlisted among the country’s top 25 cycle-friendly cities. According to recent surveys by the authorities, the number of woman cyclists in New Town has increased by 200%, partly due to the cycle training sessions being held at the New Town football ground every Sunday. More than 11,500 people have registered on the app-based public bicycle sharing scheme since it was reintroduced last year. The authorities plan to introduce 400 e-cycles in New Town soon. It has also been found that sale of premium bicycles has gone up by 70% in the last six months and sale of mid-range cycles has increased by about 40%. Hidco has set up 17km of dedicated bicycle lanes across New Town and demarcated another 2km to add to it. Besides, smart cycle stands with docking systems, a 24-hour mobile cycle clinic and plans to set up the state’s first velodrome with a circular cycle track for racing and other cycle events are in the offing. “All these initiatives are being taken to carry forward our commitment to further develop cycle-friendly infrastructure in New Town as a sustainable and environment friendly mode of transportation,” said Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-makes-cycle-friendly-infra-plans-for-new-town/articleshow/81370292.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Restore mediclaim policies to weight-loss patient: Court||Ahmedabad: The consumer courts have ordered ICICI Lombard General Insurance Co Ltd to restore two Mediclaim policies of Chandrima Chakravorty, who lost them after she underwent a surgery for weight reduction eight years ago.The insurer not only refused to pay Rs 4 lakh for her treatment but cancelled her policies on basis of her treating doctors’ report that she was suffering from disc prolapse for 5 years before the surgery, since 2008. The insurer also got an opportunity to state that Chakravorty had hidden the fact about her pre-existing disease and terminated her Mediclaim policies accusing her of suppression of facts about pre-existing disease. She was having the problem since 2008 and did not disclose it while obtaining the policy in2012.Chakravorty approached the Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum, Ahmedabad (rural), which ordered the insurer to pay her Rs 4 lakh and restore her policies. But the company challenged the forum’s order before Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, which upheld the decision. The commission did not accept the insurer’s contention that the patient had hidden her pre-existing disease and concluded that the doctors’ certificate did not disclose since when Chakravorty had disc prolapse. Chakravorty (35) was 143 kg and had BMI of 49.23. She underwent bariatric procedure for morbid obesity in May 2013. While seeking Mediclaim of Rs 4 lakh for her treatment, she said it was a surgery to prevent complication arising from morbid obesity. Her claim was rejected on the ground that her policy did not cover treatment of obesity. While ordering restoration of policies, the commission asked the insurer to pay Rs 5,000 compensation to her for mental pain and legal expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restore-mediclaim-policies-to-weight-loss-patient-court/articleshow/81369870.cms||Saeed Khan
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||60-year-old held for rape, molestation in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 60-year-old man was arrested for raping and abusing his neighbours — two sisters aged 14 and nine — in the Rajabagan area in Metiabruz under the Port division. Cops confirmed that while one girl was raped, the other was molested. The actual crime, sources said, took place a few weeks ago. A local political leader allegedly asked the family not to report the matter to cops and promised the accused would be thrown out of his residence. According to these sources, the incident came to light on Friday after the victims came face to face with the accused and decided they had to involve the police. “We have received the complaint and arrested the accused,” said DC (Port) Zafar Ajmal Kidwai. Sources said the accused had invited the sisters to his house a few weeks ago and abused them. The girls informed their family and reportedly decided to approach cops. However, the political leader and a few locals promised to take steps and stopped them. “When they realized they would not get justice, they contacted us. We plan to get the statements of the girls and their family recorded before a magistrate at the earliest. We told the family they will get all legal support from us,” said an officer. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/60-year-old-held-for-rape-molestation/articleshow/81370294.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Light rain likely in Delhi today, mercury to rise soon||NEW DELHI: The maximum temperature in Delhi is likely to rise by three to four degrees Celsius in the next few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Light rain and winds gusting up to 40 kilometres per hour are predicted in the city on Sunday under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting the hilly region. Delhi recorded a maximum of 31.5 degrees Celsius, three notches more than normal, on Friday, while the minimum temperature settled at 15 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the maximum temperature had settled at 31.6 degrees Celsius, five notches more than normal. It is likely to rise to 34 degrees Celsius by Monday, the IMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/light-rain-likely-today-mercury-to-rise-soon/articleshow/81370386.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Dharavi to get Rs 9 crore jumbo toilet centre with laundry facilities and water ATM||MUMBAI: Asia's largest slum will get one of the biggest community toilets in the city. BMC has planned to set up a ground plus two storied Suvidha centre in Dharavi where 80% of the residents depend on community toilets. Apart from being one of the largest community toilets in Mumbai, the centre will not only have 111 toilet units but also modern laundry facilities with detergent, bathing area and a water ATM. Times ViewSpread over 2.5 sq km with an official population of 6.53 lakh that can go up to 8.5 lakh with unaccounted migration, Dharavi is the largest slum in Asia. With 80% of its residents dependent on community toilets, BMC needed to disinfect the toilets more frequently during the pandemic. Although positive cases in the area have mounted to around 4,000 so far, additional toilet facility makes for better hygiene sense in the slum clusterAround Rs. 9 crore will be spent on this project.  Spread across an area of 2,600 sq metres, BMC has planned the centre as part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) project by partnering with Hindustan Unilever. Civic officials said that they plan to open it up by October 2 this year. Civic officials said that the Suvidha Centre in Dharavi will adopt a holistic approach to the issues of personal hygiene, lack of laundry facilities, lack of safe drinking water and poor sanitation that plague the slum cluster. The community toilets will accommodate 100 flushing toilets for women, men and children as well as accessible toilets for people with disabilities. It is being designed with safety in mind with separate entrances for women and girls. Specific number of toilets will stay open at night to help reduce the risk of violence or skirmishes that is prevalent at many slum toilets. Assistant municipal commissioner of BMC G North ward, Kiran Dighavkar, said that the facility will also have grey water treatment facility which could then be used for non potable purposes. “In Dharavi, there was a large vacant land available for sewerage operation (SO) pumping station. We requested for some land off the same where the Suvidha Center will come up. It will be a boon for the local residents as we expect that at least 5,000 persons in the area will benefit from it,” he said. Additionally, the centre’s plan to provide laundry facilities with detergent will help members of the community save time, energy and money. The clothes will be already 60% dry after washing. This is expected to be provided at a price, which will be lower than the market cost. Water will be provided at a nominal cost of Re 1 for one litre and a family of five could access the toilets at Rs 150 for a month. Children will have free access to the toilets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-advantage-dharavi-bmc-to-build-community-toilet-in-the-slum/articleshow/81371659.cms||Richa Pinto
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cop shoots man over elopement||Ahmedabad: Gomtipur constable Navghan Bharwad shot a man during a clash between two groups of same community in Vatva. The man has been admitted to LG Hospital and is stated to be critical as the bullet is stuck in his back. Inspector H V Sisara said, “Two days ago, the girl’s family attacked the boy’s kin. Under the pretext of calling a truce, the boy’s family met the girl’s relatives. Bharwad and three others attacked the girl’s family members.” Bharwad fired a round at one man and his aides attacked the others with swords. All the injured were rushed to LG Hospital Sisara said Bharwad, who was on leave for two months, is on the run. He added that a complaint of attempted murder has been filed and efforts are on to nab the accused persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-shoots-man-over-elopement/articleshow/81369871.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||CSTPS tops nation’s 154 thermal plants in energy conservation||Chandrapur: The Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) constantly working to maintain performance and efficiency of energy production has successfully achieved success in PAT cycle-II standards. PAT is a market-based mechanism under the National Mission for Enhanced Energy Efficiency (NMEEE) in which energy savings are made more cost effective through the amount of energy that can be traded. CSTPS achieved net unit heat rate of 2,596.1 Kcal/kWh after experimenting with various energy conservation experiments and succeeded in reducing the target net unit heat rate by 139.49 Kcal/kWh. The plant has 1,88,900 positive EScerts (energy saving certificate) at an estimated cost of Rs18.89 crore. The plant achieved the target of 139.49 Kcal/kWh (i.e. number of 1,88,900 EScerts). CSTPS is the first in the country to get the highest number of EScerts among 154 all-India thermal power plants under PAT-II. Union minister of state for power RK Singh interacted with chief engineer of CSTPS Pankaj Sapate and other officials of CSTPS through video conference and patted them for their excellent performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cstps-tops-nations-154-thermal-plants-in-energy-conservation/articleshow/81368476.cms||Mazhar Ali
March 7, 2021||Vadodara||MSU alumni sponsors five gold medals for girls||Vadodara: For the first time in the history of M S University, as many as five gold medals have been sponsored for girl students of College of Physiotherapy at the Faculty of Medicine. Dr Nilima Patel, who was a student of the college, served as a teacher, head and later as principal has sponsored the gold medals to promote women’s education. Girl students who will achieve higher marks in the final year of bachelor of physiotherapy (BPT) 1, 2, 3, 4 and master of physiotherapy (MPT) will be conferred gold medals through this sponsorship. “The gold medals have been sponsored in memory and as a tribute to my mother Vimla Sudam Patel, who imbibed in us value-based education,” said Nilima, who started her career in 1982, served as a teacher from 1990, was in-charge head and principal between 2016 and 2019, before retiring two years ago. Nilima has won several awards during her career and conducted more than 150 workshops on physio yoga and rehabilitation across the country. She handed over a cheque of Rs 10 lakh to MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas and deputy registrar (ADM) Mayank Vyas in presence of syndicate member Jigar Inamdar and a former member of Gujarat State Physiotherapy Council Dr Hemang Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-alumni-sponsors-five-gold-medals-for-girls/articleshow/81369288.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nashik||Nashik leads in vax drive among division’s 5 districts||Nashik: The Nashik district is leading in terms of the number of Covid vaccine beneficiaries in two new categories — senior citizens and people aged above 45 years who have comorbidities — in the division. The Nashik division has five districts: Nashik, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Dhule and Ahmednagar. The vaccination drive for these two categories in the Nashik division started in a step-by-step manner on March 1. Even now, the vaccination drive for these categories in several rural areas of the division is yet to start. Till Friday, the vaccination figure in the Nashik division had touched 9,783. People have to register themselves on CoWIN app in advance or opt for spot-registration at the vaccination session sites (private or government). “The numbers of people getting vaccinated is encouraging. Of the people vaccinated so far, the number of people above 60 years is higher,” said Dr P G Gandal, the Nashik circle deputy director of health. The pace of vaccination for these two categories is gradually being increased. Private hospitals have now joined the vaccination drive and the process is going to gain momentum. “Vaccination for the two new categories is yet to start in the rural areas of the Ahmednagar district. Currently, the drive is on in the Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation area and also in the sub-district hospitals of the district. The same will start in the primary health centres in the district,” said Dr Sandeep Sangle, the district health officer of Ahmednagar. Similarly, vaccination in rural Jalgaon is set to start on Monday. The DHO of Jalgaon has made all the arrangements. In Nashik, 3,170 senior citizens and 696 patients with comorbidities aged above 45 years have been inoculated, while in Ahmednagar, the numbers stand at 2,907 and 563, respectively. In Nandurbar 1,087 senior citizens were taken jabs and in Dhule 590 senior citizens have got the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-leads-in-vax-drive-among-divisions-5-districts/articleshow/81368492.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||78 new Covid-19 cases surface in U’khand, 38 more recover||Dehradun: The coronavirus tally in Uttarakhand reached 97,363 after 78 new infections were recorded on Saturday. However, no new coronavirus-related fatality was reported on the day. Till Saturday, the state had 596 active Covid-19 cases. “Nainital and Haridwar reported 23 new cases each on Saturday, followed by 21 new cases in Dehradun, three cases each in Udham Singh Nagar and Tehri, two cases in Pithoragarh, and one case each in Pauri, Uttarkashi and Bageshwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, 38 more people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Saturday. Also, the state has managed to fully vaccinate 54,071 health care workers and 76,175 frontline workers have been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Additionally, 22,943 elderly, above 65 years of age, have been vaccinated in the last six days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/78-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand-38-more-recover/articleshow/81369306.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 7, 2021||Nashik||10-year-old among 2 killed in road accidents||Nashik: Two people, including a 10-year-old boy, were killed in separate road accidents in the city between Thursday and Friday. As per a case registered with the Indira Nagar police station by Pandharinath Khadgir on Thursday, he was returning home on his bike with his wife and 10-year-old son from Pathardi Phata, when they were hit from behind by a speeding car opposite the Phalke Memorial. The three fell of the bike and suffered injuries. The child, Kiran Khadgir, succumbed. Police sub-inspector Waman Ughade, who is investigating the case, said the child was seated between his parents. The car driver fled the spot. In the other accident registered with the Upnagar police, Rahul Jadhav (28) was riding pillion with his friend on the old Saikheda road. While they were passing Pinto Colony, a speeding car driver hit them. Jadhav succumbed to his injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-year-old-among-2-killed-in-road-accidents/articleshow/81368486.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal assembly polls: Early release of names gives TMC head start in graffiti war||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress has snatched the first-mover advantage in the graffiti war, as the party workers went to town, painting the walls in the city with their candidates’ names within 24 hours of chief minister Mamata Banerjee announcing the entire list of contenders for this year’s election. While Trinamool released the names of its candidates for 291 seats and the Left for 39 seats on Friday, it was 24 hours later that BJP announced the names of its 57 candidates for the first and second phases. None of the contenders named by the BJP or the Left is for Kolkata or its surrounding areas’ seats. As soon as Banerjee announced the names, Trinamool supporters started their work on Friday evening itself, getting a head start over BJP in graffiti writing. Armed with paint brushes and cans, the workers set out across the city, first whitewashing the walls and then painting them with the names of announced candidates, along with the party symbols. “We certainly have a first-mover advantage here. Even in the age of social media campaigning, wall graffiti hold a different visual appeal. We are trying to capture it by painting most of the walls that are permissible. Some walls will still be left for other parties but we will have the better positioned walls for us,” said Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress candidate for Ballygunge constituency. Graffiti painters TOI spoke to said they received strict instructions from the party to finish as many graffiti as possible within the first three days to beat the opposition in this game. “We have also been asked to use the brightest of colours. Hence, fluorescent green, fluorescent pink, bright blue and orange are the colours of the season for us,” said Tubai Das, who painted over a dozen walls with Trinamool names and slogans in Behala on Saturday. To encourage the workers, several candidates, such as Atin Ghosh in Belgachhia and Tapas Chatterjee in Rajarhat, also joined in. Bhowanipore candidate Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who is known for his flair for wall graffiti, was supposed to paint a wall on Saturday evening, but the plan had to be postponed after he complained of minor illness and returned home. Some leaders, like Ratna Chatterjee in Behala East and Moloy Majumder in Jadavpur have also kicked off their campaigns with door-to-door visits and party meetings. Senior leaders from opposition parties conceded that Trinamool did get an advantage by announcing its candidature first, but they pointed out that capturing walls for poll graffiti would not have any major impact on the election. “Elections cannot be won just on the basis of graffiti. Even during Lok sabha elections two years ago, we had announced our list at the very end and everyone is aware of the result. So these things don’t matter to us,” said Sayantan Basu, BJP state general secretary. Veteran CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty said they had earmarked their preferred walls and would begin “more innovative” graffiti once their list of candidates were announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/early-release-of-names-gives-tmc-head-start-in-graffiti-war/articleshow/81369879.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 7, 2021||Lucknow||There are people who question the existence of Lord Ram, says Yogi||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday that some people were spreading false propaganda against India and their parochial, and constricted mentality had deprived India of its justifiable place in history and on global platform. Speaking at the launch of Global Encyclopedia of the Ramayana, he said that there were people who are misguiding the public for their own profit and betraying the country. Such people won't be spared, he said, adding “Bharat pe prati dushprachar karne wale, na ghar ke hain na ghat ke.” “Though there was no dearth of evidence to prove that life and times of Lord Ram was a reality, there are some people who raise questions on the existence of Shri Ram and even Ayodhya, he said. “In fact, during the Ram temple movement, many historians and writers contested that Ayodhya in UP was not the one in which Rama was born,” he added. The CM stated that the canvas of Ram and Sanatan Dharma was much bigger than most can visualise but the encyclopaedia will give a glimpse into the diverse versions of Ramayana gathered from across the world. Referring to Ankor Wat Temple in Cambodia, the CM said: “Ankor is another name for Vishnu while one meaning of Wat means temple. Paintings narrating stories from Ramayana and Mahabharat have been drawn on the walls of this famous temple complex. The 20-year-old guide of the Ankor Wat temple, a Buddhist follower, tells visitors that Buddhism has originated from Hinduism. But in India, doubts are raised about this legacy.” Stating that those who do not acknowledge the reality of Sanatan Dharma were living in denial, the CM said that such people would eventually pay the price of this ignorance. The CM also said that Ramayana and Mahabharat are more than a compendium of best life lessons and the two epics speak a lot about the boundaries of India. “Pakistan was a part of India till 1947 and Maryada Purushottam Sri Ram had extended the boundaries of India during his time by making his brother's son, the ruler of Pakistan,” he said. The CM held that the encyclopedia project was a great effort to get Ayodhya its due. “Two years ago, when this project began, I was told that the Union culture ministry officials are also keen about it which was a positive sign,” he said. Now, the ministry of external affairs has also joined the project. Referring to the concept of seven holy cities of Hinduism, the CM stated that presence of three revered sites (Ayodhya, Mathura, and Kashi) in UP was a matter of pride for every resident. “UP is the home to the soul of Hindu religion its perennially inspiring traditions. And it is a matter of great pride for all of us,” he said. CM Yogi urged the people to not lose the harmonious spirit of our nation by getting involved in petty communal disputes. He further asked the people to maintain India’s grace internationally which has been enhanced by Prime Minister Modi. The first edition of the Encyclopaedia has been released in English. It's designed by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. The first edition in Hindi and Tamil languages will also be published in the coming month. Director Information and culture,Shishir Singh said that there was a plan to publish the Ramayana Encyclopedia in over 200 volumes. For this, the Ayodhya Research Institute has set up a board of editors and advisors across the country and the world. The Uttar Pradesh Department of Culture, in collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs, is involved in this mega project by combining the tangible and intangible legacy of the Ramayana from 205 countries of the world. The encyclopedia contains information regarding the evidence of the presence of Lord Ram in different cultures, dating back 5,000 years, in places such as Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, Central America, Italy, and a large part of Europe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/there-are-people-who-question-the-existence-of-lord-ram-says-yogi/articleshow/81371646.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 7, 2021||Surat||Women powerlifters inspire many||Surat: The atmosphere inside the dome at Dayalji Ashram was sizzling with power, competitiveness and an all-pervasive wave of excitement. It had to be so with as many as 248 participants from across the state converged under it to take part in a powerlifting competition on Saturday. The event, a first of its kind initiative by the city police, aims to divert youth from drugs to sports activities. Of these participants, 18 are female cops, while 15 are male cops. The event, held just before the International Women’s Day, became even more special with the participation of total 75 women, including the cops, from different parts of the state. “It is an opportunity for us to test our strength and compare how good we are in comparison to professional weight lifters,” said a participating female cop. “I have been exercising for five years and have been practising powerlifting for a year now,” said Jagruti Sapkal, an IT professional, who added that the event was planned very neatly. “With the support of the powerlifting association, police tried to organise the event in the best possible way and the response from participants is encouraging,” said J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, F division. “A fit human body is a beautiful creation by god, a temple wherein our soul lives. The idea behind organising the event is to attract youth in keeping themselves fit and towards sports as well as wean them away from crime, drugs and liquor,” said Ajay Tomar, city police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/women-powerlifters-inspire-many/articleshow/81369314.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Pugmark result turns ‘leopard’ into wild cat||Ahmedabad: The people of Vatva have been walking scared since early this week when they saw CCTV footage of an animal moving through a residential area. While everyone thought it was a leopard, an examination of the pugmarks finally revealed it to be a jungle cat. The footage from the CCTV camera of a society revealed a feline, larger than stray cats, sitting on the law for a while before walking away. Residents feared it was a leopard. Spots play an important role in the identification of wild cats. However, since the spots were not clear in the footage, the forest department decided to check the pugmarks. “After carefully studying the footprints and after observing the behaviour of the animal whose movements were captured in the video, we have come to the conclusion that the animal resembles a jungle cat and not a leopard as believed by some,” said a senior forest official in the know of the matter. “The place where the cat was spotted is closer to Bibipur, Ramol and Hathijan,” according to the official. As a precautionary measure, the forest department reached out to sarpanchs of 10 villages nearby. They informed the villagers about precautions, including avoiding walking under trees which is a common place for wild cats to seek refuge, to prevent man-animal conflict. As per estimates by the department, there are more than 3,000 leopards in the wild in the state. This is more than double the number in the last census carried out in 2016 which counted close to 1,400 leopards. The population estimates of the wild cat have been under-reported mainly due to the counting methodology used by the Gujarat forest department, said sources. Despite the rise in numbers of leopard in the past few years, the man-animal conflict in the state has been largely under control. There are not more than 15 human deaths every year and about 45 cases of human injury due to conflict with the wild cat, said a forest official. Leopards play a vital role in controlling populations of feral dogs, nilgais and wild boars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pugmark-result-turns-leopard-into-wild-cat/articleshow/81369880.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nashik||Nandgaon, Niphademerge hotspots||Nashik: Nandgaon and Niphad talukas in in Nashik district have again become hotspots as the number of Covid-19 cases have shot up, prompting the authorities to ramp up daily testing Active cases in Niphad increased to 153 on Friday as against 97 on February 25 while the figure in Nandgaon was 90 as against 69 on February 24. The rise in the numbers of cases in just 10 days has raised concern among health officials who have called for stricter curbs on people’s movement besides ramping up of testing. “We appeal to people to follow the Covid-19 health advisory. Compromising on rules is leading to a rise in the number of cases,” said district health officer Kapil Aher. Kailas Ahire, a farmer from Niphad, said the rise in cases is linked to the movement of people and not taking proper measures to prevent from getting infected. Nandgaon has replaced Sinnar as the second taluka to with highest number of active Covid-19 cases. The health officials said they have increased tracking of people with symptoms and also contact tracing. “The isolation of people who have tested positive and also those with Covid symptoms brings down the chances of spreading of the disease,” said the officials. Meanwhile, cases have also increased to 78 from 58 during the same period, that is since February 25, in Nashik rural taluka while cases in Sinnar rose to 65 from from 55.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandgaon-niphademerge-hotspots/articleshow/81368547.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Lajpat Nagar’s Rs 27-crore automated parking to ease its congestion knots||NEW DELHI: Parking woes in the busy Lajpat Nagar Market may ease with the operationalisation of the the new automated puzzle parking facility by South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday. The Rs 27-crore facility can fit 246 vehicles, 80 SUVs and 166 sedan cars. An SDMC official said that vehicles could be retrieved in two-and-a-half minutes. This is SDMC’s second automated parking facility after the Green Park one. Four more automated parking projects have been taken up in Adhchini, Nizamuddin, GK-1 and GK-2. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, MP Meenakshi Lekhi and SDMC mayor Anamika inaugurated the facility at Firoz Gandhi Marg in Lajpat Nagar-3. Gupta said SDMC was focusing on parking issues in areas that really need it. “Despite facing financial crisis, SDMC is achieving new goals,” he added. Mayor Anamika said that another parking facility that can take in 56 vehicles is near completion in Adhchini Village, and construction work of an automated car parking with a capacity of 136 vehicles in Nizamuddin Basti is in full swing. “Another car parking for 399 vehicles will be constructed in M-Block Market in GK-1 and one that can accommodate 210 vehicles will be constructed in M-Block Market in GK-2,” she added. Commissioner Gyanesh Bharti said that the maintenance and running cost of this facility will be lesser in comparison to other lots, as it is based on modern techniques. The automated multi-level parking consists of half a dozen modules made up of six-storeys. In it, five modules can store 43 cars each and one can fit 31 cars. User just has to drop the vehicle at the entry point and entire system is automated, official added. The 14.5m-high structure has vertical gardens on the outer walls and an underground water tank of 1.5 lakh litres capacity with a pump room for fire fighting, if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lajpat-nagars-rs-27-crore-automated-parking-to-ease-its-congestion-knots/articleshow/81370396.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Opium cultivation racket busted in Amreli’s Babra taluka||RAJKOT: Amreli police busted an opium cultivation racket in three farms in Babra taluka on Saturday and seized contraband worth Rs 32 lakh. The police raided three farms on the road from Shirvaniya to Limbadiya village and seized 260.98kg plants worth Rs 26 lakh from Vitthal Talvadiya’s farm; 23.6 kg plants worth Rs 2.36 lakh from Ramji Talvadiya and 39.26kg worth Rs 3.92 from Parshottam Talvadiya. Amreli SP Nirlipt Rai said, “We found 40kg empty capsules in which opium was sold. Stock is half of what they had cultivated and we booked them under NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/opium-cultivation-racket-busted-in-amrelis-babra-taluka/articleshow/81369328.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: After vaccination, recipients fleeced at parking lot||KOLKATA: Several instances of parking extortion have been reported from areas around hospitals and nursing homes off EM Bypass with a section of parking assistants allegedly charging Rs 100 for letting vehicles wait in the bylanes near health faciliites. Scores of senior citizens visiting private hospitals off Bypass for vaccination have reportedly been forced to pay inflated amounts. Many claimed they were asked to pay a flat Rs 100 for parking on the service lanes. A few of them took to Twitter on Saturday to lodge their complaints. Most argued that given the limited parking space on the hospital premises, they were forced to park on the roads. Several people pointed they were told to cough up the money or find some alternative space far away from the hospital. “Yesterday I went to a private hospital at Mukundapur for a vaccine. Had to park the vehicle outside. Flat charge of Rs 100 for 30 mins or whole day! Was told this before parking,” wrote a complainant, Naren Mintri, on the Kolkata traffic police Twitter page. But the Kolkata traffic police’s reply left many confused: “Fine amount of unauthorised parking is a minimum of Rs 100.” Mintri had to reply: “This was not a fine paid, but parking fees collected there,” he clarified. Cops subsequently stated that action would be taken. “The same has been shared with concerned traffic guards for verification in consultation with KMC parking,” they stated. “Some are collecting money from cars parked around a Anandapur hospital. There is no notice displayed anywhere from any appropriate authority that it is a designated fee parking zone... (and a huge amount is being extracted). Please look into this matter,” wrote another complainant, Srijan Roy Chowdhury. When contacted, DC Traffic (South) Atul V said necessary action was being taken after verifying the complaints. “If found true, each guard has been instructed to initiate necessary legal process,” he said. Sources said traffic guard OCs met parking attendants at these places and told them “to fall in line or face action, including extortion cases”. “We have informed KMC about the parking extortion and will videograph proceedings from here,” said an officer from the East Jadavpur traffic guard. The head of a hospital off Bypass said they did not charge for parking on the premises. “There’s no question of charging for parking on the road outside. It’s the KMC agencies that do it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-vax-recipients-fleeced-at-parking-lot/articleshow/81369884.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 7, 2021||Nashik||Jalgaon curbsextended byone week||Nashik: Jalgaon district collector Abhijit Raut has extended the night curfew and other restrictions by one more week while citing the continuous increase in Covid-19 cases across the district. The night curfew, from 10pm to 5am, was imposed in the district on February 22 prohibiting movement of vehicles, barring essential services like milk supply. Educational institutions, movie halls, swimming pools, gymnasiums etc were also closed till March 6 as a part of the restrictions. “Fresh Covid cases on a daily basis have peaked in Jalgaon district. We are optimistic the the curve will start flattening within eight to 10 days. We will ease the restrictions once the cases start decreasing,” Raut told TOI on Saturday. Jalgaon district started showing a spike in Covid cases from February 18, and 2,505 new cases were registered in the last 10 days of that month. The active cases in the district are 4,126. According to the district collector, the positivity rate is around 15% and the administration has ramped up its daily testing. Nearly 5,000 tests were conducted on Friday. “Significantly, the case fatality rate (CFR) is constantly going down, which is is around 2.20% now as compared to around 2.25% on March 1,” said Raut, adding that the bulk of patients are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. On March 5, 134 Covid patients in the districts were in ICUs and 191 on oxygen support while 788 are undergoing treatments either at Covid care centres or dedicated Covid health centres. Raut appealed to people to follow Covid norms and help the administration in curbing the spread of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-curbsextended-byone-week/articleshow/81368589.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||Budget session of U’khand adjourned sine die; budget of Rs 57,400 crore passed||Gairsain: The six-day assembly session, which lasted 31 hours and 29 minutes, was adjourned sine die by Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal on Saturday after a state budget of Rs 57,400 crore was passed in the House. A total of 630 questions were received by the House and nine bills were passed during the session. The budget session functioned for 31 hour 29 minutes. “Out of 186 starred questions, 50 were answered while 85 out of 352 unstarred questions were answered during the proceedings,” Aggarwal said. A total of 32 petitions were accepted. He added that 25 notices out of 28 received were forwarded. In the six-day session nine bills were passed. After the department-wise budget was passed on the last day, the budget of Rs 57,400 crore for financial year 2012-22 was passed in the House by voice vote. Prior to the start of the proceedings, the opposition Congress staged a protest at the entrance gate over the alleged irregularities and delay in completion of Kumbh related projects. The Congress MLAs said that despite Kumbh being reduced to just a month, the state government has failed to complete the projects on time. Soon after the start of the House proceedings on Saturday, Congress legislators demanded work adjournment motion on the issue of corruption. Congress state chief and Chakrata MLA Pritam Singh highlighted the alleged scam in a project related to the widening of National Highway-74. Notably, the state government has recommended a CBI probe in the matter and an order by the high court for a CBI probe against CM Rawat in a matter related to alleged corruption. In response, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik said that as these matters are subjudice, they cannot be discussed in the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/budget-session-of-ukhand-adjourned-sine-die-budget-of-rs-57400-crore-passed/articleshow/81369319.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 7, 2021||Goa||TCP notifies 29 zone change pleas, most in eco zones||Panaji: The town and country planning (TCP) department has notified 29 applications for change of zone in the Regional Plan 2021 under Section 16B. Of the 29 applications, five have been deferred and the rest have received in-principle approval. Except for two instances, all the applications for change of zone sought reclassification of eco-sensitive zones as settlement zones. The two exceptions were for deletion of a 10-metre-wide road and conversion of orchard land in a no-development zone to an industrial plot. The minimum size of the land parcels was 225sqm while the maximum plot size that was sought to be converted was 1.9 lakh sqm in Bicholim. The applications will be sent to the agriculture department and forest department for scrutiny and approval while interested stakeholders have two months to submit their objections or suggestions. Copies of the maps and other details have been kept open for inspection at the TCP department’s office at Panaji for two months. “The TCP board, in its 172nd meeting held on December 23, has considered the said requests and proposals and the report of the chief town planner (Planning) and has given its recommendations,” said chief town planner Rajesh Naik in the notification. “The TCP board directed the chief town planner to publish the proposal under Section 13(1) of the TCP Act and to obtain comments from agriculture department and forest department.” The notification further said that all objections and suggestions should be forwarded to the chief town planner within two months of the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-notifies-29-zone-change-pleas-most-in-eco-zones/articleshow/81369326.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||Day after minister announces probe into U-19 team selection, CAU secy says cricket body falls under the jurisdiction of BCCI and not any government dept||Dehradun: A day after the state government announced in the House that a departmental team would find out whether the selection of cricket players by the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) was being done as per norms, CAU secretary Mahim Verma has issued a statement saying that the CAU falls under the jurisdiction of the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India) and not any government body. “The CAU is an independent body affiliated to the BCCI and not the state sports department. We are bound by our CAU constitution which is approved by the BCCI and we work according to that," said Verma. He further said that no such fraudulent activities have taken place in the selection of the state Under-19 team. The matter came to the fore after deputy leader of opposition and Ranikhet MLA Karan Mahra raised the issue of alleged “wrongdoings” in the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) in the House on Friday. Mahra accused the CAU authorities of “favouritsim” in the team selections and also selecting “undeserving players” in the men’s Under-19 state team. It was alleged that 84 players were shortlisted on the basis of trials but later 18 others were mysteriously added to the list. Currently, the list has been shortened by almost half but the Opposition alleges that some of the players in the list have been shortlisted unethically. In response, state sports minister Arvind Pandey assured a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/day-after-minister-announces-probe-into-u-19-team-selection-cau-secy-says-cricket-body-falls-under-the-jurisdiction-of-bcci-and-not-any-government-dept/articleshow/81369330.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 7, 2021||Goa||7 accused in Anwar Shaikh attack case refused bail||Colva: Additional session court judge Edgar Fernandes on Saturday dismissed the bail applications of the seven accused arrested in the attempt to murder case of alleged history-sheeter Anwar Shaikh. Police said that bail applications of accused Vipol Pattairi, Vijay Karbotkar, Harshvardhan Sawal, Mahendra Tanawade, Sudhan Da Costa, Ricky Hornekar and Imran Bepari were rejected. Hazrat Ali Shaikh alias Anwar had lodged a complaint alleging that on February 16 at noon at Arlem Junction, Raia, Ricky Hornekar, Vally D’Costa, Imran Bepari and Vipul Pattari, alongwith six unknown persons formed an unlawful assembly. Anwar said, armed with deadly weapons like danda, iron rods, koita, short fire arm, the accused allegedly assembled with intent to commit his murder over the issue of previous enmity. They were arrested by the Fatorda police. Judge Edgar Fernandes observed that there is prima facie reasonable ground to believe that the applicants had committed the offence under Section 307 IPC. Considering that the offence alleged against the applicant is punishable with imprisonment for life, the nature and gravity of the charge and the severity of the punishment in the event of conviction is very serious. The manner in which the act was committed in broad daylight in a public place and the antecedents of the applicants give justification to the apprehension of the respondents that if released, the applicant may intimidate the witness and tamper with evidence and also, may not be available for trial while dismissing the application as not a fit case for enlarging the accused on bail, the judge said. The prosecution submitted that during the course of investigation, it has come to light that the crime was committed as per the plan hatched by all the accused, but failed due the presence of the senior police officer who was travelling in his official car at the relevant time. Public prosecutor Dayanand Korgaonkar argued that the investigation is at the preliminary stage and the accused’s presence is required to trace the absconding accused Vally D’Costa and Amir Gawande and to recover the firearm used in commission of the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/7-accused-in-anwar-shaikh-attack-case-refused-bail/articleshow/81370399.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||Bangladesh national living in India on forged documents held from Piran Kaliyar||Roorkee: A 60-year-old Bangladesh national was held from Piran Kaliyar near Roorkee for allegedly forging documents to live in India. According to the police, the man had been living in different parts of the country for the last 30 years. A fake Aadhaar Card was recovered from his possession. After being produced at a local court, he was sent to judicial custody. In the last three years, police have arrested over ten nationals of Bangladesh from Piran Kaliyar. The accused was identified as Sarwer Hussain, a resident of Uttar Bagal village under Sarankhola police station of Bagerhat district in Bangladesh. Police have booked him under section 3 of the Passport Act, section 14 of Foreigners Act, and sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of document) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. According to police, the accused had come to Piran Kaliyar around two years ago from Ajmer in Rajasthan. Before Ajmer, he had lived in Kolkata and other places for many years. At Piran Kaliyar, he used to live in a guest house built around the Sufi Shrine of Sabir Kaliyari. “We recovered a fake Aadhar Card at a Piran Kaliyar address. The accused told us that he had been living here as he had immense respect for the local shrine,” said Jagmohan Ramola, in-charge Piran Kaliyar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bangladesh-national-living-in-india-on-forged-documents-held-from-piran-kaliyar/articleshow/81369325.cms||Tapan Susheel
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Dues unpaid, 14 firms on GGMA caution list||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Garment Manufacturers Association has placed as many as 14 entities under its caution list for not paying dues of members.The garment makers’ association has also asked its members to refrain from dealing with these entities, which did not clear the outstanding dues for the goods they purchased from the member of the trade body. “GGMA had decided that the payments be made to their members but these entities did not follow the arbitration committee’s decision,” Vijay Purohit, president, GGMA said in a statement. These 14 entities are from cities such as Ahmedabad, Surat, Himmatnagar, Pune, Nashik, Jodhpur and Chennai among others. The association has also decided that all traders, who purchase garments, will now have to make payments immediately. Those who purchase garments on credit will have to clear dues within a period of 45 to 65 days. “No member should provide credit of more than 45-60 days to traders they sell their goods to,” he further added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dues-unpaid-14-firms-on-ggma-caution-list/articleshow/81369885.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Vadodara||Another member of Soni family dies||Vadodara: One more person from the Soni family in Sama died on Saturday taking the toll in the mass suicide case to four. Deceased Narendra Soni’s wife Deepti died at the hospital on Saturday. Three members of the family had been found dead in the house in Swati Society in Sama on Wednesday evening even as three others had been admitted to the SSG Hospital (SSGH) in critical condition.Soni (58), his daughter Riya (19) and grandson Parth (3) had died from consuming pesticide-laced soft drinks, while Deepti, son Bhavin and daughter-in-law Urvashi were admitted to the SSGH. Bhavin’s condition turned stable, but Deepti and Urvashi remained critical. Police said that even the condition of Urvashi was serious. Sama police inspector P D Parmar said that Bhavin’s condition has been improving and has given a detailed statement to the police revealing how astrologers had taken Rs 32.85 lakh from them promising to get their house sold. Bhavin’s father Narendra, who was under immense stress to repay debts, could not find a prospective buyer for their house. He resorted to consulting astrologers to find a solution to end the impasse and in the meantime also managed to identify buyers. He took an advance from them, but the deal didn’t get through as the house was mortgaged and when the buyers sought their money back, an option-less Narendra and family decided to end it all with the drastic step. Narendra first fed pesticide-laced drink to his grandson and then consumed it himself. Other family members too followed suit. Parmar said that the police was trying to trace the astrologers who took hefty sums from the family. “They have gone underground, but we will trace them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-member-of-soni-family-dies/articleshow/81369337.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||PG seat aspirants to answer GU-ART from March 14||PANAJI: The first round of Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART) will be held starting March 14, and the test will be taken by hundreds of students aspiring for a seat in the PG programmes offered at GU campus and affiliated colleges. The test will start with the exam being held for entry to ten programmes at 9.30am. The GU-ART for other programmes will be held at 12.30pm and 3.30pm on March 14, followed by tests on March 27 and 28, as per the final schedule released by Goa University. Admissions to postgraduate programmes offered in the state will be entirely based on GU-ART. The marks obtained by the students while graduating will only be used to ascertain his or her eligibility for the programme. The purpose of the GU-ART is only to rank the prospective students and students will be each granted a rank, based on which they will get priority for admissions to a programme. Students who are in their final year of graduation are also eligible to appear for GU-ART. Earlier, students had applied online to appear for the test. The GU-ART is of one paper for entry to each programme of 100 marks, containing 50 objective multiple choice questions of two marks each. There is negative marking, where half a mark is deducted for each wrong answer. No marks will be deducted for unanswered questions. The duration of each GU-ART paper is 90 minutes. GU-ART Round II and III will only be conducted only if seats remain vacant in a particular subject or specialisation. However, students answering the later rounds of GU-ART will be ranked after the Round-I candidates. The GU-ART Round I results are tentatively expected to be displayed on the university website by April 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pg-seat-aspirants-to-answer-gu-art-from-march-14/articleshow/81370401.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Dabolim mastermind misled partners that victim was his wealthy uncle: Police||Vasco: Sanjay Verma, the mastermind behind the case of kidnapping and robbery of a 65-year-old man from Alto-Dabolim, Pramod Dessai, had told the three other accused that Dessai was his maternal uncle and was wealthy. Police sources said that Verma owed money to his friend Vishal Ahuja, who in turn had borrowed money from Mumbai-based Sunil More. More brought along his friend Suraj M Kambli from Mumbai to forcefully recover money from Dessai believing him to be the main accused’s uncle, sources said. Preliminary investigations indicate that Verma had met Ahuja at a casino, where the main accused had borrowed money from Ahuja. Ahuja kept reminding Verma to return the amount to him, but the mastermind had no money with him to pay Ahuja back. Ahuja, on the other hand, was being pressurised by More to return his money. Verma, who was staying as a guest in the victim’s guest house, had befriended Dessai and had learnt the family members’ schedule. Verma had also taken Rs 20,000 from Dessai. Verma, according to police sources, plotted the kidnapping and robbery at a time when Dessai was known to be alone at home. Verma along with Ahuja and More decided to forcibly extort money from Dessai. Accordingly, More and Kambli reached Goa on Friday afternoon and at around 1pm they were at Dessai’s bungalow in Fatima Colony. They tied Desai up and demanded Rs one crore. After ransacking the bungalow, the accused trio took away cash of Rs 7,000, five imported watches, one cellphone, a credit card, valuables worth Rs 1.2 lakh and four cheques - three for Rs 25 lakh each and one for Rs 5 lakh. Vasco police were alerted about the crime by Dessai’s wife over the phone. Police first detained More with the help of locals. They then blocked Dessai’s account by approaching the bank, as a result of which the accused could not carry out any withdrawals. “After a massive manhunt, the second accused Suraj Maruti Kambli, a resident of Ulhasnagar, Thane, was traced at the Panaji bus stand on Friday evening while he was trying to board a bus to Mumba,” said South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh. At around 6.30am on Saturday, Ahuja was found near one of the casinos in Panaji. Most of the robbed articles have been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dabolim-mastermind-misled-partners-that-victim-was-his-wealthy-uncle-police/articleshow/81370402.cms||Ruvina Khan
March 7, 2021||Delhi||South dist cops to be sensitised about tree preservation Act||New Delhi: A notice has been issued to all assistant commissioners of police and station house officers in the south district to sensitise police officers regarding the rules of Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. The notice also asked the staff to consult their seniors if there is any confusion over the law. This was told to Delhi High Court as part of a submission made by police in a case where they were called in to stop the ongoing work, during which several trees had allegedly been damaged. Inspections carried out later by the forest and wildlife department had found that the roots of 30 trees had been damaged due to work being carried out on the stretch, with Public Works Department (PWD) not leaving adequate space between the trees and the area being dug up. “The official only verified the credentials of PWD staff and did not stop the work immediately under a mistaken belief that such work was authorisedly being undertaken. The said mistake was as a result of ignorance and it was not wilful or deliberate disobedience of the law,” said the submission, which added that notices to create awareness were now being circulated across all police stations in the south district to avoid such an incident in the future. “All ACPs/SHOs of the south district are hereby directed to brief and sensitise all the staff posted under their supervision about the provisions of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. The staff may also be advised to consult their seniors in case they have any confusion about the related agency/department which is required to be intimated in a particular complaint, where necessary action has to be taken by them,” said the notice issued to all police stations. In September 2020, PWD was fined Rs 4 lakh for damaging around 30 trees along Meera Marg while carrying out construction and digging work. Activist Verhaen Khanna had filed a police complaint, alleging damage to roots and a violation of a 2013 NGT order which prohibits concretisation around a 6-feet radius of trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-dist-cops-to-be-sensitised-about-tree-preservation-act/articleshow/81369898.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mercury hits 38.9°C in city||Ahmedabad: If you felt sapped while outdoors on Saturday, you were not alone. Several Amdavadis felt the sudden heat unbearable. The city recorded maximum temperature of 38.9 degrees celsius, which was 4.9 degrees higher than normal! Moreover, the minimum temperature of 18.4 degrees celsius was 1.2 degrees higher than normal. In fact, Ahmedabad was the second place in Gujarat after Gandhinagar to record 39 degrees celsius. According to the met department, there’s more in store. ‘No large change in maximum temperature during next four days very likely. However, maximum temperature will be in the range of 37-39 degrees xelsius in parts of North Gujarat and Saurashtra-Kutch during next 24 hours very likely,’ read the forecast for Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mercury-hits-38-9c-in-city/articleshow/81369899.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Congman disputes rivals’ poll victory||Ahmedabad: A defeated Congress candidate from Navrangpura ward has approached a local court, challenging the victory of BJP candidates Nirav Kavi and Asha Brahmbhatt. Patel filed a plea on Friday, questioning Kavi’s victory on the ground that the latter had failed to mention his religion in his affidavit filed with the nomination form. Patel claimed that Kavi’s father is a Muslim named Sikandar Mir and his mother is Amita, a Christian whose maiden surname is Kavi. He further claimed that Kavi’s father changed his name and religion. While Patel was not sure which religion he converted to, he claimed that conversion rules were violated. He alleged that Kavi falsely projected himself as a Hindu among the electorate, where 99% voters are Hindu. He also claimed that Brahmbhatt had not disclosed in her affidavit an FIR registered against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congman-disputes-rivals-poll-victory/articleshow/81369892.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Over 11,000 senior citizens get first jabs across Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: A total of 17,671 people — healthcare, frontline staffers and citizens — received vaccines at sites across the Pune Metropolitan Region on Thursday. The number includes 11,069 senior citizens. The boost in beneficiaries comes amid improvements in infrastructure and manpower at hospitals. Officials said citizen groups and NGOs have also been roped in help beneficiaries at important sites. “Post-vaccination formalities are also being assigned to these volunteers. The move is improving the process,” said Ashish Bharati, head of PMC’s health department. On Saturday, the drive at some sites concluded at 5pm. “There were hardly any software issues either. We finished our sessions at 5 pm,” said Anjali Tilekar, medical officer from the PMC’s Kothrud ward office. But civic officials said overcrowding continues to be a problem at the bigger hospitals in the city. “Beneficiaries should choose the nearest sites. There will be overwhelming pressure on staff if everyone picks only the prominent centres. It’s happening right now,” said a PMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-11000-senior-citizens-get-first-jabs-across-region/articleshow/81369889.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||DMC orders inquiry into allegations of a firm responsible for door-to-door garbage collection using a forged document to secure the job||Dehradun: An inquiry has been ordered to look into allegations of a firm responsible for door-to-door garbage collection having used a fake document to secure the job. The firm in question is responsible for collecting garbage from 15 wards and allegedly used a forged experience certificate to get the job when the tender for it was issued. According to officials, the firm had produced an experience letter showing it had been employed by DMC between January 2015 and March 2019 but it later turned out it had started working with the covic body only in 2017. When two firms produced an experience certificate for the same time period, the matter caught notice of the urban development directorate. After the directorate sought an explanation from the civic body, Doon mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama ordered an inquiry into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-orders-inquiry-into-allegations-of-a-firm-responsible-for-door-to-door-garbage-collection-using-a-forged-document-to-secure-the-job/articleshow/81369353.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man gropes train commuter at Bandra, rly cops nab him in 2 days||Mumbai: A 35-year-old woman commuter headed to her office in a private firm was groped by an unknown man on the foot overbridge at Bandra railway station. When she went after him to confront him, the accused hopped into a train and made obscene gestures at her. After examining footage from over 200 cameras, the GRP nabbed him within 48 hours from Antop Hill where he lives. The woman, a Bhayander resident, works in a firm at Bandra East. Around 11.50am on March 3, she got into the first-class compartment of a fast local and alighted at Bandra about 45 minutes later on platform 5. She began climbing the foot overbridge, which was packed with commuters, to head out of the railway station. Suddenly, a man on the bridge groped her and took cover of the crowd to move towards the harbour line. “But the victim had seen him and went after him towards platforms 6 and 7 to confront him. The accused hopped into a CSMT local on platform 7. He then looked back at the victim who was standing at the platform and started making obscene gestures until the train left the platform,” said senior inspector Vilas Chaugule, Bandra GRP. Disturbed with the events, the woman reached her workplace. She approached the police station only on March 4 to lodge a complaint. The police began the probe by checking footage from CCTVs at Bandra station. The accused had been captured hopping into a CSMT local at platform no 7. Investigators then checked footage from cameras at all harbour line stations. He had been captured alighting at King’s Circle station. “The entire route that the accused took from King's Circle station upto Antop Hill where he lived is covered with cameras. We went through footage from at least 200 to 250 cameras for leads,” said assistant inspector Devidas Aranye. Two teams of policemen were formed. Once the accused’s address was clear, the GRP sought help from the local police. He was picked up around 1.30 am on Saturday. The accused was identified as Mohammad Irfan Ansari, a 49-year-old women’s footwear salesman. He has no previous crime history. Police have booked him under sections 354 and 409 of IPC. Ansari used to previously live at King’s Circle. To make commuting safer for travellers, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) has started deploying uniformed women personnel for escorting local and long-distance train compartments on Central Railway. The 50 women personnel carry carbines and pistols for security reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-gropes-train-commuter-at-bandra-rly-cops-nab-him-in-2-days/articleshow/81370504.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 7, 2021||Goa||Protected species seized from hall at Varca, released||Colva: South Goa forest division officials raided an open-air hall by the river side in Varca, Salcete, and seized species of birds and animals protected under Schedule I, II and IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Among those seized were a Malabar giant squirrel, a white-bellied sea eagle, a black kite, a vernal hanging parrot, seven plum-headed parakeets, 12 black-headed munia and six rose-ringed parakeets. Upon receiving information about the illegal captivity and display of wild animals and birds at the open-air hall, forest staff under the supervision of deputy conservator of forests, Anil Shetgaonkar, executed the search operation and seized the species. They were later released into the wild. Shetgaonkar said that the staff present on the premises were arrested for handling, shifting and hiding the protected species and have been remanded in judicial custody till March 14. The owners of the said property, however, were not found at the site. A search to nab them is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/protected-species-seized-from-hall-at-varca-released/articleshow/81370467.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Cong’s Quepem candidate goes missing, party suspects BJP’s ‘intimidation tactics’||Panaji: The Congress on Saturday alleged that one of its party workers, a lady who was supposed to file her nomination for the Quepem municipality election, has gone missing while another candidate, Ramesh Naik, was stopped by BJP from filing his nomination papers. State Congress president Girish Chodankar alleged that BJP was using “goondaism” and “muscle power” to prevent their candidates for ward 1 from filing his candidature papers. Naik was physically stopped from entering the deputy collector’s office to file his nomination papers. “Another lady candidate is missing in Quepem since morning. We are unable to contact her and we suspect she is either threatened or kidnapped,” said Chodankar as he urged Goa Police DGP to intervene. The Congress claimed that BJP was trying to manipulate the civic polls, and is using every tactic to undermine the election process. “The DGP should immediately trace the lady to ensure her safety,” said Chodankar. “Not only is the BJP shameless, but BJP has proved that dadagiri is the only option remaining with them to gain power by resorting to such acts of crime,” said Chodankar. The Congress said that BJP is taking Goa towards a “goondaism state” like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “Goondaism is the part and parcel of BJP’s political strategies. It is not new for them, but Goa has never witnessed such an incident and Goans will not forgive BJP for such dadagiri,” Chodankar said. Meanwhile, general secretary for the Congress Janardhan Bhandari said that the bahujan samaj must speak out against the injustice meted out by the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congs-quepem-candidate-goes-missing-party-suspects-bjps-intimidation-tactics/articleshow/81370403.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Pragya Singh Thakur flown from Bhopal to Mumbai hospital||MUMBAI/BHOPAL: Member of Parliament from Bhopal Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur was airlifted from Bhopal and flown down to Mumbai where she was admitted to a super-speciality hospital on Saturday evening. She reached the private hospital around 6pm on Saturday. The BJP MP, is facing a trial as one of the accused in the September 29, 2008 Malegaon blast case before a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Mumbai. She had appeared before the NIA court on January 4 and had said that she had certain health issues and medical tests were lined up. The special court granted exemption from personal appearance on health grounds on a plea by her defence counsel J P Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pragya-flown-from-bhopal-to-mumbai-hosp/articleshow/81371825.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Oppn bats for extension of CZMP public hearing||PANAJI: The state government should extend the duration of the public hearing on the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan which is scheduled for today as one day is not sufficient to hear the grievances and objections of stakeholders across the state, said the Congress and Goa Forward Party (GFP)on Saturday. While the Congress said that the BJP government appears “hell bent in wrapping up the process” GFP said chief minister Pramod Sawant had reduced the public hearing process to a “token one-day formality.” Many village panchayats and activists have objected to the draft CZMP and have called on the state government to review it. Villagers and fishermen from South Goa have said that some of their homes and churches have been left out of the CZMP. “The government can extend the public hearing schedule for more days to give everyone equal opportunity, said Kamat. “There is no clarity on classification of areas in the draft CZMP.” GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that the BJP government is trying to “tick the boxes” by holding a token public hearing. “Pramod Sawant is on an express train to sell Goa and has no regard for the lives of the residents,” said Sardesai. The Congress said that BJP is working as per the instructions of the BJP central leadership and is trying to bulldoze the democratic process in order to facilitate the entry of crony capitalists. Sardesai said that the Sawant should be held accountable for the gross misuse of power. The GFP chief also said that the government is using the excuse of Covid-19 as a tool to curtail the assembly session but has no qualms about permitting tourism and other activities to continue despite a rise in cases. “When it comes to tourists spreading Covid-19, or holding unwanted events, there are no restrictions, but when it comes to Goemkars, all protocols are in full force,” said Sardesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-bats-for-extension-of-czmp-public-hearing/articleshow/81370415.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Surat||2001 SIMI meeting case: 122 set free||Surat: The court in Surat on Saturday acquitted 122 persons accused of participating in a meeting organised by banned outfit Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) in December 2001 for lack of evidence. Initially, there were 127 accused booked under various sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), however, five of them died during the course of the trial.Chief judicial magistrate Amit Dave, acquitted all the accused who were arrested for being members of SIMI and attending a meeting at Rajeshree Hall in Navsari Bazaar area of Surat on December 27, 2001.The central government had through its notification dated September 27, 2001 banned SIMI. The accused belonged to different parts of Gujarat as well as from Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The court observed that the prosecution failed to produce satisfactory evidence to establish that the accused persons belonged to the SIMI and had gathered to promote the activities of the banned outfit. “The court also observed that the prosecution also failed to prove that the alleged unlawful literature was recovered from the spot. The court took note of the failure of police in taking approval of the central government before arrest of the accused as per UAPA norms,” said M M Shaikh, a defence lawyer.A total of 111 of the 127 persons accused in the case were present in the court and were happy with the acquittal. They said that 20 years of their life was spent facing financial difficulties and social stigma. According to case details, after being arrested most of the accused spent at least nine months in jail before getting bail. The meeting was called under an informal organisation All India Minority Education Board. However, the police alleged that the meeting was being held by members SIMI to carry out unlawful activities.Of the 127, 124 were arrested from the hall while others were caught during the course of the investigation.“I was a topper in my college and wanted to become a journalist, but now I sell spices. No one is here to answer our questions about why we were framed in a false case and so many lives were ruined,” said Asif Shaikh, one of the acquitted accused from Ahmedabad.“Police levelled baseless charges and the officer who lodged the complaint, police inspector J M Pancholi, was also the investigation officer. It is against the law. In all only 20 witnesses were examined by the court,” said K G Shaikh, another defence lawyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2001-simi-meeting-case-122-set-free/articleshow/81369360.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||23 days on, missing Left worker found||Kolkata: Twenty-three days after he went missing after attending Left’s Nabanna Abhijan, Panskura resident and CPM worker Dipak Panja was finally traced by a party colleague and reunited with his family. A CPM Howrah district committee member noticed Panja roaming aimlessly at Bally railway station on Friday and took him to the Howrah party office, where he was keot for the night. A video call was made to his wife, Saraswati, and he was sent home on Saturday. Doctors checked him as he looked weak and his rehabilitation at home has begun, said a CPM leader in Howrah. “Four party members took Panja to his Panskura home. The party is arranging for his medical expenses,” said a source, indicating Panja might have ended up at the railway station after suffering some illness. The Kolkata police detective department, which was probing Panja’s missing case, said they were aware of the development. The case is sub judice. “We would not like to comment,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. “He was reportedly last seen on Howrah bridge on February 11. We had suspected he might have boarded a train. The missing person squad had been entrusted with the job,” said an officer. After Panja did not return home after Nabanna Abhijan, Left had alleged foul play and lodged a missing complaint at the New Market police station. (With inputs from Subhojyoti Kanjilal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/23-days-on-missing-left-worker-found/articleshow/81369900.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 7, 2021||Pune||Beneficiaries from cantts get vaccines||Pune: The district administration has started the vaccination drive for people aged 60 years and above as well as those over 45 years, who have comorbidities, in Pune and Khadki cantonment board limits from Friday. The administration was unable to start the drive earlier due to some administrative issues. Within two days, about 400 citizens have been vaccinated. Pramod Kumar Singh, chief executive officer of Khadki Cantonment Board, said, “The response to the drive is encouraging, mostly from senior citizens. It is a positive sign for us.” VD Gaikwad, resident medical officer of Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), said, “We had to pursue the matter with the district administration to starting the drive at our hospital. Senior citizens and residents with comorbidities had expressed unhappiness over the delay in starting the drive early.” “We have got adequate vaccine vials and we have roped in trained health staffers. As a result, the drive is proceeding smoothly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/beneficiaries-from-cantts-get-vaccines/articleshow/81369893.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 7, 2021||India||Former TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi joins BJP, says Didi has forsaken ideals||NEW DELHI: Former TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi, who had resigned from his Rajya Sabha seat, on Saturday joined BJP in the presence of the party’s national president J P Nadda, marking yet another desertion from the TMC camp. Trivedi was welcomed in the presence of ministers Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan, and the three-time RS MP and former railway minister said CM Mamata Banerjee has forgotten all her ideals. “People of West Bengal are highly dejected by corruption and violence. Now they are happy and relieved that the real change is going to happen soon.” Nadda said, “Trivedi ji has never bothered about politics of power and influence and in his long career, he has always fought for the politics of ideology and ideals. He has always made many sacrifices for politics of ideology and righteousness. I’m very happy to welcome him to the BJP parivar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/former-tmc-mp-dinesh-trivedi-joins-bjp-says-didi-has-forsaken-ideals/articleshow/81372286.cms||---
March 7, 2021||---||Former TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi joins BJP, says Didi has forsaken ideals||NEW DELHI: Former TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi, who had resigned from his Rajya Sabha seat, on Saturday joined BJP in the presence of the party’s national president J P Nadda, marking yet another desertion from the TMC camp. Trivedi was welcomed in the presence of ministers Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan, and the three-time RS MP and former railway minister said CM Mamata Banerjee has forgotten all her ideals. “People of West Bengal are highly dejected by corruption and violence. Now they are happy and relieved that the real change is going to happen soon.” Nadda said, “Trivedi ji has never bothered about politics of power and influence and in his long career, he has always fought for the politics of ideology and ideals. He has always made many sacrifices for politics of ideology and righteousness. I’m very happy to welcome him to the BJP parivar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/former-tmc-mp-dinesh-trivedi-joins-bjp-says-didi-has-forsaken-ideals/articleshow/81372284.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Sancoale, Khola reject draft plans||Vasco/Poinguinim: Opposition to the draft coastal zone regulation plan (CZMP) is brewing in the villages, with Sancoale and Khola joining the chorus. Sancoale panchayat on Saturday resolved to reject the draft CZMP citing discrepancies, while Khola panchayat said the plan is “full of errors”. In a special gram sabha, Sancoale members said that a plan prepared by the Biodiversity Management Committee of Sancoale village, with the help of stakeholders, was submitted to the administration. But the recommendations from the village committee do not reflect in the recent draft, villagers said. Hence, the plan prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) was unanimously rejected by the gram sabha. At its recent meeting, Khola panchayat rejected the new draft CZMP. After the last gram sabha meet, the panchayat returned the draft plan saying that it was falling short on several important people-oriented issues. Sarpanch Purna Nayak told the villagers that some of their demands, such as removal of ports limits, have not been incorporated in the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sancoale-khola-reject-draft-plans/articleshow/81370438.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Delhi||College shift row: DU writes to Delhi govt||NEW DELHI: Delhi University has written a letter to the Delhi government, claiming that “proper procedure for de-affiliation of the College of Art was not followed.” Earlier, the government’s directorate of training and technical education stated that “they have approved the merger of the College of Art with the School of Fine Arts in Ambedkar University Delhi and have asked the university to make arrangements for admissions from the next academic session.” In its March 3 order, the directorate stated that the merger of Delhi College of Art happened under the provisions of the Dr BR Ambedkar Vishwavidyalaya Act 2007, based on the recommendation of an empowered committee. The deputy director, Ashwani Kumar Kansal, has also clarified that the students currently enrolled in the College of Art will continue to be governed by norms of Delhi University and will receive their degrees from Delhi University after fulfilling the requisite degree requirements. However, DU has now written to the government highlighting certain issues. “If they want the college to be de-affiliated, then there is a proper procedure that needs to be followed,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/college-shift-row-du-writes-to-delhi-govt/articleshow/81369902.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Rajkot||Nameplates on doors tell stories of reform indoors||Rajkot: When in Nakhatrana taluka of Kutch district, you will be lost if you don’t know the name of the girl in the family you are visiting. As nameplates in two villages here will only tell you about the daughter that resides in that house, not her pedigree! So, welcome to Mota Angiya and Nirona villages where women rule the roost, literally.And what augured the change? An initiative of the district women and child development department to convince the residents that girls too matter. The villagers took the message to heart and within the last two months convinced the Gram Sabha to honour their daughters with these special nameplates. Today, a proud 150 households in both the villages bear such unique nameplates. And what’s more, many more villages will join this initiative on international women’s day on Monday.The team of government officials organized awareness programmes and in January tasted success when people agreed to change the nameplates outside their houses. Sarpanch of Mota Angiya village, Iqbal Ghanchi told TOI, “We are working on various women empowerment programmes in the village for the past four years. We organized a gram sabha and convinced residents to empower the other half of the society. We have a WhatsApp group wherein we posted examples of extraordinary women of our country which helped us convince them faster.”Nisha Soni, a FyBA student in the village, has her name pasted bold and beautifully on the nameplate outside her house. “Daughters are now being welcomed in the family. Examples of successful women like Kiran Bedi shown at the gram sabha encouraged our parents to put our names on the nameplates,” she said. District women and child development officer Avni Dave who took the initiative told TOI, “Initially it was not easy, but now they are supporting our initiative willingly. More panchayats in Maska village of Mandvi, Kukma village of Bhuj and Sinugra village of Anjar have evinced interest in this initiative and we will paste new nameplates at more homes on March 8.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nameplates-on-doors-tell-stories-of-reform-indoors/articleshow/81369377.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Illegal use: AMC cracks down on clinics||Ahmedabad: Following the directions of the Gujarat high court, the civic body has begun a crackdown on hospitals and clinics with illegal extensions, change of use or illegal structures. In all, eight hospitals in the West Zone were hauled up. These included Pushpam Hospital in Chandkheda, Parimal Hospital in Motera, Samvedna Multi-Speciality Hospital in Ranip, Jivandeep Hospital in Nava Vadaj, Jagmohan Hospital in Navrangpura, Mayur Shah Hospital at Paldi Crossroads and Dev Hospital in Vasna. A press release from the AMC West Zone office claimed that the sealing drive was undertaken while clearing encroachments on town planning (TP) roads. “None of these constructions were permitted as the hospitals had not approached the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation for regularizing them,” a senior AMC official said. The AMC continued its sealing drive in the posh North West and South West zones for non-payment of property tax. A total of 98 properties were sealed in the North West Zone which included 11 row houses at Sahyog Society in KK Nagar, 18 units were sealed at Silver Star and Satya complexes in Chandlodia. The civic body sealed 14 units in Devnandan Complex and 10 units near Ghatlodia Bridge. In all 44 properties were sealed in Jodhpur, Vejalpur and Maktampura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/illegal-use-amc-cracks-down-on-clinics/articleshow/81369914.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Rs 1,000 fine likely for mask rule violations, decision on Friday||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has proposed to double the fine for not wearing a mask in view of the increasing Covid-19 cases as well as rampant violation of the safety protocol. The offence currently attracts a Rs500 penalty. Rao said he would submit the proposal to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in next Friday’s review meeting. The divisional commissioner of Pune told TOI he would also submit recommendations by Tata Consultancy Services and IISER — to close schools and colleges for the next two months to reduce cases by 35%, and prohibit dine-in services at restaurants, which could reduce cases by another 25%. TCS and IISER have also been tasked with analysing data from hospitalization and serious cases to draw a comparison between 2020 and the present. A final report would be submitted by Wednesday. He said he was constantly in touch with National Institute of Virology (NIV) to check for any new mutations in the virus. “I have been informed there were mutations, but that those were regular and of no concern. The main reason for the increase in cases is non-adherence to the Covid-19 protocol,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-1000-fine-likely-for-mask-rule-violations-decision-on-friday/articleshow/81369901.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hospitals hand-hold seniors with Co-WIN camps, offer tea & biscuits||MUMBAI: In the six days since senior citizens have started getting the Covid vaccine, various hospitals have literally been rolling out the red carpet for them. If some corporate hospitals are visiting housing colonies to hold camps to help the elderly register themselves on the Co-WIN portal, others are offering cups of teas and biscuits to seniors after the shot. Wheelchairs on arrivals, no queues for super seniors over 80 years of age, and couselling are some of the other perks of being old at the vaccine centres. At the BMC-run Mulund jumbo centre, for instance, staffers have been pooling money to buy 50 to 60 packets of biscuits and organise tea for the senior citizens. “The local Lions Clubs has now shown interest in helping us out,” said dean Dr Pradeep Angre, who walks around the huge centre with 20 vaccine booths advising recipients to take paracetamol in the evening and the need to continue wearing masks. Apart from the first two days when Co-WIN glitches delayed the vaccination drive, most senior citizens have reported a positive experience at the vaccination centres. Shobha Samant, a 68-year-old Thane resident who visited the Mulund jumbo Covid vaccination centre on Saturday afternoon, was all smiles while leaving with her 80-year-old husband Prabhakar. “My husband was given a wheelchair and immediately taken to the counter as he is 80 years old. We took about an hour to get out.” Dr Parag Rindani, head of Wockhardt Hospital, has doubled the number of wheelchairs in his hospital in Mumbai Central. “As two persons are sometimes needed to help the senior citizens get off the wheelchair, even our management staff are out on the floor helping in the process,” he said. Wockhardt Hospital has also been sending teams to nearby housing colonies to help the elderly register on the Co-WIN portal. Dr Rindani has clicked photos of 25 senior citizens in the past three days and helped them WhatsApp the images to their children living abroad. At the civic BKC jumbo vaccine centre, which has vaccinated 4,000 recipients in the past two days, 80-year-olds don’t have to wait in queue. They get coffee, chai, or even green tea if they so desire. “On Friday, we realised a centenarian was brought by her son and grandchildren for vaccination on her birthday. We immediately organised a cake that she could cut,” said BKC facility dean Dr Rajesh Dere. And, yes, whoever is thirsty can take a sealed Bisleri water bottle. Not all seniors have had a good experience though. Vashi’s Kumar Venkateswaran (63) said, “I had initially applied through Co-WIN and got an appointment for March 3 at the municipal hospital. However, on reaching there, I was told the medical staff are not considering the registrations made through the Co-WIN app. I was told the hospital only issues coupons to citizens in the morning time.” The next day, he was shocked when told the coupons issued the day earlier were no longer valid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hospitals-hand-hold-seniors-with-co-win-camps-offer-tea-biscuits-in-mumbai/articleshow/81369904.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 7, 2021||Thane||Mumbai: Hospitals hand-hold seniors with Co-WIN camps, offer tea & biscuits||MUMBAI: In the six days since senior citizens have started getting the Covid vaccine, various hospitals have literally been rolling out the red carpet for them. If some corporate hospitals are visiting housing colonies to hold camps to help the elderly register themselves on the Co-WIN portal, others are offering cups of teas and biscuits to seniors after the shot. Wheelchairs on arrivals, no queues for super seniors over 80 years of age, and couselling are some of the other perks of being old at the vaccine centres. At the BMC-run Mulund jumbo centre, for instance, staffers have been pooling money to buy 50 to 60 packets of biscuits and organise tea for the senior citizens. “The local Lions Clubs has now shown interest in helping us out,” said dean Dr Pradeep Angre, who walks around the huge centre with 20 vaccine booths advising recipients to take paracetamol in the evening and the need to continue wearing masks. Apart from the first two days when Co-WIN glitches delayed the vaccination drive, most senior citizens have reported a positive experience at the vaccination centres. Shobha Samant, a 68-year-old Thane resident who visited the Mulund jumbo Covid vaccination centre on Saturday afternoon, was all smiles while leaving with her 80-year-old husband Prabhakar. “My husband was given a wheelchair and immediately taken to the counter as he is 80 years old. We took about an hour to get out.” Dr Parag Rindani, head of Wockhardt Hospital, has doubled the number of wheelchairs in his hospital in Mumbai Central. “As two persons are sometimes needed to help the senior citizens get off the wheelchair, even our management staff are out on the floor helping in the process,” he said. Wockhardt Hospital has also been sending teams to nearby housing colonies to help the elderly register on the Co-WIN portal. Dr Rindani has clicked photos of 25 senior citizens in the past three days and helped them WhatsApp the images to their children living abroad. At the civic BKC jumbo vaccine centre, which has vaccinated 4,000 recipients in the past two days, 80-year-olds don’t have to wait in queue. They get coffee, chai, or even green tea if they so desire. “On Friday, we realised a centenarian was brought by her son and grandchildren for vaccination on her birthday. We immediately organised a cake that she could cut,” said BKC facility dean Dr Rajesh Dere. And, yes, whoever is thirsty can take a sealed Bisleri water bottle. Not all seniors have had a good experience though. Vashi’s Kumar Venkateswaran (63) said, “I had initially applied through Co-WIN and got an appointment for March 3 at the municipal hospital. However, on reaching there, I was told the medical staff are not considering the registrations made through the Co-WIN app. I was told the hospital only issues coupons to citizens in the morning time.” The next day, he was shocked when told the coupons issued the day earlier were no longer valid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/hospitals-hand-hold-seniors-with-co-win-camps-offer-tea-biscuits-in-mumbai/articleshow/81372332.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Some welcome move, others raise doubts||New Delhi: The Delhi government’s decision to set up its own board of education has led to mixed reactions from experts in the field of education. Some welcomed the move while others were critical and warned against repercussions. The principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, Ameeta Wattal, believes it will generate “an extremely transformative curriculum”. She said it was a wonderful idea as most states in the country had a board of their own “and it is good that a progressive state like Delhi under a progressive government is coming up with it.” She pointed out that the happiness and entrepreneurship curricula of the Delhi government has garnered praise around the world, recalling how Ivanka Trump, daughter of then US president Donald Trump had chosen to visit a school in India. “The state government which has had some innovative ideas has now created a curriculum for Delhi which dovetails into the National Education Policy (NEP) and keeps in mind 21st century skills of competency and learner profiles.” Wattal said many progressive schools may get affiliated to the board once the pilot was implemented. The principal of Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Sector 8, Rohini, A K Jha, said that it was a long-awaited decision. “The board will help us in creating local and focussed courses and even vocational courses. It will help students to choose subjects they want to study and will assist teachers as well.” However, Prof Anita Rampal, former Dean, Faculty of Education, at Delhi University raised doubts about the claims by the government that the new board would focus on holistic learning and a year-long system of comprehensive assessment. “We have not seen assessments happening like that in their schools. In fact, their own teachers have expressed serious concerns about students being labelled as 'slow learners' and segregated into separate sections of ‘Neo readers’ from Class III onwards and ‘Nistha’ from Class VI,” she said. “We should also note that this government had first written to the former minister of education, Smriti Irani, that contrary to the Right to Education Act, they wanted to detain students as early as in Class III.” Pointing out that this would be a very small state board, Rampal said there is indeed a potential to make meaningful changes in the curriculum but some of the government’s decisions have been problematic. She singled out the Deshbhakti curriculum, saying that the idea of desh prem or a critical approach to feeling a sense of love and belonging for one's pluralistic country should develop in an integrated way, across all subjects and activities in school. All India Parents’ Association (AIPA) president Ashok Aggarwal, too, criticised the government’s move. “At a time when schools around the world want to be affiliated to CBSE and when Delhi schools are already affiliated to that board, this decision goes against students’ welfare,” he said. He said the quality of Delhi’s education would go down with this decision and there “could be horrible repercussions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/some-welcome-move-others-raise-doubts/articleshow/81369910.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
March 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Water woes, traffic mgmt key issues in Nandigama||Vijayawada: Drinking water scarcity, congested roads and a lack of proper healthcare facilities are among the major problems faced by residents of Nandigama nagar panchayat (municipality) which will be going to polls on March 10. Altogether, 133 candidates are in the fray for posts of 20 councillors. Located 55 kilometres away from Vijayawada, Nandigama is known for cotton and paddy cultivation. Despite its proximity to Krishna river, most wards face severe drinking water problems in the summer months. “A few villages adjacent to Nandigama are facing fluoride problems and kidney diseases due to poor quality of groundwater. We have been facing severe drinking water problems in summer for the last seven years. We have decided to vote for the party which will strive to resolve the drinking water problem in our area,” Jonatha Rama Raju, a voter from Ward 20 told STOI. Most roads in town are congested and traffic problems are severe around Gandhi Bomma Center, main road and other areas in town. Locals have also raised concerns over poor facilities at the area hospital. “Government hospitals are not equipped to handle emergencies. We have to go to Vijayawada every time for better treatment. We are fed up with parties always making promises during polls and ignoring them later,” said B Aadi Lakshmi, a Ward 4 resident. “We are developing a 40-year master plan. We will develop the area hospital into a 100-bed community speciality hospital. Asia Development Bank is funding the drinking water project and the problem will be redressed soon,” said YSRC MLA Mondithoka Jagan Mohan Rao. Meanwhile, former TDP MLA Tangirala Sowmya said they will will stall the tax reforms brought in by the state government which she claimed were adding a huge burden on the public. “We have brought many development projects in the last five years,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/water-woes-traffic-mgmt-key-issues-in-nandigama/articleshow/81369261.cms||Venu Lanka
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Five men plotted, killed Thaltej couple||AHMEDABAD: Police officers investigating the gruesome killings of Ashok and Jyotsna Patel, both 68, at their house in Thaltej, have zeroed in on the perpetrators through CCTV footage and mapping of their escape route. It has been revealed that there were five persons who conspired to kill and rob the couple. A city police officer said that the perpetrators had done a recce of the Patels’ house and decided to rob the couple on Friday morning. A city police officer told TOI, “There were five persons involved, the four who slit Ashok and Jyotsna’s throats and and one who had tipped them off that the two senior citizens were living alone.” The officer said they had parked their two motorcycles near a lane near Shantivan Palace Bungalows where the Patels lived and entered early in the morning. When they were stealing valuables from the house, Ashok Patel spotted them, so they killed him. On hearing the noise from ground floor, Jyotsna, who was on first floor doing pooja, rushed towards the noise and the robbers killed her as well. They later fled on their motorcycles towards Shela first and later they took a circuitous route through lanes and narrow roads towards Chanakyapuri. “The perpetrators, were earlier involved in few cases of theft and loot, will be soon be nabbed by city police,” said an officer. The officer added that they had gathered information about the accused through CCTV footage and human intelligence. “They had seen the elderly couple living alone by observing their house. They thought to conduct the crime early in the morning when movement of vehicles and people would just be beginning in the area,” said a police officer. The killings of the couple sent out a shockwave and instilled fear in residents of the Thaltej area. After the murder, police filed a case of murder and robbery against the unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-men-plotted-killed-thaltej-couple/articleshow/81369913.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||423 candidates in fray for March 20 polls||Panaji: After 77 candidates withdrew their nominations on Saturday, 423 candidates are now in the fray for the March 20 elections to six municipal councils and Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) as well as byelections to some zilla panchayats and panchayats. In all, 505 people have filed their nominations for seven municipalities, including CCP. 11 nominations have been withdrawn for contesting the CCP elections, leaving 97 candidates. Forty-nine people have withdrawn their nominations in six municipalities. 13 nominations were withdrawn from byelections in village panchayats, one for the Sakhali municipal byelections and three for the Navelim zilla panchayat byelection. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/423-candidates-in-fray-for-march-20-polls/articleshow/81370473.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Labourer gets impaled after fall, dies||Kolkata: A labourer died at an under-construction structure after he fell from the third floor and was impaled on the iron gate of the adjoining building. The incident took place in the Nayabad minibus stand area under Panchasayar police station on Saturday. The victim, Biswanath Bagh (31), a resident of Basanti in South 24 Parganas, died by the time he could be taken to SSKM Hospital. The cops are probing the circumstances under which he fell. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/labourer-gets-impaled-after-fall-dies/articleshow/81369906.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Migrants back in Bhiwandi looms with cut pay; low demand a worry||BHIWANDI: Among the migrant workers who suffered the most during the Covid-19 lockdown were the lakhs employed in Bhiwandi’s power looms. Despite the unlocking, the workers who have returned to Bhiwandi are worried since demand for cloth is yet to return to normalcy. The workers had gone back to their hometowns and villages after the lockdown was announced in March 2020. By November, they started trickling back to Bhiwandi on the limited trains or after their companies arranged private vehicles for their transport. Bhiwandi, known as the power loom city, has around 6 lakh such units, besides ancillary sectors involved in sizing, dyeing, stitching, cloth processing and yarn selling, and together these employ more than 10 lakh people. Ashish Chaudhary (35), a migrant employed in a power loom unit in the Padma Nagar area of Bhiwandi for 12 years, said he had never seen as much “damage” as during the Covid crisis. He said he now receives “70% to 80%” of his salary and is worried about his job in case demand for cloth does not rise in the near future. Chaudhary said like most other workers in the city, his wife and children are back in his village. He lives alone in Bhiwandi. On the other hand, Gopi Chand, another migrant, said for the first time in 12 years he was forced to send his wife and children back to their village in Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh, in October last year. Chand said though he misses his family, he does not want to risk bringing them back due to the rising Covid cases. Among the migrants is a 19-year-old Kapil Dev who had arrived from Uttar Pradesh in January last year for his first job but had to return just months later. Dev recently came back to Mumbai, but soon, as cases began to rise, booked a return ticket for March 23 for UP. “I have cancelled it now since the government has not imposed another lockdown,” he said. Meanwhile, power loom units are battling their own problems. Viren Singh, who runs a unit in Padma Nagar, said, “When the state government gave us permission to restart our units, I spent Rs 35,000 to bring back seven workers. But my orders have reduced. We are paying workers from our pockets in the hope that in future demand will improve.” Sharadram Shejpal, spokesperson of Bhiwandi Power Loom Association, said, “Demand for cloth is only 40% of what it was earlier. To overcome the situation, the government must resolve long-pending demands of the power loom and related industries, such as controlling prices of yarn and providing power subsidy to sectors such sizing and dyeing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-migrants-back-in-bhiwandi-looms-with-cut-pay-low-demand-a-worry/articleshow/81369187.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 7, 2021||Goa||Sawant tells school kids to explore more career options||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that students should explore alternative career options rather than opting for traditional courses. “Only 10% of parents will have the knowledge of career options for their kids, while 90% of parents do not have the knowledge about the careers their children can take up, and this is a fact,” he said, urging the teachers to take up the responsibility to shape the future of children. “BA, BCom, BSc are not the only options. There are a lot of opportunities in defence, civil services, etc,” he said, adding that there are options other than government jobs.  Sawant said the state government has been stressing on career counselling. “When I asked some students what they want to study, one said MBBS, another said engineering and the third said either MBBS or engineering. This is the reason children should know about the career options available,” Sawant said. “I don’t believe that a person who fails the SSC exam is a failure in life. He must be having some other talent, utilising which he can be successful in life,” he said The Sakhali MLA added that there are a lot of courses run by the education department, which can be taken up by those who don’t clear SSC, and on completion of the course, they can get a job at the pay scale of a lower division clerk, who is usually a graduate. Sawant also said tha twhile some teachers consider themselves to be involved in the profession full-time, even after school hours, others limit their responsibilities only to school timings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-tells-school-kids-to-explore-more-career-options/articleshow/81370461.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||1,897 penalized for not wearing face covers||Pune: The police on Saturday penalized 1,897 people across the district for not wearing masks and for violating Covid-19 norms. The Pune police took action against 853 people and collected Rs4,23,700 in fines, while the Pimpri Chinchwad police recovered Rs77,000 from 154 offenders. The Pune rural police fined 890 people and collected Rs1,52,200. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1897-penalized-for-not-wearing-face-covers/articleshow/81369903.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||20-year-old kills granddad & dad in Mumbai, then dies by suicide||Mumbai: A 20-year-old mentally disturbed youth stabbed to death his 55-year-old father and 85-year-old grandfather and then went on to jump off their sixth-floor flat in Vasant Oscar building at L B S Marg, Mulund West, on Saturday morning. The deceased have been identified as Shardul Mangle, his father Milind Mangle and grandfather Suresh Mangle. Mulund police have registered a case of double murder and an accidental death report (ADR) in the case. Their domestic help, Amol Kamble, said he had a narrow escape as he hid himself in a bathroom when he saw Shardul stab his father and grandfather. Police said Shardul’s father Milind, a former employee of a corporate house, was a motivational speaker while his grandfather was bedridden. Shardul lived with his father and grandfather after his parents reportedly separated. His mother and teenage sister live in Ghatkopar, said the police. Police suspect Shardul might have reduced his medicine dosage recently. They said around 9.30am on Saturday morning, Kamble asked Shardul to attend his online lectures and then went inside the kitchen to prepare coffee. “This might have triggered Shardul who took out a kitchen knife and slit his father’s throat. An injured Milind managed to run out of the house but Shardul caught him and stabbed his back multiple times and then went inside and stabbed his bedridden grandfather. A frightened Kamble who saw the stabbings locked himself inside a bathroom,” said a Mulund police officer. Later, Shardul jumped off the balcony. He was found dead with multiple injuries all over his body. The neighbours immediately called the police and rushed his father and grandfather to Agarwal Hospital where they were declared dead on arrival, said deputy commissioner of police (Zone 7) Prashant Kadam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/20-year-old-kills-granddad-dad-in-mumbai-then-dies-by-suicide/articleshow/81368523.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Man gropes office-goer at Mumbai’s Bandra station, railway cops nab him in 48 hours||MUMBAI: A 35-year-old woman commuter headed to her office in a private firm was groped by an unknown man on the foot overbridge at Bandra railway station. When she went after him to confront him, the accused hopped on to a train and made obscene gestures at her. After examining footage from over 200 cameras, the GRP nabbed him within 48 hours from Antop Hill where he lives. The woman, a Bhayander resident, works in a firm at Bandra East. Around 11.50am on March 3, she got into the first-class compartment of a fast local and alighted at Bandra about 45 minutes later on platform 5. She began climbing the foot overbridge, which was packed with commuters, to head out of the railway station. Suddenly, a man on the bridge groped her and took cover of the crowd to move towards the harbour line. “But the victim had seen him and went after him towards platforms 6 and 7 to confront him. The accused hopped into a CSMT local on platform 7. He then looked back at the victim who was standing at the platform and started making obscene gestures until the train left the platform,” said senior inspector Vilas Chaugule, Bandra GRP. Disturbed with the events, the woman reached her workplace. She approached the police station only on March 4 to lodge a complaint. The police began the probe by checking footage from CCTVs at Bandra station. The accused had been captured hopping into a CSMT local at platform 7. Investigators then checked footage from cameras at all harbour line stations. He had been captured alighting at King’s Circle station. “The entire route that the accused took from King's Circle station up to Antop Hill where he lived is covered with cameras. We went through footage from at least 200 to 250 cameras for leads,” said assistant inspector Devidas Aranye. Two teams of policemen were formed. Once the accused’s address was clear, the GRP sought help from the local police. He was picked up around 1.30 am on Saturday. The accused was identified as Mohammad Irfan Ansari, a 49-year-old women’s footwear salesman. He has no previous crime history. Police have booked him under Indian Penal Code sections 354 and 409. Ansari previously lived int King’s Circle. To make commuting safer for travellers, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) has started deploying uniformed women personnel for escorting local and long-distance train compartments on Central Railway. The 50 women personnel carry carbines and pistols for security reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-gropes-office-goer-at-mumbais-bandra-station-rly-cops-nab-him-in-48-hrs/articleshow/81368889.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||With weeks to go for official start of the Maha Kumbh, third death by rogue jumbo in Haridwar’s Rajaji Tiger Reserve in a fortnight||Haridwar: A 50-year-old man from Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh, was trampled to death by a rogue elephant near Gauhari range of Rajaji on Saturday morning. The body of the victim was sent to AIIMS Rishikesh for post-mortem where it was confirmed that he died due to the jumbo attack. “The man was on his way to Neelkanth Mahadev temple via Beatles Ashram when the incident occurred. People are being told to avoid moving at night to minimise conflict with animals but they don’t adhere to the norms,” said Dhir Singh, ranger officer, Gauhari range. It is worth mentioning that this is the third death due to human-elephant conflict in Haridwar within a few weeks. The deaths raise concerns regarding the preparedness of the forest department for the upcoming Kumbh Mela, which is expected to draw millions of devotees. Earlier, on February 23, Kapil Kumar (23-year-old) was crushed to death by an elephant in the Phoolchatti area of Gauhari forest range. The elephant had gone on a rampage and razed a few shops in the area before attacking Kumar, according to the range officer. And on February 21, a forest guard of the RTR was killed by an elephant in the Beriwada range. The jumbo chased him and then killed him by piercing his tusk into his stomach. Meanwhile, the forest department claims that 16 Quick Response Teams (QRTs) have been formed in Haridwar to handle emergency situations and to prevent such mishaps. QRTs are tasked with chasing away wild animals into forest and stopping humans from venturing into the woods. DK Singh, director, Rajaji Tiger Reserve, said, “People venture into the jungle in order to take shortcuts despite repeated warnings. We have already constituted QRTs in Haridwar to prevent any human-wildlife conflict and to manage the crowd during the Kumbh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-weeks-to-go-for-official-start-of-the-maha-kumbh-third-death-by-rogue-jumbo-in-haridwars-rajaji-tiger-reserve-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/81369395.cms||Shivani Azad
March 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Poll season demand pushes up chicken prices across AP||Visakhapatnam: Rise in demand has pushed up chicken prices in both wholesale and retail markets across the state. On Friday, dressed broiler chicken sold for Rs 230–240 per kilo. Poultry businessmen say the rise in demand can be attributed to the civic polls and predict that prices may go up over the next few days in both urban and rural areas. With elections on March 10, political parties are campaigning across the state in a bid to reach out to voters. Thousands of political workers are on the streets in a bid to woo voters. With the poll fervour intensifying, the demand for chicken has gone up across board. The average demand for chicken in Andhra Pradesh is around eight lakh kilos per day. Now, the demand has gone up to over ten lakh kilos per day. Political parties are buying chicken in large amounts to feed their workers during the campaign. Tatraju Appa Rao, president of the Broiler Chicken Industry Welfare in Visakhapatnam region, said that the demand for broiler chicken suddenly increased since February owing to the local body elections. The average demand for birds in north Andhra Pradesh, comprising Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, has increased by nearly 35 per cent, Appa Rao said while adding that chicken prices may go up further in summer as the growth rate of birds reduces as many chickens die in the hot weather. G Srinu, a resident of Madhurawada who was out buying chicken on Friday, said, “I was a bit surprised when I went to the chicken shop. A kilo of broiler chicken is selling for Rs 230 from Rs 180 per kilo only a few weeks ago. The price of country chicken is between Rs 600–700 a kilo depending on size.” Meanwhile, meat shop owner Sk Hussain said, “We have been receiving bulk chicken orders from some local political leaders over the last few weeks. Political leaders are providing chicken to their workers in course of the  campaign.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/poll-season-demand-pushes-up-chicken-prices-across-ap/articleshow/81369270.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 7, 2021||Vijayawada||MP’s move flares up tensions within TDP||Vijayawada: Ahead of TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu’s road show for the municipal polls in the city on Sunday, infighting within his party intensified. MLC and city president Budda Venkanna, former MLA Bonda Uma and minority leader Nagul Meera held a press meet to announce they will boycott Naidu’s roadshow to oppose the alleged high-handedness of MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani). Following this, the party immediately swung into action to convince the functionaries to participate in the road show. Key workers from TDP in Vijayawada were upset with the candidates selected by MP Kesineni Nani without consulting them. Workers who had earlier served as deputy mayor and floor leader were denied tickets and upset with the move, MLC Venkanna and former MLA Bonda Uma had refrained from campaigning. The differences were out in the open following the announcement of the road show schedule by Kesineni Nani’s office without consulting the assembly constituency in-charges. “We are unhappy with the high-handed behaviour of MP Kesineni Nani. Many senior leaders were denied tickets and the language used by MP is objectionable,” Bonda Uma said. To this Budda Venkanna added, “Nani should respect the party and obey the code or conduct. He should resign as MP and contest as an independent candidate if he thinks that he is boss to Chandrababu Naidu.” In response, Kesineni Nani said that he was working as per the directions of the party and asked cadres to make Naidu’s roadshow in the city a success. TDP state president K Atchannaidu also spoke to Venkanna and Bonda Uma and asked them to participate in the roadshow. The party high command has asked leaders to keep aside differences and work for the victory of corporation candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mps-move-flares-up-tensions-within-tdp/articleshow/81369307.cms||Venu Lanka
March 7, 2021||Pune||Jumbo care centres to be in standby||Pune: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has asked the civic administration to restart the jumbo Covid-19 facilities and either negotiate with the existing contractors or float new tenders considering the current Covid-19 situation in the district. He said on Saturday the jumbo units would be kept on standby for the next three months. Pune district has two jumbo Covid facilities, one at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) and another at Annasaheb Magar Stadium in Bhosari. The COEP facility was made operational during last week of August and that at Annasaheb Magar, with a capacity of 800 beds each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-care-centres-to-be-in-standby/articleshow/81369905.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB chargesheet against Rhea Chakraborty ‘damp squib’, says Satish Maneshinde||MUMBAI: “The 12,000-page chargesheet was expected... but is a damp squib,” said advocate Satish Maneshinde who represents accused Rhea Chakraborty in the drugs case the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had filed last year. “It is standing on the foundation of inadmissible evidence,” Maneshinde said in a statement on Saturday. NCB filed the chargesheet on Friday against Chakraborty and 32 other accused in the drugs case it probed following actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide last year. It includes names of 200 witnesses. NCB had said on Friday the evidence includes “call data records, WhatsApp chats and bank documents” apart from statements of witnesses. NCB will continue its investigation against other accused not named in the chargesheet. Reacting to the chargesheet, Maneshinde said in a statement shared with the media: “All efforts of NCB have been directed towards Rhea Chakraborty to somehow rope her in.” According to him, the entire amount of narcotic substances recovered against 33 accused is nothing compared to what even a constable in Mumbai police, the narcotics cell, the airport customs or other agencies recover from one raid or a trap. He said, ‘The entire NCB from top to bottom was engaged in unearthing the drug angle in Bollywood... There’s hardly any material against any known faces who were paraded during the investigation, I wonder why? Either the allegations were false or only God knows the truth.’’ The chargesheet is based, he said, on “statements recorded under Section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act even after the Supreme Court judgement in Toofan Singh judgement...’’ According to Maneshinde, “Without Rhea Chakraborty being charged this case has no substance... The HC has found no prima facie material at the stage of bail of alleged ‘financing’ drugs trade.’’ The NCB has invoked the serious charge of Section 27A of NDPS Act which makes illicit trafficking and harbouring of offenders a crime punishable with minimum 10 years’ imprisonment and maximum 20 years. “We will have the last laugh,” was Maneshinde’s last comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ncb-chargesheet-against-rhea-damp-squib-maneshinde/articleshow/81368767.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Daily tally inches closer to 2k in PMR||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 1,944 Covid-19 cases on Saturday — the highest since October 9 last year, when 1,957 people had tested positive for the infection. With this, the region’s caseload has increased above 4.17 lakh. The daily recoveries also jumped to a month’s high in PMR on Saturday, with 1,235 people getting discharged after successful recovery, which was the highest since February 5 when 1,373 people recovered on a single day in the region. So far, over 3.94 lakh recoveries have been recorded in the region. Besides, nine more patients succumbed to Covid-related complication in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking its toll to 9,295. The Pune municipal areas added 963 cases on Saturday, followed by the PCMC limits (573) and the rural pockets (341). As on Saturday, the active caseload in PMR included 4,760 patients in hospital isolation and 8,639 at home isolation. Besides, as many as 12,880 tests were conducted in the region in the last 24 hours, taking its total tests above 23.89 lakh. As per PMC data, the civic areas had 672 patients on oxygen beds. The daily report of PMC states that number of critical patients admitted in hospitals across municipal areas was 321. The death reports of patients highlighted health problems like high blood pressure and heart problems led to health complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-tally-inches-closer-to-2k-in-pmr/articleshow/81369907.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Duo snatch gold chain worth Rs 16,000||Pune: Two men riding on a moped snatched a gold chain worth Rs16,000 of a 23-year-old woman in lane seven, Kalyaninagar, around 7.25pm on Friday. The woman, a college student, registered an FIR with the Yerawada police on the same day. “The woman resides in a housing society in lane seven. She was on her way to meet a friend at joggers’ park when two men came on a moped from the opposite side and the pillion rider snatched her chain, following which they sped away,” sub-inspector Vishal Patil said. The woman’s complaint was registered under relevant sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-snatch-gold-chain-worth-rs-16000/articleshow/81369915.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mittal meets PM, to invest Rs 45k cr-Rs 65k cr||L N Mittal at the SoU, KevadiaGandhinagar: World’s largest steel manufacturer, Luxembourg-based Arcelor Mittal Group is likely to further invest in Gujarat in the coming days at multiple locations. Indian-origin promoter of the company and chairman, L N Mittal, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kevadia on Saturday. Mittal also met chief minister Vijay Rupani in Ahmedabad. State government officials present in the meeting said the steel company, which took over Essar Steel plant in Hazira some time ago, intends to double the production capacity of its plant in Gujarat besides making fresh investments in the state. The Arcelor-Mittal group has pledged fresh investment in Gujarat of between Rs 45,000 and Rs 65,000 crore. Manoj Das, additional chief secretary (ACS) at chief minister’s office (CMO) and in-charge ACS, industry & mines department who accompanied CM Vijay Rupani during the meeting with Mittal said, “L N Mittal apprised the CM about the group’s plan to double its production capacity in Gujarat and make fresh investments in specialized steel.” “The group has informed that its fresh investment will be between Rs 45,000 crore to Rs 65,000 crore. We have assured them the best support in realising the business plan and providing incentives under our new industrial policy. In the last two years alone, FDI inflow in Gujarat has increased manifold. Mittal bringing in fresh FDI into Gujarat will further give a boost to the state’s development,” Das added. When contacted, a company official while confirming Mittal’s meeting with PM Modi and the Gujarat CM, refused to divulge any further details. Mittal visited the Statue of Unity (SoU) at Kevadia and other development projects before meeting the PM and CM. The state government also invited Mittal to the next Vibrant Gujarat summit, briefing him about the business opportunities in the state. L N Mittal, sources said, discussed the issues of his company’s dispute with Ruias-promoted Essar Group. However, the state government is said to have informed that as the matter is sub-judice, the company can pursue the matter in the court of law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mittal-meets-pm-to-invest-rs-45k-cr-rs-65k-cr/articleshow/81369925.cms||Kapil Dave
March 7, 2021||Vadodara||NHSRCL opens technical bids for two contracts packages||Vadodara: The National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL) which is implementing the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project has opened technical bids for two contract packages for construction of bridges for high speed rail (HSR) corridor in Gujarat as well union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli. So far, five bidders have submitted their bids for the package to construct one prestressed concrete bridge and four steel truss bridges between Vadodara and Ahmedabad stretch. The technical bid was opened on Friday. URC construction (P) Ltd, Ranjit Buildcon Limited, KEC – SAM India JV, M G Contractors Pvt Ltd and GRIL–GPT’s joint venture have submitted bids for this package. Four bidders have submitted for their bids for the second package of constructing four prestressed concrete bridge and seven steel truss bridges between Zaroli village, located at Gujarat-Maharashtra border and Vadodara and the union territory of Dadar and Nagar Haveli. Ranjit Buildcon Limited, M G Contractors Pvt Ltd, KEC-SAM India JV and GRIL-GPT JV have so far submitted their bids which was opened on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nhsrcl-opens-technical-bids-for-two-contracts-packages/articleshow/81369414.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Covid spurt in March, nearly 70 cases daily||PANAJI: While most of February saw Goa’s daily average of Covid 19 cases dropping below 50, over the past few days, there has been a sudden rise. From about 30 to 40 cases a day, it has shot up to 50 to 70 cases in a day. The urban health center, Panaji, a health official said, is reporting 10 to 15 cases daily while just a few days ago its average was one or two cases a day. Weddings and other festivities, the health official said, could be the reason behind this rise in cases. “People are not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he said. Now, health officers inquiring about patients testing positive are now also seeking information about whether they have attended a wedding or travelled outside the state. On Friday, 70 more people tested positive for Covid taking the tally of active cases to 700. A total of 45 were cured and no casualties were reported. Fifteen patients were hospitalised and 50 home isolated. The case positivity rate stood at 4.5% The tally of active cases at the Panaji urban health centre jumped to 92, while that of Margao went up to 99. In North Goa, centres at Mapusa, Porvorim and Chimbel reported a rise in new infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-spurt-in-march-nearly-70-cases-daily/articleshow/81370501.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Rs 4.7L stolen from flat in Dehu village||Pune: Thieves stole Rs4.7 lakh from a flat at Dehu village on Thursday evening when its residents were away. The flat owner (43), lodged a complaint with the Dehu Road police. According to police, the incident occurred between 4pm and 8pm on Thursday. The suspects entered the house by breaking open the front door. They then broke the cupboard’s lock to steal the cash. None of the society members saw the suspects coming to or walking out of the society after committing the theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-4-7l-stolen-from-flat-in-dehu-village/articleshow/81369928.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Active cases past 3k after 32 days, 73% from 4 dists||Ahmedabad: The upward trend of Covid-19 cases continued in Gujarat with 574 new cases in 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday, a 42-day highest for the state. The cases were in fact 34% up from 427 on March 1. With the steady rise in the cases and comparatively lesser number of discharges of the patients under hospitalization or isolation, the active cases in Gujarat reached 3,025 on Saturday, the highest in the past 32 days. From March 1, the active cases have increased by 24.5%, reveals the analysis. Out of the total active cases, 2,114 or 73% are from the four districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Distribution of the cases reveals that 70% of the daily cases were from four major cities. In fact, Ahmedabad (123), Surat (120), and Vadodara (104) cities recorded more than 100 cases each. Three districts – Porbandar, Surendranagar and Valsad – did not record any positive case in 24 hours, said state health department officials. “The cases in themselves are not much compared to what we had seen in 2020. But it also signifies that the pandemic is not over yet, and any misstep could be costly,” said a city-based critical care expert, addingthat the private hospitals on Saturday had 247 cases, which is one of the highest since Uttarayan this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-past-3k-after-32-days-73-from-4-dists/articleshow/81369936.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Sarpanch sangh calls off protest after meet with CM||Jaipur: The Rajasthan Sarpanch Sangh called off their protest after they met chief minister Ashok Gehlot at this residence on Saturday. Of the Sangh’s 20-point demand, the chief minister agreed to fulfill nine demands and has directed the officials to reflect upon other demands as well. The state government has also decided to release the remaining Rs 1,350 crore, due under the 5th State Finance Commission (SFC) for the year 2019-20, said Sarpanch Sangh president Bansidhar Gadwal. Among all the demands of the Sangh, release of Rs 2,964.31 crore under 5th SFC for the year 2019-20 was the prominent one. Of the total, Rs 1,456 crore was released earlier. The meeting was attended by chief secretary Niranjan Arya.“We have called off our protest as the agreement letter, based on our demands, has been issued by the government. The decision to gherao the assembly on March 8 has also been withdrawn. The sanction letter for the release of SFC amount has also been issued,” said Gadwal. The state government on Friday, during the meeting between Additional Chief Secretary(ACS), rural development and panchayati raj department, Rohit Kumar Singh and Sarpanch Sangh, had agreed to their demands.Singh had assured them of considering the proposal for the improvement in the laboratory testing system at the panchayat samiti level to improve the quality of construction works. It was also decided to fill the vacant posts of Village Development Officer in newly-formed gram panchayats and other gram panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sarpanch-sangh-calls-off-protest-after-meet-with-cm/articleshow/81369935.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Key info missing from coastal plans, point out greens||PANAJI: Environmental groups have said that the coastal zone management plans (CZMPs) do not show many of the fishing rights, breeding and ecologically sensitive areas, and have encouraged people to participate in the public hearings on Sunday so that “every voice is heard”. “Both our beaches and river banks are shown as if all our local communities have vanished,” a letter by one of the groups, citizens for coastal communities (CCC), stated prior to the hearings. “Though the CZMPs are only supposed to map local communities and environment, the port limit has been illegally demarcated in our rivers, handing our rivers and entire khazan lands and lands beyond on a platter to the port authorities for the use of corporations,” the letter stated. The CZMP maps sent by the Goa government to panchayats are also “completely against the CRZ (coastal regulation zone) notification for Goa,” CCC convenor, Xavier Fernandes said. “Goan rivers have the highest biodiversity and are rich in fisheries, shellfish, flora and fauna. The ancient scientific knowledge for bandhs, rivers and khazans for the unique and highly productive rice cultivation and pisciculture has sustained all of us. However, the CZMPs do not show many of the fishing rights, breeding areas and also ecologically sensitive areas,” Fernandes added. “The CMZPs are not for the people as the notification envisaged, but are made illegally for corporations and other short-term profit seekers to take over our rivers and coast. Therefore, the people of Goa must all come out in numbers and attend the public hearing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/key-info-missing-from-coastal-plans-point-out-greens/articleshow/81370505.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Inherited antibodies leave baby breathless||Ahmedabad: When Vadodara resident Khushbu Patel contracted mild Covid-19 in the seventh month of pregnancy, she was told not to worry. Her baby was growing well and no trouble was anticipated, doctors assured Khushbu and her husband Ripal. On February 25, when the child was delivered at full term with a birth weight of a healthy 3kg, all rejoiced. However, the happiness was short-lived, as within six hours of birth, the baby developed acute respiratory distress. In the next six hours, he went into cardiac failure. Dr Vandana Gopal, treating pediatrician, said, “When the child developed fever and did not respond to antibiotics, we asked the father if there was a history of Covid-19. We were told the mother had contracted a case and recovered months ago. We got the child tested and found high levels of Covid-19 antibodies.” The child was transferred to Ahmedabad for advance treatment. Neonatologist Dr Ashish Mehta said, “Effectively, this meant the mother had passed on Covid antibodies to the baby through her placenta. However, once born, the antibodies sent the child’s immune system haywire.” There have been reports of newborns getting Covid-19 infection and Multi-Organ Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS) in children and adolescents, said Dr Mehta. “However, this child had an uncommonly adverse immune response to the Covid antibodies, within hours of birth,” he added. The baby had a highly inflated D-dimer number signifying acute hyper-clotting, and extremely high pro-BNP levels indicating acute heart failure. “The newborn was given high doses of adrenaline, a drug used to revive heart failure patients, and heparin to reduce clotting. The child responded well and survived the medical crisis,” said Dr Mehta. Khushbu said she saw her baby six days after his birth. “He survived miraculously. I am eternally grateful to God.” Dr Mehta said that while children of Covid-19 positive mothers have largely remained healthy and even Covid-19 free, this case should be treated as a cautionary tale. “Newborns of Covid-19 positive mothers, even those who have recovered, should be monitored for adverse events for a few days into their birth. We do not know why this baby developed MIS -- whether it was due to some mutation or a different strain,” said Dr Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/inherited-antibodies-leave-baby-breathless/articleshow/81369937.cms||Radha Sharma
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Homeless policy: Beggar-free scheme to be extended to all divisions||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday announced that ‘Upliftment of Homeless and Rehabilitation Policy-2021’ will be introduced in the state.As part of the policy, state government will frame rules to extend the beggar-free scheme to all divisions of the state in a bid to make them self-reliant, independent and create job opportunities for them.“The government is planning to extend the beggar-free scheme to all the divisions of the state. For this a policy will be framed. Under the beggar-free scheme, so far 242 poor people have been rehabilitated,” said an official.As part of the government’s initiative to make Jaipur beggar-free capital, the RSLDC has already started providing skill development training to beggars at one of the two centres in the city. While some beggars are provided a place to stay, others are given skill development training so that they could either get a job or start something of their own and become self-employed.“So far, we have issued sanctions for the training of 100 beggars. There are two centres for training - one at Jagatpura and the other at Sodala. The police department is mobilizing them and sending them to us for training purpose. After they bring them to us, we conduct counselling and yoga sessions for them,” another official said.Meanwhile, additional district collector-I, Iqbal Khan on Friday sent five poor persons to a home run by ‘Apna Ghar’ in Bharatpur for rehabilitation. Apart from this, the chief minister had also announced the creation of Rs 20-crore ‘Valmiki fund’ for the progress and development of youths and children belonging to the community.He also said the annual income criteria of a family will be increased to Rs 8 lakh for entry into government hostels and residential schools. Moreover, the government employees with Level-11 pay grade will also get the benefit from this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/homeless-policy-beggar-free-scheme-to-be-extended-to-all-divisions/articleshow/81369931.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||Rajaji sr vet officer approaches NCW against director, chief wildlife warden||Dehradun: The former senior veterinary doctor of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR), Aditi Sharma, who was on deputation in the forest department for the past five years has alleged that a hostile work environment was created against her. In her complaint (dated January 14, 2021) to the National Commission for Women (NCW), she wrote, “Since July 2020, these perpetrators — DK Singh (director, RTR), JS Suhag (chief wildlife warden), and Ranjana Kala (former head of forest force) — have been creating a hostile environment for me at my workplace, interfering with my work, showing biasedness, due to which my health has been affected and I am under mental stress and depression.” The complainant told TOI despite being a member of the technical advisory committee of tiger translocation since the inception of the exercise in 2017, she was not made part of the recent tiger translocation exercise from Corbett Tiger Reserve to RTR. According to TOI sources, Sharma’s deputation in the forest department has not been extended due to the controversy and she has been sent back to the animal husbandry department where she was earlier posted. Meanwhile, the department has told Sharma that she has been sent back to the animal husbandry department as she has completed her five-year deputation. However, several veterinary doctors have been serving in the forest department for more than five years. The NCW has now apprised the police of the matter. “I am yet to record my statement at the police station. The entire episode took place after Komal Singh, former warden of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, pointed fingers at my professional expertise which led to this untoward harassment. I was left out of major decisions, obstructed from doing my duties and had to deal with a hostile work environment,” added Sharma. When queried on the issue, DK Singh, RTR director, said, “There is no such issue of harassment at all. I am yet to examine the charges that she has levelled.” The other two officials, who have been accused of harassment by Shmara, could not be reached despite several attempts by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rajaji-sr-vet-officer-approaches-ncw-against-director-chief-wildlife-warden/articleshow/81369424.cms||Shivani Azad
March 7, 2021||Vadodara||In a first, stray puppies up for adoption||Vadodara: If you love dogs and are planning to adopt one, how about showering your love on Indian breed instead of fancy foreign pedigree? If yes, then walk straight into Sayajibaug on Sunday morning and choose from about 35 adorable puppies waiting to make friends. And yes, there are 15 kittens too! “There is a trend among dog lovers to adopt foreign breeds, while the streets abound in lovely stray dogs which are in healthy condition. If dog lovers adopt these stray puppies, it will give them a home. So, we decided to have this camp for adoption of puppies of stray dogs,” said Shreya Shukla, trustee of Anulok – a charitable trust that has organized the camp along with People for Animals.“There are a lot of misconceptions about the stray dogs of Indian breed. Street dogs are accustomed to Indian weather and have higher immunity. If someone wants to have a four-legged friend then why not go for Indian breed? Shukla asked.The camp for adoption will start at 8 am and end by 7 pm. Shukla said that they will deworm the puppies and also neuter them if the person adopting them wishes to. “We will also offer free vaccination. Our aim is to ensure that these stray puppies find a good home,” Shukla added.She said that one of the reasons why people shouldn’t go for foreign breed dogs is that the breeding business is not good for the dogs. “Many of them are in this business without proper permissions. I feel that dog breeding trade should stop,” Shukla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-a-first-stray-puppies-up-for-adoption/articleshow/81369434.cms||Tushar Tere
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||JCTSL adds 50 mini buses to its fleet||Jaipur: The Jaipur City Transport Service Ltd (JCTSL) has added 50 new mini buses to its fleet on Saturday with an aim to reduce congestion on city roads, especially Walled City area.With the inclusion of these buses, JCTSL now has 250 buses in Jaipur city. Urban Development and Housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal flagged off the service along with inauguration of the second bus depot of JCTSL built at Agra Road’s Bagrana.The JCTSL was witnessing complaints of traffic jams due to big low-floor buses operational on narrow roads of the city since long. Following this, a proposal was mooted three years ago to incorporate mini buses. An official said, “Currently in 200 JCTSL buses, 1.25 lakh passengers travel daily. After these new buses were incorporated in the fleet, approximately 25,000 residents are expected to be benefited.”In these bus services, the fare for the first 3km will be Rs 10. The maximum fare charged will be Rs 60 for 55km.The JCTSL will soon procure 100 mini buses utilising the Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) fund. This will include 30 air-conditioned (AC) and 70 normal buses. Dhariwal said, “To purchase these buses, a fund of Rs 25 crore has been received.”The UDH minister also inaugurated a new bus depot on Agra Road, which was constructed after spending Rs 16.75 crore. With the commencement of this bus depot, the JCTSL now has two depots. At present, buses are parked at Todi, Vidyadhar Nagar and Sanganer.GFXRoutes for the new busesSanganer via Narayan Singh Circle, Rambagh Circle, Tonk Phatak, Durgapura, Sanganer Police Station Circle from Chhoti ChauparVKI 17 number via Ajmeri Gate, Collectorate, Chinkara Canteen, Ambabari, Muralipura Circle from Transport NagarGalta, Girdharipura via Badi Chaupar, Ramganj Chaupar, Ajmer Pulia, SodalaJawahar Nagar to Khirni Gate Pulia via Rambagh Circle, 22 Godown, Vaishali Nagar, Ajmer Road.Badi Chaupar to Indira Gandhi Nagar, Jagatpura via Ajmeri Gate, Tonk Road, Narayan Singh Circle||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jctsl-adds-50-mini-buses-to-its-fleet/articleshow/81369927.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Cox & Kings case: Rana Kapoor gets bail||A special trial court on Saturday granted bail o Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in connection with the Cox and Kings case. He will however remain incarcerated as he is in judicial custody in the Yes Bank-DHFL case of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED). A special Judge heard special Public Prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves for ED and Kapoor’s counsel Aabad Ponda and granted him bail on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh with solvent surety and allowed him to deposit cash bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cox-kings-case-rana-kapoor-gets-bail/articleshow/81370590.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||---||DMK-Congress seat-sharing talks still stuck||CHENNAI: DMK on Saturday sealed the seat-sharing talks with Vaiko’s MDMK by allotting six seats. MDMK has also agreed to field its candidates on DMK’s rising sun symbol. However, the negotiations with CPM have been dragging even after three rounds of talks as the two parties are not ready to relent. Talks with Congress are also stuck. The Tamil Nadu Congress committee, which was given a free hand by the party’s national brass to take a call on the alliance in the state, commenced the interview of aspirants at the party headquarters in Chennai. The state unit’s chief K S Alagiri said talks were continuing with DMK. However, party insiders said that there has been no further invitation for talks from DMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/dmk-congress-seat-sharing-talks-still-stuck/articleshow/81372289.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
March 7, 2021||India||DMK-Congress seat-sharing talks still stuck||CHENNAI: DMK on Saturday sealed the seat-sharing talks with Vaiko’s MDMK by allotting six seats. MDMK has also agreed to field its candidates on DMK’s rising sun symbol. However, the negotiations with CPM have been dragging even after three rounds of talks as the two parties are not ready to relent. Talks with Congress are also stuck. The Tamil Nadu Congress committee, which was given a free hand by the party’s national brass to take a call on the alliance in the state, commenced the interview of aspirants at the party headquarters in Chennai. The state unit’s chief K S Alagiri said talks were continuing with DMK. However, party insiders said that there has been no further invitation for talks from DMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dmk-congress-seat-sharing-talks-still-stuck/articleshow/81372291.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||CAG report reveals district hospitals continue to be in a poor state despite increase in public health expenditure||Gairsain: The performance audit report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India on district hospital outcomes from March, 2014 to March 31, 2019, revealed glaring irregularities and shortcomings in public health infrastructure of the Himalayan state. “The audit noticed that despite a considerable increase in public health expenditure in Uttarakhand during 2014-19, the hospitals at the secondary-care level were found to be lagging behind in efficiency, service quality, and clinical care capability,” reads the report. The findings of the CAG in Out Patient Services mention, “The increase or decrease in the out-patient load was not matched by proportional increase or decrease in the strength of doctors, resulting in much higher OPD cases per doctor, in some hospitals as compared to others. Due to non-availability of doctors, many OPD services like ENT, Eye etc. were not available for a substantial period during 2014-19. The prescribed medicines were not made fully available to 59% of the OPD patients.” As for the diagnostic services, it said, “The hospitals were sub optimal, marred by inadequacy and had shortage of human resources, thus depriving patients of evidence-based treatment procedures.” The audit report also pointed out the shortage of doctors, nurses and para-medical staff in the in-patient services. For infection control, the CAG report states that cleaning and laundry services, despite outsourcing, were not of a satisfactory level in most of the hospitals. Similarly, the bio medical waste management system was inadequate. For drug management, the report mentions, “The norms and parameters prescribed for shortage of medicines were not adhered to and the quality testing of medicines was also not as per norms in the test checked hospitals.” For infrastructure and other issues, it said, “The number of beds functional in the hospital did not conform to the norms. Uninterrupted power backup and centralised medical gases (oxygen) system critical to hospital functioning were not ensured. Further failure of the department to operationalise the complicated only served to aggravate the problems of inadequate access to quality health care.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cag-report-reveals-district-hospitals-continue-to-be-in-a-poor-state-despite-increase-in-public-health-expenditure/articleshow/81369446.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘I was not wrong, your mentality towards women was wrong’||Ahmedabad: Even when the last video of 23-year-old Aisha Makrani is still fresh in people’s memory, a heartrending letter written by her to her husband and accused Arifkhan Gafurji in which she tried to clarify her stance making a statement saying “I was not wrong, but your mentality towards women was wrong.” The letter was produced before a local court when police produced Gafurji after his remand of three days got over. As police did not seek further remand, court has sent him for judicial custody. In her letter, Aisha had started clarifying Gafurji’s doubt over her relationship with her friend Aasif. “Aaru (Aarif), Aasif is my best friend and brother. I felt bad when you started doubting on me linking me with him,” reads the letter. She said that even if he hated her, she would always love him. “When there is no respect for me, there is no need to live, I am going,” reads the letter. She said that when she was pregnant, she was confined and deprived from food and water. “At that time also, you did not care for me even though you knew that I was pregnant. Whenever you came, you thrashed me,” she said adding that his attack on her had killed their unborn child. “You did not spoil one life but you had spoiled two lives including one of my ‘little Aaru’ (their unborn child),” she said in the letter. She wrote she would not grant him divorce and would rather commit suicide. “Sorry, Aaru and love you Kuku (nick name for Aarif). My right on you was not fulfilled. You owe many things to me. If you think then pay those dues. I was not wrong. Your mentality about all the women was wrong,” she had said. She ended the letter on an emotional note: “Can I say something? Even today, I die on your killer eyes. I don’t know why. I will tell you in next birth. Believe me.” Makrani had committed suicide on February 25 after jumping into Sabarmati river. Before that she had shot a video which went viral and later her husband was nabbed from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/i-was-not-wrong-your-mentality-towards-women-was-wrong/articleshow/81369939.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rs 3,302 crore cess for labourers lie unused||GANDHINAGAR: In reply to a question in the ongoing budget session of the Gujarat assembly on Saturday, the government said that a sum of Rs 3,302 crore collected as cess from the construction industry which was to be used for welfare of construction workers, is lying unused. Labour and employment minister Dilip Thakor, in a written reply, informed the house that a sum of Rs 3,302 crore which has been collected as cess, has not been used. In reply to why the funds were not used, the minister said that welfare funds for construction workers, collected through cess is for the whole state and cannot be spent on welfare of construction workers of one district. He added in the reply that the government spends money according to requirements. The minister said that in the 2019 calendar year, a total of Rs 6.84 crore and in 2020, a total of Rs 18.35 crore was spent in Ahmedabad district for the welfare of construction workers. The minister, in a written response to another question, informed the state assembly that in two years ending on December 31, 2020, the state government spent Rs 250 crore from the construction workers welfare fund. In a written response to a question, the minister said the money used from the construction workers welfare fund during the lockdown period needs to be returned to the board, as the fund is meant for welfare of construction workers only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-3302-crore-cess-for-labourers-lie-unused/articleshow/81369950.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Audit shows graft in flyover project: AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Saturday said, “the auditor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation has exposed various irregularities in the construction of the Rani Jhansi flyover”. The decision to construct this flyover was made in 1995 and the flyover was completed in 2018. It took around 24 years to complete this flyover. “The tender processes and the cost of the flyover project were fixed at Rs 175 crore. But the flyover was completed for Rs 724 crore, which means that BJP leaders did corruption of around Rs 546 crore from this project. This audit report has 54 pages but 70 objections, which means that a single page probably has more than one objection. Let me read out some of the objections to you,” Pathak said in a press conference while referring to the audit report. He alleged various irregularities in the construction of the flyover. “Around 67 similar objections have been raised over the project by the auditor and not the Delhi government auditor. The auditor raised objections over a project, which was to be completed in Rs 175 crore but was completed in Rs 724 crore,” the AAP functionary said. Pathak said that in contrast to all this, the Delhi government has saved Rs 508 crore in the construction of 10 flyovers. “A few months back, the Shastri Park flyover was constructed at Rs 250 crore even though the original cost was fixed at Rs 302 crore,” Pathak said. The AAP functionary challenged Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta or any of his representatives to read this audit report in front of the media so that the people of Delhi and the country get to know about the real face of the BJP. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said everybody knows due to court cases, compensation claims and other humanitarian reasons, this flyover project got delayed by 20 years. It started in 1998 and was scheduled to get completed by 2000. “The delay escalated the cost of construction from planned Rs 175 crore to ultimate Rs 724 crore. The cost escalation was due to reasons beyond the North Corporation’s control and it is not a scam,” said Kapoor. Kapoor said that “similar cost escalation had taken place in Signature Bridge project also, and going by Durgesh Pathak’s statement, it too should be considered as a case of corruption.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/audit-shows-graft-in-flyover-project-aap/articleshow/81369955.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Goa||Form panels to probe sexual harassment, schools told||PANAJI: The Goa State Commission for Women has been ensuring that schools and colleges set up internal complaints committees (ICCs) to protect women from sexual harassment at the workplace. In line with this, the commission has requested schools and colleges to set up their committees and has been following up by asking them to send in the list of committee members. It has, till now, received the lists from over 70 educational institutions including schools and colleges, and is pursuing with the rest. Some staff members and heads of institutions have informed the commission that the committees have been set up, but have expressed ignorance on the functioning. To remedy this, the commission will organise a workshop on the role and responsibilities of the ICC. “There have been cases of sexual harassment of school teachers that have reached the commission. We are ensuring that all workplaces set up these committees,” the commission’s chairperson Vidhya Gaude told TOI. “We are planning these training sessions at taluka-level for all ICC members so that there is clarity on their role,” she added. Next the commission will focus on industries including small units in the state, followed by private sector banks. It has already identified around 2,000 industrial units that it will be writing to. Staff constraints at the commission means that letters are sent in batches and as a result, institutions are given staggered deadlines by which they must set up these committees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/form-panels-to-probe-sexual-harassment-schools-told/articleshow/81370507.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad cops unplug Rs 1,500 crore MLM racket, 24 held||HYDERABAD: Twenty-four people, including two chief executive officers (CEOs) of the Rs 1,500 crore Bengaluru-based multilevel marketing firm IndusViva, have been arrested from a hotel at Madhapur.  Cyberabad police officials said the key accused promised members domestic and international holiday trips. The MLM firm claims to have 10 lakh members across India. The accused were nabbed while they were organising a meeting in a hotel to lure more members. Police also froze Rs 20 crore in different bank accounts of the company. Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar told reporters on Saturday that Abhilash Thomas and Prem Kumar, both chief executive officers of the IndusViva, have been arrested. Three government school teachers from Telangana — M Venkatesh of Yadagirigutta, K Shesha Rao of Khammam, M Hari Prasad of Miryalaguda — too have been arrested. Prime accused Abhilash had earlier worked in a similar MLM company and later started IndusViva. Sajjanar said the company enrolled new members after collecting Rs 12,500 from each as fee. Each new member was made to introduce two more members, who again paid Rs 12,500 with the chain continuing. The company was paying Rs 500 as commission for each new member enrolled. Sources told TOI that the case was registered after some Hyderabad residents complained that they had not been paid the promised commission. Each member was also made to buy different products sold by the company, which they had to sell to acquaintances. The company has numerous products for weight loss, help childless couples improve their chances of having a child, coffee and others. The products do not have recognition or certification from any government agency. “The accused are running an illegal business as it comes under multi-level marketing and it attracts the Money Circulation Act. As the members enroll more persons, they will be given different class of membership. The school teachers, who got into this business, took leave from their work and were completely involved in the business,” Sajjanar said. The teachers were earning Rs 10 lakh every month. The accused have been running the MLM business for the last seven years. The accused have been arrested under the Money Circulation Scheme, Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act- 1978, Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act and 420 (cheating) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-cops-unplug-rs-1500cr-mlm-racket-24-held/articleshow/81371946.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||State stops degree authentication of 11 pvt varsities||Jaipur: The state higher education department has stopped the authentication of degrees of 11 private universities for ignoring its circular dated November 2020 seeking academic and administrative information.The department had asked all the 51 private universities in November 2020 to provide verified details related to the number of courses, enrolments, teacher’s strength and the number of PhD seats within a month.Of the total, 11 universities have not only missed the deadline, but have been ignoring the reminders of the department. “Until they provide the required information, the authentication of degrees will not be done. This information is aimed to counter misleading claims made by them to lure students taking admission. This information will be uploaded on a separate web portal before the beginning of an upcoming academic session and students will be advised to check the university credentials on it,” said Mohammed Naeem, joint director of higher education department. The authentication of degrees by the department is required by the universities before they distribute them to the students.STOI on October 24, 2020, in its article, ‘Now Parents asked to check the credibility of pvt universities’ highlighted that the government is acting as a mute spectator over these universities and expect students to check the claims made by the universities on their own. Naeem confirmed that reacting to the media report on the subject they have decided to seek information from all private universities in November. Officials have refused to name the errant universities stating that if they ignore the final call, they will be served notices and names will be uploaded on their web portal.The department officials said that they have received the required information from 40 universities and found several irregularities in the information submitted by some of them. “The information doesn’t match with our records related to enrolments, recognized courses, PhDs supervised by guides etc. The data is being cross-checked and notices are being served to seek clarification on the misleading information,” said the official.The entire exercise is being carried out to create a platform where students can get valid information on universities and select their university accordingly. Those universities that will not respond to the notices seeking clarification would face action by the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-stops-degree-authentication-of-11-pvt-varsities/articleshow/81369940.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Boy killed, 5 hurt in celebratory firing||Alwar: The celebration of an Army person’s success turned into a tragedy in Badpura village under Govindgarh police station in Alwar on Saturday when a boy was killed and five other children were injured in celebratory firing.An Army man Ramvir Gujjar returned from Jammu and Kashmir to his native village this week for the first time after winning the Sena Medal for showing exemplary courage in taking on a terrorist in the valley.His village elders decided to celebrate his success by holdings a procession in the village. The villagers from the nearby hamlets also joined the procession including several children.“As the procession was progressing mid-way some persons started firing celebratory shots. One shot from the double-barrel gun has hit Aman (6) who died on the spot, while six other children sustained pellet injuries. The injured were rushed to civil hospital in Alwar. Aman died due to excessive bleeding.Sources said that the firing that resulted in the death of the boy was done by the Army man’s brother.Additional SP Alwar Sriman Meena says that they have not granted any permission for any procession in the village. “The matter is being investigated and soon the culprit will be arrested,” said Meena. Firing a gun is a punishable offence. Till the last report came in, no one was arrested in the matter. TOI called the Army man repeatedly, but got no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/boy-killed-5-hurt-in-celebratory-firing/articleshow/81369941.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: One more involved in 35 burglaries held||JAIPUR: Shyam Nagar police on Saturday arrested one more accused in the high profile case of conman Satpal Singh Chauhan who was arrested on Thursday. He is behind 250 burglaries spread in 10 states since the past 5 to 6 years.  Investigation revealed that he was involved in 35 to 40 burglaries in the state alone and the number could swell in the coming days as the probe progresses. The arrested person, Gulshan Singh is the younger brother of Chauhan and co-accused in several burglaries across the country. Bhopal Singh, ACP, Sodala told TOI that Gulshan was not always involved in crime with him but had a significant role in disposing of the articles in different markets across the country. “His brother is being questioned for his role in the various crimes with his brother. Also, we are reaching out to his men in the network where they sell the stolen goods,” said Singh, who also informed that they have traced the 4 BHK flat in Jaipur and the bungalow in Jhunjhunu revealed on day one of the investigation, which has been evaluated at Rs 1.5 crore. “Our team is accessing and tracking the movable and immovable properties across the state. Also, more arrests are likely in the case,” said Singh. Police said that with his arrest, several unsolved high profile cases having similar modus operandi are likely to be solved. Chauhan’s extravagant lifestyle had always saved him from the police net. His appeared as that of someone working in a multi-national company or as a high-profile executive always kept him away from the police radar. Police said that already police of other states have started inquiring about his arrest and are likely to visit Jaipur to question him in the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/conman-case-one-more-held-was-involved-in-35-40-burglaries-in-raj/articleshow/81369938.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Bareilly||Known for tightening noose around Azam, ex-Rampur DM given farewell like a ‘groom’||BAREILLY: After being promoted as Moradabad divisional commissioner earlier this week, outgoing Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh was accorded a farewell like a wedding procession. Singh was made to sit on a horse-driven buggy like a groom and a musical band followed him as he moved around the town on Friday. The district administration had arranged Singh’s farewell at Vikas Bhavan and on the collectorate compound, and they were joined by the police department and officials from various other government departments. Thanking district administration colleagues and officials for the send-off, Singh said that “teamwork is the key to success”. “My team and I ensured the development and betterment of Rampur district. I hope the effort in this direction will continue in the future, too.” Kumar had hit headlines for tightening noose around Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan, his family and aides — accused in several cases of land grabbing, forgery, etc — during his tenure as Rampur DM for over two years from February 2019 to March 2021. Ravindra Kumar Mandari replaced Aunjaneya Kumar as the Rampur DM on March 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/known-for-tightening-noose-around-local-mp-azam-outgoing-rampur-dm-given-farewell-like-a-groom/articleshow/81368866.cms||Maria Khan
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Army recruitment rally in Jaipur from tomorrow||Jaipur: After a lull due to the pandemic, army recruitment rallies have begun again. After the one in Udaipur last month, another will be held in Jaipur from Monday, which will continue for the remaining month. More than 72,000 aspirants will participate in the process, which will be conducted as per Covid protocols.“An Army Recruitment Rally will be conducted at the ground of 8th Battalion CISF, Amber, Kunda from March 8 to 31. The rally will cover the districts of Jaipur, Sikar and Tonk,” an army official said. Aspirants have to undergo a physical test following which they will have to sit for a written exam. Once the written test is cleared, the certificates submitted will be sent to the respective districts for verification. Elaborating further on the rally, an official added, “Approximately 72,000 candidates have registered for this rally for the categories of soldier (general duty), soldier (technical), soldier clerk/SKT, tradesman, religious teacher and sepoy pharma. On an average, 4,000 candidates will participate in the rally everyday. Candidates are urged to follow the stipulated precautions for the pandemic and participate in the rally with full fervour and enthusiasm.” The candidates have been asked to present a Covid negative certificate which should not be less than 72 hours old. Officials claimed that due to the pandemic, there has been a rise in the number of employment across the country and this would be a good opportunity though the army personnel did not divulge as to the number of vacancies which would be filled up. However sources said many candidates may pass the physical test, they might not make it past the medical examination as well as the written examination which follows suit. Rajasthan has many personnel both retired and serving in the Indian armed forces especially from the Shekhawati belt and every year, the recruitment rallies see overwhelming registration of candidates, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-recruitment-rally-in-jaipur-from-tomorrow/articleshow/81369949.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Govt jobs to just 1,777 persons in 2 years||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government stated in the assembly on Saturday that as of December 2020, 4,12,985 persons had registered with the government as unemployed. In reply to a number of questions from MLAs, the government said that over the past two years, 1,777 persons have been given government jobs. Interestingly, there are 15 districts, where not a single person has received a government job in the past two years. These districts are Mahisagar, Kheda, Morbi, Narmada, Navsari, Bharuch, Junagadh, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Kutch, Dahod, Valsad, Tapi and Dang. The government, meanwhile said that 5.86 lakh persons of the state have received employment in the private sector over the past two years. The opposition Congress alleged that promises made by the state government of providing jobs to lakhs of youth have fallen flat. The Congress said that the government’s own figures show that only 1,777 government jobs were generated in the past two years. The highest number of government jobs were generated in the past two years in Bhavnagar (276) followed by Mehsana, where 248 government jobs were generated in two years. There are 15 districts, including Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat,where not a single government job was generated. Ahmedabad accounted for the highest generation of jobs in the private sector in the past two years. Government data tabbed in the assembly said that 90,749 jobs were created in the private sector in Ahmedabad district. Devbhoomi Dwarka district registered the lowest private sector job generation in two years, with 2,760 jobs being generated in the past two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-jobs-to-just-1777-persons-in-2-years/articleshow/81369960.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||15-km-long jam on NH-8 due to farmers’ stir||JAIPUR: The farmers on Saturday blocked the six-lane Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway to mark the completion of 100 days of agitation at the Delhi borders, which led to a 15-km-long jam on the Delhi-Jaipur national highway (NH-8) for more than four hours. The Delhi-bound vehicles were stranded on the national highway as the jam started from Behror, leading up to the Haryana border. While many vehicles were diverted by police administration via Alwar-Mundawar, there was a huge pile-up of vehicles in Behror due to non-diversion through the Kotputli-Shahpura route. Meanwhile, the farmers put up black flags atop their houses and wore black bands in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. On Saturday, the Dausa chapter of Samyukt Kisan Morcha donated a generator, a microphone set and cash amount of Rs 21,000 for the movement. Meanwhile, farmer leader Himmat Singh said, “Our visit to Gujarat has been postponed for now. We will visit the state after March 29. There is Kisan Mahapanchayat in Jaipur on March 23 (the death anniversary of Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru) and preparations are going on for the same.” In a bid to mobilise the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws in Gujarat, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha — a group of 40 farmers’ unions — will be sending a team of 4-5 members to the state to have a dialogue with the farmers’ unions and associations there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-km-long-jam-on-nh-8-due-to-farmers-stir/articleshow/81369956.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Centre of excellence in dairy sector be set up in collaboration with Denmark||JAIPUR: A centre of excellence for the dairy sector will be set up in Rajasthan in collaboration with Denmark, an official statement said on Saturday. Denmark Ambassador Freddy Svane discussed the idea at a meeting with chief minister Ashok Gehlot here on Saturday, a statement from the CMO said. The diplomat also had a courtesy meeting with governor Kalraj Mishra. Svane said to provide better facilities to cattle rearers, full cooperation will be given in making available Denmark’s expertise in the field of dairy science and technology to Rajasthan. The possibilities of Denmark’s cooperation in the field of water conservation and purification were also discussed in the meeting. He said Denmark companies are providing technical support in water conservation and purification works in Udaipur. The framework of cooperation between Rajasthan and Denmark in the field of public health engineering was also discussed. Gehlot discussed about cooperation and investment in areas such as agriculture, animal husbandry, food and textiles. He explained the steps and policies adopted by the state government in the past two years to provide an investment-friendly environment and invited companies to invest in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-of-excellence-in-dairy-sector-be-set-up-in-collaboration-with-denmark/articleshow/81369952.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit dist admin sends report to state govt for release of five women convicts||Pilibhit: The Pilibhit district administration on Saturday sent a report about five women prisoners lodged in the district jail to the state administration for their release on International Women’s Day under a UP government scheme. The prisoners — convicted for various crimes — have already completed 7 to 11 years of imprisonment, said officials. According to the district jail authorities, the women — all above 50 years — were convicted for murders and dowry killings. A report on their behaviour in the jail during their imprisonment was sent in a prescribed format to the state administration, they said.Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said, “In compliance with the state government’s assigned procedure, each police station of the convict women’s residential circles reviewed the social condition and considered reactions of society over the release of the convicts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-dist-admin-sends-report-to-state-govt-for-release-of-five-women-convicts/articleshow/81368044.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 7, 2021||Rajkot||SVUM to hold farmers’ convention||Rajkot: The Saurashtra Vepar Udhyog Mahandal (SVUM) will organised a farmers’ convention on March 20 as part of its three-day trade show that begins March 19 in Rajkot.At the convention, those who want to invest in the agriculture sector in African countries will be facilitated. Several farmers have already signed MoUs for cultivation using Indian technology in African countries. Last year, 150 farmers had participated in the convention, however, the projects could not be materialised because of the world-wide lockdown. Parag Tejura, president of SVUM said, “We are expecting more participants than last year. Several business delegations have confirmed their participation and their visas have also been approved. This is a good opportunity for Indians, as African countries are now focusing on the agriculture sector to increase their production.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/svum-to-hold-farmers-convention/articleshow/81369456.cms||---
March 7, 2021||---||‘Aggrieved’ AGP sets up 5 friendly fights with BJP||GUWAHATI: Aggrieved BJP ally AGP has forced its saffron partner’s hand on altering their seat-sharing deal to incorporate “friendly fights” in five constituencies, three of which the regional party would otherwise have had to give away despite having sitting MLAs.  “In Naharkatiya, Lakhimpur, Patharkandi, Palasbari and Kamalpur we will have friendly contests,” said AGP president Atul Bora on his return to Guwahati on Saturday after finalising the seat-sharing formula with the BJP brass in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/assam/aggrieved-agp-sets-up-5-friendly-fights-with-bjp/articleshow/81372293.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 7, 2021||India||‘Aggrieved’ AGP sets up 5 friendly fights with BJP||GUWAHATI: Aggrieved BJP ally AGP has forced its saffron partner’s hand on altering their seat-sharing deal to incorporate “friendly fights” in five constituencies, three of which the regional party would otherwise have had to give away despite having sitting MLAs.  “In Naharkatiya, Lakhimpur, Patharkandi, Palasbari and Kamalpur we will have friendly contests,” said AGP president Atul Bora on his return to Guwahati on Saturday after finalising the seat-sharing formula with the BJP brass in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aggrieved-agp-sets-up-5-friendly-fights-with-bjp/articleshow/81372294.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 7, 2021||Delhi||On 100th Day, Spirit Still High At Singhu||New Delhi: It has been 100 days since Singhu Border became home to thousands of protestors demanding that the central government scrap three new farm laws enacted last September. There weren’t as many of the farmers at the site on Saturday, but the spirit of the protest hadn’t quite died down. Baldev Singh, 82, who came to Singhu in November last year, grandly said that the number of days of protest did not matter. “Even if we sit here for 500 days but our demands are not met, we will not budge,” the octogenarian said ominously. TOI spoke to some of the protesters who recalled their first day at the protest site in November, after which they have lost more than a hundred fellow farmers, weathered police action, fended political pressure, found ways to cope with living in the open and organised rallies to make their voices heard across the globe. Harjinder Singh, 62, said that no matter how long it took the central government to concede their demands, the protesting farmers would not be deterred. “There are seven people in my family who are here at the protest site,” he said. “More people will be joining us in a couple of days. Since the weather is turning hot now, many people have returned to the village to make arrangements for a comfortable stay at Singhu in the coming months. We need coolers and rations, and they will bring these from the villages.” Satnam Singh, 77 who has spent 99 days at Singhu border, disclosed that his wife was taking care of the farm in this absence, his son being in Canada for studies. “I make a video call to them every day. And while I would like to be with them, the desire is not tempting enough to make me leave the protest,” smiled the septuagenarian. “We have lost so many of our fellow protestors. How can we let their sacrifices go to waste?” In August last year, after their attempt to block railway tracks in Punjab during the discussion of the farm bills in Parliament did not get much traction, the farmers planned to descend on the capital on November 26. They were, however, stopped at the borders and have been at these crossings since then, blocking some major entry points into Delhi at Singhu, Ghazipur, Chilla and Tikri. Within a few days of that, thousands had arrived at Singhu with their family members, including children and the elderly. Their tractor trolleys ferried food for months. There were around five lakh protestors on the borders of Delhi, who had no intention of returning to their villages until the three agricultural laws were repealed. Their tractor rally on January 26 almost sent the campaign into disarray, but they retrieved the situation quickly. On Saturday, the milling throngs of earlier days were missing, there were fewer langars too. But no matter the size of the crowd, the farmers’ intent didn’t appear to have weakened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-100th-day-spirit-still-high-at-singhu/articleshow/81369972.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Mercury goes south at many spots; Sikar coldest at 9.4 °C||Jaipur: After continuous rise in the mercury, many places in the state witnessed a dip in its minimum and maximum temperatures across the state on Saturday. Sikar remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 9.4 °C was recorded. Attributing the dip in temperatures to the active northerly winds, Jaipur Met office stated that the minimum temperatures across the state will continue to dip while the maximum temperatures will rise a bit in the coming days. People in Jaipur woke up to a chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 16.2 degrees was recorded. Earlier this week Jaipur, had witnessed its maximum temperatures above 20.0 °C. However, in the afternoon due to bright sunny day, mercury took an upward swing as a maximum temperature of 35.8 °C was recorded. Jaipur Met office stated that winters are almost over, however, due to activated northerly winds there has been a dip in the mercury especially during early morning hours. Sikar was followed by Churu and Bhilwara where a minimum temperature of 11.8 °C was recorded, Alwar and Chittorgarh 12.6 °C each, Bharatpur 13, Karauli 13.2, Sriganganagar 13.3, Udaipur 14.4,Dholpur 14.5, Ajmer 15.7 Bikaner 18.6, Jaisalmer 20.0 and a minimum temperature of 20.3 degrees was recorded in Barmer.Jaipur Met office stated except a few parts in eastern Rajasthan, mercury will continue to take an upward swing. In the next one week, majority of the places will witness a rise in their day and night temperatures. Also some places in western Rajasthan are likely to see its maximum temperatures on or above 40.0 °C.In its forecast for Sunday, Jaipur Met office stated that nip in the air will continue at many places during early morning hours. However, later in the day mercury will take an upward swing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-goes-south-at-many-spots-sikar-coldest-at-9-4-c/articleshow/81369965.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Vadodara||Brain dead youth’s organs save lives of four, one to get sight||VADODARA: Even in his death 32-year-old Viru Godadiya saved the lives of four persons and provided sight to one. His organs were successfully transplanted in five different persons on Saturday. Viru had met with an accident near Dena Crossroads on Thursday. He was initially rushed to the SSG Hospital (SSGH) and then to the SiddhiICU and Multispecialty Hospital in the city. Late on Thursday night, the doctors at the hospital declared him brain dead. “We explained to the family how there were no chances of his condition improving and asked them to consider organ donation to save lives. The family was reluctant initially and we asked them to think about it,” said Dr Jayesh Rajpura from the hospital. The family was counselled by Rajpura and others even on Friday morning. “On Friday afternoon, the family agreed to donate the organs and things were set in motion,” said Rajpura. The organs were harvested at the hospital early on Saturday morning. The heart and kidneys were taken to the CIMS Hospital and civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. The eyes were donated to the Vaduwala Eye Hospital in Vadodara. Rajpura said that he had received feedback that the organs had been successfully transplanted in Ahmedabad. Arun Godadiya, a member of the community to which Viru belonged, said that Viru was very active in the community. “He was amongst those who took lead in various activities of our community. He was also very popular in the locality where we are settled. The decision of the family has saved many lives,” Arun added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/brain-dead-youths-organs-save-lives-of-four-one-to-get-sight/articleshow/81369480.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Hospitals sans vax transparency to be out of PMJAY-panel list||PUNE: The Centre on Saturday warned the private hospitals of serious action, including expulsion from the panel of facilities under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (Prime Minister’s health scheme), if they failed to maintain transparency about the walk-in slots for Covid-19 vaccination or turned away people with scheduled appointments. The National Health Authority’s chief executive officer, R S Sharma, told TOI that they wanted to nip such malpractices in the bud. “These are early days and we want to take control of the situation. It is a worrying trend that some private hospitals are not being transparent about the slots available for vaccination and inoculating people as per their own whims, creating chaos,” he said. “We do not have to even launch an inquiry as we have all the data and metadata. The errant hospitals can directly face dis-empanelment for going against the central programme and the protocol,” he said, citing that the Centre had the data, including how many slots were open for walk-in registration and how many were for people with prior appointments, of all the hospitals participating in the vaccination process. Citizens from different states complained about registered beneficiaries being turned away and walk-ins being given preference because of shortage of vaccines. The Union health department has issued a warning in this regard. It is mandatory for the health hubs to prepare a dashboard and display the slots for different categories of beneficiaries. According to Sharma, the private hospitals should clearly make a distinction between a reserved booking and an unreserved booking, like the railways. “The priority has to be given to those who have reserved their slots because in many places, the walk-in option is being used to cater to ‘friends’,” he said. Sharma said the hospitals had access to the facility management dashboard, using which they could prepare vaccination timetables and declare the vacant slots for the jabs. He said the scheduled appointments should always be given priority over the walk-in appointments, else there would be chaos at the centres. While the number of registration for vaccination is slowly picking up — as many as 13.38 lakh people were inoculated till 3pm on Friday, the private hospitals would be strictly monitored from the next week. Notices would be issued in case of norms violation, said Sharma, who also heads the empowered committee for the administration of Covid-19 vaccines. The current scheduling system allows people to book a vaccination slot between 9am and 5pm. Hospitals are allowed to entertain walk-in beneficiaries only if slots are available after 3pm on a given vaccination day. The state health officials had earlier demanded that there should be a separate window to display the “walk-in slots” on the CoWIN portal. They had also directed the hospitals to ensure that the registered beneficiaries were attended first. The state officials stressed that there was no shortage of vaccine supply as of now as they had 44 lakh doses with them. But they sought an increase in supply in the coming days with the increase in vaccination. “We have 2,000 operational vaccination sites at present and we are in the process of reaching out to primary health centres. They would take the number of vaccination sites up to nearly 3,000 in the coming week,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hosp-sans-vax-transparency-to-be-out-of-pmjay-panel-list/articleshow/81369967.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: At Kumbh, Muslim music groups hit right notes with sadhus||DEHRADUN: When Shahrukh Khan's troupe Altaf Band starts singing ‘Banke Bihari tere mote mote nain’, every sadhu joins in the dance. And when he is done, seers in dreadlocks and ash on forehead gather around him smiling, shake his hand, offer him money and garland him. Altaf Band is one of many all-Muslim music groups that keep devotional tunes going at the Maha Kumbh, the largest congregation for followers of the Hindu faith. #Uttarakhand : At #Kumbh , Muslim bhajan singers hit right notes with Hindu sadhus"Muslim bands have been a const… https://t.co/XbCHyn7Asb— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1615091873000“Muslim bands have been a constant at Kumbh Melas. They play songs that touch the heart. God is one for all,” said Mahant Rishishwaranand from Udaseen Akhara, president of the Bharat Bandhu Samaj and head of Chetan Jyoti Ashram. It is a tradition deeply entrenched in the Kumbh culture. Altaf Band itself is 100 years old. “Ours is one of the oldest bands in India. We have around 70 people with us, on drums, the guitar, bagpipes, flutes and vocals,” said Abdul Rehman, the fourth-generation owner of the band. “Our founder, Mohd Altaf, started the tradition of Muslims singing Hindu bhajans. We had also contributed over Rs 1 lakh to the defence funds during the 1971 India-Pakistan War. We are proud of it,” he said, adding that the receipt for that is still showcased at their office in Dehradun. Has there ever been any resistance? “We are not Hindu or Muslim. We are artistes. We do our best to make the event a success,” said Master Faheem, who runs the 50-year-old Milap Band from Jwalapur, which has about 35 members, led by Mohd Mumtiyaz, Bhoora and Mohd Tanveer on vocals. Behind the scenes is undying rigour. The bands, which come all the way from Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Roorkee, Dehradun and Meerut, practise for at least six months before the Kumbh season begins. They buy bhajans — those about Shiva, Krishna and Hanuman are most popular — and keep listening first. Then they start singing and playing with the songs, and keep at it until it’s perfected. Every season has its chart-topper. This time, Altaf Band is ready with ‘Nagar mein jogi aaya’, Milap Band is brushing up on ‘Hanuman tera naam jag mein sab se pyaara’, and Gulab Band from Haridwar is tuning up ‘Jag mein ooncha tera naam, mere Raam.’ “We started with Juna, Niranjani and Nirvani Akharas. Now, Atal Akhara is lined up for March 9. After all peshwais (grand processions) are done, we will give the team some rest for a couple of days, and then move to Kumbh from April 1 for the big season," said Rehman. And they all have quite a following. “People want selfies with us all the time. They offer us money, tell us they loved our playlist. But most of all, we get their blessings,” said Mohd Insaas, who runs Gulab Band. “What better way to make a living?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/when-mohammad-sings-meera-at-kumbh-muslim-bhajan-singers-hit-right-notes-with-hindu-sadhus/articleshow/81369474.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Two brothers drown in Bikaner tank||Jaipur: Two children drowned in a water tank at their house in R K Puram Colony of Nokha in Bikaner district on Saturday.Though the mother of the two brothers, aged five and three, jumped into the water tank, she could not save their lives. A team of police and civil defence managed to save the life of the woman, but the two children died.According to police, the children have been identified as Ronak (5) and Dev Kishan (3). They had gone to their aunt’s house along with their mother.“On Saturday, both were playing near the water tank which was open. Accidently, both of them fell into the underground water tank. Spotting this their mother Baby (32) also jumped into it. That’s when people of the colony and others situated in the house raised an alarm and intimated us,” said a senior officer of Nokha police station.The water tank was 10-feet deep and proved fatal for kids. “We could bail out the woman, however, the life of the children could not be saved since both drowned,” the officer added.Police said that usually the cap of the water tank remains closed but due to morning to check the water level the people in the house had left it open. “Baby’s husband works in a company in Pune and thus she had gone to her sister-in-law’s house which is merely 300 metre away from her house,” said an officer.The woman is in shock and admitted to a hospital, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-brothers-drown-in-bikaner-tank/articleshow/81369964.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Top JCTSL officer among 2 in ACB net for taking bribe||Jaipur: The special investigation unit (SIU) of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday arrested a 2006-batch RAS officer who was posted as officer on special duty (OSD) with Jaipur City Transport Services Limited (JCTSL), an assistant accounts officer and owner of a private travel company for allegedly accepting and giving a bribe of Rs 4 lakh. The bribe money was paid for having smooth business of the newly procured buses by the JCTSL.The arrest came just hours after UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal flagged off 50 mini-buses procured by the JCTSL. ACB has seized nearly Rs 7 lakh and documents of properties worth crores of rupees from the house of the JCTSL (OSD) Virendra Verma.“We have been getting specific inputs that Verma has been receiving bribe from various bus company owners with a promise to provide them full cooperation from his side. It was a promise of ensuring proper maintenance and cleaning of the buses and also for the timely release of subsidy to these owners,” said director general B L Soni.Some hours after the new buses were flagged off the officer Virendra Verma invited one Naresh Singhal owner of a travel company and one Mahesh Goyal, assistant accounts officer at his residence. Thereafter, Naresh paid Rs 4 lakh as bribe and a basket full of fruits. Our team raided the spot and arrested both who were accepting the bribe and the one who was giving it,” said Dinesh MN, additional director general, ACB.A team led by Bajrang Singh, additional SP, ACB was thereafter into the search operation at the house of Verma. “We have so far seized Rs 7 lakh and registration papers of properties worth over crores of rupees from the house of Verma,” Singh added.Box –Govt had denied prosecution sanction against VermaACB had investigated a case of corruption, misuse of office against Virendra Verma in 2011. During the investigation, it was a clear case for prosecution. However, the state government turned down the request of ACB for prosecution sanction. The case was related to irregularities by Verma while he worked as planning officer with NAREGA in Pratapgarh.Verma is a Youtuber with 1k subscribersVirendra Verma is very fond of singing and has opened a Youtube channel with nearly 1,000 subscribers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/top-jctsl-officer-among-2-in-acb-net-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/81369962.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Unseal Heera Gold offices, SC tells authorities||HYDERABAD: The Supreme Court has ordered authorities to unseal offices of scam-hit Heera Gold Exim Private Limited, which will facilitate the company to run its businesses. The apex court also extended the interim bail of main accused Nowhera Sheik till April 19. Sheik was given interim bail from a Mumbai jail on January 22 on the condition that she return the deposits of complainants. She has been accused of collecting Rs 5,600 crore deposits by the investigating agencies. The SC on Friday said: “In our view, no purpose would be served now by keeping the office indefinitely sealed and the office should accordingly be de-sealed to facilitate the petitioner to take steps as may be required as we have observed that if it is possible to run the business and facilitate the investors being satisfied, that is a course of action which would be appropriate.”Heera Gold counsel said Nowhera issued cheques to investors in Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh and complied with bail conditions. On January 19, the apex court, while granting interim bail, had said Nowhera should meet all complainants’ liabilities in cases where the charge sheet has been filed or complaints have been made. The SC then said money in the frozen accounts was to be used and asked investigating agencies to cooperate. The case came up in court on Friday. Heera Gold had issued 10 cheques to investors in Maharasthra, but these were drawn on an account of HDFC Bank in Kerala, which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had frozen. “The Enforcement Directorate must make sure the account is de-freezed for making the payments and any further payments,” the court said. Regarding Telangana, the SC said, “We fail to appreciate why the documents which were sought by the petitioner from the investigating officer to verify the claim of 347 investors have not been handed over. If the original documents have been filed with the charge sheet and some documents have been sent to the forensic science laboratory, still copies of the documents would be available.” Counsel for Telangana informed the SC that the copies of the documents, including copies of the hard disk, would be handed over within two weeks to the petitioner to facilitate her verification of the claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unseal-heera-gold-offices-sc-tells-authorities/articleshow/81371978.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 7, 2021||Agra||5 dead and 30 hurt as 2 Haryana roadways buses collide in Aligarh||Agra: Five people were killed and 30 injured in a road accident after two Haryana roadways buses collided head-on in Aligarh’s Lodha area on Saturday. The accident took place at 2 pm when a tyre of one of the buses burst and the driver lost control over the vehicle. The bus which lost control after its tyre burst was heading to Faridabad in Haryana from Aligarh. Its driver was also injured. The driver of the other bus which was heading to Aligarh from Ballabhgarh fled from the spot. District magistrate CB Singh said four of the injured are critical and have been shifted to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College for treatment. The others have been admitted at Deen Dayal Upadhaya and the district hospital. He said chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the administration to provide all help and assistance to the injured and kin of the deceased in accordance with government norms. Muniraj G, senior superintendent of police, has issued helpline numbers for giving information about the injured people. These are — 9412729700 and 9454402808. Abhay Kumar Sharma, station house officer of Lodha police station, said so far three of the five deceased have been identified. They are Vijay Kumar (45) from Kasganj, Rajjuddin (34) from Haryana’s Ballabhgarh and 35-year-old Baby from Etah. He said, “We are in the process of identifying the other deceased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5-dead-and-30-hurt-as-2-haryana-roadways-buses-collide-in-aligarh/articleshow/81368893.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||488 model schools in state soon||Pune: As many as 488 schools in the state will be developed as model schools equipped with facilities like virtual classrooms, computer room, fire extinguisher and transportation facilities and washrooms for students with special needs, among others. These schools will also provide an opportunity for the best teachers to be sent abroad for training, stated the government resolution (GR) issued in this regard on Friday. The GR stated that this was the first phase of the project declared by deputy CM Ajit Pawar in his budget speech for 2020-21, wherein he had announced 1,500 schools to be developed as model schools.A list of 300 schools was prepared for the first phase, but due to subsequent requests and suggestions from stakeholders, a new list of 488 schools was considered. This list includes 81 schools of local self-governing bodies, Maharashtra International Board of Education, Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya, Vidyaniket and schools in urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/488-model-schools-in-state-soon/articleshow/81369966.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Over 56k applications to convert farm land||Gandhinagar: The revenue department of the state government has received 56,566 applications in two years – 2019 and 2020 – for converting agricultural land into non-agricultural use. This information was provided by state revenue minister Kaushik Patel on Saturday, in reply to a series of questions by Congress MLAs in the ongoing budget session of the Gujarat assembly. According to a written reply in the assembly, applications were made for converting 57.73 crore square metres of agricultural land to other use in 2019 and 2020. The government granted permission to convert 16.80 crore square metres of agricultural land in 2019 and 13.47 crore square metres in 2020. This implies that of the applications for converting 57.73 crore square metres of land from agriculture use to non-agriculture use, the government gave permission to convert 30.27 crore square metres of agricultural for non-agricultural use. The minister, in his written replies, informed the assembly that the state government earned revenue of Rs 1,153.33 crore in 2019 and Rs 898.95 crore in 2020 through grating permission to convert agricultural land to non-agricultural use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-56k-applications-to-convert-farm-land/articleshow/81369973.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Singhu border: As summer promises to be scorching, mini park offers shades to protesters||NEW DELHI: A mini garden has come up at Singhu border where the protesters, especially the elderly among them, can find respite under tree shades even as the summer heat gains intensity by the day. Created by NGO United Sikhs, the trees for the park have been provided by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. Pritam Singh, members of United Sikhs, said he and his team members had been planning to create the garden for the past two months. The NGO members made arrangements to start work near the main stage at the protest site. The park can accommodate around 40 people at one time and at least 10 of them can sit under the shade of trees. Pritam Singh said, “I am professionally engaged in making terrace gardens, so I had an entire design in my mind even before we actually started planning the park. It already has around 100 plants and the grass has also been planted. The park will be thrown open to everyone in the next two days.” The NGO member added, “Khalsa Aid runs a medical camp at the rear of the main protest dais. With summer approaching, we thought it important to conduct a cleanliness drive. When we were cleaning up the area, we hit upon the idea of a park to promote the need for a clean place for relaxation. If this garden is well received by everyone, we will create more parks at the protest site. The greener the protest site the better.” With the onset of summers, the protesting farmers at Singhu border will be making changes in their living conditions by making arrangements to escape the hot sun. “We have started placing coolers in our tents, to start with,” revealed Gurnam Singh, 70. “We withstood the harsh winter cold and we will now ensure that we comfortably bear the heat of the summers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-summer-promises-to-be-scorching-mini-park-offers-shades-to-protesters/articleshow/81369977.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Re-skilling key to rapid business recovery: Survey||Ahmedabad: Even as hiring and compensation remained the prominent human resources (HR) issues during the pandemic, corporate companies seem to have also realized the importance of learning and re-skilling their employees to fight the ill-effects of Covid-19. Around 52% business leaders, according to a survey conducted by the Vadodara-based human resources consultancy firm Naman HR, believe that upskilling employees in their existing functional domains will help accelerate business recovery and strengthen businesses for future disruptions. The survey covered around 180 corporate companies across sectors in India with 60% of them were from Gujarat. The survey was conducted between April-October 2020. “When the pandemic struck in April, companies wanted to keep their employees engaged. Hence, they turned to asynchronous (self-learning through online training modules) learning platforms. Their focus then was not much on training and upskilling. By September-October, these companies realized that their business model was going change and there was no alternative but to upskill employees to remain competitive in the business,” said Samir Parikh, founder, Naman HR. According to Parikh, the percentage may have increased to75% currently because more and more companies are slowly realizing that they need to invest in upskilling people. “The investment in people development is like investment in securing an electricity connection to run your plant. This realization now has come to companies,” he added. The survey further stated that 50% of companies believed in building adaptability and resilience skills for speedy business recovery. Other key areas for faster recovery were cognitive skills development (44%), building skills to support work-from-home (40%), development of leadership capabilities to manage disruptions (40%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/re-skilling-key-to-rapid-business-recovery-survey/articleshow/81369984.cms||Kalpesh Damor
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Apparel manufacturers bet big on online platforms to boost demand||Ahmedabad: Even as e-commerce platforms have been predominantly fuelling apparel sales of prominent brands, several small and medium enterprises have begun betting big on the online platform since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. With retail businesses remaining shut for a good 55 days through the lockdown; followed by work from home, the demand for apparel and made-ups took a major hit in the financial year 2020-21. As India’s domestic demand fell by at least 40%, exports of readymade garments declined by 22% from April-January (2020-21), according to industry estimates. To adapt to the new situation, garment makers began focusing on the online space.Among manufacturing sectors, the textiles sector aggressively adopted digital channels for better business prospects, suggests a report by CRISIL. “Digital adoption grew from barely 20% pre-Covid to 58% currently in the textile sector, which reflected some 38% increase in players transitioning to digital selling,” indicates the report.A similar trend is observed in Gujarat as well, where apparel makers are aggressively moving towards the online platform to find buyers.“During the pandemic, there were no offline stores available to retail apparels and therefore, many brands went aggressively towards the online platform. Eventually, the realization also struck that the consumers did begin shifting towards the e-commerce platforms to make their purchases,” said Rahul Mehta, chief mentor, Clothing Manufacturers’ Association of India (CMAI).Gujarat is home to some 7,000 apparel manufacturing units, most of which are SMEs, according to estimates by Gujarat Garment Manufacturers’ Association (GGMA).Contrary to popular belief and the trend of selling discounted products online, manufacturers have now begun pushing new product lines and fresh collections online as well.Mehta said manufacturers have also begun launching products on the online platform. “Several clothing brands and manufacturers have begun offering fresh merchandise online instead of merely pushing older stocks online, because of rising digital adoption by consumers,” he added.In fact, those who had forayed online even before the onset of the pandemic have seen an exponential rise in the number of their online customers.“Retail footfall declined and stores were struggling to clear stock. Moreover, with raw material prices going up, the average apparel price also went up by 10-15%. Since we were already in the online space, we have seen a 10-fold increase in the number of customers purchasing our apparel online,” said the marketing head of a leisure-wear brand on condition of anonymity.Garment makers launch B2B platformFetching new buyers was a major challenge for apparel manufacturers since the pandemic and travel restrictions made it difficult for wholesalers to visit manufacturing units.“Since the pandemic, retail sales have been adversely affected and therefore, production levels remained low. Demand took a hit from both domestic as well as international markets because buyers, brand representatives, and wholesalers could not visit. Therefore, manufacturers had no choice but to turn to e-commerce,” said Arpan Shah, honorary treasurer, Gujarat Garments Manufacturers Association (GGMA).Soon after the pandemic, GGMA supported the launch of a B2B platform in November-end that helps manufacturers list their collection online, and tap new buyers.“The platform can help connect buyers from across the country with manufacturers and also enable them to place their orders,” said Mahendra Bajaj, chairman and managing director of an apparel manufacturing company that has developed the platform. So far, some 70 brands and 3,000 wholesale and retail buyers have been registered on the platform.Exports hit but orders begin revivingAccording to data by the Union ministry of commerce, the exports of readymade garments of all fabrics from the country have declined by 22.46% from Rs 90,837.3 crore in April to Jan 2020 to Rs 70,431 crore in the same period of FY 2021. Similarly, that of made-ups too went down 23.8% from April 2020 to January 2021.However, industry players suggest that gradually, the demand has revived to a great extent in several countries. Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham Gujarat state council, said, “While the US has banned Chinese imports, manufacturers in China themselves are focusing on other sectors besides textiles and apparel. As a consequence, Indian manufacturers now have a clear advantage and in the fourth quarter, order volumes have begun reviving well.”“Manufacturers of both apparels as well as made-ups have begun scaling-up production and have also been heavily investing in online sales as well as marketing channels for better visibility and penetration into newer markets” said Thaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/apparel-manufacturers-bet-big-on-online-platforms-to-boost-demand/articleshow/81369995.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 7, 2021||Agra||Nilgai falls into 20-ft deep bore well, rescued by Wildlife SOS||Agra: An adult male Nilgai (Blue Bull) which fell into a 20-foot-deep open borewell in Devseras village, located in Govardhan, Mathura, was rescued by the staff of NGO Wildlife SOS after a two-hour-long operation. The animal was safely extricated from the borewell by the SOS personnel and villagers. The Nilgai was released back into a safe habitat after a thorough on-site examination, NGO officials said. According to an NGO official, some villagers had spotted the Nilgai falling into the borewell and immediately informed them. He said that rescue personnel were immediately sent and they successfully managed to bring the animal out with the help of local residents. Director Conservation Projects Baijuraj MV said, “Rescuing a wild animal requires a lot of expertise. An adult male Nilgai antelope is known to cause fatal injuries as it has sharp spikes and can weigh over 100 kilos.” “Uncovered wells are a huge risk not only to wildlife but also to the people. There is an urgent need to cover the wells, especially the ones that are at the periphery of human habitation,” CEO of Wildlife SOS Kartick Satyanarayan said. The nilgai or the blue bull (Boselaphus tragocamelus) is the largest Asian antelope and it is endemic to the Indian subcontinent. This species is protected under Schedule III of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nilgai-falls-into-20-ft-deep-bore-well-rescued-by-wildlife-sos/articleshow/81368909.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra FDA writes to Central govt asking it to cap remdesivir rate||MUMBAI: With cases surging in the state, the Maharashtra Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) is working to bring down cost of the remdesivir injection, used for treating critical Covid-19 cases.The FDA has sent a proposal to the Central government to fix the maximum retail price of 100 mg of the injection under the drugs price control, 2013. The state had in December 2020 capped the price of the injection at Rs 2,360. However, since the injection is sold by six major manufacturers to hospitals and wholesalers for Rs 800 to Rs. 1200, it should be available at a much cheaper rate than the current MRP that ranges from Rs 2,800 to Rs 5,400, the state feels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-fda-writes-to-central-govt-asking-it-to-cap-remdesivir-rate-in-mumbai/articleshow/81371984.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Bareilly||Nine injured after fire breaks out in Rampur's liquor factory||Bareilly: A massive fire broke out in a liquor factory located in the Civil Lines area of UP’s Rampur on Saturday morning. The blaze erupted with a "huge explosion" in an alcohol tank placed in the distillery with several workers inside. Nine persons were injured in the accident and few were referred to a higher medical centre, police said.Senior police officials reached the spot and rescue operation was carried out. Around four fire engines were deputed on the spot which took several hours to douse the fire. The incident took place around 9 am on Saturday. Sources at the factory said that one of the tanks containing liquor in large quantities caught fire which completely engulfed a portion of the distillery.Additional superintendent of police, Rampur, Sansar Singh said, “The fire started around 9 am. Fire services rushed to the spot. It took several hours to douse the fire, mainly due to the highly inflammable liquor content. Four fire extinguishing vehicles were pressed into service. Nine workers, who were present inside the factory and sustained burn injuries, were provided treatment. Some of them have been admitted to a district hospital in Rampur while others taken to higher medical facilities.”“No fatalities were reported in the accident,” he added.A worker at the distillery said, "The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, but it probably occurred due to a short circuit. We are trying to assess the losses incurred."Spread over 100 acres of land in the posh Civil Lines area of Rampur district, the Radico Khaitan, earlier known as Rampur Distillery, is among the oldest and largest manufacturers of Indian-made foreign liquor in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nine-injured-after-fire-breaks-out-in-rampurs-liquor-factory/articleshow/81368905.cms||Maria Khan
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||UK Sikh peer calls for UN observers to monitor Delhi protest sites||London: British Sikh peer Lord Indarjit Singh has written an open letter to UK MPs urging them to “voice support” for sending UN observers to the three farmer protest sites in Delhi “to monitor and report on abuse of human rights”. Crossbench peer Lord Singh of Wimbledon, born in Rawalpindi in pre-Partition India, is urging MPs to attend the debate on farmer protests and press freedoms in India in the House of Commons on Monday. His open letter asks them to “strongly condemn the Indian government's high-handedness and violation of human rights of farmers exercising their right of peaceful protest.” The Deol Foundation, of which 88-year-old Singh is patron, has also written an open letter to the UN calling for a fact-finding team to India “in order to investigate human rights violations against farmers”, and the urgent creation of UN Observation Posts at the three main farmers' protests sites at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu. The letter lists what the foundation claims are “breaches” by the government of India during “heavy-handed response to the farmers’ agitation”, of numerous articles of the UN Declaration of Human Rights Act, the United Resolution of the Rights of Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas, the Constitution of India and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. “The fear is that the government is trying to play the communal card and turn the majority community against Sikh farmers,” the report states. This has largely failed owing to the number of Hindu farmers involved and the communal harmony between the two groups, it continues. “Farmers have been labelled anti-national, Khalistani, Urban Naxalites, Pakistani yet the agitation is a nonreligious secular agitation,” it adds. “Most protesters are seen waving the national flag of India, something no self-respecting separatist would do,” it states. Defending Monday’s debate, Labour Sikh MP Tan Dhesi told TOI, “It certainly is not anti-national, or anti-India, to be voicing concerns about the policies of the government of the day, whosoever that maybe. The beauty of being a British parliamentarian is that almost everyday we conduct debates on what is happening around the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uk-sikh-peer-calls-for-un-observers-to-monitor-delhi-protest-sites/articleshow/81366566.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Unseasonal rains make oranges as costly as apples, Rs150-200 a doz||Nagpur: Apples can now be compared to oranges. A poor mrig crop of oranges that arrives in February-March has made the juicy Nagpur mandarin as costly as an apple these days. Fruit vendors are selling a dozen oranges for Rs150-200, which is as much as a kg of apples or even more. Orange crop is taken twice a year. The first ambiya bahar comes from October onwards, followed by mrig bahar in February. If the ambiya season was marred by a glut taking prices to rock bottom, the output has ebbed in the mrig season.This has led to rates touching Rs30,000 to 45,000 a tonne in bulk market itself. In some cases it is even Rs50,000 said farmers. This ultimately takes the price to Rs150 a dozen and upwards at the local fruit shop.Farmers compare it to a crisis of 2006-2007, when there were massive losses of the mrig crop and the government had announced a compensation of Rs50,000 a hectare.“The rates are good and some farmer who could manage a decent harvest are profiting. But a large majority of orchards have no or little mrig crop. They are in deep losses,” said Manoj Jawanjal, a director of Mahaorange, the state government promoted orange marketing company.The crop has reduced due to unseasonal rains. “Farmers starve the trees by not watering them during summer months. This leads to better flowering growth as a natural process. This finally develops as the fruit in the mrig season. However, bouts of rain in between disturbed the balance, affecting the February crop,” explained Amitabh Pawde, who has an orchard in Narkhed, the orange belt.Rajesh Chabrani, a bulk trader at Kalamna Agriculture Marketing Produce Committee (APMC) yard, said the crop is hardly 20% of the previous season. This has taken the rates to Rs45,000 a tonne. In previous mrig season, it was not more than Rs15,000, he said.“We had taken the mrig crop in 300 trees, which is hardly 20% of normal times. There was a glut during ambiya season and we had to sell at even Rs5 to 7 a kg in the wholesale market,” said Ajay Pawde, who has an orchard in Katol.Farmers say despite the bumper crop in ambiya, the rates were not enough to recover the expenses. Now, a low crop means they are staring at losses for the season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unseasonal-rains-make-oranges-as-costly-as-apples-rs150-200-a-doz/articleshow/81368928.cms||Shishir Arya
March 7, 2021||Pune||Attention in e-classes wanes after 40 minutes, says survey||Pune: After almost a year of remote learning, experts mapping the academic impact of that shift have noticed a reduced attention span among children attending e-classes.A survey of 200 Marathi schools conducted by the Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal (BSM) in Pune showed that students got bored after 40 minutes of the online teaching sessions. The study focused on pupils from Stds V to VIII between June 2020 and February 2021. The findings were released on February 24. Coordinator for the survey from BSM, Preetam Selmokar, said their study was carried out in urban and rural areas of seven districts of Western Maharashtra, including Nashik, Pune and Kolhapur, and limited to Marathi medium schools. Parents and teachers were also included.The research also highlighted lack of internet and background disturbances as challenges during online education. Some educators said coping with e-learning needs high levels of self-motivation, self-regulation and organization, and a great deal of focused attention. Others argue that attention spans across the world are getting shorter. The BSM is a non-government service-oriented organization working on study, teaching, activities, courses for 50 years. Wamanrao Gogate of BSM said it was observed during the survey that about 25.9% of students find their daily routine disturbed and complaints like headache and back pain were observed in 40.4% of students. School counsellor Arti Agarwal said the attention span varied according to age. In younger students it is reported to be just about 7-10 minutes. “Students do not sit for very long in live sessions. The environment is static when the screen is moving and there is no physical movement of students. Their attention is limited to the 12-inch screen so they tend to loose focus after a while,” she added. Child psychologist Renuka Madan said boredom in a virtual classroom is because of the environment. “A physical classroom does not make students more attentive, but it is the mindset that we have been accustomed to about sitting inside a classroom,” she added. Maths faculty at Victorious Kidss Educares, Aishhwarya Yadav, said self-paced learning through creatively designed, conceptually driven tasks could make virtual learning effective and stress-free. Principal of Indus International School, Sandeep Chhabra said strategies were needed to keep students attentive in e- learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/attention-in-e-classes-wanes-after-40-minutes-says-survey/articleshow/81369986.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Industries got 5.9 cr square metres of non-use govt land||Gandhinagar: The state government informed in the ongoing budget session of the Gujarat assembly that 5.95 crore square metres of non-use land, 44.90 crore square metres of waste land and 27.67 lakh square metres of pastoral land has been allotted for industrial use.Replying to a series of questions by Congress MLAs, the revenue minister on Saturday provided figures of land allotted for industrial use.Of the total 44.90 crore square metres of government wasteland which has been allotted for industrial use, 44.50 crore square metres has been allotted in Morbi district alone, said figures provided by the government in the assembly.Government figures also showed that no pastoral land has been allotted for industrial use in Bhavnagar, Navsari, Porbandar and Dang districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/industries-got-5-9-cr-square-metres-of-non-use-govt-land/articleshow/81369989.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Agra||Covid-19 vaccine of six pharma companies to hit market by year-end: Harsh Vardhan||Agra: Around 24 pharma companies were conducting trials for the Covid-19 vaccine and the vaccines of six different companies would be made available in the market by the year-end, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday.The minister while inaugurating a Covid-19 diagnosis and research centre at the ICMR’s National JALMA Institute for Leprosy and Other Mycobacterial Diseases in Agra, also reiterated that India is supplying vaccines to 60 countries. According to the minister, around 1.95 crore people have so far been administered with the first to second dose of Covid-19 vaccination in the country and the "Covid-19 spread will soon be controlled just like smallpox, polio and leprosy”. “A few political parties and some organizations tried to disrupt the fight against Covid-19 and attempted to create hesitation towards vaccination. Now, people have rejected all false claims and are turning up in large numbers for the vaccination. India’s strategy in fighting Covid-19 is being appreciated worldwide. WHO has also appreciated steps taken by the government of India,” the minister said. He added, “While the vaccination drive is in progress, it is necessary to abide by the Covid-appropriate bihaviour: Wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, washing hands with soap. Everyone above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age and suffering any disease should take the Covid-19 vaccine without any further delay.” Secretary, department of Health Research, and director general of ICMR, Prof. Balram Bhargava said, “ICMR has been very robust in managing Covid-19 by intense diagnosis which has facilitated the prompt management of the pandemic. It is the effort of ICMR which brought the vaccine for Covid-19 with 81% efficacy in a time-bound manner.” National JALMA Institute for Leprosy and Other Mycobacterial Diseases, Agra, was established in 1967 by the Japan Leprosy Mission for Asia (JALMA) and was handed over to the Indian Council of Medical Research in 1976.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-vaccine-of-six-pharma-companies-to-hit-market-by-year-end-harsh-vardhan/articleshow/81368918.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 7, 2021||Bareilly||UP: 26 years after she was raped, son convinces woman to seek justice||BAREILLY: For two years, she was gang-raped in the house she lived in by two brothers the family knew. She was 12 then. When she got pregnant a year later, her family found out but she had to give up the baby. Now, she has been reunited with her son and it was he who convinced her to seek justice. Twenty-six years on, an FIR has been filed and the men who violated her have been booked. “It was 1994. I lived in Shahjahanpur with my sister. She taught at a private school and my brother-in-law was a government employee,” the rape survivor told TOI. Then one day, two acquaintances of the family dropped in. “Naki Hasan and his brother Guddu. They raped me and, when I tried to resist, threatened to kill me. For two years, they gang-raped me repeatedly.” She never told anyone — she was too afraid to. “In 1995, I got pregnant. That was when I told my sister everything. The brothers threatened to kill her if she tried to lodge a complaint. So, we dropped it,” the woman, now 38, said. “We tried to get an abortion, but the doctor refused since I was 13 and it would be too risky.” Her brother-in-law got transferred around that time and they left the town. In the new town they moved to, she gave birth to a boy and gave him up for adoption to distant relatives in Hardoi. In 2000, she got married but six years later when her husband found out she had been raped, he blamed her, called her conduct into question and abandoned her. In all this time, the woman never met the son she had given up for adoption. But some years ago, he found out he had been adopted and who his mother was, the FIR said. When they finally met last year, he asked who his father was. “I didn’t know what to tell him,” she said. “I refused at first but he threatened to kill himself. I gave in.” Her son, now 24, was supportive and certain that she should not give up the fight. “He wanted me to take up the case. I was not sure what would come of it after all these years, but he convinced me.” The first time she tried to register a complaint, the police would not, she said. “I had to go to court. Police can verify what I have said with DNA tests (on her son and the accused).” Finally, this week, the court of the chief judicial magistrate ordered the police to lodge an FIR. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “We have registered the FIR on the court’s order. The investigation will be done by sub inspector Mangal Singh. The woman's statement will be recorded in court before a magistrate. The two accused have been booked for gang-rape, criminal intimidation and house trespass.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/26-years-after-she-was-gang-raped-son-convinces-woman-to-fight-for-justice/articleshow/81368926.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 7, 2021||Agra||Tikait’s formula 1V-1T-15M-10D to ‘continue farm stir for years’||Agra: With the massive farmers’ protest completing its 100 days at Delhi's borders on Saturday, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has appealed to the farmers to follow the formula ‘1V-1T-15M-10D’ - one village, one tractor, 15 men for 10 days - to strengthen the movement. BKU has directed its cadre in every district to implement the plan with one of its senior members saying the formula will help farmers to continue the protest for years. Tikait's formula would also ensure a large number of farmers to participate in the stir and then return to their villages for farming, BKU leader Dharmendra Malik said.Malik claimed that leaders of farmers' groups are constantly urging the government for renewal of the stalled talks, but the government is not interested. "It seems the government wants to prolong the farmers' agitation and tire them out," he added.BKU’s state president Rajveer Singh Jadoun said, “Rakesh Tikait has come up with a formula to strengthen and continue the movement. As part of this formula, 15 people from every village should stay at the protest venue for 10 days and then the next lot of 15 should replace them. The first lot of protesters can return home and tend to the fields. The formula will enable farmers to continue the protest for several years." BKU Agra district president Rajveer Lawaniya said, “Kisan panchayats are being held in different parts of the district to chalk out plans to implement the formula."So far, 11 rounds of talks between the government and farmers' unions have remained inconclusive. "Let us also see till when does the government keep testing us," Malik said.Tikait has been stating in 'kisan mahapanchayats' that if the Centre does not repeal the contentious new agri laws, farmers will bring in 40 lakh tractors to Delhi and lay siege to the Parliament complex.“Harvest your crops and keep your tractors ready. Call for a ‘Delhi march’ can be given anytime now,” Tikait had said at a 'mahapanchayat' in Agra on February 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tikaits-formula-1v-1t-15m-10d-to-continue-farm-stir-for-years/articleshow/81368933.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 7, 2021||Pune||RTI ‘activist’ Bharate and others booked under MCOCA||Pune: The police on Saturday booked self-proclaimed RTI activist Ravindra Bharate and others under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA).This is the second case registered under MCOCA against Bharate and others, including two dismissed policemen, one local journalist and their accomplices. The first case was registered by the Hadapsar police.Recently, a 68-year-old woman from Pashan had registered an FIR with the Chatushrungi police, accusing Bharate and the others of cheating her and trying to extort her to the tune of Rs3 crore in connection with a dispute involving four acres of land in Parvati. In a statement, the Chatushrungi police said, “ACP Ramesh Galande initiated the proposal to invoke MCOCA after investigations revealed that Bharate and others were members of an organized crime syndicate.”Additional commissioner of police (east) Namdeo Chavan greenlit the prposal, concluding that Bharate was the leader of the syndicate. Eight cases of extortion have been registered against the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rti-activist-bharate-and-others-booked-under-mcoca/articleshow/81369990.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||E-mobility startup eyes raising Rs 5 crore; Its sales double amid pandemic||Ahmedabad: As people in Ahmedabad and other parts of the country became more health-conscious after the outbreak of Covid-19, the idea of cycling either for leisure, exercise, or even the short-distance commute has appealed to many. With the demand for bicycles growing, Ahmedabad-based e-mobility startup, LightSpeed Mobility Private Limited, which manufactures electric bicycles, saw its sales volumes double since the pandemic struck.“We used to sell some 1,000 electric bicycles before the pandemic. However, the upsurge in demand following the pandemic helped us sell our entire inventory in June, July and August. The sales growth in those months was at least 200%. Averaging this over the entire 2020-21, we have doubled our sales volumes so far,” said Lightspeed Mobility's director, Rahil Rupawala.“To meet growing demand from across the country, we are looking at increasing our production. We aim to raise funds in the range of Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore in the next six months. This will meet our capital requirements for the expansion,” added Rupawala.An electric bicycle is akin to a regular bicycle but provides the ease of moving without pedaling and using it on the motor as needed. The driver needs to pedal the electric bicycle initially. And later, the motor helps it move. This means it provides the flexibility for commuting as well as for workouts. LightSpeed Mobility designs, manufactures, and sells electric bicycles and assembles them at its workshop in Saraspur area of Ahmedabad. It offers five models.“We aim to double our sales further by the end of 2022. To keep the user interest up, we are looking at launching new models in the months to come while expanding our team and dealer network,” Rupawala said.An automobile engineering graduate, who later pursued his postgraduation in design and transport management from the US, Rahil founded the company in 2016. “We were incubated at the Venture Studio from 2015 to 2017. At present, we have a dealer network in place in Ahmedabad, Pune, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Nagpur, among others, and we are aiming to expand to other territories.”Soon after its inception, the startup received a grant worth Rs 21 lakh from the government of Gujarat in 2016-17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/e-mobility-startup-eyes-raising-rs-5-crore-its-sales-double-amid-pandemic/articleshow/81369991.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Nimgade murder case: City police, CBI conducting parallel probe||Nagpur: The city police have reopened the Eknath Nimgade murder case and are conducting a parallel probe with the CBI which has been investigating the yet to be solved mystery for around five years now. Nimgade, a 72-year-old architect, was shot dead in September 2016 by an unidentified assailant over a property dispute.The CBI had hit a roadblock after questioning and rounding up several suspects. The agency had also conducted brain-mapping of two suspects.City police, following intervention of CP Amitesh Kumar and DCP Gajanan Rajmane, have got a crucial clue into the contract killing after the arrest of gangster Diwakar Kottulwar and his brother Ashu in a case of narcotics and rape. The involvement of the Kottulwar brothers in Nimgade murder case was probed a couple of times in the past too. A top don of east Nagpur and a politically-connected person too are under scanner. “CBI and city police have already had a meeting over the murder and the next meeting is schedule shortly. Both the agencies are nearing some conclusion,” said Kumar.Sources said a person close to the Kottulwar brothers has spilled the beans regarding their possible involvement. The brothers already have several cases including murders against them. It’s reliably learnt the brothers had engaged one of their close aides from Motibagh locality for the murder.Apart from Nimgade murder case, the city police are also reopening several other undetected cases. The mysterious disappearance of goon Manish Shrivas and his possible murder in 2012 is one such case. Names of several top goons, including a don from Kamptee, are doing the rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nimgade-murder-case-city-police-cbi-conducting-parallel-probe/articleshow/81368929.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||540+ take organ donation pledge||A human chain was formed outside KD Hospital on SaturdayAhmedabad: The staff of city-based KD Hospital celebrated the International Women’s Day with a message. Ahead of March 8, over 540 employees of the hospital – led by women – including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other staff members took a pledge to donate their organs. A human chain was formed outside the hospital on Saturday evening to spread the message. Dr Parth Desai, COO of the hospital, said that the purpose behind the event was to create awareness about the acute shortage of cadaver organ donation in India. “All of us can be organ donors with a pledge. We are happy that the women’s team took the lead to spread awareness,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/540-take-organ-donation-pledge/articleshow/81370002.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Covid-19 recoveries cross 3 lakh-mark in Vidarbha||Nagpur: With over 3,900 new cases and 3,000 recoveries reported in Vidarbha on Saturday, the region surpassed Friday’s record of highest cases as well as recoveries. The case count reached 3.39 lakh on Saturday. Now, 3 lakh Covid patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals/quarantine centres. Despite a fresh wave-like situation, the good number of recoveries and fewer Covid-19 deaths are positive points for the region.A key factor behind rising number of cases is the remarkable increase in the number of tests across the region. Almost every district is conducting more than 1,000 cases, especially the ones in Amravati division, which have increased testing to a significant level. On Saturday, 33,098 tests were conducted in the 11 districts of Vidarbha. Worst-hit Amravati has increased daily testing to 5,000. Nagpur has continued conducting more than 10,000 tests.At 24, there were more Covid-19 deaths than Friday. These include 9 deaths from Nagpur district. Out of them, Nagpur city reported 5 deaths, rural reported 1, and 3 deaths were of patients coming from other districts/states. Amravati, Wardha and Buldhana reported 3 deaths each. Yavatmal reported 4 deaths. Every district in Amravati division, except Washim, reported deaths.Vidarbha’s Covid-19 toll reached 7,537. As cases are rising, the case fatality rate is reducing further. On Saturday, the case fatality rate was 2.21%.Amravati: The district has been recording a small but steady fall in the number of new Covid cases since the second lockdown. On Saturday, there were 631 cases and three deaths, taking the caseload to 39,078 and toll to 555.With the highest single-day figure of 806 recoveries, total recoveries now amount to 31,555. This left 6,968 active cases.Yavatmal: There were four Covid deaths, all women from the city in the age group 55-80, which made the death toll 478. The administration received 1,505 test reports on Saturday, of which 280 were positive (178 men and 102 women) despite the administration's initiative to curb virus spread by imposing curfew across the district. Though the restrictions are in force till Monday midnight, there are indications of extension for another week. Currently 1,875 patients undergoing treatment in the district. Out of the 18,973 total cases so far, 16,623 (including 182 on Saturday) have recovered.Wardha: The district’s Covid-19 caseload reached 13,314 after 194 fresh cases were added on Saturday. Meanwhile, 183 patients were discharged and recoveries are at 11,831, while 1,125 patients are undergoing treatment.Three deaths, 37-year-old and 72-year-old men and a 55-year-old woman from Wardha, took the Covid toll to 358. On Saturday, 2,392 test reports were received, of which 194 (118 men and 76 women) were positive. The cases were reported from Wardha (106), Hinganghat (31), Deoli (23), Selu (19), Karanja (8), Samudrapur and Arvi (3 each) and Ashti (1).Chandrapur: On Saturday, 120 people tested positive and 34 patients were discharged, leaving 588 active cases in the district. There was no death reported during the day, keeping the toll unchanged at 400. The Covid caseload has climbed to 24,166, while total recoveries now amount to 23,128.Akola: The district conducted 2,605 tests, of which 15% were positive. Two patients — a 65-year-old man and a 73-yr-old man — died during treatment. With 391 new cases and 196 recoveries on Saturday, Akola now has 18,780 total cases, 13,864 recoveries and 383 deaths. This leaves 4,533 patients under treatment. Buldhana: A record-breaking 3,506 tests were conducted in Buldhana district, of which a record 837 (nearly 24% of the tests) resulted positive. The district also reported 3 deaths. Three men in the 65-70 age group from Buldhana, Chikhli and Mehkar died during treatment. Death toll of Buldhana reached 198. The relief factor for the district was that 448 patients recovered. Now, out of 20,925 total cases, 18,097 have recovered. This leaves 2,630 patients under treatment. Washim: With 245 new cases reported on Saturday, caseload in Washim is poised to cross the 10k-mark. On the other hand, 235 patients recovered from the district and no death was reported. Now, Washim has 9,978 cases, 8,413 recoveries and 162 deaths. This leaves 1,402 patients under treatment.Gadchiroli: The number of daily tests surpassed the 1k-mark in Gadchiroli, and 18 of them resulted positive. This took the caseload to 9,663. With 8 patients recovering in a day, total recoveries reached 9,385. The district has reported 108 deaths due to Covid-19 till date. 170 patients are under treatment.Bhandara: The district conducted 1,574 tests, of which 47 were positive. Covid-19 tally reached 13,891 in the district. With 14 patients recovering in a day, total recoveries now amount to 13,221. No death was reported. Death toll is 328. Bhandara has 342 patients under treatment now.Gondia: Out of 1,147 tests done on Saturday, 16 were positive. Now, Gondia has 14,530 total cases of Covid-19. With 10 recoveries in a day, 14,175 have recovered in Gondia. Death toll is 186. Now, 169 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-recoveries-cross-3-lakh-mark-in-vidarbha/articleshow/81368935.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 7, 2021||Pune||Rupee Co-op Bank depositors demand their money back||Pune: A group of Rupee bank depositors have decided to press ahead with a case in the Bombay high court demanding most of their deposits back. They have also alleged mismanagement and misbehaviour by the current bank administrators appointed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).Dhananjay Khanzode, who leads a group of bank depositors, said before any plans of merging or reviving the bank, the depositors’ interest should be secured first. “The depositors want their money back with interest. We are also prepared to accept part of the money, up to 70% now. We will let the bank give the rest later after they recover more by attaching property and recovering debts. Before any merger or revival plans are approved, the depositors’ interest should be secured first, as many of us have suffered greatly due to the pandemic, with our money stuck in the bank,” Khanzode said at a press conference.He said that depositors were contributing money to file litigation in the HC, with the next hearing on the admission of the case scheduled later in March.Khanzode alleged that the current administrators of the bank, including the chairman Sudhir Pandit, have “mismanaged” the proposed merger of the bank with the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB), with Pandit “pushing” for the merger with MSCB despite it having no retail banking experience. He also alleged that depositors have been harassed and manhandled by people linked to the current bank administrators, for raising questions about financial “impropriety”.When contacted, Pandit told TOI that he would seek legal recourse to Khanzode’s allegations. “Every one of Khanzode’s allegations is bogus and baseless. I have spoken to my lawyer, and I will file a case of criminal defamation against him. As for the case at the HC, we have filed an affidavit stating our position, and the current hearings are about the admission of the case in court,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rupee-co-op-bank-depositors-demand-their-money-back/articleshow/81370009.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: First ‘positive’ family is now a source of strength||PUNE: March 9, 2020, would remain etched in this engineer’s memory as a date when a “first” tag triggered several changes in life at a time when “positive” was one of the scariest words the world over. The city-based engineer had returned from Dubai with his wife after celebrating their wedding anniversary. Along with their daughter, the couple tested positive for Covid-19 — the first family from the city to be infected by the contagion. Their son tested negative, but remained in isolation in Naidu hospital. What followed was a mix of experiences — phone calls from well-wishers wishing his family a speedy cure and from unknown people cursing him “for importing the virus, triggering the pandemic in the country and being a cause for job losses” . A year on, the engineer says he has not only survived the contagion but has also “killed a monster called ‘stigma’ associated with it.” “From being the first Covid-19 patient in the city, I have become a plasma donor and saved the lives of two coronavirus patients. Today, I am also a sort of motivational speaker-cum-counsellor, answering random phone calls from people across the country seeking advice on ways to battle the virus and be on the positive track of life. I received 80-90 calls in the initial months.” Life is back to normal for the engineer, working with a private company in the city, and his family. His daughter is pursuing a master's degree at a foreign university and his son has resumed his college life. But the path to this normalcy was not easy. It all started from the day of Holi last year, when the entire country was celebrating with colours and the engineer and his family members started showing minor symptoms of Covid-19. They consulted doctors and tested positive. “The state of us being infected with Covid-19 was not distressing, but the situation around us was. We were still in hospital when some unknown people would regularly call. They would hold us responsible for the lockdown, companies shutting down or job losses. This happened three to four days in a row, after which we reported the matter to the hospital heads. The calls stopped after police intervention,” the engineer recalls. “There was also a person who called me daily for three months only to ask how my family and I were doing. After I donated plasma, I told him politely that all was well and he need not worry much. He stopped calling me after this. After the hospitalization and recovery, the first positive thing in our lives was the plasma donation in May under the guidance of Sassoon hospital authorities,” he says. After spending some quality time at home with the family during the lockdown, rejoining office in October was a confidence booster for him. The add-on was his daughter’s promotion at her workplace in the following months. The engineer, who has been a professional kabaddi player, says Covid-19 has renewed the family’s love for fitness. “Along with my wife, I walk nearly six-seven kilometres a day and also climb the Taljai hill sometimes for a change,” he says. The couple’s daughter has moved out of the country for higher studies. The family has, however, decided not to travel abroad in the next two-three years. “Our focus will be on exploring India till then,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-positive-family-is-now-a-source-of-strength/articleshow/81370011.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 7, 2021||Gurgaon||Three Bangladeshis held for 18 crimes in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: With the arrest of three Bangladeshi men, police have busted a gang of dacoits who used to commit crimes in Delhi-NCR and then flee to Bangladesh to avoid getting caught. The gang was provided logistics support by one of their accomplices lodged in Tihar Jail. With the arrest of the trio, at least 18 criminal cases, including dacoity, robbery, theft and arms act, have been solved. The three accused have been identified as Mohammad Khairul (46), Mohammad Sadiq Sheikh (29) and Montu alias Mulla (30). While Khairul is involved in 16 criminal cases, Seikh has two criminal cases registered against him. Mulla is involved in 19 cases of crime. According to police, around 3 am on February 28, a dacoity was reported from a house in Kavi Nagar area of Ghaziabad. Later, as told by the house owner, four men had entered their house after breaking in through a window. He told police that two of the men were armed with knives while the other two had pistols. The four men then held the family hostage and robbed them of their jewellery and other valuables before fleeing in a car. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh said since similar incidents were reported from Delhi, a team of Crime Branch was also working towards arresting the gang members. “We received input that a gang of Bangladeshis is behind such crimes in Delhi-NCR. Further information was developed and we managed to identify the mastermind as Mohammad Khairul who is running a gang of dacoits in India. Following a specific lead, our team raided a location near Lado Sarai and around 3 pm on Friday, three suspects were arrested,” Singh said. Tools used in house thefts and some stolen jewellery were recovered from them. “The recovered items included four gold bangles, a gold chain, one diamond ring, four silver rings, seven high-end wrist watches, four pair of silver anklets, silver utensils and tools used for breaking into houses have been recovered,” the DCP said. Singh said, during interrogation, the three arrested men revealed their nationality as Bangladeshi. “Khairul said he had been visiting India since 1997. He said they all enter India illegally and stay here to commit crimes like robberies, thefts and dacoities. After committing the crimes, they flee back to Bangladesh and return only after some time to commit crimes again. They also revealed that one of their associates, Rajeev Srivastava, an Indian lodged in Tihar Jail, provided them assistance in getting rented houses and vehicles to commit crimes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/three-bangladeshis-held-for-18-crimes-in-delhi-ncr/articleshow/81372387.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Ghaziabad||Three Bangladeshis held for 18 crimes in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: With the arrest of three Bangladeshi men, police have busted a gang of dacoits who used to commit crimes in Delhi-NCR and then flee to Bangladesh to avoid getting caught. The gang was provided logistics support by one of their accomplices lodged in Tihar Jail. With the arrest of the trio, at least 18 criminal cases, including dacoity, robbery, theft and arms act, have been solved. The three accused have been identified as Mohammad Khairul (46), Mohammad Sadiq Sheikh (29) and Montu alias Mulla (30). While Khairul is involved in 16 criminal cases, Seikh has two criminal cases registered against him. Mulla is involved in 19 cases of crime. According to police, around 3 am on February 28, a dacoity was reported from a house in Kavi Nagar area of Ghaziabad. Later, as told by the house owner, four men had entered their house after breaking in through a window. He told police that two of the men were armed with knives while the other two had pistols. The four men then held the family hostage and robbed them of their jewellery and other valuables before fleeing in a car. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh said since similar incidents were reported from Delhi, a team of Crime Branch was also working towards arresting the gang members. “We received input that a gang of Bangladeshis is behind such crimes in Delhi-NCR. Further information was developed and we managed to identify the mastermind as Mohammad Khairul who is running a gang of dacoits in India. Following a specific lead, our team raided a location near Lado Sarai and around 3 pm on Friday, three suspects were arrested,” Singh said. Tools used in house thefts and some stolen jewellery were recovered from them. “The recovered items included four gold bangles, a gold chain, one diamond ring, four silver rings, seven high-end wrist watches, four pair of silver anklets, silver utensils and tools used for breaking into houses have been recovered,” the DCP said. Singh said, during interrogation, the three arrested men revealed their nationality as Bangladeshi. “Khairul said he had been visiting India since 1997. He said they all enter India illegally and stay here to commit crimes like robberies, thefts and dacoities. After committing the crimes, they flee back to Bangladesh and return only after some time to commit crimes again. They also revealed that one of their associates, Rajeev Srivastava, an Indian lodged in Tihar Jail, provided them assistance in getting rented houses and vehicles to commit crimes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/three-bangladeshis-held-for-18-crimes-in-delhi-ncr/articleshow/81372391.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Three Bangladeshis held for 18 crimes in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: With the arrest of three Bangladeshi men, police have busted a gang of dacoits who used to commit crimes in Delhi-NCR and then flee to Bangladesh to avoid getting caught. The gang was provided logistics support by one of their accomplices lodged in Tihar Jail. With the arrest of the trio, at least 18 criminal cases, including dacoity, robbery, theft and arms act, have been solved. The three accused have been identified as Mohammad Khairul (46), Mohammad Sadiq Sheikh (29) and Montu alias Mulla (30). While Khairul is involved in 16 criminal cases, Seikh has two criminal cases registered against him. Mulla is involved in 19 cases of crime. According to police, around 3 am on February 28, a dacoity was reported from a house in Kavi Nagar area of Ghaziabad. Later, as told by the house owner, four men had entered their house after breaking in through a window. He told police that two of the men were armed with knives while the other two had pistols. The four men then held the family hostage and robbed them of their jewellery and other valuables before fleeing in a car. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh said since similar incidents were reported from Delhi, a team of Crime Branch was also working towards arresting the gang members. “We received input that a gang of Bangladeshis is behind such crimes in Delhi-NCR. Further information was developed and we managed to identify the mastermind as Mohammad Khairul who is running a gang of dacoits in India. Following a specific lead, our team raided a location near Lado Sarai and around 3 pm on Friday, three suspects were arrested,” Singh said. Tools used in house thefts and some stolen jewellery were recovered from them. “The recovered items included four gold bangles, a gold chain, one diamond ring, four silver rings, seven high-end wrist watches, four pair of silver anklets, silver utensils and tools used for breaking into houses have been recovered,” the DCP said. Singh said, during interrogation, the three arrested men revealed their nationality as Bangladeshi. “Khairul said he had been visiting India since 1997. He said they all enter India illegally and stay here to commit crimes like robberies, thefts and dacoities. After committing the crimes, they flee back to Bangladesh and return only after some time to commit crimes again. They also revealed that one of their associates, Rajeev Srivastava, an Indian lodged in Tihar Jail, provided them assistance in getting rented houses and vehicles to commit crimes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-bangladeshis-held-for-18-crimes-in-delhi-ncr/articleshow/81370016.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds over 10,000 cases of Covid for second straight day||MUMBAI: The Covid graph continued to rise on Saturday, with the state recording 10,000-plus cases for the second consecutive day. The state added 10,187 cases and 47 deaths. With this, the caseload in the state rose to 22,08,586 and the total fatalities reached 52,440. In Mumbai, where cases had dipped to 328 on February 1, the BMC registered 1,188 cases on Saturday. The caseload in Mumbai touched 3.3 lakh and the total deaths rose to 11,500. The overall growth rate of Covid cases between February 27 and March 5 is 0.29%, almost double of the early February figures. The doubling rate is 237 days. The BMC is being cautious though cases have not risen beyond 1,200 in the last fortnight. “As a precautionary measure, we have asked certain ward level officials to identify quarantine facility but cases from slums have hardly risen by 2% or 3% in the last two or three weeks,”' said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The officer added that over 90% of the cases hail from buildings. Dr Pradeep Angre, dean of the Mulund Covid jumbo facility, said that there are 350 patients in the facility, up from less than 100 in the first week of February. Angre said that 19 of the patients were critical and in the ICU. Even with the increase in cases, the case fatality rate of the state is gradually on the decline, said senior officials. On a comforting note, said state officials, there has been no corresponding rise in Covid deaths. “Throughout February, we had a case fatality rate of 0.8 (the CFR since March 2020 is 2.37). Even in the worst-hit districts, we calculated the CFR to be between 1 and 1.5,” added Dr Awate. However, state health officials said the current surge in Covid-19 cases that began in February second week is in all possibility the result of opening up services and not due to SARS-Cov-2 variants. This is because although the state has so far sent 800 samples for genome sequencing to central government laboratories, no new variants or mutations have shown up, he said. At the state level, Pune circle reported the highest cases and while Akola circle reported the highest fatalities. Pune circle reported 2,212 fresh cases and 10 deaths, while Akola circle reported 1,515 cases and 11 deaths. Mumbai circle reported 2,208 cases and nine deaths. “The daily number of cases in Akola decreased in the last few days, but the numbers are rising in Nashik, Jalgaon and Nagpur,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state public health department. Active cases in the state were on the rise. Active cases in the city have reported a dip. A total of 6,080 people were discharged on Saturday, taking the total discharges to over 20.6 lakh. The active cases in the state were 92,897, of which 8,984 were in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-records-over-10k-cases-for-second-consecutive-day-in-mumbai/articleshow/81371997.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Brace for water shortage due to Indira Gandhi canal repair||Jaisalmer: There could be huge water shortage for the general public and cattle in many districts connected by the Indira Gandhi canal which is going to be shut for repairs for 84 days in two phases from March 7. Due to the closure, 28-30 lakh cattle will be affected in Jaisalmer district, as they will face shortage of drinking water. District collector Ashish Modi has been holding marathon meetings with officials of Indira Gandhi canal project, PHED, animal husbandry and agriculture departments. Apart from this, he has sent letters to all the SDOs to send data of tubewells, hand pumps under repair and other water problems in their areas. Police and RAC will guard water for 40 days. At 8 places including Kolayat, Bajju, Poogal, Lunkaransar and Khajuwala in Bikaner district and Nachna, Mohangarh and Ramgarh in Jaisalmer district, 30 RAC jawans will be deployed. Collectors and SPs of Bikaner, Churu, Hanumangarh and Jaisalmer will monitor them. Executive engineer and superintending engineer of the areas will carry out regulation patrolling. If situation deteriorates, chief engineer canal, SDM of the areas concerned and SPs and collectors of the districts will also get into the field. Regulation wing chief engineer Vinod Choudhary said from March 7, water for irrigation in IGNP will be totally closed and water will be available only for the drinking purpose. “Looking at it, there are some canals in Khajuwala, Mohangarh, Lunkaransar, Sahwa, Nachna areas where wheat crop is ready and farmers will try to steal water. He said IGNP had asked for 30 more jawans of RAC. The collector has asked the SP to help engineers in the areas concerned. If found stealing water, a case will be lodged under serious sections,” he said.Modi said from March 7, pre-closure of canals is starting to be followed by partial closure. From May 1 to 31, there will be total canal closure looking at which the district administration has started the preparations. Collector Mehta has people to fill all the available water storage points and scheduling of water distribution during the closure should be made in such a way that there is a minimum gap till water is released in the canals. Directing to provide a subdivision-wise list of villages that will be most affected in canal closure, has asked to analyse and prepare alternative arrangements along with making provision for special arrangement of water in those villages where the situation will be critical in the last 10-15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brace-for-water-shortage-due-to-indira-gandhi-canal-repair/articleshow/81370007.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Govt ‘missed chance’ to nip Maharashtra scandal in bud||Mumbai: The resignation of Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod following the alleged suicide of a Pune girl Puja Chavan last month, underscores the bald truth that present-day politicians, irrespective of the party tag, lack political skills or sheer charisma to defuse a crisis before it spirals out of control, said observers. Many in Mantralaya think chief minister Uddhav Thackeray should have immediately sacked Rathod in order to pre-empt the opposition’s tirade and also to send the right signals to party MLAs. “The BJP too hasn’t covered itself with glory. We lacked a sound strategy to pin down Rathod. We kept shouting our lungs out,” said a party legislator on Saturday. The 1980s saw a slew of scandals involving senior Congress politicians. However, the party high command was quick to paper over the crisis. The Congress sought the resignation of A R Antulay -- the firebrand CM who was in the eye of a political storm in the wake of the infamous cement scandal -- close on the heels of the Bombay high court’s landmark judgement in January 1982. It is said that Indira Gandhi made it clear to Antulay that he would have to quit. Indira Gandhi acted tough with Ramrao Adik as well. All hell broke loose when the senior Congress minister, who, so goes the story, loved his drink, allegedly misbehaved with the air-hostess aboard an international flight in an inebriated condition. Unlike Rathod, who created a fuss over quitting the state cabinet and instead rushed to his Yavatmal assembly constituency for a show of strength. Adik, on returning from his foreign trip, quietly announced his resignation at a press conference held at his official Malabar Hill residence. The lawyer-turned-politician smiled when a senior journalist asked him, poker faced, if he would now “join the bar!” Drawing a parallel between present-day netas and their 1980s counterparts, former IAS officer Chandra Iyengar said, “Back then, politicians knew that one of the cardinal rules of politics is that they should aspire to behave like role models.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-missed-chance-to-nip-maharashtra-scandal-in-bud/articleshow/81370027.cms||Ambarish Mishra
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Shortage of veterinary staff||Gandhinagar:Replying to a number of questions by Congress MLAs, the minister for animal husbandry said that as of December 31, 2020, there are vacancies of 278 veterinary officers in government-run veterinary hospitals. There are also 149 posts of dressers and 270 posts of dresser-cum-attendant which are vacant at hospitals. The minister said that at veterinary clinics, there are 246 posts of livestock inspector which are vacant along with 379 posts of attendant which are also vacant. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shortage-of-veterinary-staff/articleshow/81370010.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Noida||Three Bangladeshis held for 18 crimes in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: With the arrest of three Bangladeshi men, police have busted a gang of dacoits who used to commit crimes in Delhi-NCR and then flee to Bangladesh to avoid getting caught. The gang was provided logistics support by one of their accomplices lodged in Tihar Jail. With the arrest of the trio, at least 18 criminal cases, including dacoity, robbery, theft and arms act, have been solved. The three accused have been identified as Mohammad Khairul (46), Mohammad Sadiq Sheikh (29) and Montu alias Mulla (30). While Khairul is involved in 16 criminal cases, Seikh has two criminal cases registered against him. Mulla is involved in 19 cases of crime. According to police, around 3 am on February 28, a dacoity was reported from a house in Kavi Nagar area of Ghaziabad. Later, as told by the house owner, four men had entered their house after breaking in through a window. He told police that two of the men were armed with knives while the other two had pistols. The four men then held the family hostage and robbed them of their jewellery and other valuables before fleeing in a car. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh said since similar incidents were reported from Delhi, a team of Crime Branch was also working towards arresting the gang members. “We received input that a gang of Bangladeshis is behind such crimes in Delhi-NCR. Further information was developed and we managed to identify the mastermind as Mohammad Khairul who is running a gang of dacoits in India. Following a specific lead, our team raided a location near Lado Sarai and around 3 pm on Friday, three suspects were arrested,” Singh said. Tools used in house thefts and some stolen jewellery were recovered from them. “The recovered items included four gold bangles, a gold chain, one diamond ring, four silver rings, seven high-end wrist watches, four pair of silver anklets, silver utensils and tools used for breaking into houses have been recovered,” the DCP said. Singh said, during interrogation, the three arrested men revealed their nationality as Bangladeshi. “Khairul said he had been visiting India since 1997. He said they all enter India illegally and stay here to commit crimes like robberies, thefts and dacoities. After committing the crimes, they flee back to Bangladesh and return only after some time to commit crimes again. They also revealed that one of their associates, Rajeev Srivastava, an Indian lodged in Tihar Jail, provided them assistance in getting rented houses and vehicles to commit crimes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/three-bangladeshis-held-for-18-crimes-in-delhi-ncr/articleshow/81372390.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 3-year RI for man under Pocso for sexual assault||MUMBAI: A special trial court on Saturday sentenced a 37-year-old man to three years’ rigorous imprisonment (RI) for sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso). He was convicted on charges of touching a teen inappropriately on a public transport bus in Mumbai in 2016. The victim, then a 16-year-old student, had turned “hostile” during the trial last year. The police officers identified the accused in court during trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-3-yr-ri-for-man-under-pocso-for-sexual-assault/articleshow/81370620.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Muthoot Group chairman ​dies after fall from fourth floor of his house in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Chairman of the Muthoot Group George Muthoot died on Friday night, after he allegedly fell from the fourth floor of his house in East of Kailash. Police said an information was received at Amar Colony police station on Friday night at 9.21pm that 72-year-old Muthoot had fallen from the fourth floor. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said that Muthoot was taken to Fortis Escort Hospital. He later died during treatment, Meena said. The DCP said, “A crime team was sent to inspect the spot. An inquiry is being conducted in the matter and statements of family and witnesses have been recorded. CCTVs near the house are also being checked.” Meena also said that the postmortem was conducted at AIIMS on Saturday morning. “No foul play is being suspected,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/muthoot-group-chairman-dies-after-fall-from-fourth-floor/articleshow/81370023.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Less money for skill devpt, more for statues||Aurangabad: The allocation of crores of rupees for statues and memorials in the annual budget of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has raised some questions. The annual budget of Rs 337 crore was presented for the year 2021-22. Interestingly, the university has allocated more funds (Rs 5.1 crore) for different statues and memorials than for the students with physical disabilities (Rs 3 crore). It is also more than the funds allocated for the skill-development centres (Rs 3.1 crore). Shankar Ambhore, a former member of the management council of Bamu, said the budget was imbalanced. “The university is expected to spend more money on infrastructural development and different facilities for students. The management council of the university should have chopped such proposals in the first place. They should not have found a place in the budget,” he said. Student activist Tukaram Saraf said the university should first cross-check the expenditure required for raising statues and memorials. “The budgetary provisions are exorbitant and sheer splurging of money under pressure from certain elements. The university should arrange money for such works from CSR funds instead of spending its own funds. These could have been for student-centric causes,” he said. When contacted, Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said the capital expenditure is required in raising the structures concerned. “It is one time instalment on the behalf of the university. These statutes and memorials will serve as an inspiration to the students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/less-money-for-skill-devpt-more-for-statues/articleshow/81370599.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Transport dept cuts revenue target||Jaipur: Due to the pandemic and lockdown, the transport department has reduced its annual revenue target from Rs 6,000 crore to Rs 5,200 crore. So far, it has collected Rs 3,500 crore. The department is also sending notices regularly to transport officials across the state who are falling short of the target. The authorities have warned disciplinary action against those failing to meet the target. "In the beginning of the financial year, we had set a target of Rs 6,000 crore but due to the pandemic and the lockdown which followed, the department has earned around Rs 3,500 crore so far. We also wrote to the government to lower the target," said an official. According to officials, as the sale of automobiles has been lower this year, a lot of revenue which used to be earned has gone down. "A major source of income for the department came from the taxes which were charged from the buyers of the vehicles but since this year, people have not bought that many vehicles we have not been able to earn through taxes," an official said. As the maintenance of buses was going on even during the lockdown, it has added to the expenditure of the department. Meanwhile, senior officials are also keeping a strict vigil on the revenue earned by districts. "At present, districts like Kota and Chittorgarh are lagging while Jaipur is getting back to its normal earning. We have sent notices to RTOs, inspectors and others asking them the reason for not meeting the targets as well as measures to be taken to earn revenue," an official said. The officials are hopeful that they will be able to meet the new target by March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transport-dept-cuts-revenue-target/articleshow/81370012.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Civil Defence staffer killed in outer Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old Civil Defence employee was gunned down by some unidentified assailants in outer Delhi’s Bawana during the early hours on Saturday. Police suspect that the murder took place as fallout of personal enmity. The victim was identified as Shashi Kadyan, a resident of Katewara village in Bawana. He was unmarried and lived with his parents and worked as a driver. Police received a PCR call around 5.30 am regarding an injured due to multiple gun shots. He was taken to a hospital where doctors pronounced him brought dead. The cops said that initial probe suggests an ongoing rivalry between two groups in Katewara regarding control over the area. It is believed that Kadyan also belonged to one of the two rival groups and was killed following the enmity, said a police officer. Kadyan did not have any previous criminal history. Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan said a case of murder has been registered. Police are also questioning residents of the village and people known to Kadyan to find out the real motive behind the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civil-defence-staffer-killed-in-outer-delhi/articleshow/81370602.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Aurangabad||2 arrested with illegal firearms||Aurangabad: In a major detection by the MIDC Waluj police, two men were arrested after they were found with five country-made pistols and 28 live rounds on Saturday afternoon. Police said the case may help them unearth a major illegal arms smuggling racket active in the industrial area. The arrested accused have been identified as Sachin Pawar (29) and Sundar Kale (19). The accused do not have any criminal record and have confessed that they got into arms dealing to make quick money. They were arrested from near the hotel they had been to deliver the firearms. Inspector Madhukar Sawant said following a specific tip-off, a trap was laid near Sundar hotel on the Vaishno Devi temple road and the accused were nabbed. “The accused men reportedly changed their delivery location twice before finally turning up at the said hotel, when our team (in the presence of two panchas) nabbed them,” said Sawant. Assistant inspector Gautam Wavle, who carried out the trap, said preliminary inquiry has revealed that the accused had come to deliver the firearms to a prospective buyer. “We are checking the travel history of the arrested duo to get more details,” said Wavle. Police suspect that these firearms were procured in another state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-arrested-with-illegal-firearms/articleshow/81370615.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 7, 2021||Meerut||Farmers block Eastern Peripheral Expressway for hours to mark 100 days of protest||Meerut: To mark the 100 days of protest, farmers blocked Eastern Peripheral Expressway - a major route near Delhi - on Saturday. "This is a day of celebration for us. This government doesn't understand the strength of our resolve. We have weathered bitter cold. Now, we are bracing for heat as summer approaches. There is no question of slowing down," a farmer said. Hundreds of farmers accessed the expressway at Mavikalan village. They parked their tractor-trolleys on the road and blocked the traffic. The blockade continued for five hours. During this time they also raised slogans against the government and in favour of farm unions. "For five hours we have jammed the road here. We want to warn the government that for the next five months also, no one can end our protest. This government will have to take back the laws and bring in laws for MSP," Bhupender Tomar, a farm leader, said. According to reports, several parts of the expressway, also known as KMP (Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) Expressway, witnessed protests on Saturday. Before Baghpat, farmers could be seen blocking traffic at Duhai section of Ghaziabad. In Haryana, too, several parts of the expressway in Jhajjar, Sonepat, among others, were blocked. The blockade, called by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, was in place from 11am to 4pm. Bhartiya Kisan Union spokesperson, Dharmender Malik, said, "We all planned this protest on the occasion of 100 days of the farmers' movement. Farmers were asked to reach Greater Noida, Modinagar, Muradnagar, Baghpat, Hapur, etc. The event was peaceful and successful."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/farmers-block-eastern-peripheral-expressway-for-hours-to-mark-100-days-of-protest/articleshow/81368974.cms||Sandeep Rai
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Excise dept gets Rs 1,400cr more than reserve price||Jaipur: The excise department expects to earn a revenue of Rs 5,877.28 crore after selling composite liquor shops through e-auction in three phases. The amount is Rs 1,406 crore more than the fixed reserve price. The department will conduct e-auction of remaining two phases on March 9 and 10.Figures of phase-3 e-auction received from the excise department on Saturday reads it had fixed the reserve price of Rs 1,315.03 crore for 1,140 shops. It booked a profit of Rs 405.96 crore as it received bidding of Rs 1,721 crore against the reserve price.Similarly in phase-II, the department earned Rs 1,882 crore against the fixed reserve price of Rs 1,428 crore. The amount was Rs 453.98 crore higher, which was calculated at 31.77% increase. Under the new policy, Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor both are being sold in the same shop On the first day, the department earned revenue of whopping Rs 2,273.31 crore after selling 1,279 composite liquor shops through e-auction. Receiving a surprising response, the department booked a profit of Rs 548.88 crore.Nilesh Mewara, president of Raj Liquor Welfare Society said, “The bid is increased by dummy candidates fielded by the department. It will be interesting to watch whether the participants who won the bid deposit money or not.”In Jaipur, the shop at Niwaru Road was sold at Rs 10 crore. It was learnt that for a shop in Nimbera, Chittorgarh, the bid continued for a record time 51 hours. There are a total of 7,665 liquor stores in the state. In Jaipur, 404 shops will be allotted. An official said, the last e-auction will be organised on March 10. After the state finance department made the amendment in the excise policy, the department has been receiving a good response. As per the amendment, instead of 8% advance annual guarantee fees, the shop owners now have to pay 5%. Similarly, security fees has been reduced to 2% from 4% and will be returned to the shop owners at the end of the financial year.Providing relaxation the department has also allowed the shop owners to deposit 50% of the composite fee after three months and 50% has to be deposited before March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/excise-dept-gets-rs-1400cr-more-than-reserve-price/articleshow/81370018.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||Urgent core committee meeting of BJP sets political temperatures soaring in U’khand'A positive momentum has been broken', says CM Rawat||Dehradun/Gairsain: An urgent meeting of the BJP core committee was convened in Dehradun on Saturday evening for which party MLAs who were in the midst of the budget session at Gairsain were called back to the state capital, many of them on choppers, triggering rumours of “major changes” in the government and a possible replacement "at the highest level" ahead of assembly polls next year. The core committee meeting which went on for over two hours at Bijapur guest house near the CM’s official residence in Dehradun was presided by BJP national vice-president and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh — who has been deputed as observer by the party — and the BJP’s state in-charge for Uttarakhand, Dushyant Kumar Gautam. The two leaders were said to have been sent by the central party leadership to get feedback after reports that over a dozen MLAs including ministers were not happy with the current leadership. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat late on Saturday, spoke to TOI about the core committee meeting. “A positive momentum has been broken. What more can I say? Raman Singhji met the MLAs separately and took the feedback from them.. I am not aware what the MLAs told him. I had a word with him as well and discussed issues related to the state. After the meeting, he came to my official residence where there were around 20 to 22 MLAs. However, soon after, a total of 45 legislators came to my residence for discussion. Raman Singhji asked me when can we meet in Delhi for further discussions on the matter. We both decided that we will soon meet in Delhi for that.” Earlier, while the meeting was on, BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat had shot down speculations of a leadership change, saying that no such thing was discussed and the meeting was mainly to talk about preparations of the fourth anniversary celebrations of the Trivendra Rawat government on March 18. Sources meanwhile told TOI that the meeting was “not a regular one merely to discuss anniversary celebrations” as most MLAs including senior ministers in the state government were not even aware that they would be required to attend it till Friday night. Parliamentary affairs minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik had in fact tabled a proposal to run the ongoing budget session on Saturday and Sunday, and the proposal was also passed in the House. However, the sudden summons to all the party MLAs saw an abrupt end to the budget session on Saturday afternoon and the House was adjourned sine die and the BJP lawmakers were rushed to the state capital. Also, sources present in the meeting said that CM Rawat stayed in the meeting for only around 20 minutes. They added that Raman Singh had one-to-one discussions with two Lok Sabha MPs from Uttarakhand — Mala Rajya Laxmi Shah and Ajay Bhatt -- as well as many MLAs and sought their feedback. Former CM Vijay Bahuguna also attended the meeting. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, too, made an unscheduled visit to Dehradun later in the evening and met Raman Singh and Dushyant Kumar Gautam at Jolly Grant airport before they left for Delhi. The two central leaders are likely to submit a report to BJP chief JP Nadda shortly. Meanwhile, reacting to the day’s developments, former CM and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat tweeted on Saturday that “once again, there are talks of political instability in Uttarakhand.” “It appears that regular change of guard has become political destiny for Uttarakhand. To hide its failure, change of face is the only answer that the BJP has. People will never forgive the BJP for the political instability that they are creating.” (with inputs from Akhilesh Singh in Delhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/urgent-core-committee-meeting-of-bjp-sets-political-temperatures-soaring-in-ukhanda-positive-momentum-has-been-broken-says-cm-rawat/articleshow/81369624.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 7, 2021||Meerut||Farmers defy ban order in Bijnor, take out inter-state tractor rally||Bijnor: Defying a ban on entry of tractors in UP's Bijnor, farmers went ahead with their 'Kisan Mazdoor Jagrati' tractor rally against the farm laws on Saturday. The inter-state rally that started from Uttar Pradesh's Ramraj, will enter parts of Uttarakhand, and conclude at Delhi's Ghazipur border on March 27. It is likely to cover 18 districts of western UP and Uttarakhand. The rally was flagged off by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait from a local gurdwara in the Ramraj area of Muzaffarnagar on Saturday. At least a hundred tractors and scores of four-wheelers are part of the long convoy. Citing prevailing prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC, Bijnor SP Dharamvir Singh had banned entry of tractors in the district. The district police chief had even warned the farmers with strict action if they tried to enter Bijnor from Muzaffarnagar. Heavy police forces have been deployed in the area. However, the farmers' convoy managed to enter Bijnor district "peacefully". Digambar Singh, state president of BKU's youth wing, said, "We have started the 'Kisan Mazdoor Jagrati' tractor rally from Ramraj. Police warned us to stop the rally. But, no gun and baton can suppress the voice of farmers. Our convoy will halt in Bijnor's Najibabad on Saturday and Afzalgarh on Sunday. Later, we will pass through Rudrapur, Moradabad and Hapur districts. We are collecting soils from all the districts and spreading awareness among the farmers." Tejendra Singh, president of Kisan Sangathan, said, "We want the three farm laws to be repealed and a law on MSP be enacted. It is a matter of survival for the farmers' fraternity in India."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/farmers-defy-ban-order-in-bijnor-take-out-inter-state-tractor-rally/articleshow/81368986.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Free traffic project hits shrine walls at 17 spots||New Delhi: The temple in the middle of the Chandni Chowk thoroughfare is not the only religious structure impeding the flow of traffic. The project to reduce congestion on 77 important corridors of Delhi, being overseen by the lieutenant governor himself, has identified similar hurdles in the form of 17 shrines located on these arteries. Ways are being considered to prevent stalling of traffic at such points. A municipal official said that these 17 structures included temples as well as mazars. Some cases such as the one related to the relocation of a temple on the Najafgarh drain bridge, which causes a traffic jam on the single lane there, is already pending with Delhi government’s religious committee, set up to look into unauthorised religious structures built on government land. Another encroachment, a mazar on Rohtak Road near Udyog Nagar metro station, also needs to be relocated. One other identified religious encroachment is on the Bahadurgarh-Najafgarh road in front of the bus terminal. The 77 corridors being decongested have been categorized as A, B and C categories and were identified by the joint task force constituted by the LG in 2017. In the last review of the progress made by the interagency task force, officials of Delhi government’s home department asked the landowning agencies, the three municipal corporations and Public Works Department, to submit their proposals to the religious committee with documentation about the nature of encroachments. “The home department has cited a Delhi High Court order recommending that the land owning agencies first clear all the encroaching structures of such shrines except the place or room where the idols or object of worship is housed,” pointed out a senior government official. “It has, therefore, been proposed that after the removal of all such spaces above the ground floor, other similar rooms can also be tackled before we go to the religious committee.” Municipal officials, however, said this approach was not practical because a big force of police personnel would be required to handle the delicate nature of encroachment clearance at places of worship. An official asserted, “This work cannot be carried out in phases. Once people realise that rooms are being demolished, mobilisation will start in favour of restoring the structures.” Of late, clearing of encroachments by religious shrines has proved controversial, especially with political parties expressing support for such structures, as was seen in Chandni Chowk and in the Ravidas temple row.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/free-traffic-project-hits-shrine-walls-at-17-spots/articleshow/81370626.cms||Paras Singh
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||CAG reveals gross anomalies in Tanakpur-Jauljibi Road which triggered India-Nepal tension last year||Gairsain: The strategic Tanakpur-Jauljibi road that gave rise to India-Nepal tensions last year had gross irregularities, ranging from deviation from proposed dimensions of the road to faulty tendering processes and detailed project reports (DPRs), revealed a CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) report presented on sixth day of the budget session on Saturday. The report said a length of about 173 km had been proposed for the strategic Tanakpur-Jauljibi road, which ended up at 263 km after construction. A detailed survey found that the actual length of the proposed road was 135.47 km. The report adds that the Public Works Department (PWD) “didn’t comply with extant rules and failed to provide a clear site to the first contractor, which resulted in a delay of more than four years in completion of the 0-12km stretch, which placed an additional burden of Rs 1.92 crore on the state government”. “Work on the next stretch of 12-55 km was delayed due or held up due to termination of the contract. There were instances of faulty DPRs and adoption of an improper tendering process. Besides, the 0-12km stretch was constructed in contravention of provisions of the Indian Road Congress (IRC) codes, resulting in an inferior quality of road. A third-party inspection of the road, to check the quality of construction, was also not done,” the report reads. The CAG also said it noticed diversion of funds worth Rs 9.21 crore. Meanwhile, the mining department compliance audit found that the state had failed to recover Rs 237.1 crore from contractors of the road. “During scrutiny of records of nine district mining offices from 2017-18, it was found that none of the contractors submitted e-Form MM-11. The construction agencies deducted a one-time royalty amounting to Rs 47.4 crore on the quantity of minor minerals form the bills of contractors and deposited the amount in the treasury. However, in the absence of form MM-11, an amount equal to five times the royalty, which was to be levied on contractors for illegally transported minerals, was not recovered, leading to loss worth Rs 237.1 crore to the state,” the report says. Notably, BJP legislator from Lohaghat Puran Singh Fartyal had levelled allegations of corruption in the Tanakpur-Jauljibi road in September last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cag-reveals-gross-anomalies-in-tanakpur-jauljibi-road-which-triggered-india-nepal-tension-last-year/articleshow/81369642.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||‘Healthy & clean toilet movement’ for women||Nagpur: ‘Healthy and clean toilet movement’, a nationwide campaign will be launched on Women’s Day. The project aims to provide public toilets to women and also to maintain them hygienically. Those associated with the project have appealed to the concerned authorities to include the NMC, MPs, people from gram panchayats and others to pay attention to the construction, repair, maintenance and management of women’s toilets in their respective areas. At a press conference at Patrakar Bhavan on Saturday, social worker Aruna Purohit, chairperson of women’s empowerment and networking initiative (WENI) stated the importance and need of public toilets for women. Even if a public toilet exist, there is no one to manage it properly, she said. The objectives of the movement include inspection of toilets at various public places around the city and creating awareness regarding the concept of clean and hygienic toilets. Places like private institutions, schools, colleges, malls, petrol pumps, cinema halls and other important places should mandatorily have toilets, added Purohit. The movement also aims to hold silent demonstrations and signature campaigns at busy squares. Executive director of Annakshetra Foundation, president Nilima Bawne and vice-president Sarika Pendse from Dharampeth Mahila Multistate Coop. Society, Chhaya Shukla-Bharat from Vikas Parishad, Orange City, Supriya Mangulkar and others were present on the dais.  Shailja Pingale, Varsha Deshpande, Savita Paliwal, Shruti Deshpande, Sumit Kulkarni, Sachin Mukkewar, Sanjay Pendse and a few more organizations are associated with the movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/healthy-clean-toilet-movement-for-women/articleshow/81370057.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||Pranayam helps keep respiratory diseases at bay: Yoga guru Dhaka Ram||Rishikesh: Jaipur’s yoga guru Dhaka Ram, speaking on the sixth day of the International Yog Festival, stressed on how pranayams can help prevent respiratory illnesses. “Pranayams help with blood circulation, which in turn prevents cold, cough, asthma as well as pneumonia. It keeps one’s lungs healthy and keeps all respiratory ailments at bay,” he said. Dhaka Ram added that correcting one’s posture of standing and sitting down can be the key to pain relief. “The wrong way of standing gives rise to pain in ankles, waist, knees and abdomen,” he said. Dhaka Ram also made participants at the festival undergo a “laughing exercise” and said that yoga was about “discovering the happiness within”. Meanwhile on Saturday, a chopper showered flower petals on participants at the festival, which is being organized by the tourism department in association with the Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVN).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pranayam-helps-keep-respiratory-diseases-at-bay-yoga-guru-dhaka-ram/articleshow/81369644.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Meerut||Panchayat polls: BJP tries to woo Dalits as protesting farmers implacable in West UP||Muzaffarnagar: With the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh drawing closer and the protesting farmers unrelenting, the ruling BJP, which finds itself trapped in a catch-22-like situation, especially in western UP districts, has turned its focus towards Dalits. In an effort to woo the Dalits voters, Muzaffarnagar MP and Union minister Sanjeev Balyan on Saturday carried out a “jalabhisekh” of an 11-foot-tall statue of Babasaheb Ambedkar at GIC Ground here at a public meeting held under the banner of Hind Kisan Majdoor Simit. The statue will, however, be installed in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir. “The society will be stronger when we remove the word ‘caste’. We will together go to Kashmir to install the statue,” said Balyan in a bid to neutralise the situation arising out of the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws that completed 100 days on Saturday. “I will be the first MP to resign if any farmer loses his land owing to the farm laws,” said minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries addressing a public gathering. “Modi Ji always thinks about the farmers’ interests, but rumours are being spread that their land will be grabbed by corporate houses. The day industrialists grab the land of even a single farmer, Sanjeev Balyan will be the first MP to resign. No one can dare to grab farmers’ land in this country,” said Balyan to placate the protesting farmers after facing stiff resistance during his meetings in several western UP villages recently. Lambasting opposition parties for “spreading rumours” against the farm laws and "misleading" the farmers, the minister said, “Stop spreading rumours, the government wants to solve farmers’ problems. I also appeal to the farmers that it has been 100 days since you launched your agitation, now talk to the government and tell all negative points about the laws which are bothering you, the government will remove them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/panchayat-polls-bjp-tries-to-woo-dalits-as-protesting-farmers-implacable-in-west-up/articleshow/81368991.cms||Mohd Dilshad
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||‘Healthy & clean toilet movement’ for women||Nagpur: ‘Healthy and clean toilet movement’, a nationwide campaign will be launched on Women’s Day. The project aims to provide public toilets to women and also to maintain them hygienically. Those associated with the project have appealed to the concerned authorities to include the NMC, MPs, people from gram panchayats and others to pay attention to the construction, repair, maintenance and management of women’s toilets in their respective areas. At a press conference at Patrakar Bhavan on Saturday, social worker Aruna Purohit, chairperson of women’s empowerment and networking initiative (WENI) stated the importance and need of public toilets for women. Even if a public toilet exist, there is no one to manage it properly, she said. The objectives of the movement include inspection of toilets at various public places around the city and creating awareness regarding the concept of clean and hygienic toilets. Places like private institutions, schools, colleges, malls, petrol pumps, cinema halls and other important places should mandatorily have toilets, added Purohit. The movement also aims to hold silent demonstrations and signature campaigns at busy squares. Executive director of Annakshetra Foundation, president Nilima Bawne and vice-president Sarika Pendse from Dharampeth Mahila Multistate Coop. Society, Chhaya Shukla-Bharat from Vikas Parishad, Orange City, Supriya Mangulkar and others were present on the dais.  Shailja Pingale, Varsha Deshpande, Savita Paliwal, Shruti Deshpande, Sumit Kulkarni, Sachin Mukkewar, Sanjay Pendse and a few more organizations are associated with the movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/healthy-clean-toilet-movement-for-women/articleshow/81370066.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Covid cases rise in Kolkata, West Bengal||KOLKATA: With 259 new cases on Saturday — the sharpest spike in over a month — the number of fresh Covid infections in the state continued to remain above 200 for the fourth consecutive day. Though the rise in number is not alarming yet, health experts said the trend is a matter of concern and if necessary preventive measures are not taken, things could go from bad to worse. “There has been a marginal rise in numbers. So, we are not pressing the panic button yet. Instead, we will strengthen surveillance and containment measures,” said a senior government health official. The number of fresh cases started slipping below 200 from the second week of February, to lie low beyond this ark for more than a week. Even as new cases reached 200 in the third week of February, it was not constant. Doctors said citizens should also take the onus upon themselves with Covid-appropriate behaviour. “The number of Covid patients had slid to one or two a day two weeks ago. Now, we are getting four to five patients a day,” said a source at Medical College Hospital, Kolkata. The number of Covid patients admitted in most hospitals had scaled down to single digits, with many recording zero patients on some days. “For about three weeks, we had only about six patients a day. But currently, we have 13 patients, which is double,” said Alok Roy, chairman of the Medica Group of Hospitals. Beliaghata ID Hospital, too, had less than 10 patients till recently. Now, it has close to 20 Covid positive cases. “The positivity rate had subsided below 1% in our lab. But we are witnessing a gradual rise, Now, the positivity rate hovers between 2% and 3%,” said microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury of Peerless Hospital. The central lab at AMRI group of hospital was getting 130-140 samples daily till last week of February with no positive samples. But in the last one week, it is receiving around 200 samples a day with around four-five positive cases on an average. “Though we haven’t recorded any death in the past two weeks, the number of patient requiring admission is gradually going up. Currently, we have 23 patients admitted whereas it had gone down as low as six about a week ago,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO of Peerless Hospital. Among the districts, Kolkata continues to record the largest number of fresh case with North 24 Parganas following closely. “Now people have started travelling, many could be from the states where there is a sharp spike. We can still protect ourselves by not letting down the guard down and by following Covid-19 protocol, like wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distance,” added Chaudhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-cases-rise-in-city-state/articleshow/81369665.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 7, 2021||Pune||New challenge: Climbing ‘Everest’ one pedal at a time||PUNE: With most sporting events disrupted by the pandemic, a new challenge — known as Everesting — has taken amateur as well as professional cyclists in the city and elsewhere by storm. The concept of Everesting is simple: One can ascend and descend any hill in a single activity until one attains an elevation of 8,848m – the equivalent height of Mt Everest. The challenge can be completed on cycle, on foot, or on a trainer. In Pune, an estimated 30-40 people have completed Everesting on cycle since November last year. The figure includes those who have completed half Everesting (4,424m) and those who have completed 10K (more than 10,000 metres), said Chaitanya Velhal, who is credited with popularising the challenge in Pune. However, Everesting is anything but simple. Puneite Vijay Vasve, a long-distance cyclist and an Ironman finisher in Malaysia in 2019, found it brutally hard when he attempted the challenge for the first time near Purandar Fort in December last month. “It was a very painful experience for me even though I went for half Everesting, but I managed to complete the challenge,” he said. He started practising at various ghat sections. He went for full Everesting the same month and chose a small hill — DSK Vishwa — in Dhayari gaon. “As a result, I had to ascend and descend the hill 271 times each to achieve an elevation of 10,800metres. It took me 29 hours and 57 minutes to complete the ride,” he said. Everesting rules allow for some breaks in between, but no sleep. “But the more breaks you take, the more tired you feel,” said Palak Kulkarni, a city-based doctor, who participated in the challenge to get over her fear of breathlessness. “ Kulkarni managed to complete half Everesting, but not before she had a great deal of practising long-distance cycling. The physical challenge apart, Everesting is more of a mind game, noted Omkar Jokar, who has completed full Everesting. “After cycling for 10-12 hours, your body and mind start to function differently. If you are mentally strong, then your body can pull you through. However, if you have negative thoughts, then your body will start giving up,” he said. However, according to Anjali Bhalinge (54), the oldest Indian to have completed Everesting (10K) so far, “The challenge is “far more easier” compared to Ironman or a ramp round. “People only look at the figure (10,000 metres) and hesitate to try. Nonetheless, it is tedious because one has to go up and down the hill a number of times,” she said. “However, cyclists in Pune will find the challenge comfortably easier because they are used to climbs,” added Bhalinge, who completed Ironman in France 2017. Vasve, who was initially scared of climbs, has now fallen in love with Everesting. “I want to attempt it every season,” he said. Jokar is training hard to attempt double Everesting this year. “For that one has to climb 17,696 metres of elevation. No other Indian has done it so far,” he said. No challenge is big enough for them to conquer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-challenge-climbing-everest-one-pedal-at-a-time/articleshow/81370100.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Rape survivor, who was set on fire, dies at SMS Hospital||JAIPUR: A 23-year-old rape survivor, who was set on fire by an unidentified person at her residence in Dhan Mandi area under the Goluwala police station of Hanumangarh on Thursday, succumbed to her injuries at SMS Hospital on Saturday. She had sustained 90% burn injuries and was referred to the SMS Hospital in Jaipur from Sriganganagar hospital after her condition deteriorated. Doctors said that the survivor was put on life support after she was brought to Jaipur for treatment. “Her condition was very critical and due to internal bleeding, her vital organs failed,” said a doctor. Hanumangarh police has yet to make any arrest in the case. “It is unfortunate that the girl died. The case is being investigated and soon we will arrest the accused,” said Preeti Jain, SP of Hanumangarh. The police have detained rape accused Pradeep Bishnoi on March 4. He, however, didn’t turn out to be the person caught on the CCTV footage located near the crime spot. The victim’s family has alleged that Bishnoi was the one behind the assault in the FIR filed by them. “Bishnoi is still being questioned by us for his alleged role behind the incident. His phone calls and location for the last 10-15 days are being scrutinised to look for clues,” said a police officer who is overseeing the investigation. She filed a rape case against Bishnoi in 2018 in Hanumangarh. The accused was released on bail spending six months in the prison. BJP state president Satish Poonia has called the incident blot for the state government. “The incident has highlighted that criminals have no fear of law and order,” said Poonia. Meanwhile, energy minister and in-charge of Hanumangarh district B D Kalla reached Goluwala on Saturday afternoon and handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh from the chief minister's Relief Fund to the family of the victim. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-survivor-who-was-set-on-fire-dies-at-sms-hospital/articleshow/81370080.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Meerut||Undertrial ‘collapses’ in hosp washroom, post-mortem says hanging cause of death||Meerut: A 33-year-old undertrial accused of murder died under mysterious circumstances at Lala Lajpat Rai Medical College (LLRMC) where he was being treated. While policemen guarding him claimed that he had collapsed in the washroom and could not be revived, his post-mortem report stated hanging to be the cause of death. The undertrial, Vikas, was an accused in a 10 year-old murder case. He had been diagnosed with ‘brain infarct’. He died on March 4. KN Tiwari, superintendent in chief at LLRMC, said. “Policemen accompanying him got suspicious after he didn't come out of the washroom in 10-15 minutes. He had collapsed in the washroom. We tried to revive him but could not save him.” Later, a post-mortem was conducted and the findings claimed hanging to be the cause of death. According to police, Vikas was out on bail when a non-bailable warrant was issued against him and he was arrested by Meerut's Saroorpur police on February 22. He was shifted to the temporary jail in Meerut. Two days later, Vikas was taken ill and admitted to LLRMC. He was discharged on March 1 but was again admitted to hospital the next day, after he complained of vomiting blood and had seizures. A source in the hospital told TOI that there were ligature marks on his neck , probably made by a cord, rope or similar material that was used for strangulation. The source claimed there were several findings in the post-mortem which contradicted claims of natural death. When contacted, Meerut jail superintendent BD Pandey said, “We have yet not received the ‘panchnama’ or post-mortem report though we have requested the chief judicial magistrate to initiate a probe in the case.” "Before he was taken to the temporary jail, a medico-legal examination was conducted. Vikas had a brain ailment for which a CT scan was done at the district hospital. He was diagnosed with ‘brain infarct’. When he was brought at the temporary jail on February 24, the jail doctor after examination referred him to the medical college,” added Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/undertrial-collapses-in-hosp-washroom-post-mortem-says-hanging-cause-of-death/articleshow/81369004.cms||Piyush Rai
March 7, 2021||Meerut||Three wanted in Meerut shootout held after an encounter||Meerut: Three suspects wanted in the Meerut shootout that occurred in Madhavpuram area were held following an encounter late on Friday night. All the three sustained bullet injury in their legs and were rushed to hospital for medical aid. “One more suspect wanted in the case has been identified and efforts are being made to trace him,” said Vineet Bhatnagar, Meerut superintendent of police (city). A 19-year-old college student was making a purchase at a cosmetic shop when she was hit by a bullet in the abdomen after miscreants on a motorcycle had opened indiscriminate fire in the busy market area on the evening of March 3. She was rushed to a local hospital where she is currently under medical observation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-wanted-in-meerut-shootout-held-after-an-encounter/articleshow/81368998.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Plans for statue of only Indian Sikh turbaned pilot of World War-I||LONDON: A statue of the first Indian and first turbaned Sikh fighter pilot in the world Hardit Singh Malik - known as the Flying Sikh - is to be erected in Britain as a tribute to all BAME (Black, Asian and minority ethnic) personnel who served in both world wars. Malik, born in Rawalpindi in pre-partition India, was refused entry to the British Army as a commissioned officer twice owing to the attitudes towards race at the time – and it was not until his tutor at Balliol College, Oxford, Francis Urquhart, wrote a furious letter to Major-General David Henderson, the commander of the Royal Flying Corps (RFC), that Malik was accepted into the RFC on April 5, 1917. As a cadet, he wore a specially designed flying helmet that fitted over his turban that earned him the nickname Flying Hobgoblin. “He is the perfect example of messages we want to send out on equality and diversity,” said Pritheepal Singh, CEO of One Community Hampshire and Dorset, a multi-faith nonprofit, of which Sikh peer Rami Range is patron, which initiated the project in conjunction with the Southampton Council of Gurdwaras. They are launching a campaign to raise £300,000 (Rs 3 crore) to fund not just the statue, but a documentary, book and exhibitions. Singh, who has ancestral roots in Multan, said: “Malik was denied admission to British Army, so he volunteered for the French Red Cross and started driving ambulances transporting all over the Western Front. He learnt to drive the ambulance in Southampton. Then when the French forces accepted him, his tutor wrote a letter to Henderson saying if Hardit as a British subject was good enough for the French, why wasn’t he good enough for the British Armed Forces? Malik survived his aircraft being hit with 450 bullets and crash-landing. When he died on October 31, 1985, in Delhi, he still had two German bullets embedded in his leg. After the war, he became prime minister of Patiala State, the first Indian high commissioner to Canada, and later ambassador to France. There will be a series of monoliths dedicated to other major faiths in a semi-circle behind Malik’s statue, so that it is a tribute to all BAME personnel that fought in the world wars. Planning permission is being sought for the statue to be erected on council-owned land next to Southampton SeaCity Museum. It is hoped the statue will be unveiled on April 16, 2023. “People will be able to view it as it is being built,” said Singh, who is speaking to Malik’s relatives in Delhi and the UK, who he says are delighted with the project. “He is the perfect role model for Sikh and other BAME communities to get involved with the forces if you look at all difficulties he had and yet he kept his turban and Sikhism alive.” British artist Luke Perry, who is in the midst of sculpting Britain's first Saragarhi memorial, has been commissioned to create the 17-foot bronze statue, which will show a 9.5-foot Malik standing on the iconic engine of a Sopwith Camel – the same as fictional character Biggles flew - on top of a plinth. “The statue will be representative and in tribute to all soldiers who came from Commonwealth in WW I and II. It was not just Sikhs fighting, there were Hindus and Muslims, so it is a piece about fact so many came over to fight that are largely unrecognised. There is a real affinity people can have with him in how he has fought to get a place that other people find so easy to achieve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plans-for-statue-of-only-indian-sikh-turbaned-pilot-of-world-war-i/articleshow/81370109.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Sizeable turnout creates sense of confidence among people||Mohali: The sizeable turnout by the healthworkers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) to get the Covishield Vaccine has created a sense of confidence among people, encouraging them to come forward to get vaccinated. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan while feeling satisfied with the response said the word of mouth spread by HCWs and FLWs contributed in attracting masses to get vaccinated. Till date, 11,934 HCWs and 11,186 FLWs have taken the vaccination, including the second dose, in Mohali at approximately 50% of the total registered workers. On an average, 100 to 150 HCWs and 100 to 125 FLWs are getting the first jab on a daily basis, whereas 100 to 125 HCWs and 25 to 50 FLWs have been taking the second dose of vaccination on daily basis in Mohali. Dayalan said, “We are now targeting to vaccinate every person in the district irrespective of the age. We have seen overwhelming response from senior citizens and to quite an extent from 45 to 59 years persons with comorbities. Actually, the senior citizens who were reluctant earlier in January this year saw that the vaccine administered to HCWs and FLWs was successful and they did not see any side effects. This inculcated sense of confidence among the senior citizens who are storming now to get vaccinated.” That the leading politicians, along with IAS and IPS officers, are also taking the vaccination further strengthened the confidence among the masses, said Dayalan. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the compulsion made out for police personnels, HCWs and FLWs to get vaccinated gave favourable results. She said, “We have been able to prove that the vaccination is safe and does not have any side effects. Till date, we have not come across even single complaint from any of the HCW or FLW after the second dose of vaccination about any types of health issues.” She said more open space is being arranged to administer large number of people in the district. At present, vaccination is being provided at seven government hospitals and 26 private hospitals across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sizeable-turnout-creates-sense-of-confidence-among-people/articleshow/81371998.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Govt to file review plea on SC interim school fees order||Jaipur: The school fee issue seems to be a never-ending saga as the state government has decided to file a review petition on the Supreme Court’s interim order asking the state to clear the dues to unaided schools on account of admission given under Right to Education (RTE).Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra in the assembly, while replying to a question, said, “When no physical classes were conducted last year, how could the schools ask for fees of RTE students. The government will take up this matter with the SC.” The Supreme Court in its interim order had directed the government to clear all dues of private unaided schools by March 31, while directing the parents to pay fees of the current financial year in six instalments at the rate of school fees paid the previous academic year.However, according to legal experts, the minister’s statement is nothing but posturing to pacify the parents and the opposition as the school fees order has already been reserved by the apex court.They argue that while the parents were asked to pay full fees according to previous year for attending online classes, the same would be applicable to the government as well. The government then had to challenge the entire order. According to the schedule announced by the apex court, parents had to start depositing the first installment from March 5. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-file-review-plea-on-sc-interim-school-fees-order/articleshow/81370111.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: New job quota law might scare industries||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government’s decision to notify the State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, providing 75% reservation for state domiciles in private industry jobs is facing serious questions, especially from the industry which finds it inimical to the concept of ease of doing business. Such a move may disrupt the post-Covid industrial recovery in the state, say experts. Haryana has a strategic advantage due to its proximity to the national capital and its international airport, but the new law could affect the expansion plans of existing industries and also discourage new investment in the state. The new law may also hit the IT sector in the national capital region (NCR) as most of these firms are located in Gurgaon. What’s more, a large number of other prominent companies, especially those related to the automobile sector located in the NCR area of Haryana, are likely to be hit by the new law. Legal experts too have described the notification of the law as unconstitutional as it creates a “policy of exclusion”. The state has no rights to create reservations contrary to Article 16 (2) of the Indian Constitution to secure political goals by creating discrimination, they point out. A senior Haryana bureaucrat, on the condition of anonymity, admitted to TOI that the new law would promote the “inspector raj” in the state and that may not be beneficial to the industry sector. Sources confirmed that BJP was not excited to implement the law but it had to endorse it because of its alliance partner, Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) led by deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. The JJP poll manifesto had promised to provide 75% reservation in the private sector for the Haryana domiciles. The bill was passed in the Haryana assembly in November last year but it was not cleared by the governor, who had raised some objections, especially over the constitutional legality of the law. The BJP and JJP are running a coalition government in Haryana with 40 and 10 seats, respectively, in the 90-member assembly. Chautala, however, had been mounting pressure on BJP for its clearance and had reportedly taken up the matter with Union home minister Amit Shah in a recent meeting. As there is strong resentment against BJP in Haryana on the account of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s agriculture marketing laws and the Congress had announced it would introduce a no confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government, the Bill was notified before the beginning of the session to pacify JJP. Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) chairman Uday Shankar, in a statement issued on Thursday, said the state’s move would spell disaster for industrial development. “Forcing investors and entrepreneurs in such a regressive straitjacket would force them to look beyond Haryana.” Even the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has opposed the new law. In a statement issued after the notification of the new law, CII director-general Chandrajit Banerjee said at a time when it was important to attract investments at the state-level, the Haryana government could have avoided imposing restrictions on industry as the reservation affects productivity and industry competitiveness. Questioning the move, Jayant Chaudhary, former MP (2009-2014) and senior leader of Rashtriya Lok Dal from Uttar Pradesh, tweeted: “Apart from the small fact that this policy is patently unconstitutional and makes zero economic sense, I am waiting to see how BJP UP leaders explain this to voters who commute to other states for jobs and opportunities! What happened to the one nation rhetoric (sic)?” Claiming several flaws in the new law, leader of the opposition in Haryana assembly and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the slogan of 75% reservation in the private jobs was the biggest fraud with the youth of Haryana because in the Section-5 of this law, the government had already given a bypass to skirt the law. “Section 5 of the law provides that any industry can avoid giving reservation to local youth by pretending that special abilities and competencies are needed for such jobs,” he said, and added that even before the enactment of this law, the coalition government had brought changes in the Haryana domicile rules which would deny the rights of the youth of the state.  “According to the new rules, a person from any state can easily get Haryana domicile. On the basis of this, people of other states can benefit from the 75% private job quota but also government jobs reserved for SC and BC category,” he claimed. President of Swaraj India’s Haryana chapter advocate Rajiv Godara said it was a highly debatable issue if the state government could come up with such laws providing reservation in the private sector within the state and the same would be decided later “Another bigger issue is if it would affect the investment in the industries of the state as they would be bound to implement such a law in their industry. Prima facie, there are chances that such enactment may hamper the investment, especially the start-ups or those who were looking forward to making an investment in the state,” he added. Discussed the law with industry: Dushyant Defending the law, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said it would be “helpful in the ease of doing business by providing quality employment”. On the issue of objections by industry bodies, Dushyant claimed the issue had been discussed with all prominent industries, including multinational ones, by the state government before bringing this law. “Not only would the youngsters of the state benefit from the policy but also local drivers, security guards, peons, electricians, and welders would also save cost for the industries employing them. We are not the only state that has brought such a law, many other states have similar laws. The new Act would not snatch anybody’s employment as it would be applied prospectively. There are some misinterpretations and misconceptions about the law,” Dushyant claimed. Haryana’s new law is almost similar to the law passed by Andhra Pradesh government providing 75% reservation in the private sector for state domiciles. The AP law called, Andhra Pradesh Employment of Local Candidates in Industries/Factories Act, 2019, came into force on August 22, 2019. However, it has been challenged before the AP high court. The main ground of challenge to the Andhra law is that apart from Articles 16 (2) and 16 (3) of the Indian Constitution, the law also violates Article 14 that provides for equality of opportunities and prohibition of residence as the requirement for public or private employment. Apart from AP, some other states also have similar laws and most of them are under the judicial scanner. State of industry in HaryanaAs per statistics of Haryana industries and commerce department, a total of around 3,000 large and medium industrial units were established in Haryana from 1933-1934 till 2019-20. Total investment in these units is Rs 60,06,915 lakh with employment to 5,20,318 persons. According to the data provided by Indian Brand Equity Foundation, Haryana is one of India’s largest automobile hubs and accounts for two-thirds of passenger cars, 50% tractors, and 60% motorcycles manufactured in the country. The state has also emerged as a base for the knowledge industry, including IT and biotechnology. Haryana is the third-largest exporter of software and a preferred destination for IT/ITeS companies. Strategic location of the stateAs per the PHDCCI research bureau, Haryana is strategically located in the heart of India and surrounds the National Capital Region of Delhi on three sides. Nearly 40% of the state falls in the national capital region and 66% under the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) influence zone. The state has been a leader in manufacturing products like cars, footwear, scientific instruments, tractors, two-wheelers. Gurgaon has emerged as the business process management (BPM) capital of the country employing about 5% of the total worldwide workforce in the sector, besides being home to offices of a number of international and national corporates. The key districts include Gurgaon, Faridabad, Panipat, Sonipat, Rohtak, Ambala, Panipat, and Karnal. The new lawThe Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, reserves 75% jobs in new factories/industries or already established industries/institutions for the domiciles of Haryana. The new law provides for 75% employment to local candidates for jobs having a salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in privately-managed companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, and partnership firms located in Haryana, and employing 10 or more persons. The employers will have an option of recruiting only 10% local candidates from one district. The law is applicable only to new openings and would not affect already working employees. The law also provides for penalties for the industries not implementing its provisions. A domicile is a person born in Haryana or who has stayed in the state for a period of 15 years. However, the Haryana government has reduced the stay period to five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-job-quota-law-might-scare-industries/articleshow/81370070.cms||Ajay Sura
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Senior Citizens touch 1,000 mark in a day at Mohali||Mohali: Senior citizens are taking the Covid-19 vaccination drive to new heights as on Saturday they touched a 1,000 mark in Mohali. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said this creates history as 60-plus persons show great enthusiasm to get vaccinated. She said persons between the age group of 45 to 59 with co-morbidities are also gaining confidence and showing their presence. The Covid vaccination campaign in the district is in full swing, under which Covishield vaccine is being administered to the healthcare workers (HCW), frontline workers (FCW), senior citizens and people with co-morbidities, she said. Civil surgeon added that the vaccination is being conducted at seven government health institutions and 29 private hospitals of the district and so far no adverse effect of vaccination has been seen in any of the health workers. She said as many as 1,000 senior citizens and 169 aged 45 to 59 with co-morbidities were administered the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. A total of 3,899 senior citizens and 639 persons aged 45 to 59 have been jabbed so far. 136 and 153 healthcare workers were vaccinated with the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively. Similarly, 70 and 50 frontline workers were given the first and second dose of the vaccine. So far, 6,101 and 2,963 HCWs and 4,390 and 119 FLWs have got the first and second dose of vaccine respectively. Civil surgeon said even though the vaccine is being given, caution is still needed. She said people should cover their faces with masks while moving out, and keep the necessary distance from each other. It is also important to wash hands frequently with soap and water. For any information, the health department's helpline number 104 can be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/senior-citizens-touch-1000-mark-in-a-day-at-mohali/articleshow/81371999.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||One pvt hospital starts round-the-clock vaccination, others keen to follow suit||Kolkata: At least one private hospital in the city has launched round-the-clock vaccination for senior citizens and a few more are likely to follow suit once they get a green signal from health officials. Some hospitals said that even though they were eager to offer vaccination 24x7, lack of manpower was coming in the way. While Fortis Hospital Anandapur has already opened its vaccination sites 24x7 from Friday, the health department is getting queries from other hospitals as well. Close to 70 senior citizens were vaccinated late into the night at Fortis on Friday. After getting the nod from senior health officials, the hospital started calling up people from the nearby residential societies who had earlier enquired from the hospital. Most had registered themselves for the inoculation but were yet to get an appointment. “Many elderly people need someone to take them to the vaccination centres. We had been getting calls from their kin who are too busy to accompany them. That is when we when got in touch with senior health officials to find out if we could launch a 24x7 vaccination centre. We initiated it once we got the green signal,” said Richa Deb Gupta, senior vice-president, Fortis Hospitals. “We are ready with additional teams so that we can conduct 24x7 vaccination. We can start that as and when the health department allows us,” said Alok Roy, chairman of Medica Group of Hospitals. With an overwhelming response, many hospitals currently are inoculating beneficiaries beyond the scheduled vaccination timings. Till Saturday the usual timings for vaccination was 9 am to 5 pm. On Saturday health department officials indicated extension in the vaccination schedule from 8 am to 6 pm. “We would be providing vaccination service from 8am to 6pm from Monday onwards and would optimally utilise our resources,” said R Venkatesh, regional head (East) of Narayana Health. Hospitals like Peerless, AMRI also said they will not be taking up such 24x7 initiative yet but are ready increase the duration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-pvt-hospital-starts-round-the-clock-vaccination-others-keen-to-follow-suit/articleshow/81369672.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||24-year-old man mistaken for thief beaten to death, four arrested in Mumbai||Mumbai: A 24-year-old youth was mistaken for a thief and was allegedly beaten to death by four men in Bhayander in the wee hours of Saturday. The four accused has been arrested by the Navghar police. The victim has been identified as Surajbhan Soni.The accused, who were in an inebriated state, found Soni roaming around in the area. When they questioned him, Soni did not give a convincing reply. The accused thought that he was a thief and beat him up. A passerby found the victim and alerted the cops. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The accused have been booked under Section 302 of the IPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/24-year-old-man-mistaken-for-thief-beaten-to-death-four-arrested-in-mumbai/articleshow/81372002.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Presidency, Calcutta University to start online semester exams||KOLKATA: Several colleges and universities are conducting their semester examinations from Monday onwards. The examinations will be conducted online with the colleges and universities either uploading the question papers on their websites or mailing them to examinees. Guidelines on how much time will be allotted for each examination and how to submit the answer scripts have already been mailed to students. While Presidency University will conduct examinations between March 10 and March 24, examinations for first-semester students of colleges affiliated to Calcutta University will begin on March 20 but for those in semesters III and V will begin from March 8. According to a UGC directive last year, colleges will have to wrap up semester examinations by the end of March. In most Calcutta University colleges, classes started from the third week of December. Examinations for the Honours subjects of UG and PG odd semester students will start from March 10 and conclude on March 24. The university has already conducted examinations for general elective subjects and ability enhancement compulsory courses from March 1. “Earlier, there would be a fixed schedule for the examinations but this time, the departments have been given the authority to decide on the dates of the examinations. So, each department drew up the routine for UG and PG classes separately,” said a head of the department of Presidency University. For all time-bound or theory papers, the students will get 15 minutes to download the question papers before the exam and half an hour for submission after the examination. “Specific time has been mentioned for Viva, dissertations and assignment submission for subjects like economics, sociology and performing arts,” said a professor. The honours or the core course examinations are scheduled on March 8, March 9 and March 10 while those of elective subjects will be between March 16 and 19. “Routine for all the semesters and subjects is available on the website. Individual colleges will explain the online examination procedure to their students,” said a university official. Students will be able to download question papers from university and college websites. “Examinees can use A4 size paper and write only using a black ink pen. We will be accepting answer scripts only in pdf format uploaded through google form link,” said a head of the department of Asutosh College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presidency-cu-to-start-online-semester-exams/articleshow/81369674.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Another high, 1,179 test positive in Pb||Chandigarh: Punjab recorded another single-day high of Covid-19 cases as 1,179 people were tested positive, while 11 people infected with the coronavirus died in Punjab on Friday. So far, the virus has infected 1,87,348 people and claimed the lives of 5,910. Three deaths were reported in Jalandhar, while two people died in Ludhiana and Patiala and one each in Tarn Taran, Nawanshahr, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur. Nawanshahr added 156 cases to the state’s tally, while 154 people were tested positive in Jalandhar, 137 in Hoshiarpur, 109 in Patiala, 87 in Mohali, 72 in Amritsar, 37 in Sangrur, 32 in Gurdaspur, 28 in Ropar, 27 in Bathinda, 21 in Tarn Taran, 18 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 16 in Pathankot, 14 in Moga, 13 in Faridkot, 12 in Mansa, six in Ferozepur, five in Muktsar, three in Fazilka and one in Barnala. On Friday, as many as 7,504 eligible people received their first dose of vaccine in the third phase of the ongoing drive. A total of 1,872 frontline workers and 1,300 health workers were given their first dose, while as many as 1,443 healthcare workers and 943 frontline workers were given their second dose of vaccine. Till date, 1,81,543 health and frontline workers have received the first dose and 49,386 have been given the second dose. Total Summary till Date Total suspected cases | 5159683 Total patients tested positive | 187348 Cured | 174274 Total deaths | 5910 Active cases | 7164 1. Total vaccinations so far in the state | 181543  2. No. of 2nd dose given | 47000 3. No. of healthcare workers given 1st dose | 97172 4. No. of healthcare workers given 2nd dose | 47170 5. No. of frontline workers given 1st dose | 84371 6. No. of frontline workers given 2nd dose | 2216 7. 60+ population and 45+ with co-morbidities vaccinated with first dose | 31113||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-high-1179-test-positive-in-pb/articleshow/81370112.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana touches new high too: 323 new Covid cases, 3 deaths||Chandigarh: Haryana’s count for new Covid-19 cases reached a new high on Saturday as the state got 323 new infections and three deaths. Meanwhile, 11,236 persons were given the first and second doses of vaccine across the state. Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panckula, Ambala and Panipat have emerged as the new hotspots for the increasing number of Covid cases. A death each was reported from Faridabad, Hisar and Karnal. Recoveries continued to be less than the new cases, as 145 patients were declared as recovered during the day. Now, the state has total 2,72,215 new cases, 3,056 deaths , 2,67,261 recoveries and 1,898 active cases. In all, 9,934 first doses were given to health and frontline workers, persons with comorbidities and senior citizens, and 1,302 beneficiaries were given the second dose. With Gurgaon and Faridabad topping the table, the vaccination count has gone to 3,64,996. Low recoveries have impacted recovery rate, which has come down to 98.18%. However, the doubling rate went up to 151 days and the positive rate has come to 4.71% with fidelity rate of 1.12%. Karnal reported highest 58 new cases of the day. Also, 48 new cases in Gurgaon, 42 in Kurukshetra, 36 in Ambala, 35 in Panchkula, 23 each in Panipat and Faridabad, 15 in Yamunanangar, and 13 in Fatehabad. Rest 13 districts reported less than 10 cases. Five districts — Nuh, Jind, Bhiwani, Mahendegarh and Palwal — reported no fresh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-touches-new-high-too-323-new-covid-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/81370115.cms||Manvir Saini
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Officials asked to take steps to ensure uninterrupted power supply in summer season||Chandigarh: Additional chief secretary, power department, Haryana, P K Das said on Saturday that ensuring uninterrupted power supply to people during the changing season is priority for the state government. He said 10,894 MW of electricity was used last summer while this year, 12,187 MW power is available. Das was addressing a state-level meeting held at Shakti Bhawan, Panchkula with managing directors and engineer groups. On pre-diagnosis of problems related to electricity supply during the upcoming summer season, Das said the problem of overloaded transformers should be immediately looked into and repair of 11KV sub-station and low tension lines should be done to ensure smooth power supply in the summer season. He said long feeder should be divided and converted into smaller feeders and capacitor bank should be operated smoothly at all stations. If 11 kV line is tripping frequently, area XEN should ascertain the reasons and report to the SEs concerned, he said. He asked officers of Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam (HVPNL) and SEs of DISCOM to inspect sub-stations of their respective areas with immediate effect and resolve flaws for proper electricity supply in the summer and monsoon season. Prominent among those present in the meeting included CMDs and officers of the all state discoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/officials-asked-to-take-steps-to-ensure-uninterrupted-power-supply-in-summer-season/articleshow/81370113.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Religion meets feminism with women qazis and pandits defying male-only tradition||The name Sheela Atta made headlines last month after a Bollywood actor invited the veteran woman purohit from south India to officiate at her wedding ceremony. Women breaking into the male bastion of priesthood and challenging patriarchy aren’t new, but a wider acceptance is. With more young adults swapping sexist rituals with forward-thinking options, an increasing number of people are actively seeking out women priests as they are known to display “a higher degree of emotional intelligence”, are open to “adapting” the vows and “explaining” the chant and rituals in different languages and even contemporising them as the ceremony progresses. The idea of women as clerics has found takers among other religions too. When a Mumbai couple found themselves a woman qazi to officiate at their nikah two years ago, it was a first for Darul Uloom-e-Niswan established in 2016 by the Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan to produce a steady stream of women qazis, previously unheard of in India. There are at least six in Mumbai now who run sharia courts, conduct marriages, resolve divorce and inheritance issues, and counsel women facing violence or penury. In Maharashtra alone, some 600 women have trained as priestesses, according to Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, and have been presiding over ceremonies including housewarming rituals, weddings, naming and thread ceremonies, and more recently last rites, for over two decades. Natasha Gocal of Divinity Weddings, who organised the wedding that Atta solemnised, says her phone has not stopped buzzing since. “We’ve been in this business for 20 years but never received a specific request for a female priest. Since these images appeared, I’ve been flooded with queries, mostly from young girls, in the past two weeks asking where or how they could find a woman priest.” Mehak Shahani, co-founder of wedding planning portal WedMeGood, says: “Till about 2016 there were barely any requests for female priests. Google trends showed not more than 10 monthly searches for a female priest as opposed to 2020 when we found that demand had soared by roughly 200 monthly searches for a woman purohit and the requests we’re getting are usually from brides who want a progressive exchange of vows that rules out rituals like kanyadaan and vidaai,” she adds. While couples are making unconventional moves, Darshan Shroff, cofounder of Momente wedding planners says the challenge is often about convincing the family who wield greater influence on such occasions. “It’s usually a hierarchical decision and even if the older generation agrees to a woman performing pre-wedding rituals, ‘pheras’ are considered an auspicious service historically conducted by men and families get superstitious about a break from tradition,” says Shroff currently caught in the crossfire between a couple set to wed in May and their apprehensive grandparents. “But things are changing fast with younger people taking charge of their own weddings and rituals.” Although female priests have sparked a buzz among digital natives, women leading the churn in priesthood began in the early 80s when Shankarrao Thatte, the owner of a marriage hall in Pune set up Shankar Seva Samiti, a school that taught women to recite the Vedas and perform Vedic rituals. Today Pune has two schools for female priests, the other being Jnana Prabodhini, a Hindu reformist organisation that has been training men and women across castes to perform rituals since the ‘90s. “Traditionally, women from the Vedic period have had the right to perform domestic and temple rites and rituals. It was in the Middle Ages, when men would have to go out and fight wars that ancient shastrakars felt women should stay at home and priesthood became a male preserve. Today the numbers are still small but people’s preferences are changing and we’re no longer an alternative for a male priest,” explains Arya Joshi, a senior trainer and researcher in paurahitya. In the past eight years or so, women — mostly housewives in their 40s and 50s who spent decades raising their families and are looking for ways to pursue their own interests — have outnumbered the men studying or entering priesthood at the institution, points out Shetye. “It’s not so much about the earnings but their curiosity about scriptures and rituals that inspire them.” At 44, Urmila Betkar, is the youngest among them. Betkar had quit her job as a computer operator after she gave birth to her son. “Never thought I’d become a purohita but when I was 37 and my son was a bit grown up I decided to study the scriptures because why women were entering every field and not priesthood always bothered me,” says Betkar whose monthly calendar has been chockablock with cross-country engagements of namkaran, vastushanti and wedding rites until Covid struck. “Watching my son attend online schooling, I’ve learnt how to conduct pujas over video calls,” she gushes. Manisha Shetye, a practising priest for the past 15 years believes it’s the “comfort level” that families seek when going in for an inter-religious marriage or a more gender inclusive ritual that they reach out to her. The institution now has a chapter in Dombivli to tend to their growing word-of-mouth demand from Kandivli and Borivli to Dadar and Virar. “People feel women are more patient and able to handle emotions of loss during last rites or the excitement of a wedding, better. We don’t get angry if a bride is late,” smiles Sucheta Vartak, a priest from Dombivli. The trend is not limited to Hinduism. At 60, an age when most people retire, Zubeda Khatoon from Bandra earned her title of a qazi. “I was doing social work before that but the issues women were facing with triple talaq, halala and harassment from male clerics if they wanted khula (divorce) made it necessary for us to represent vulnerable women,” says Khatoon, one of the 30 female qazis in the country. The three women pastors in white robes, conducting mass for a well-turned out congregation in Maharashtra’s protestant-methodist churches no longer make for a rare sight but the struggle to break the glass ceiling continues. “Women are still in the periphery and rarely given key positions. Sometimes in rural areas there’s resistance to lady priests leading a congregation,” says Joycia Thorat, member of YWCA and Methodist Church, Mumbai. However, in the Roman Catholic Church only men can be ordained as priests and bishops. Last year, about 150 Catholic women in India delivered a petition to Oswald Cardinal Gracias, archbishop of Bombay, urging him to take concrete steps to include women in decision-making roles in the church. Astrid Lobo Gajiwala, who had helped draft the petition, argued: “We talk about priesthood as a call from God. And if the Catholic church believes God made men and women equal then why this difference in ministerial aspects? Women have no say in policy making because priests who are the ones that shape the liturgy, worship, and practices of the church.” In January, Pope Francis changed church law to allow women to do more things during Mass and serve on the altar, but maintained that they still cannot be priests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/religion-meets-feminism-with-women-qazis-and-pandits-defying-male-only-tradition/articleshow/81370119.cms||Mohua Das
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Jab Centres Tackle Weekend Surge||New Delhi: While the number of people arriving for injections at the Covid vaccination centres rose on Saturday, they also faced delays waiting for their turn. Rekha Gondal, 73, for example, at Max Hospital in Saket said, “I don’t know about other days, but today it is very crowded here. I have been waiting a long time to be called inside for the jab.” Many people chose the weekend to go and get the protective shot. Gondal, a retired teacher, decided on a Saturday because she has to go to the passport office next week. “There will be a lot of people there, so I thought it a good idea to get myself vaccinated.” At Max, by noon there was a large assembly at the vaccination centre. The staff had anticipated a jump in demand and had put in place a system where individuals were given tokens on a first-come-first-served basis. Dr Vivek Nangia, director of pulmonology at the hospital, said they were expecting more to come. Government hospitals also admitted to an increased workload over the past week owing to more people wanting to avail the free vaccine. Geeta Rani, vaccine officer at Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital, said, “We usually have around 50 people getting vaccinated before lunch. Today is a Saturday and we’ve already injected over 65 people.” Sagar Prasad, nodal officer at Janakpuri Super Specialty Hospital, similarly said, “We have four vaccination sites in the hospital and by noon, all four had inoculated over 100 people each.” The majority at Janakpuri were elderly people. “We are trying to ensure people over 60 do not have to wait very long to get the shot,” said Prasad. Among those getting vaccinated at Mata Chanan Devi Hospital on Saturday were 90-year-old Rajinder Mohan Sehgal and his 85-year-old wife. The duo claimed not to have faced any inconvenience, from registration to getting the jab. “The arrangements made for elderly people were great and everything was being efficiently done. We hope many others decide now take the shot,” said Sehgal. Balwinder Ralhan, a 55-year-old with co-morbidities, got vaccinated at the same hospital. While he realised the weekend was going to be crowded, the rush was managed well, he said. “We came just before lunch and everything happened quickly. There were many people, but the process was well managed,” he said. Uma Shankar Thakur, 63, who was at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital with his 58-year-old wife, said that while he had been registered, his wife was not eligible. However, he was seen trying his luck with the website once again. “I will get the shot, but I hope my wife can get it too. This will protect us both,” he smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jab-centres-tackle-weekend-surge/articleshow/81370122.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Professors, college spar over attendance issue||Kolkata: Professors and authorities in a south Kolkata college have come to odds after academics were show-caused over an attendance issue. Some academics were asked to explain their refusal to provide biometric attendance, while others were told to mention their reasons for being absent between March 1 and 4 during the ongoing semester examinations when attendance was “compulsory” at the Bhawanipur Education Society College. The college, with a minority status, has sought a response within March 7. Some teachers had pointed out to the authorities that they were scared of Covid spreading from the biometric machine, others complained that attendance couldn’t be compulsory. “It was earlier decided that while some teachers would be present on campus, others will stay home to hold online classes and evaluate answer scripts. The attendance can be done in rotation,” said a teacher. A professor reasoned that every teacher has to sign in a register, as the statute of Calcutta University has not yet been changed. “CU has not accepted biometrics yet. Many colleges are offering dual options to teachers. Thus, the college must maintain both biometric system and a register. Though our college provided both options till lockdown, suddenly, the notice issued by the authorities mentioned biometric has been made compulsory. Moreover, why should we take casual leave with prior approval?” he said. College authorities, however, denied the claims. “In the last examination, we received complaints about an error in evaluation. Thus, the teachers were requested to attend the regular working hours and do the necessary examination duties on campus,” a college official said. He added the college had issued a notice on February 26 asking teachers to be present on campus until April 4 as per the regular timings and that no leave would be granted except on urgent health grounds. “Later, we modified the notice and allowed teachers to take leave for other valid reasons applied for in advance,” he said. The official also pointed out that though the show cause has been issued to all teachers, many who have attended college regularly are not required to provide explanations. “CU has already made 70% attendance compulsory for teachers and some colleges have made it compulsory during the ongoing examinations. We have received a response from teachers who have justified that they had signed the attendance instead of using the biometric machine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/professors-college-spar-over-attendance-issue/articleshow/81369689.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Dalai Lama vaccinated, sends out video appeal to people to get jabbed too||Shimla: Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama (85) was administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at the vaccination centre in Dharamshala on Saturday morning. Earlier, Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) had requested the state government to provide vaccination to Dalai Lama at his residence itself due to security concerns and, later, government had allowed the same. Kangra district magistrate had issued the orders for vaccination at residence itself but Dalai Lama desired for vaccination at public facility. In Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, former CM Virbhadra Singh, speaker Vipin Singh Parmar and others were also administered Covid-19 vaccine. Dalai Lama along with his security and staff reached the vaccination centre at 7am. Knowing that the Tibetan spiritual leader is stepping out of his residence for the first time in 14 months, his followers had lined up on the route from Mcleodganj to the vaccination centre in Dharamshala as they wanted to seek his blessings. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said the administration had started making arrangements for the vaccination of Dalai Lama at his residence itself, but the Tibetan spiritual leader desired to get vaccinated at a public facility only, after which the administration made arrangements for the same at the zonal hospital. The DC said Dalai Lama was administered first dose of vaccine at 7.15am, after which he recorded a video message for the public. Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said Dalai Lama, after vaccination, was kept under observation for 30 minutes and 10 other members of his core staff were also vaccinated. He said earlier, a list of 71 Tibetan residents, including Dalai Lama, was provided by CTA for vaccination, but now rest of the persons will be vaccinated in routine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dalai-lama-vaccinated-sends-out-video-appeal-to-people-to-get-jabbed-too/articleshow/81370118.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Dehradun||Speculation rife in Uttarakhand after urgent BJP meet||DEHRADUN/GAIRSAIN: An urgent meeting of the BJP core committee was convened in Dehradun on Saturday evening. Party MLAs in the midst of the budget session at Gairsain were called back to the state capital triggering rumours of “major changes” in the government and a possible replacement “at the highest level” ahead of assembly polls next year. The core committee meeting, which went on for over two hours, was presided over by BJP national vice-president Raman Singh and state in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam. The two members were said to have been sent by the central party leadership to get feedback after reports that over a dozen MLAs were not happy with the current leadership. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat spoke to TOI about the meeting.  “A positive momentum has been broken. What more can I say? Raman Singhji met the MLAs and took their feedback. I had a word with him too and discussed issues related to the state. After the meeting, he came to my residence where there were around 20 to 22 MLAs. Later, 45 legislators came to my residence for discussion.” Earlier, BJP state chief Bansidhar Bhagat had shot down speculation of a leadership change, saying the meeting was mainly to talk about preparations of the fourth anniversary celebrations of the Rawat government on March 18. Sources told TOI that the meeting was “not a regular one merely to discuss anniversary celebrations” as most MLAs weren’t even aware of it till Friday.  The summons to MLAs saw an abrupt end to budget session on Saturday and the House was adjourned sine die. Sources said Raman Singh had one-on-one discussions with two LS MPs, Mala Rajya Laxmi Shah and Ajay Bhatt, and many MLAs. Former CM Vijay Bahuguna also attended the meeting. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank made an unscheduled visit to Dehradun in the evening and met Singh and Dushyant Kumar Gautam. The two central members may submit a report to BJP chief JP Nadda shortly. (With inputs from Akhilesh Singh in Delhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/speculation-rife-in-uttarakhand-after-urgent-bjp-meet/articleshow/81372298.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Fake customs official dupes man of Rs 6L||Panchkula: A man claiming to be excise and customs official allegedly duped a physically disabled person of Rs 5.65 lakh on the pretext of releasing a parcel sent by a friend from Germany. Ved Prakash, a resident of Aanchar Vihar Colony, Kalka, said his friend Angela Johnson had sent some gifts from Germany in a parcel 10 days ago. He said he received a call from excise and taxation department claiming the parcel would be released from the Delhi airport after he completed a few formalities. The caller introduced himself as Mughto Chishi and demanded Rs 5.65 lakh as customs fee to release the parcel, Prakash alleged. He said he transferred the amount to the bank account number shared by Chishi. The caller then demanded Rs 1.70 lakh as additional fee, which, he said, would be refunded. Prakash then lodged a police complaint. “All my life’s savings have gone. The accused should be arrested,” he said. Police registered a case under Sections 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC. Cops said, “We have involved cyber cell officials to trace the details of the bank account where the money was transferred.” BOX: DOS AND DON’TS Do not trust people you meet or talk on social media Never believe customs or any officials when they call and demand money online for releasing gift items Never share your bank details with strangers Never share OTP and other personal bank details with anyone||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fake-customs-official-dupes-man-of-rs-6l/articleshow/81372003.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Victims of image abuse on social web hopeful of new redressal rules||Navigating a shrunken physical space during the pandemic has been a struggle for all, but for 20-year-old Bhavna (name changed) there’s been no escape online. This undergrad from Hyderabad has spent most of the year trying to escape the clutches of cyber harassment after the boy she broke up with decided to retaliate by creating a fake account in her name and putting out compromising photos of her on Instagram. While image-based forms of abuse — perpetrated most often by spiteful partners sharing graphic photographs and videos of their exes—are remarkably commonplace, getting those explicit images removed from Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp or Facebook can be cumbersome and often futile. Sometimes the reported pictures and profiles continue to reside on the platform for months. “When this happened last March, my first instinct was to report the impersonation to the platforms where I’d been violated,” recalls Bhavna. “We’ve reviewed the account and are not able to remove it at this time,” came Instagram’s auto reply followed by the advice to “unfollow, mute or block them to hide the posts,” if she did not want to see them. Facebook’s redressal system redirected her to an in-app complaint form. And even after submitting reams of evidence, “I received no further response,” says Bhavna who sought help from the women protection cell in July that scared the boy into taking down the posts. Four months later the images reappeared. Reason why victims like Bhavna—who continue to face a significant challenge to hold their aggressor liable — see hope in the government’s new guidelines to social media intermediaries mandating immediate redressal within 24 to 72 hours. It’s been a year since Bhavna first reported her abuse and despite flagging the content several times they remain available to a rather vast Internet audience. “Such reform would help girls like me rendered powerless by our bully,” she says. While reporting mechanisms on social networking sites have a checkered history of enforcing their own community standards, the pandemic has made it worse. Karan, a 33-year-old boy from Mumbai found intimate videos of him with his name and phone number gliding from Twitter to various porn sites within minutes after his ex decided to shame him last year. “When I reported it, they said there would be a delay since they had less staff due to Covid-19. Only two out of the four videos were taken down in 48 hours but the damage was already done,” rues Karan. “The videos had been downloaded and re-shared multiple times across various platforms. Till September I kept trying advanced reporting tools but to no avail.” The emotional and social scars from such protracted cyberbullying are often hard to shed. Bhavna’s online classes and placement activities came to a halt because she felt like she just couldn’t function. Karan says, “I continue to have anxiety attacks because I still get calls from strangers. I was able to escalate matters with help from influential friends but so many of my peers haven’t found a resolution yet. If resident grievance officers are appointed at least there’ll be a real person nearby we can approach and not a foreign chatbot.” When TOI contacted some of these social networking sites about complaints from vexed subscribers, Facebook said, “We’ve been using photo-matching technology to keep them from being re-shared. To find this content more quickly, we have intrusion detection technology and an online resource hub to respond when this abuse occurs.” They admitted that in March 2020, Facebook temporarily sent their content review workforce home “for their health and safety” and since then shifted “additional review work to full-time employees and increased automation.” Twitter responded: “Today, 50% of abusive content we take action on is surfaced proactively for human review instead of relying on reports from people using the service.” While the players insist on being transparent and maintaining a safe environment, their community standards can be vague, blurring the distinction between “rude”, “offensive” or “abusive”. “Especially when people use the vernacular or send direct messages,” points out cyber psychologist Nirali Bhatia. Cybercrime investigator Ritesh Bhatia says that the AI-enabled reporting tools, although valuable, are imperfect. An obvious lack of monitoring was evident when he found that a WhatsApp group, sharing child porn, busted by Mumbai Police in 2018 was back in circulation in two months. “I wrote to Whatsapp alerting them but no action was taken,” says Bhatia. The group was still active with 36 participants when TOI checked last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/victims-of-image-abuse-on-social-web-hopeful-of-new-redressal-rules/articleshow/81370133.cms||Mohua Das
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||This year, MC receives Rs 56.36cr in property taxes||Chandigarh: Both residential and commercial properties of the city will start getting their property tax bills for the next financial (2021-2022) year from March 15, as the municipal corporation (MC), Chandigarh has printed and ready with around Rs 1.50 lakh property tax bills, to be sent to all the assesses. This year, so far MC has received Rs 56.36 crore in property taxes, nearly Rs 8 crore more than the target of Rs 48 crore. Since, the civic body authority has already tied up with the post office department of the central government, all the bills will be sent through the post office only at the given addresses of the property tax payers. Out of these Rs 1.50 lakh property tax bills, majority of the bills, which is over 1 lakh, are from the residential properties and rest are from the commercial properties, government departments, banks and other institutional buildings. Besides the regular annual property tax bills, those who failed to pay their arrears of the previous year, will also have to pay their entire amount. “We have completed the entire process of printing the property tax bills of all the categories of the city. These bills have been prepared by keeping the records of each property and the areas, falls under the tax ambit, so that there should not be any ambiguity in the property tax amount and the tax payers should not harass at any point. If the area of any property increases or decrease, the tax payers needs to tell the department, otherwise, we cover our own survey, when department feel its requirement”, an official revealed. Moreover, as the civic body authority has already fed all the required data of each property of the property tax payers of the city in the computerised system, now every individual can access and see his or her property tax details time to time. The tax payers can also pay their tax amount online, which is operational for over six months now. “Earlier, in case of lost of tax receipts, ambiguity in the tax amount, flaws in documentation were key issues those were surfacing in the manual working of the deposition of the property tax with the tax branch. But, now with the computerisation and system generated documents, all these issues will be settled down”, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/this-year-mc-receives-rs-56-36cr-in-property-taxes/articleshow/81372004.cms||Deepak Yadav
March 7, 2021||Kolhapur||9 get life term for double murder||Kolhapur: A Kolhapur district and sessions court has held nine people guilty for their alleged involvement in a double-murder case that took place in 2014 and has awarded them life imprisonment. According to the prosecution, the nine accused murdered Nitin Mahadeo Shinde and Sameer Shirak Khatik with sharp weapons on the night of February 2, 2014. Shinde used to run a carrom club in the Kotitirth area and Khatik and Amit Hegde used to work in the club. Hegde had borrowed Rs 5,000 from Hanma, alias Raju Jaydip Chavan, one of the accused, which he had eventually returned. Chavan demanded Rs 25,000 more. Shinde had attempted to broker peace between Hegde and Hanma. However, a quarrel had broken out between the two following which both had lodged a complaint against each other. On February 2, 2014, Khatik and Shinde were standing near the railway flyover when the accused spotted them. They first attacked Khatik who died on the spot. Shinde fled, but the accused chased him and killed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/9-get-life-term-for-double-murder/articleshow/81370653.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Jaipur||Hearing impaired be considered for primary teachers: High court||Jaipur: Rajasthan high court has directed the state government to consider amending the notification necessary for the hearing impaired persons to be appointed to the posts of primary school teachers. The division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and Satish Kumar Sharma gave the direction on a petition by Kaushalya seeking a direction to include hearing impaired under the category of reservation for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. The court said, “State of Rajasthan shall consider amending its earlier notification and to bring it in line with the suggestions made by the Union of India, reconsider the applicability of the notification issued by the Union of India in all the various departments of the State of Rajasthan within a period of three months.” The court said, “The state of Rajasthan will take an early decision in this regard as the circumstances merit.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hearing-impaired-be-considered-for-primary-teachers-high-court/articleshow/81370127.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||72k from eligible age group in Vidarbha take jab in first week||Nagpur: Over 72,171 people from 60 and above age group and those in 45 and 59 age group with specified comorbidities took Covid-19 vaccination in the first week of vaccination programme of age-appropriate group in 11 districts of Vidarbha. As per experts, the numbers reported in last six days show that there is no apprehension among people about vaccine and vaccination should be extended to other age groups. Along with healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), the government launched vaccination for age-appropriate group on Monday. All districts started vaccination for age-appropriate group with doses provided for HCWs and FLWs. Therefore, number of centres and coverage were very less in the initial two days. The government provided 2,21,800 doses for age-appropriate group in the region on Tuesday. The centres too increased, resulting in increased coverage. As per the data of state’s public health department, in Vidarbha 59,130 people from 60+ age group and 13,041 from 45 years and above with specified comorbidities took the jab, for a total of 72,171, in six days. There will be no vaccination on Sunday. In 50 days, 1,48,241 HCWs had taken the first dose while 83,038 FLWs were inoculated in 30 days. Thus, total vaccination in the region has increased to 3,03,450. In the age-appropriate group, the highest 26,034 people took the jab in Nagpur district. Of them, 16,423 were covered in five days and 9,611 on Saturday. Of the 26,034 beneficiaries, 21,328 were senior citizens and remaining 4,706 from 45 and above years with comorbidities. Considering the good response, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) led by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and team of Zilla Parishad under CEO Yogesh Kumbhejkar increased number of vaccination centres in the district to 113, out of which 50 are in city and 63 in rural. For the first time, vaccination in the district crossed the 10,000 mark on Saturday when 12,332 people from age-appropriate group, HCWs and FLWs took the jab. Out of the 9,611 beneficiaries from age-appropriate group who took the jab on Saturday, 6,055 (senior citizens — 4,532 and comorbid patients — 1,523) were from city and 3,556 (senior citizens — 2,940 and comorbid — 616) from rural. In city, 14 centres are in hospitals run by the NMC and government while the remaining 36 are in private hospitals. There is similar response for free and paid vaccination. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “Coverage will increase as all centres are likely to begin 14-hour vaccination soon. Inoculation at NMC centres will be done from 8am-10pm. NMC will be facilitating computer operators for centres in government hospitals. Separate counters for HCW-FLW, pre-registered and walk-ins were started in NMC-run centres and will be implemented in other centres soon. Few more centres will be added soon. All these measures will also reduce crowding,” he said. Almost all centres in the city witnessed crowding and long queues of senior citizens from Monday to Thursday. The problems reduced to a great extent on Friday and Saturday. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Considering the response in first week, it is clear that there is no hesitancy regarding Covid-19 vaccine. Vaccination of age-appropriate group will help in reduction of hospitalization and deaths. Now, vaccine should be made available for all age groups to contain spread of the disease and ensure it doesn't’ hit back hard in monsoon,” he said. Union minister Nitin Gadkari and his better half Kanchan took vaccine at AIIMS on Saturday. Gadkari, also city’s MP, appealed all to take the jab citing vaccine was safe and beneficial for all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/72k-from-eligible-age-group-in-vidarbha-take-jab-in-first-week/articleshow/81370123.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Covid vaccination: Delhi records its highest one-day turnout||NEW DELHI: Saturday marked the highest turnout at the vaccination centres in Delhi, with 33,287 getting the anti-Covid injection. The turnout has been increasing since the launch of the second phase of vaccination in which people above 60 years and those aged 45-59 with comorbidities are allowed to take the shot. Saturday’s tally was mainly due to a high number of senior citizens turning up, 17,288 of them compared with 14,874 a day earlier. This boosted the day’s tally by over 6,000 beyond Friday’s 27,057 beneficiaries. The number of individuals in the 45-59 age group vaccinated also went up to 2,824 from the 2,020 of Friday. Only two adverse events were reported on Saturday, both of them of minor nature which is usual with all kinds of vaccination. Healthcare workers are still turning out in good numbers to get the jab, with 2,274 of them getting the shot on Saturday against 1,734 the previous day. Similarly, 3,769 frontline workers rolled up their sleeves on Saturday compared with 3,269 on Friday. Those who got their second dose on the day included 4,802 healthcare workers and 2,330 frontline workers. In the prioritised age group, 13,355 (66%) went to private hospitals and the rest (6,757, 34%) to government facilities. There were 17,800 slots available on Saturday in private facilities and 17,500 in government hospitals. The largest number of senior citizens got inoculated in West district followed by South and South-East districts. The lowest turnout was reported in North-East district, where only 259 senior citizens received the jab. Delhi government has expanded the network of vaccination centres and there are now 403 vaccination centres located in private and government hospitals. There’s increasing trust in the vaccine now, inspired as the citizens have been with President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal all receiving the vaccine shot. The vaccination programme started on January 16 with healthcare workers being singled out for the first phase. The turnout at the vaccination centres is likely to rise further with the district authorities planning to organise awareness campaigns at various localities to encourage vaccination among underprivileged sections of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/33287-delhi-records-its-highest-one-day-turnout/articleshow/81370142.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||50-year-old man drowns in sump||Hyderabad: A 50-year- old man died after he drowned in a sump at his residence in Amberpet on Friday night. Amberpet police said that he went to the sump to draw potable water and accidentally fell into it, leading to his death. Amberpet police added that after he fell, by the time any of his family members noticed, he had died. Police also suspect that the victim might have been inebriated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-year-old-man-drowns-in-sump/articleshow/81370129.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Property squatting in Sec 37 case: Cops record owner’s statement||Chandigarh: The statements of house owner Rahul Mehta were recorded under the Section 164 of CrPC before the judicial magistrate on Saturday. Police had brought Rahul Mehta from the ashram of Bharatpur, Rajasthan on Friday. Police said the house owner Mehta repeated almost all the allegations against former scribe Sanjeev Mahajan and other accused those are already mentioned in the police FIR. In his statement , Rahul Mehta again alleged in his statement that he was drugged by the accused to disturb his mental state. Police also interrogated Nav ratan Munjal, director of pharmaceutical firm, at Sector 31 police station. However, police said Munjal is not cooperating with the police in investigation. He has been called again for interrogation, they said. All the three accused — Sanjeev Mahajan, Manish Gupta and Satpal Dagar — have been in police custody till March 9. The police had on Monday booked nine persons—Arvind Singla, a liquor baron and resident of Sector 33, Khalendra Singh Kadiyan of Sector 18, Ashok Arora of Sector 20, Saurabh Gupta and Surjit Singh, both residents of Sector 38, Shekhar of Sector 37 and Daljit Singh of Sector 40, Mahajan and Gupta. Surjit, a bouncer-turned-financier, was murdered by two armed men near his house in March last year. The FIR alleged that Mahajan, Surjit, Shekhar and others entered a 14-marla two-storey house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 and took possession of the first floor in March 2017. Mehta had been living alone after the death of his parents and brother. The FIR alleged the accused had confined Mehta in a room for a few days and “tortured” him. “The accused took his signatures on blank cheques and papers. A general power of attorney was executed in favour of Arvind Singla and Khalendra Singh,” the FIR added. In July 2017, Surjit allegedly took Mehta to his friend Abdul Karim in Bhuj, Gujarat. He introduced Mehta to Karim as his friend and told him to keep him at his farmhouse for a few months as he had some health issues, the FIR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/property-squatting-in-sec-37-case-cops-record-owners-statement/articleshow/81372005.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Kochi||Fire at Brahmapuram waste plant doused after 16 hours||Kochi: Sixteen hours after the fire was broken out on the heaps of non-biodegradable waste at Brahmapuram waste management plant, fire and rescue team finally managed to douse it on Saturday morning. Though the fire was brought under control on Friday afternoon itself, it continued to rage in around six heaps. Fire force officials said they doused fire around 4am, but thick smoke continues to billow out. Around 100 fire personnel from various fire stations have been pressed into action. They pump water from Kadambrayar River onto the waste heaps from six points. Following the major fire in February 2019, waste heaps were stored in separate fragments by creating fire lines in between to avoid fire consuming the whole heap and causing more havoc. “We allowed flames to consume some parts of the heaps near the river on Friday night. Otherwise, dousing fire will cause more smoke billowing out of it. But the issue is not restricted to Brahmapuram alone as municipalities have also similar dumping sites in the district. It raises concern as biogas formation in the waste will lead to fire breaking out in the simmering heat of this summer,” said a senior fire official. Fire and rescue department will submit a report to the department heads raising their concern . Meanwhile, plastic waste collection in Kochi corporation limits and neighbouring municipalities got disrupted on Saturday due to fire in the plant. “It is expected that the thick smoke will continue to billow out for two to three days People have to keep the plastic waste in their houses itself until the situation in the plant becomes normal. But degradable waste collection continued uninterrupted,” said a Kochi corporation health staff. Officials of pollution control board (PCB) and state-level monitoring committee (SLMC) for waste management had visited the plant recently to check whether the local body has implemented the recommendations of the national green tribunal. “We are not satisfied with the works carried out by the corporation in the plant. Though they have installed water hydrants, it had no power connection. PCB will submit a draft report detailing the existing condition of the plant to SLMC chairman soon. Following the fire at the plant, PCB inspected pollution level in the air. The air quality monitoring system at Vyttila recorded a slight increase in presence of particulate matter in the air,” said M A Baiju, chief environmental engineer in the Ernakulam region of PCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fire-at-brahmapuram-waste-plant-doused-after-16-hours/articleshow/81369702.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Thane||Thane man gets 10-year RI for raping minor neighbour||THANE: The sessions court has convicted a 56-year-old man from Shilphata for raping an eight-year-old neighbour. He has been sentenced to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. On May 14, 2018, while the victim was playing in her building compound, the accused took her to an isolated spot near the staircase and raped her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-man-gets-10-yr-ri-for-raping-minor-neighbour-in-mumbai/articleshow/81370741.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
March 7, 2021||Chennai||MNM invites Cong for alliance||Chennai: A day after Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan took a dig at the DMK for the step-motherly treatment given to the Congress in seat sharing talks and termed the opposition party as BJP’s B Team, MNM leaders on Saturday invited Congress to join them in the third front. MNM general secretary C K Kumaravel said talks with Congress were taking place at various levels and that it was up to the Congress leadership to decide whether they are willing to join the third front. On Friday, at a public meeting in Kolathur, Kamal Haasan said the ruling BJP’s agenda was to decimate the Congress and the DMK’s moves so far had shown that it was the B-team (of BJP). “By this time, Congress leaders should have realised this. If they have not, then my condolences to them,” said Kamal Haasan. Former union minister P Chidambaram, however, cautioned the party leaders against moving away from the DMK and said he had no confidence in the third front. On Saturday, Sarath Kumar’s Samathuva Makkal Katchi and Indhi Jananayaka Katchi leader Ravi Pachamuthu met Kamal Haasan at his office in Alwarpet to discuss the alliance. “There is a necessity to bring about a change. We can expect good news (on alliance and seat sharing) by Sunday,” said Sarath Kumar, after the meeting. Later in the day, Kamal Haasan resumed his city campaign trail from Thousand Lights and ended with a public meeting at Ambattur. Criticizing the Centre’s policies such as demonetisation, introduction of GST and nationwide lockdown, Kamal said the government has been making empty promises of investment, which have led to a state of unemployment. Appealing to the public to not sell their votes for money, Kamal said, “I will bow down to the public, but will not bow down to those who have been cheating the public.” He reminded the gathering of one of the agendas of MNM, which is to ensure 50 lakh new jobs. Criticising the ruling AIADMK for running the state into a debt of more than Rs 5.7 lakh crore, Kamal said if the bribe availed by ministers are avoided, two states like Tamil Nadu could be run. Kamal said he had ignored suggestions of appeasing minorities as all citizens of Tamil Nadu are his brothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mnm-invites-cong-for-alliance/articleshow/81370749.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Man stealing lorries nabbed||Hyderabad: A person was arrested after being involved in stealing two lorries, on Saturday. Kalapatar police said that the accused used to frequently visit lorry parking areas and look out for empty parked lorries, and speed away with them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-stealing-lorries-nabbed/articleshow/81370137.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chandigarh||After 3 months of winter break, MC resumes road recarpeting||Chandigarh: After a gap of more than three months, the engineering department of the municipal corporation (MC), Chandigarh has finally started the road re-carpeting works in the city from Saturday. The engineering department is planning to complete all road re-carpeting works during this summer, so that before the start of monsoon season, all earmarked roads can be re-carpeted. The pending recarpeting work, estimated to cost Rs 12 crore, were allotted earlier were but due to extreme winter season, work was not started. Now, with the new recarpeting budgeted at Rs 35 crore, the MC will have to shell out nearly Rs 47 crore, this season. “We have prepared the timeline and will try our level best to complete all the works in the stipulated time period. Moreover, the contractors have also sufficient machinery and manpower and thus hopefully, all the earmarked roads will be re-carpeted. Since there is no shortage of money for the road re-carpeting works, as the MC has dedicated fund for the same, we don’t think there will be any financial issue in the work of road re-carpeting,” sources said. The move has come as a major boost for the municipal councillors, as they were eagerly waiting for the road re-carpeting work. Since this is an election year too, many councillors have been demanding for early start of road re-carpeting works, so that they can draw in voters for the municipal elections scheduled at the end of this year. Since there are three divisions in the B&R (building and roads) wing of the MC’s engineering department, all divisions have around Rs 10 to Rs 12 crore fresh road re-carpeting works. These works are related to all kinds of roads like internal roads of the sectors, residential areas roads, sector dividing roads and others. Besides that there are many parking areas that are also in the works where re-carpeting is needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-3-months-of-winter-break-mc-resumes-road-recarpeting/articleshow/81372007.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Bareilly||Nepal police hand over body of Indian farmer shot dead in border firing||Pilibhit: The body of the farmer who was shot dead by Nepal Police on Thursday evening was handed over to Indian officials on Friday night after an autopsy. Govinda Singh, 26, had been killed in police firing when he and three others were out in sugarcane fields at Bhoomi Dan village in UP’s Pilibhit. “His body was handed over at 9pm on Friday. Police made me cremate his body at night even though our faith does not allow last rites to be performed after sunset,” Govinda’s father Gurdev Singh said on Saturday evening. He was just back from the Hajara police station where, he said, police “was not keen” on taking his complaint. “They declined to take my written complaint against Nepal Police. They told me that an FIR against Nepal Police would compel Pilibhit Police to arrest all three survivors, including the injured Gurmej Singh, and hand them over the Nepal Police because they have been accused of opening fire first,” Gurdev added.When asked about the allegations, circle officer Lallan Singh declined to comment. “I have no answer,” he told TOI.Meanwhile, Nepal Police officials “did not turn up” at a district-level meeting of officials led by Puranpur circle officer Lallan Singh and sub divisional magistrate Rajendra Prasad. They were scheduled to meet families of the four farmers who were in the line of fire that night. On Friday, ADG (Bareilly zone) Avinash Chandar had after a meeting with Nepalese officials said it had been decided that “members of affected families would be made an integral part of the investigation” and “Nepal Police officials would present satisfactory replies to questions about the firing on Indian nationals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nepal-police-hand-over-body-of-indian-farmer-shot-dead-in-border-firing/articleshow/81369048.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 7, 2021||Meerut||Nepal police hand over body of Indian farmer shot dead in border firing||Pilibhit: The body of the farmer who was shot dead by Nepal Police on Thursday evening was handed over to Indian officials on Friday night after an autopsy. Govinda Singh, 26, had been killed in police firing when he and three others were out in sugarcane fields at Bhoomi Dan village in UP’s Pilibhit. “His body was handed over at 9pm on Friday. Police made me cremate his body at night even though our faith does not allow last rites to be performed after sunset,” Govinda’s father Gurdev Singh said on Saturday evening. He was just back from the Hajara police station where, he said, police “was not keen” on taking his complaint. “They declined to take my written complaint against Nepal Police. They told me that an FIR against Nepal Police would compel Pilibhit Police to arrest all three survivors, including the injured Gurmej Singh, and hand them over the Nepal Police because they have been accused of opening fire first,” Gurdev added.When asked about the allegations, circle officer Lallan Singh declined to comment. “I have no answer,” he told TOI.Meanwhile, Nepal Police officials “did not turn up” at a district-level meeting of officials led by Puranpur circle officer Lallan Singh and sub divisional magistrate Rajendra Prasad. They were scheduled to meet families of the four farmers who were in the line of fire that night. On Friday, ADG (Bareilly zone) Avinash Chandar had after a meeting with Nepalese officials said it had been decided that “members of affected families would be made an integral part of the investigation” and “Nepal Police officials would present satisfactory replies to questions about the firing on Indian nationals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nepal-police-hand-over-body-of-indian-farmer-shot-dead-in-border-firing/articleshow/81369040.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 7, 2021||Kochi||Police install barricades on SA Road||Kochi: City traffic police have started installing removable plastic barricades on the Sahodaran Ayyappan (SA) Road ahead of the deadly curve at Elamkulam during night hours. The barricades were installed to limit speeding before the curve, which has claimed at least nine lives in around six months. The barricades would be placed across both the lanes so that vehicles have to stop to manoeuvre through the gap between the two sets of barricades placed at a distance on both lanes. The barricades would be in place from 9pm in the night till 6am in the morning. Policemen sporting reflective gear would also be deployed at the spot during night hours to decrease the rate of accidents.Assistant police commissioner (traffic) T B Vijayan said that if the speed of the vehicles reaching the deadly curve drops to zero at the barricades, then the chances of an accident would considerably decrease as the vehicles would be in a controllable state at the time of reaching the danger zone. Meanwhile, a team of National transportation planning and research centre (Natpac) held an inspection at the deadly spot on Friday afternoon. It is learnt that the inspection team has prima facie found defects in the road. “As a short term measure, it is important to reduce speed on the stretch. This can be achieved either through engineering measures like table top pedestrian crossing, rumble strips, median barriers etc or through enforcement measures like installation of speed radar cameras,” said an official with Natpac. Motor vehicles department had on Thursday conducted inspections at the curve to decide on ideal locations to install speed detection cameras. At least nine youths have died in the spot in the past six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-install-barricades-on-sa-road/articleshow/81369706.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kochi||City corp sets March 23 as deadline for bill submission||Thiruvananthapuram: The city corporation, which is currently in the third position among municipal corporations in plan expenditure, has set March 23 as the deadline for submission of bills in the treasury. The newly-constituted ruling council faces an uphill task in the coming days. The corporation has attained 41% plan expenditure till date and the target is to take it to 90%. The officials admit that it may be an improbable target considering the hurdles corporation had to face in this fiscal. “We are getting on with our plan progress with a positive mind set. Our main challenge is that only infrastructure projects have happened during this fiscal and many projects related to social activities had to be put on hold owing to Covid-19. This has definitely affected the plan expenditure. Still, we are doing daily reviews to bring it closer to 90%,” said corporation secretary Binu Francis. In the past few fiscals, corporation has not been able to cross 70% in plan expenditure. In 2017-18, corporation recorded plan expenditure of 65%. The city corporation slightly improved its position in plan expenditure during 2018-19 when compared to previous fiscal but ended up with over 450 pending bills in treasury and around 50 uncleared bills. The civic body was hoping to attain 75% plan expenditure in 2018-19 and had drawn out separate review and assessment methods for engineers at various levels and implementing officials were fixed from AE (assistant engineer) to EE ( executive engineer) level. The corporation had bills to the tune of Rs 37 crore pending in treasury and another Rs 45 crore, which had to be submitted to treasury for clearance by the middle of March in that fiscal. Works standing committee chairman D R Anil said that despite the challenges, corporation cannot aim for nothing lesser than 90%. “All the standing committees are working effectively to significantly improve the plan expenditure. Works are progressing at a good pace and we have set timelines for completion of works and submission of bills to avoid last-minute rush,” he said. With the district administration initiating steps for the conduct of assembly elections, staff from the engineering wing are also roped in for electoral exercises. Lack of staff at this juncture is also a major impediment for the city corporation. Around 700 works have already been tendered and less than 30 works could not be tendered due to the election code of conduct. Pending bills with contractors won’t be a problem this year, said Anil. “We have held talks with contractors and all payments are being made promptly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-corp-sets-march-23-as-deadline-for-bill-submission/articleshow/81369718.cms||Aswin J Kumar
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Bidhannagar election campaign turns green with save-environment message in wall paintings||KOLKATA: With the Assembly elections in Bengal drawing near, poll graffiti have once again started appearing on city walls. However, the usually drab ones have taken a back seat to make way for the more vibrant and artistic form with a green message at Bidhannagar’s Duttabad constituency, where state minister and Trinamool Congress heavyweight Sujit Bose is a candidate. Local women have been roped in to draw ‘alpana’ designs, ‘ghot’ and ‘patachitra’ images, paint tree leaves and other designs, along with the candidate’s name. While the creative images has lent an aesthetic touch to the wall writings, some send out strong messages to save trees and protect the environment. “We want to campaign for our leader Sujit Bose not by being nasty or aggressive on the wall but by drawing ‘alpona’, ‘pata chitra’ and trees that project our rich cultural heritage. We also want to send out a green message, stressing on the need to plant more trees to save and protect the environment,” said Ward 38 coordinator of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation Nirmal Dutta, who is known to be close to Bose. Bose on his part said, “I have heard about it and would love to have a look.” Dattabad is an area covering Ward 38 of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation that falls within Bidhannagar Assembly constituency. Sitting Trinamool MLA Sujit Bose will be re-contesting from here for the third consecutive time. Earlier as a councillor, Dutta had planted several trees in his ward in Duttabad after cyclone Amphan left hundreds of trees uprooted in the city. The women drawing the graffiti have been working diligently and said they were enjoying the job. “Other than conveying a green message, our drawings are also being praised by locals. People are tired of the same, old writings which hardly draw your attention other than the name of the candidate,” said Pushpa Banik, one of the painters. Saraswati Chakraborty, another painter, said she has been enjoying the work, though drawing on the wall is a new experience for her. “We are not used to painting on the wall. So, it took some time to get used to but now we are doing it quite easily,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-election-campaign-turns-green-with-save-environment-msg-in-wall-paintings/articleshow/81369721.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Naik Nimbalkar seeks audit of 2 Satara toll plazas||Kolhapur: Lok Sabha member Ranjitsinh Naik Nimbalkar has stressed on the audit of two Satara district toll plazas — Aanewadi and Taswade — demanding free passage for local residents. Talking to reporters after a meeting convened by the district collector, Naik Nimbalkar said people living within 20km of the toll plazas should be given passes for free travel as they were forced to spend money unnecessarily. Naik Nimbalkar pointed out that Pune-registered vehicles were not being charged at the Khed Shivapur toll plaza. “Same decision should be taken for Taswade and Aanewadi toll plazas also,” he insisted. The Lok Sabha member said people living within 20km of the toll plazas are given a monthly pass of Rs 275, which is not fair. He said commercial vehicles in these areas were forced to pay the regular toll. Pointing to recent action by Pune police, in which bogus toll receipts were found, Naik Nimbalkar said that a financial audit of both the toll plazas must be done. “Contractors always extend the period of toll collection on the ground that they had not recovered all their money. We must find out whether any bogus receipts are being given at the two toll plazas on the national highway here,” he said. Naik Nimbalkar also expressed displeasure on the delay in completing the six-lane work and resurfacing of the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/naik-nimbalkar-seeks-audit-of-2-satara-toll-plazas/articleshow/81370747.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Apply online for EAMCET from March 20||Hyderabad: Students can submit online applications for the Telangana State Engineering, Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (TS EAMCET 2021) from March 20. In the CET committee meeting held on Saturday, officials finalized schedule, test zones, syllabus, exam fee and other modalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/apply-online-for-eamcet-from-march-20/articleshow/81370156.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Entire IIM-N 5th batch placed, average package Rs13 lakh a year||Nagpur: Amid the economic gloom and job cuts across sectors, the Indian Institute of Management-Nagpur (IIM-N) has for the fourth consecutive year managed to secure campus placements for all its 121 students from the flagship postgraduate programme (PGP) in business administration’s 2019-21 batch. Though the premier B-school hasn’t disclosed the top pay package, this year there was an increase in the average and median packages. The average package offered during the virtually held on-campus placement is Rs13.21 lakh per annum and the median package is Rs13 lakh per annum. The record for the highest campus offer so far is Rs40 lakh which was bagged by a student from the previous PGP batch. The average package was Rs12.55 lakh for the 2018-20 batch. Though there is a slight increase in the average package, the institute has also not disclosed the average packages to top 5% and 10% candidates who appeared for the placements. The top 5% of the previous batch got an average of Rs28 lakh per annum package and the 10% Rs21.60 lakh. IIM-N director Bhimaraya Metri said, “Not only does this testify to the excellence in management education that our students receive at IIM-Nagpur, but also to the agility with which the institute has responded to the crisis — moving classes online, leveraging the virtual environment to connect with more industry experts, and ensuring that our curriculum evolves with the needs of the industry. We are grateful to our valued recruiters for their continued engagement with us.” IIM Nagpur is running from makeshift campus at VNIT. Nilesh Gupta, chairperson, Career Development Services (CDS), said, “The students’ continued stellar performance, along with the support from the administration, is a testament to our grit and resilience which ensured 100% placements in one of the most challenging yet fruitful years in the history of IIM-Nagpur.” As per the institute, consulting and IT emerged as the most sought-after sectors, followed by BFSI & FMCG/FMCD, with more than 60% of the batch opting for companies in these sectors. TOI has learnt that IIM-N is the fourth IIM to close placements after Bengaluru, Kozhikode and Lucknow. IIM-N CDS in charge Souvik Roy said, “The placements have automated and were held online. Our work started in last April with industry interaction. Over 150 sessions took place. Reaching out to recruiters worked for us. The students applied through an app and those applications were forwarded to the recruiters. Later, online interviews were held,” he said.  Info box  Highest package offered 2019-21 | Not disclosed 2018-20 | Rs40 lakh PGP 2017-29 | Rs20 lakh 2016-18 | Rs19 lakh 2015-17 | Not disclosed  (Rs13.21 lakh average package for 2019-21)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/entire-iim-n-5th-batch-placed-average-package-rs13-lakh-a-year/articleshow/81370134.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||HC summons finance, panchayat secys||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court has summoned two senior bureaucrats to appear before it on March 26 over the failure to implement a March 2018 court order. Principal secretaries — K Ramakrishna Rao (finance) and Vikas Raj (panchayat raj) — have been told to explain as to why minimum wages to sweepers in panchayat raj schools are not being implemented despite the court passing an order on March 15 three years ago. Taking a serious view of the lapse on the part of the authorities, Justice MS Ramachandra Rao said the two bureaucrats should keep attending the hearings in the matter till the contempt case against them is disposed of. In its order, the court had directed the state government to pay minimum payscale to the sweepers as prescribed in the statute book. Several sweepers, who were hired on a part-time basis but were forced to work full time, were hopeful of implementation of the court order so that their problems would come to an end. A majority of them were not getting even a quarter of wages that was prescribed for a regular sweeper. It took Mohammed Khasim and 45 part-time sweepers from Warangal, Nalgonda, Vikarabad, Suryapet and other districts to wage a legal battle seeking equal pay for equal work. Their counsel Gurram Srinivas referred to the Supreme Court verdict in the state of Punjab versus Jagjit Singh case and said it was unfair to pay a higher salary for one worker and lesser pay to another when both of them were doing the same job and putting in the same number of work hours. The court ruled in favour of the part-time sweepers. However, the authorities did not implement the court order for the last three years. “Several departments like women and child welfare have started implementing the high court order by giving equal payscales to the sweepers. But, the panchayat raj department is lagging behind in implementing the court order,” the counsel for the petitioners said. Following their failure to implement the court order, the senior bureaucrats are facing the contempt case, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-summons-finance-panchayat-secys/articleshow/81370163.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Unregistered dental students get jab after govt move||Nagpur: Deprived of Covid-19 vaccine for the last one-and-a-half month after their institution failed to register them on time, students of Vidya Shikshan Prasarak Mandal’s Dental College and Research Centre at Digdoh, Hingna, got the jab after the Central government allowed on-spot registration and vaccination also for healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs). Many HCWs and FLWs who were not registered earlier have been covered since Monday. TOI on February 7 had reported about the complaint of 72 resident doctors from the college who were not given the vaccine while others, right from professors to attendants from the college, had got the jab. These students had also worked at Covid-19 testing centres of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Despite the students submitting all details and documents, their institution had delayed the registration. Later, the government stopped registration in Co-Win application. The government had rolled out vaccine for age-appropriate group and allowed on-spot registration from Monday. At the same time, the government had also permitted unregistered HCW and FLW to avail the benefit. The officials and students confirmed that these 71 students were vaccinated after the government allowed on-spot registration. One student could not take the jab due to testing positive for Covid-19. Vice-president of Maharashtra Medical Council Dr Vinky Rughwani said, “Some HCWs working in hospitals were not registered for various reasons. They are getting vaccine now and the process is very simple,” he said. Over 3,000 HCWs from the district were not registered. Some of them are yet to be inoculated and are likely to be covered in the next few days. Chief medical officer of police department, Dr Sandeep Shinde, said, “On-spot registration and vaccination has benefited large number of FLWs. Even police personnel of other districts are taking jab at police hospital here. They just need to bring copy of Aadhaar,” he said. Earlier, HCWs and FLWs were registered on Co-Win application. Then the authorities scheduled vaccination of 100-200 per day per centre. Now, this process has been replaced with a simple system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unregistered-dental-students-get-jab-after-govt-move/articleshow/81369724.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 7, 2021||Chennai||In Pondy, all roads lead to N Rangasamy’s door||Puducherry: All-India NR Congress (AINRC) founder N Rangasamy, who went into political hibernation after his party lost the 2016 assembly polls, has turned the most sought-after politician in the Union territory of Puducherry. On Saturday, he got support for his leadership from an arch rival and his erstwhile colleague, A V Subramanian, who is the Pradesh Congress Committee president. Subramanian, in an interview to a Tamil news channel on Saturday, said the grand old party would not hesitate to align with its splinter group if invited after getting the nod from the party high command. He also said an alliance of secular parties including the Congress, the DMK and the AINRC would ensure victory and keep the BJP at bay. However, minutes later, he released a video, which looked like a retraction of his earlier views, in which he claimed that he had responded to a query on the DMK’s appeal to Rangasamy. “I do not wish to say anything more,” he said. Only a day earlier, DMK Karaikal district secretary and former minister A M H Nazeem had, in a video widely circulated on social media, called upon Rangasamy to lead a front to decimate the BJP. Rangasamy is known for going into a self-imposed political hibernation whenever not in power. But most parties are trynig to align with AINRC ahead of the 2021 assembly polls. The AINRC, which contested the bypolls in two assembly segments and the last Lok Sabha polls as part of the AIADMK-BJP alliance and lost all three seats, started distancing itself ahead of 2021 assembly polls after the saffron party became reluctant to announce him as the CM candidate. The Congress and the DMK are trying their best to cash in on Rangasamy’s differences with the BJP. Congress, which witnessed an exodus of leaders, is desperate to get some oxygen. Former minister A Namassivayam joined the BJP while another former minister Malladi Krishna Rao pledged his support to the AINRC. Two former Congress MLAs – E Theeppainthan and A John Kumar joined the BJP while one former MLA K Lakshminarayanan joined the AINRC. AINRC is the only party after Congress (30.1%) that had an impressive vote share (28%) in the 2016 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-pondy-all-roads-lead-to-n-rangasamys-door/articleshow/81370778.cms||Bosco Dominique
March 7, 2021||Nashik||Mahajan credits BJP for Rs 1,000cr development works in Nashik||Nashik: Former district guardian minister and senior BJP functionary Girish Mahajan has claimed that in the past four years — when the BJP has been in control in the Nashik Municipal Corporation — development projects worth more than Rs 1,000 crore have been implemented in the city. Talking to reporters following the inauguration of various development works and water tanks, Mahajan said: “We were instrumental in getting more than Rs 2,500 crore as funds from the state and central governments during the Kumbh mela. Moreover, with the BJP in control, the NMC has spent more than Rs 1,000 crore on various sectors despite the BJP not currently being in power in the state.” Mahajan said the Centre also focused on the development of Nashik city as it has announced Rs 2,092 crore for the NeoMetro project. The BJP has changed the city since it came to power in the civic body single-handedly in 2017, he said. Talking about Shiv Sena, which has vowed to bag more than 100 seats in the NMC polls, Mahajan said: “We don’t want to challenge anyone or prove them wrong. If there was no unity in the parliamentary elections, or even during the assembly polls, everyone knows what would have been Sena’s fate. However, based on the works being done by the party, we are sure the BJP will emerge even stronger.” Mahajan also took a dig at the state government. “The police were first unable to trace who put the explosives-laden vehicle near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. And when they did get a lead, the owner of the stolen vehicle was found dead. Safety of all citizens is at stake,” Mahajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mahajan-credits-bjp-for-rs-1000cr-development-works-in-nashik/articleshow/81370779.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 20-year-old kills granddad & dad, then dies by suicide in Mulund||MUMBAI: A 20-year-old mentally disturbed youth stabbed to death his 55-year-old father and 85-year-old grandfather and then went on to jump off their sixth-floor flat in Vasant Oskar building on L B S Marg, Mulund West, on Saturday morning. The deceased have been identified as Shardul Mangle, his father Milind Mangle and grandfather Suresh Mangle. Mulund police have registered a case of double murder and an accidental death report (ADR) in the case. Their domestic help, Amol Kamble, said he had a narrow escape as he hid himself in a bathroom when he saw Shardul stab his father and grandfather. Police said Shardul’s father Milind, a former employee of a corporate house, was a motivational speaker while his grandfather was bedridden. Shardul lived with his father and grandfather after his parents had reportedly separated. His mother and teenage sister live in Ghatkopar, said the police. Police suspect Shardul might have reduced his medicine dosage recently. They said around 9.30am on Saturday morning, Kamble asked Shardul to attend his online lectures and then went inside the kitchen to prepare coffee. “This might have triggered Shardul who took out a kitchen knife and slit his father’s throat. Milind managed to run out of the house but Shardul caught him and stabbed his back multiple times and then went inside and stabbed his bedridden grandfather. A frightened Kamble locked himself inside a bathroom,” said a Mulund police officer. Later, Shardul jumped off the balcony. He was found dead with multiple injuries all over his body. The neighbours immediately called the police and rushed his father and grandfather to Agarwal Hospital where they were declared dead on arrival, said deputy commissioner of police (Zone 7) Prashant Kadam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/youth-kills-dad-granddad-dies-by-suicide-in-mumbai/articleshow/81372014.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Nasal Covaxin human trials begin in city||Nagpur: The first phase of the human trials of the Covid-19 vaccine to be delivered via the nasal route has begun in the city as well. The vaccine has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the makers of Covaxin. Nagpur is the only centre in Central India, including Maharashtra, Goa and Gujarat with the other three centres being Patna (Bihar), Hyderabad (Telangana), and Chennai (Tamil Nadu). City’s Gillurkar Multispecialty Hospital is the trial site. Earlier, the same hospital had successfully conducted phase 1 and phase 2 trials of Covaxin delivered by the intravascular route, which people are now getting as Covid-19 jab. A senior official associated with the trials confirmed that the vaccine will be tested on 50 people in Nagpur. For this, the process of selecting volunteers is under way since the last three days. An eligible person must be a healthy adult with no comorbid conditions and no history of Covid-19 infection. Unlike traditional vaccines, nasal vaccines target the virus present in the mucosal membranes and are given via the nose, rather than orally or through the arm. The novel coronavirus generally enters the body through the nose. The vaccine, administered with the help of a nasal spray, intercepts the virus and makes the immune system produce proteins in the blood to combat the enemy. This also prevents the virus from growing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nasal-covaxin-human-trials-begin-in-city/articleshow/81369733.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Four killed in accidents over 36 hours||Kolkata: Four persons died in four different fatal accidents in the past 36 hours in the city. In the first accident reported at 11 am on the Belgachhia bridge, 47-year old Jhontu Bakshi from Paikpara Row died after his two-wheeler was hit by a KMC compactor vehicle. A 16-year-old Md A Zaid died when he fell while trying to board a running bus near the Lakshminarayan Temple at Ekbalpore. In another accident, one Bijoy Saha (21) of Debendra Ghosh Lane died and his pillion rider Bapi Das (18) severely injured after a truck hit their bike at the S P Mukherjee Road-Ramesh Mitra road crossing. The fourth accident was reported from Nature Park at Taratala. A biker Bikram Shaw (20) died when his bike went and collided on the rear side of an unidentified truck. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-killed-in-accidents-over-36-hours/articleshow/81369729.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Bareilly||Nepal police hand over body of Indian farmer shot dead in border firing||Pilibhit: The body of the farmer who was shot dead by Nepal police on Thursday evening was handed over to Indian officials on Friday night after an autopsy. Govinda Singh, 26, had been killed in police firing when he and three others were out in sugarcane fields at Bhoomi Dan village in UP’s Pilibhit. “His body was handed over at 9pm on Friday. Police made me cremate his body at night even though our faith does not allow last rites to be performed after sunset,” Govinda’s father Gurdev Singh said on Saturday evening. Singh was just back from the Hajara police station where, he said, police “was not keen” on taking his complaint. “They declined to take my written complaint against Nepal police. They told me that an FIR against Nepal police would compel Pilibhit police to arrest all three survivors, including the injured Gurmej Singh, and hand them over the Nepal police because they have been accused of opening fire first,” Gurdev added. Gurmej is still battling for life at a hospital in Lucknow.When asked about the allegations, Puranpur circle officer Lallan Singh declined to comment. “I have no answer,” he told TOI.On Friday, after the firing, the families of the farmers had said they were out that night to sow the sugarcane crop when Nepal police opened fire. Nepal cops, on the other hand, said they were smuggling drugs into the country and had opened fire first.Meanwhile, Nepal police officials “did not turn up” at a district-level meeting of officials led by Lallan Singh and sub divisional magistrate Rajendra Prasad on Saturday. They were scheduled to meet families of the four farmers who were in the line of fire that night. On Friday, ADG (Bareilly zone) Avinash Chandar had after a meeting with Nepalese officials said it was decided that “members of affected families would be made an integral part of the investigation” and “Nepal police officials would present satisfactory replies to questions about the firing on Indian nationals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nepal-police-hand-over-body-of-indian-farmer-shot-dead-in-border-firing/articleshow/81369077.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Udhayanidhi’s reply reminds DMK interview panel of MK||Chennai: On Saturday, DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin faced his most unusual test yet – an interview by his father and DMK chief M K Stalin — for his ticket for the Chepauk-Triplicane assembly constituency, one that was also former chief minister M Karunanidhi’s favourite. The moment of joy was unmistakable as Udhayanidhi – all-smiles – and Stalin – beaming with pride — got set to discuss what made the former an apt candidate for the constituency. As Udhayanidhi stood before the panel of senior leaders, waiting to be grilled, T R Baalu and Duraimurugan made the most of this rather rare moment by offering a few playful remarks, pulling Udhayanidhi’s leg and making him blush. The formality began at 11.45am and lasted about ten minutes, with questions posed to the 43-year-old on his reasons for choosing this constituency, and his prospects of winning there. As Stalin went through his son’s application, Duraimurugan posed a question, “how much can you spend for the election?” A senior leader present there quoted Udhayanidhi’s response, “Whatever you give, I will spend it for the elections!” The witty answer made the panel of leaders, including Duraimurugan, T R Baalu, A Raja and Subulakshmi Jagadeesan, burst into laughter, even as ‘appa’ Stalin looked on, trying hard to conceal a proud smile. Udhayanidhi’s response shows that he carries the traits of his grandfather Kalaignar, who was known for his sharp, quick-witted replies to any question posed to him, said a senior leader in the interview committee. Another star candidate who appeared for the interview was Stalin himself, for the Kolathur segment. He was questioned by Duraimurugan and was selected unopposed as nobody else had applied for the seat. The DMK has concluded the interviews of all the ticket aspirants. Since March 2, the party has interviewed more than 5,000 of the 8,300-odd applications received. According to a senior leader and a member of the interview committee, the committee looked into aspects such as the contribution of each candidate to the party, their record. including cases if any, and their participation in protests organised by the party. After completing the interview process, the committee started finalising the candidates’ list for the April 6 polls. The final list would be released on March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/udhayanidhis-reply-reminds-dmk-interview-panel-of-mk/articleshow/81370817.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nashik||Light and sound show soon at Trimbakeshwar temple||Nashik: Soon, Trimbakeswar temple may add another feather to its cap as Shri Trimbakeshwar Devasthan Trust is planning to start a ‘light and sound’ show at the historic temple along the lines of the shows at the Somnath temple and Statue of Unity in Gujarat. The 20-minute show with dazzling light effect will be projected on the shikhara of the temple at night after the puja, with narration in both Marathi and Hindi, highlighting the history and importance of the temple. It will also throw light on the life of Lord Shiva and the significance of the Jyotirlingas. The idea is the brainchild of Shubham Gupta, a 2018-batch IAS officer, who is currently posted as the sub-divisional magistrate of Trimbakeshwar. “We had a trial show on March 3 and it went off really well. I have requested the trust to start the ‘light and sound’ show as soon as possible,” Gupta told TOI. A team of four experts were roped in from Mumbai, who carried out the trial run. The project will entail an expenditure of around Rs 70 lakh. Sanjay Jadhav, secretary of the temple trust board and CEO of Trimbak Municipality, said the board has ‘in-principle’ agreed to implement the project. “A committee has been formed that would visit Somnath temple and Statue of Unity to understand how the light and sound shows were implemented there,” added Jadhav. The trust will also get in touch with the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) since the temple is listed by the ASI as a heritage monument. No work can be undertaken inside the temple without the agency’s permission. “We will also work to mobilise funds for this,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/light-and-sound-show-soon-at-trimbakeshwar-temple/articleshow/81370830.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Suicide bid disrupts Metro services||Kolkata: Metro services along the north-south corridor was disrupted as a 30-year-old woman tried to commit suicide at the Rabindra Sarovar station on Saturday afternoon. At 1.43pm, the motorman of the approaching down train from Dum Dum pulled the brakes as he saw the woman jump onto the tracks at Rabindra Sarovar station, a Metro Railway spokesperson said. The woman is a nursing staff at a government hospital. RPF personnel at the station foiled the suicide bid by switching off the power to the third rail.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suicide-bid-disrupts-metro-services/articleshow/81369737.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Around 1,000 Cidco plots up for grabs over next 12 months||MUMBAI: At a time, when the real estate market is in the throes of the pandemic, Cidco will offer what might be a bonanza for those in search of bungalow plots, row houses and for large developers over the next one year. The planning agency plans to auction 1,000 plots over the next 12 months. Cidco has earned about Rs 1,200 crore from auctioning plots in over two months. In February it managed to get a record Rs 2.63 lakh per square meter bid for a plot in Sanpada. Auctioning of plots will help Cidco generate sizable funds and support its ambitious projects. Cidco is aiming to garner over Rs 500 crore a month from these auctions. In January, Cidco auctioned 27 bungalow plots and a 66 sqmt plot in Ghansoli fetched a whopping Rs 1.30 lakh per sqmt, while the base price for plots in Ghansoli was between Rs 30,800 per sqm and Rs 35,813 per sqmt. Similarly, a plot measuring about 207 sqm in New Panvel (E) was sold at Rs 1.09 lakh per sqmt, while the base price for the New Panvel plots was Rs 39,200 per sqm. Cidco will now roll out a range of land parcels in Navi Mumbai for auction over next 12 months. Around 1,000 plots may be offered over a period and plot sizes may range from 40 sqm to 4000 sqm. Of these, 300 to 400 plots are said to be bungalow plots, which have areas ranging from 40 to 400 sqmt. According to Cidco officials, bigger plots range from 1,000 sqmt to about a hectare and are sought by builders and developers, while bungalow plots have always attracted a premium from home buyers. “There are many things attractive in bidding for Cidco plots. There is a shortage of land parcels with clear titles in MMR, but land parcels auctioned by Cidco have clear titles, as the land has been acquired by Cidco. Besides, several connectivity projects in Navi Mumbai are in the offing,” said a Cidco official. Cidco vice-chairman and managing director Sanjay Mukherjee said “Cidco has decided to bring out big stock of small plots, which will be given to smaller builders and developers so that they can enter the market in a stressed situation. It is also an opportunity for the middle class to own bungalows. Cidco is committed to provide a level playing field.” Manohar Shroff, vice-president of MCHI-CREDAI Navi Mumbai unit, said “The response to the auctions has been good, because Cidco has increased the ancillary FSI. Builders are quoting high prices for these plots and offering bigger houses. They will make good money. It is a win-win for CIDCO and for builders, besides consumers too will be benefitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-around-1000-cidco-plots-up-for-grabs-over-next-12-mths/articleshow/81370949.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Seniority may take backseat as EPS looks for loyalty, fresh faces||Chennai: Enthused by the support pouring in from within the party for Edappadi K Palaniswami’s leadership, the AIADMK is all set to field some fresh faces in the polls, wherever possible. On Saturday, party coordinator O Panneerselvam, joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami and the parliamentary board members received lists of shortlisted candidates for the AIADMK ticket from the 73 district secretaries of the party. The district secretaries were tasked with identifying three potential candidates for each constituency, something that has never been done in the party so far. Jayalalithaa and Sasikala used to shortlist candidates based on intelligence reports. Giving importance to the district secretaries is Palaniswami’s gameplan to stuff the list of candidates with his loyalists to pre-empt loyalty deficit in the assembly. The district secretaries include 21 ministers and 16 sitting MLAs. Their meeting with the party top brass lasted for three hours. “We were told to prepare the list based on our conscience. We had to look at the popularity and efficiency of the candidates and their contribution to the party,” said a senior functionary. EPS has engaged a private agency to gauge public response. A retired IPS officer is helping the leadership with valuable intelligence inputs, which may even result in the leadership vetoing the lists prepared by some district secretaries. A final decision on the party candidates is expected on Monday, by which time seat-sharing is expected to be over with the rest of the allies, including the DMDK. The party had conducted day-long interviews of 8,200 applicants on Thursday. Sources said most of the 124 sitting MLAs would make it to the final list as they have stood by EPS during all the trouble he went through after Jayalalithaa’s demise and Dhinakaran’s revolt. “Age factor, illness and controversies may work against a few sitting MLAs. Since the party is planning to field at least 175 candidates in two leaves symbol, many fresh faces could make it to the list,” said a minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/seniority-may-take-backseat-as-eps-looks-for-loyalty-fresh-faces/articleshow/81370879.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 7, 2021||Delhi||High court asks 3.5k undertrials out for Covid to surrender||New Delhi: Nearly 3,500 undertrial prisoners who were released to decongest city’s jails during the Covid-19 pandemic, will have to surrender, Delhi High Court has said. The court has directed 3,499 undertrial prisoners to surrender on expiry of their respective interim bail period, based on the recommendation of a high-powered committee constituted earlier on the direction of the Supreme Court. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh said it was “not inclined” to further extend the period of interim bail granted to these undertrial prisoners under various criteria laid down by the committee in its several meetings. “It is therefore directed that all the 3,499 UTPs granted interim bails under the various criteria laid down by the committee, who have not obtained regular bails from their court concerned, or any other superior court to its court concerned, shall surrender before the jail superintendent (s) upon the expiry of the period of their interim bail commencing from March 7,” the high court said in an order passed last week. The bench added that since the 3,499 undertrial prisoners were granted interim bails on different dates, so the period of their interim bails would expire with end on different dates and there was no requirement to fix any specific date for their surrender. The court, while refusing to extend the interim bails, considered the improved situation of Covid-19 in Delhi-NCR too. It also took into consideration the March 1 directions of the apex court wherein 2,318 prisoners granted interim bails by trial courts and 356 prisoners granted bail by the high court were asked to surrender within 15 days. The high court, which disposed of the petition relating to extension of interim bails, made it clear that all these prisoners may invoke the jurisdiction of the court concerned for grant of regular bail and the courts shall consider it on merits. It directed the director general (prisons) to ensure that this order is conveyed to all the 3,499 undertrial prisoners by telephone and all other available modes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-court-asks-3-5k-undertrials-out-for-covid-to-surrender/articleshow/81370186.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Nashik||Traffic diversion near Brahma Valley School||Nashik: The Nashik city police have announced traffic diversions for the construction of a wall on Dwarka flyover. Motorists on the Dwarka flyover proceeding from Mumbai towards Dhule side would have to use the fast lane from Bramha Valley School till the ramp of the flyover. From there, they would move left to take the service road to go towards Dhule. Similarly, motorists from Dhule moving towards Mumbai would have to take the right and use the lane close to the divider till Bramha Valley school. Then, they can use both the lanes of the flyover. The diversion of 100 meters will continue till the work of constructing the wall is over. A police officer, five traffic police constables and 28 volunteers would be working in two shifts to guide the motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traffic-diversion-near-brahma-valley-school/articleshow/81370855.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 7, 2021||Nashik||Ex-Malegaon MLA, 5 others booked for holding rally||NASHIK: The Pawarwadi police in Malegaon have booked former Congress MLA Asif Shaikh Rasheed and five of his close associates under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Bombay Police Act for organising a rally in the textile town on Friday evening without permission. Police said the required Covid-19 protocols were also not followed at the crowded rally. Rasheed said he would go before the court and accept the outcome. A former Congress MLA from Malegaon Central, Rasheed had created ripples in the political circle last month by resigning from the Congress during a press conference. Rasheed then conducted a series of meetings with citizens and decided to organise a public rally on Friday. The rally saw a gathering of approximately 2,000 people in the Raunakabad area, where Rasheed hinted at joining the NCP. In view of the violation of the orders issued by the district collector for prevention of Covid-19 and other orders under the Bombay Police Act,1951, the Pawarwadi police registered a suo motu case against the former MLA and five associates and booked them. Speaking to TOI Rasheed said: “We had sought permission, assuring that we would be providing 3,000 masks and all Covid norms would be followed. The permission was rejected on the very day of the rally. It became impossible to cancel the rally. The police have done their job. We too would go before the court and accept the outcome.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ex-malegaon-mla-5-others-booked-for-holding-rally/articleshow/81370885.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Rs 22 crore for treating 2 children from Hyderabad: Crowdfunding only hope||HYDERABAD: Parents of two children from Hyderabad, suffering from spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) — one of the few rare diseases that can be treated — have turned to crowdfunding for financial help. The cost of treatment, doctors say, is as high as Rs 22 crore (including Rs 16 crore for injection and Rs 6 crore for import duty). Among those looking for support are three-year-old Ayaansh and seven-month-old Amayra Sheikh. Both have been detected with Type 1 SMA, which makes them almost completely immobile. “Our baby is unable to even move or sit, but we are just thankful to have her around. Everyday is a struggle for us. I have started this fundraiser secretly without telling my family. I did not want to give any false hopes but I am praying every minute that some miracle happens and the fund target is met,” said Amayra’s father, Sheik Ali Edirush, an IT professional. Making a similar wish is Aayansh’s father, Yogesh Gupta. “Please donate to relieve little child of the daily torture. Every small amount will take us one step closer to the required amount,” said Gupta. But despite all the hurdles, the families are certain not to give up just yet. Knowing that a treatment for this disease is available somewhere they are turning to various platforms to seek financial support. The fact that only recently a kid from Mumbai could get the injection — Zolgensma, a one-time gene replacement therapy– through crowdfunding, has also given them some hope. SMA is a rare genetic disorder affecting one in 8,000 children. These kids rarely make it beyond two years without medical intervention. Also, time is crucial in treatment of such patients. “The best response is when the kid is still less than one year old. If the gene therapy (injection) is given within three to six months, the child will have a completely normal growth while in later stages some amount of permanent damage will happen. Usually by the age of three to four months parents identify the delay in achieving of milestones — like not being able to lift the neck, unable to sit or stand. While in Type 3 cases, walking and movement is possible, kids have difficulty in climbing stairs etc, in Type 2 sitting is the maximum that is achieved while in Type 1 — which is the worst form of the disease — patients are largely restricted to the bed,” said Dr Ramesh Konaki, consultant paediatric neurologist, who is coordinating treatment for all the three kids. Speaking about the increase in cases of rare disease patients seeking funding, Khushboo Jain, co-founder and COO, of ImpactGuru.com said, “For three kids suffering from SMA Type 1 we have cumulatively raised over Rs 3 crore. It is heartening to witness the power of crowdfunding. A large number of donors are coming together to support these families in their journey of saving their child. We hope more families come forward to utilise our healthcare financing platform in their time of need to get the best available treatment for critical illnesses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-22-crore-for-treating-kids-crowdfunding-only-hope/articleshow/81370190.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 7, 2021||Mumbai||Film, theatre veteran Shrikant Moghe dead in Maharashtra||Pune: Veteran stage, film, and television actor Shrikant Moghe passed away late on Saturday at the age of 91, due to age-related illnesses. Moghe was educated across the state, including in Pune’s SP College and held a degree in architecture, but it was his passion for theatre that took hold as a career. His family included his poet-lyricist brother Sudhir, who passed away almost seven years ago, and his son Shantanua and daughter-in-law Priya Marathe, both actors. He became known for his long association in theatre with PuLa Deshpande, acting in lead and supporting roles in many of his plays. He also directed some plays, most notably Varyavarchi Varaat and the satire Tujhe Aahe Tujpashi. Aside from theatre, his appearances in films also created a mark in Marathi cinema, with him taking acting credits in no less than 50 films. He worked with the filmmaker Jabbar Patel in Sinhaasan and Umbartha. “I have seen his journey over many years, and I saw his wonderful sense of music, especially the various branches of Indian classical music, added to his taste in Urdu, him being a fluent speaker of the language. Besides, he was a great presence on the set, with his sense of humour, intelligence and his taste in colours and forms. In the film Sinhaasan, he managed to bring in humour even in a dark, political drama. Whenever we attempted an experiment in theatre, he would be the first to admire,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/film-theatre-veteran-shrikant-moghe-dead-in-maharashtra/articleshow/81370217.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Aurangabad||4 booked for forging papers to transfer prime plots||Aurangabad: The city police have booked four people, including a woman, on the charges of cheating and forgery after they allegedly forged 7/12 extract of four plots in a prime location and illegally transferred the plots. Sambhaji Pawar, inspector at City Chowk police station, said a case against the suspects was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by sub-registrar Rajendra Rathod. “The alleged cheating took place on January 5 this year at the registrar’s office. The suspects have been slapped with sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose ofcheating), 471 (fraudulently using a forged document as genuine) and 34 (commonintention) of the IPC,” said Pawar.In his complaint, Rathodhas stated the suspects forged the 7/12 extract of gat number 8 in Ashrafpur by deleting the name of the land owner and putting the name of one of their accomplices (a woman) as the owner. Using this forged document, the suspects transferred four plots in the name of their accomplice. Rathod stated that ‘the suspects, including the purchaser of the plots, misled the registrar’s office by submitting forged 7/12 extract.’The incident came to light when one person raised an objection to the registry of the plots, following which an internal inquiry was carried out which found the transaction was carried out by misleading authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-booked-for-forging-papers-to-transfer-prime-plots/articleshow/81370915.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||New interview schedule for EFLU faculty recruitment||Hyderabad: The English and Foreign Languages University on Saturday announced a new schedule of interviews for faculty recruitment which will be conducted on March 8, 9 and 10. To fill up the vacant teaching positions, the university had earlier scheduled interviews from January 21 to February 5. However, the university had to reschedule the interviews that were to be held on February 3, 4 and 5 on administrative grounds. “Now, following the directions of high court of Telangana, the university is going to conduct the interviews on March 8, 9 and 10. Accordingly, the university has sent the call letters to candidates through email specifying the dates of the interviews,” the varsity said. “Aspirants are once again allowed to choose between in-person and online mode of interviews ,” it added. Interviews for faculty positions in the department of training and development are scheduled on March 8, department of Arab Studies on March 9 and department of Hindi on March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-interview-schedule-for-eflu-faculty-recruitment/articleshow/81370192.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Chennai||EC lists 11 docus other than voter IDs electors can produce, vote||Chennai: The  commission on Friday announced 11 alternative photo identity documents, other than the electors photo identity card (EPIC), that voters can carry to polling booths for confirming identity. All voters who have been issued EPIC shall produce the card to establish their identity in the polling booth before casting their votes. Voters who can’t produce the EPIC shall produce one of the alternative photo identity documents mentioned. The alternatives are — Aadhaar card, MGRNEGA job card, passbooks with photograph issued by banks/post offices, health insurance smart card issued under the scheme of Union ministry of labour, driving licence, pan card, smart card issued by registrar general of India under National Population Register, Indian passport, pension document with photograph, service identity cards with photo issued to employees by central/state government/ PSUs/ public limited companies and official identity cards issued to MPs/MLAs/MLCs. “Clerical errors and spelling mistakes in EPIC should be ignored provided the identity of the voter can be established,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ec-lists-11-docus-other-than-voter-ids-electors-can-produce-vote/articleshow/81370924.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chennai||DMDK cuts demand to 23 seats, Karunaas quits front||Chennai: After having signed deals with the PMK and the BJP, the AIADMK was on Saturday yet to arrive at an understanding with its minor allies. Though the AIADMK on Saturday resumed seat-sharing talks with Vijayakanth’s DMDK after a gap of four days, the latter is said to have held on to its scaled-down demand of 23 seats, equivalent to the number of seats given to the PMK. Meanwhile, Mukkulathor Pulipadai leader Karunaas, an ally of the AIADMK, quit the alliance, alleging that the ruling camp had betrayed the interests of mukkulathors, a dominant caste group in 84 assembly constituencies in the central and southern districts. The deadlock, however, continues in AIADMK-DMDK talks. After an invite from the AIADMK following an announcement of party coordinator O Panneerselvam that the alliance continues, a DMDK delegation of deputy secretaries, B Parthasarathy and A S Akbar called on an AIADMK team at a private hotel. The talks lasted for 90 minutes. “We have come down to 23 from our original demand of 41 seats allotted by the AIADMK in 2011. They (AIADMK) have come forward to allot more than the previous offer. In a day or two, the seats will get finalised, and agreement signed,” Parthasarathy told TOI. The AIADMK had earlier offered an RS seat and 15 assembly seats to the DMDK. The AIADMK is keen on retaining the DMDK as it has a pan-TN presence. Sources said the AIADMK would not concede 23 seats to the DMDK as it had committed to the PMK that it would be the second senior-most partner in the alliance. Hours earlier, Karunaas, the sitting MLA of Thiruvadanai constituency and who had won on the AIADMK’s two leaves symbol in 2016, came down heavily on the EPS government. “We have been asking for a quota for mukkulathors for a long time but were ignored. The EPS government and the eight ministers belonging to our community betrayed us and extended a quota (10.5% internal reservation for vanniyars) for political gains,” the actor alleged. He said PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss had levelled corruption charges against the chief minister, but the ruling dispensation became subservient and met his quota demand. “EPS is a betrayer. He has turned the AIADMK into a party of vanniyars and gounders. It is not the path to growth but the path to destruction. The party has become a stooge of the BJP,” he said. Karunaas said he had raised the mukkulathor quota issue with former chief minister J Jayalalithaa when he aligned with the AIADMK in 2016 polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmdk-cuts-demand-to-23-seats-karunaas-quits-front/articleshow/81370990.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Man adopts macaw at Nehru Zoological Park for 3 months||HYDERABAD: A resident of Secunderabad, S Siddarth, adopted a macaw for three months at Nehru Zoological Park on Saturday. The animal lover, who was visiting the place along with his family, paid Rs 7,500 in favour of the zoological park’s curator for the same. “I hope that my commitment to conservation of wild animals will inspire others. I really wish more people would come forward to adopt the animals at the Nehru Zoological Park.” Speaking on the occasion A Nagamani, deputy curator, Nehru Zoological Park, thanked Siddharth for showing interest in adopting the macaw. “These adoptions will play a great role in strengthening the wildlife conservation programme in the zoo,” said Nagamani. Last week, a couple, along with family members adopted the 121-year-old Galapagos giant tortoise at the park. Saroj Devi and her husband Ashish Kumar, along with family members visited the zoo and offered to adopt the Galapagos giant tortoise, which is also known as a senior citizen of the zoo. They handed over a cheque for Rs 30,000 to the zoo authorities towards the adoption of the giant tortoise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-adopts-macaw-at-zoo-for-3-months/articleshow/81370203.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Know your postman’ to help customers keep track of mails||SECUNDERABAD: If you find any important parcels and other key documents such as passports, Aadhaar cards, PAN cards and other parcels not delivered, you can just dial your beat postman from your smartphone. Though the postmen deliver the dak promptly, sometimes they are unable to deliver them due to customers’ premises being locked or them being out of station. The postal department, after a stipulated time, sends it back to the addresses which booked them.  To avoid these disturbances, the Telangana Postal Circle has come up with an idea of ‘Know your postman’. The concept has been launched in the Secunderabad area, and received positive response from customers. “The idea behind the concept is that most of the customers do not know about their postmen and how to contact them, though they have been delivering the dak over decades. To know them, the postal department has initiated the ‘Know your Postman’ concept. Customers who are visiting Secunderabad GPO can note down the mobile numbers of the postman concerned and their areas to contact them easily,” senior superintendent of post offices (SSP), Secunderabad Postal Division, Santosh Netha Kairamkonda told STOI. If the customer has not received their parcels, they can enquire with the beat postman concerned about the status so that they need not run from pillar to post, he said. There is a proposal to introduce a similar concept in other parts of Hyderabad postal region soon, added the postal official. M Santosh, who covers Chandralok Complex, RDO and MRO Offices, Fire Station and CTO building, among other areas, said, “Through this newly launched concept, customers are calling me and enquiring about their parcels. In fact, we too got relief in delivering the dak promptly and quickly.” “The postal department’s decision providing contact number of postmen is appreciable and it has become easy for us to track the parcels,” said Srinivas Varma, a resident of Gandhi Colony in Secunderabad. You will find all postmen working in over 300 post offices in Secunderabad limits in one place. Photos of the postmen and their numbers can be found on flexies displayed at Secunderabad GPO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/know-your-postman-to-help-customers-keep-track-of-mails/articleshow/81370200.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Centre must withdraw referral wages order, say Gulf workers||Hyderabad: With Parliament session set to be reconvened on March 8, representatives of various organisations and individuals representing Gulf workers embarked on a ‘Chalo Delhi’ programme on Saturday. They will give representations to MPs of various political parties and from different states on the issue of referral wages of Gulf workers being reduced by the central government. “We will settle for nothing less than a rollback,” the Gulf JAC members said. The Gulf JAC team, which went live on FB from Mancherial railway station before they boarded the train to Delhi on Saturday, said the two circulars issued by the Centre affected the Gulf workers badly. “We will meet as many MPs as we can and explain the issue to them. Our effort is to see that the Centre withdraws the circulars,” Gulf JAC convenor Guggilla Ravi Goud said at the railway station. The 10-member team held banners at the railway station demanding that the two circulars be repealed. For the last several months, Gulf workers and their associations have been raising the issue at various fora, including writing to the Centre, but did not get any response. In the circulars, the government of India said wages of Indian workers in the Gulf could be reduced from the present wages and this was a reduction between 30-50 per cent. In the letter that the Gulf JAC has prepared to submit to MPs, it pointed out that the circulars of the MEA on September 8 and 21, 2020, the minimum referral wages (MRWs) of Indians who work in Qatar, Bahrain and Oman have been reduced to $200 and for the UAE to $324. It said the government’s decision destroys the livelihoods of the workers and dreams of current and prospective emigrants. Gulf JAC Qatar wing spokesperson Thota Dharmender pointed out that Oman, the UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Qatar had not even asked India to reduce the minimum wages. “The Indian government appears to have succumbed to pressures from recruiting agencies and foreign employers,” he said. Dharmender explained that Qatar government had legislated to provide a minimum wage of 1,000 riyals for workers of all nationalities with free food and accommodation. He said it was surprising to note that the GoI is ready to send its workers for only 728 riyals ($200). “We cannot say when we will return from Delhi. We will inform about our plans after reaching the capital and meeting MPs,” Ravi Goud said at the Mancherial station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-must-withdraw-referral-wages-order-say-gulf-workers/articleshow/81370199.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 7, 2021||Ranchi||2 arrested for kerosene blasts in Hazaribag||Hazaribag: Two persons have been arrested for the kerosene blast deaths in Hazaribag’s sadar block last week, police said on Saturday. Hazaribag SP Karthik S said Shankar Yadav, driver of the oil tanker in which kerosene was supplied to PDS shops, and Vidyasagar Guddu of Ormanjhi (Ranchi) have been arrested for running a fuel pilferage racket. At least five persons died in different kerosene blasts and over a dozen were injured. Based on preliminary probe, the district administration had stated that the kerosene stocks supplied to the PDS shops were adulterated and filed an FIR against a firm named Army Trading Company, which was responsible for picking up stocks from the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) depot. Karthik said, “We first arrested the driver of the oil tanker and he gave us vital information about the deaths. He confessed that he used to pilfer petrol and diesel from the tanker with help of Guddu. After one such pilferage, he could not wash the tanker and carried kerosene for supply on January 12. As a result, petrol got mixed with kerosene and caused the explosions.” Police said Guddu has also confessed that he was involved in the racket for some time. “Our probe is on and we are trying to trace the entire network and make more arrests,” Karthik said. SDPO (headquarters) Mahesh Prajapati said that police have sent both to jail after producing them before a local court and slapping cases under relevant sections of IPC and Essential Commodities Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-arrested-for-kerosene-blasts-in-hazaribag/articleshow/81368380.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Ranchi||Bokaro baby dies hours after taking 5-in-1 vax, probe ordered||Bokaro: A three-month-old male baby died 10 hours after he was given the Pentavalent vaccine at Lavagada aganwadi centre at Arjuwa panchayat under Pertawar police station on Friday. Pentavalent vaccine is the 5-in-1 vaccine that protects against diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, hepatitis B and haemophilus influenza type B. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said a two-member committee, including district reproductive and child health officer and a WHO surveillance medical officer, will ascertain the cause of the baby’s death. He said, “It would be wrong to say that the death was due to vaccination. Six other babies were administered the vaccine from the same vial and they are fine. We are investigating the matter.” The deceased was the only son of Girish Karmali. The child’s family members and other villagers accused the health workers of negligence and a team of district administration on Saturday visited the village for probe. A post-mortem on the body could not be conducted due to resistance from the family members. Karmali said that the baby died on Friday night after blood oozed out from his nose. He added that they administered their baby a second dose of Pentavalent vaccine along with a polio vaccine. “The child was healthy before vaccination. After taking the jab, the infant did not cry nor did he feel pain. This was not taken seriously by ANM and others. In addition, the infant was vaccinated by giving more doses. At night at 11.30 pm, he bled through nose and died.” Petarwar BDO Shailendra Kumar Chaurasia, medical in-charge Albarka Kerketa and Petarwar police talked to the family. Medical in-charge Albarka Karketta said that the information has been taken from the family about the incident, in which they have accused ANM of negligence. “A show-cause notice has been issued to all those who were involved in the vaccination drive. They were asked to reply within 24 hours,” said Karketta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-baby-dies-hours-after-taking-5-in-1-vax-probe-ordered/articleshow/81368330.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Ranchi||Homes razed, kids study for exams on streets||Ranchi: The district administration’s recent demolition drive near Kamke Dam has rendered the locals homeless, forcing the students to prepare for their upcoming annual exams on the streets. Even their tuition teacher is conducting classes out in the open for around 15 students, which include board examinees. Around 10 days ago, the district administration razed more than 40 houses in Kathar Gonda and in Sarvar Nagar, located near the catchment areas of the dam, after a survey revealed that the residential structures were allegedly encroaching the land. On Saturday, TOI visited Kathar Gonda and Sarvar Nagar and found that the locals were residing in makeshift huts. When asked, Class XI student Priya said, “We have lost our homes and now I don’t even have a proper place to study and my annual exams will start from next week. With no proper lighting arrangements, all we have is daytime to prepare for our exams.” Class X student Nitesh Kumar’s ordeal is no different. He said, “The only help that I can get prior to my exams are the tuition class conducted by a bhaiya from our neighbourhood. We have to sit in the streets and study during early hours in the morning. There is no place for me to sit and do self-study. Occasionally, I go to my friend’s house but one cannot do that on a daily basis.” The tuition teacher, identified as Guddu Kumar, said, “I had to rent a place nearby as my house was demolished as well. I am now forced to conduct classes on the streets on a daily basis in the morning.” The demolition drive was conducted after reports of encroachment on land adjoining Kanke Dam had surfaced over the years. However, the residents accused Ranchi Municipal Corporation of targeting them. They said that they have been paying electricity bills and holding tax for the past 15 years and “suddenly they were asked to vacate the land”. The locals have alleged that the civic body did not demolish any of the high-rises situated along the Kanke road. Pinki Devi, a resident, said, “We used to visit circle officer’s office for getting information about the survey but he never met us. However, he was always accessible to the big builders who had built their properties on the catchment areas. Now, we are homeless and our kids are suffering.” Upon contact, Ranchi SDM Sameera S said, “The demolition and eviction drive against the encroachers on the catchment areas of the Kanke Dam isn’t complete yet. The administration will not spare anyone if he/she is found building illegal structures in the catchment areas and every one will be treated as per law and the latest survey of the water body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/homes-razed-kids-study-for-exams-on-streets/articleshow/81368352.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 7, 2021||Ranchi||Garhwa residents seek resumption of express trains||Garhwa: Miffed by the cancellation of trains in the aftermath of the Covid-induced lockdown, Garhwa residents, buoyed by BJP and JMM leaders, have demanded for the restoration of services. They have threatened to launch a massive agitation against the railway authorities if the train services are not resumed soon. District BJP president Om Prakash Keshri said, “All trains passing via Garhwa station must be restored as soon as possible. Even the Palamu MP, Vishnu Dayal Ram, has also demanded the same from Union railways minister Piyush Goyal.” “Train services should resume immediately for the sake of not only the public but also for the labourers who are facing difficulties,” district JMM president Tanveer Alam Khan said. As many as nine trains used to pass through Garhwa town railway station during the pre-Covid period. Currently, only three trains stop at Garhwa and of those, two stop late at night — Palamu-Singrauli Link Express arrives at 00:18 am while Tata Jamu Tavi Express stops at 1am. Garhwa station manager Dharmendra Das said, “We are getting several complaints over the timing of the Palamu-Link Express. Earlier, its arrival time was 10pm but its current timing is creating hassles for the passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/garhwa-residents-seek-resumption-of-express-trains/articleshow/81369589.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Ranchi||4 train travellers from Maha, Kerala test +ve||Ranchi: Jharkhand detected only four new cases of Covid-19 from among the 3,735 symptomatic people who returned to the state by trains and flights since March 1 from various parts of the country, including those which have witnessed a spurt in the cases recently, the health department has said. No returnees from international destinations have tested positive. According to the state health department data, samples of 3,735 symptomatic people were collected between March 1 and 6 out of which four have tested positive. All four are from Dhanbad district and had returned to the state on two different trains originating from Kerala and Maharashtra. “Of the four, two are passengers travelling on the CSTM-Howrah Express while the other two travelled on the Allepey-Dhanbad Express. They tested positive after their samples were collected at the Dhanbad railway station. All four have been sent to institutional quarantine at PMCH,” said Dr Praveen Karn, state epidemiologist and Jharkhand head of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP). Among the total samples collected so far, Bokaro contributed the highest at 1,584 while Dhanbad has a total of 1,556 samples. East Singhbhum also contributed 1,331 samples while Ranchi had only 280 samples. Meanwhile, the state IDSP unit continued with the surveillance of passengers arriving from international destinations and directed the respective districts to ensure that proper follow-up after conducting the mandatory RT-PCR tests on them to prevent the spread of any mutant strain of the virus found in the foreign countries. “A total of 144 people have returned to Jharkhand from various international destinations, including 12 passengers at the Ranchi airport, and we have alerted all our district surveillance units to conduct regular follow-up and ensure that they are not infected or detect them immediately if they are already infected. So far, none of the returnees has shown any symptoms and they are stable,” Dr Karn added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-train-travellers-from-maha-kerala-test-ve/articleshow/81369331.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 7, 2021||Ranchi||2 MoUs inked during Hemant’s meet with investors in Delhi||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday promised a red-carpet welcome to investors coming to Jharkhand even as the state industries department signed two deals during the meeting with potential investors in New Delhi. During the maiden meeting for Soren after he assumed charge in 2019, the chief minister also unveiled the draft of the Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, which aims to create a path for the state's economic revival after the Covid-19 lockdown. Soren assured full cooperation from his government to the investors will to come to Jharkhand, where land availability has always been a contentious issue. Addressing the gathering at the Taj Palace hotel, Soren said, "Some of the biggest industrialists like the Tatas and the Birlas have begun their journey from our soil. I want to assure you that the state is with you. We will stand by your side to help you build your entities and factories in our state. We in turn want to address the concerns of employment and economic development of Jharkhand. Mines and minerals have been our core strengths but they aren’t the only plus point and have much more across different sectors which have immense growth potential. In terms of facilities, we have huge resources and skilled manpower for your utilization.” Between 2014 and 2019, Soren’s predecessor Raghubar Das, too, had embarked on an aggressive journey to woo investments by crafting numerous policies centered around industrial promotion across different sectors. Das had conducted several roadshows and investment summits held during his regime. The global investment summit titled 'Momentum Jharkhand' organsied by the previous BJP government had resulted in hundreds of MoUs, of which a few in textile, BPO and skill development have been translated into businesses. However, the state is still to fully unlock its investment generation potential. Soren said in n the post-lockdown era amid the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a need for a fresh relook into the state’s industrial policy to reboot the industrial activities and create jobs. “The pandemic has caused an industrial crisis affecting different value chains. The industrial sector needs to overcome the dent caused by the lockdown. For this, we felt there is a need for fresh policies to create jobs at a faster pace,” he said, adding that Saturday's meeting was first in the line of many more in the offing towards a robust policy in place. “Without the stakeholders’ cooperation, no policy will be successful,” he noted. State chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, industries secretary Pooja Singhal, industries director Jitendra Kumar and principal secretary to the CM, Rajiv Arun Ekka, accompanied Soren to the meeting. Singhal said the draft policy has identified high priority and priority sectors to bolster growth. “The incentives and ease of doing business among others will be much more simplified and attractive,” she noted. High priority sectors include textiles & apparel, automobiles, auto-components & electric vehicles, agro-food processing & meat processing, pharmaceuticals and electronics system design & manufacturing (ESDM). On the vision of the new policy, Singhal said, “The focus is to generate five lakh jobs and investments to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crores in five years. Under the new policy, we are also proposing to set up different task-specific bodies including for revival of sick units, asset reconstruction, and investment promotion.” She also assured that there will be no hassles for land and said the government has plans to develop an export hub in each of the 24 districts. Meanwhile, the state signed two MoUs with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) and the Flipkart Internet Pvt during the meeting. Under the deals, Flipkart will operate a fulfilment centre and facility hubs across the state, creating about three thousand direct and indirect jobs. The government will facilitate the new investment and ongoing investment operations of the Flipkart Group within the state. The industries department and Flipkart will also work together towards the construction of a warehouse and logistic structure within the state. “Flipkart will work towards the orientation and creation of the micro, small and medium scale industries. It will also help in other employment-oriented schemes across the spectrum,” an official said. In the other MoU, FICCI has been roped in to share its expertise for the state's industrial growth. “FICCI will be industry liaison both within the country and at the global platform. It will also help the state government in necessary technical advice and investment related to key priority areas,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-mous-inked-during-hemants-meet-with-investors-in-delhi/articleshow/81369538.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 7, 2021||Ranchi||44 cases, 64 recoveries in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded 44 fresh cases and 64 recoveries on Saturday while the number of active cases stood at 461. No casualty was reported on Saturday. Meanwhile, 19,440 beneficiaries were vaccinated, including 11,845 who received their first dosage,while 7,595 received their second dose.As of Saturday, 35,01,59 have been administered their first dose while 63,186 have been administered second dose. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/44-cases-64-recoveries-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81369310.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Ranchi||East Singhbhum reports 79 Covid cases in past 10 days||Jamshedpur: Amid reports of a jump in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country, the East Singhbhhum district has also detected 79 new cases in the past 10 days. A district health department data said between February 24 and March 5, a total of 79 positive cases were reported with February 25, 26 and March 4 reporting 13, 20 and 16 cases, respectively. In the remaining seven days of the period, cases between one and eight have been reported per day. In the same period, 75 patients have recovered. Notably, East Singhbhhum, which was in the news for high number of cases and related deaths, has reported 18,266 positive cases till on Friday. Of the total, 17,825 have recovered and 375 have succumbed to the virus. A total of 66 are active and undergoing treatment. Out of the total active persons, the share of the urban areas consisting of the three urban municipal bodies of Jamshedpur, Mango and Jugsalai is 65. The district reported the first Covid case on May 12 last year. At present, the district administration has taken up several measures to reinforce the safety measures in the wake of the fresh cases being reported overwhelmingly from the urban limits. The district health department has re-launched testing of passengers alighting at the Tatanagar railway station and coming from different parts of the country particularly Ahmedabad, Mumbai and Delhi. Besides, checkposts have been set up at strategic points for testing and personnel were stationed at crowded public places to ensure that people wear masks and maintain social distancing while venturing out. Additional chief medical Officer of the district, Sahir Pall, said tests are regularly being conducted to identify and isolate the infected persons. "People who are being tested at the railway station are being asked to stay in home isolation till the report arrives," Pall said. He reiterated that suspected Covid-19 virus carriers, who arrived from other states, are being examined to prevent the spread of the disease here. Notably, the district health department has conducted 5,73,992 tests so far. The Jamshedpur chapter secretary of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Mrityunjay Singh, said, "The negligent approach of people in complying with the Covid safety guidelines could prove detrimental. We need to be sensitive and follow the safety guidelines properly till the pandemic is over." Veteran doctor V K Sharma said the sudden spike in fresh cases in some parts of Maharashtra and a few other states was primarily due to the behavioural change of the locals there. Meanwhile, the district administration has administered the first dose of the Covid vaccine to 4,554 beneficiaries and the second dose to 2,257 beneficiaries till Friday for both the phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-reports-79-covid-cases-in-past-10-days/articleshow/81369577.cms||B Sridhar
March 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 100-odd heritage schools to get new lease of life||AHMEDABAD: The state government’s budgetary provision for renovation of heritage schools is expected to give a fresh lease of life to nearly 100 schools in Ahmedabad city. On Wednesday, the Gujarat government in its budget for 2021-22, allocated Rs 25 crore for the renovation of very old schools. Schools that are more than 100 years old are included in the heritage school category. Many old schools have been lying in a dilapidated state and have been in need of urgent repairs. According to some estimates, there will be about 300 such schools across the state, sources in the education department said.  Such schools with historical significance and a special kind of heritage architecture are of immense value, said Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who holds the finance portfolio. “There will be close to 100 schools in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation limits that are more than 100 years old,” said L D Desai, administrative officer, AMC School Board. So far, they had to approach the corporation for any repairs, she added. Till now, there had been no financial provisions for heritage schools in the state and this is perhaps the first time that such a provision has been made in the state budget. In the Walled City area of Ahmedabad, more than 30 heritage schools are estimated to have closed over the years and their buildings are in ruins, said sources. “Every year the state government aims to take up about 30-40 schools for repair and renovation,” said education secretary Vinod Rao. The first English school was opened in Ahmedabad in 1844 by Rev G L Allen at the Old Dutch factory. But when the school admitted an untouchable boy, prominent citizens boycotted the school. It was two years later that the first British government English school opened at Nagarsheth ni Haveli, with 47 students. A government girls’ school at Raikhad, set up in 1905, was hit hard by the earthquake in 2001. The school buildings were not repaired and a new structure was set up in the vicinity from where the school is being run currently. Vanita Vishram School, near Jethabhai Ni Pol in Khadia, Ahmedabad, was inaugurated in 1919 by Mahatma Gandhi. The school is now hoping for a new lease of life from the latest government announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/100-odd-heritage-schools-to-get-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/81369875.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||26 years after she was raped, son convinces woman to seek justice||BAREILLY: For two years, she was gang-raped in the house she lived in by two brothers the family knew. She was 12 then. When she got pregnant a year later, her family found out but she had to give up the baby. Now, she has been reunited with her son and it was he who convinced her to seek justice. Twenty-six years on, an FIR has been filed and the men who violated her have been booked. “It was 1994. I lived in Shahjahanpur with my sister. She taught at a private school and my brother-inlaw was a government employee,” the rape survivor told TOI. Then one day, two acquaintances of the family dropped in. “Naki Hasan and his brother Guddu. They raped me and, when I tried to resist, threatened to kill me. For two years, they gang-raped me repeatedly.” In 1995, I got pregnant and I told my sister everything. The brothers threatened to kill her if she tried to file a complaint ,” the woman, now 38, said. “We tried to get an abortion but the doctor refused since I was 13 and it would be risky.” Her brother-in-law got transferred and they left the town. In the new town, she gave birth to a boy and gave him up for adoption to distant relatives in Hardoi. In 2000, she got married but six years later when her husband found out she had been raped, he called her conduct into question and abandoned her. She never got to meet her son. Some years ago, the son found out he had been adopted and who his mother was, the FIR said. When they met last year, he asked who his father was. “I refused at first but he threatened to kill himself. I gave in.” Her son, now 24, was supportive and certain that she should not give up the fight. She said the first time she tried to register a complaint, the police would not. This week, the court of the chief judicial magistrate ordered them to file an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/26-years-after-she-was-raped-son-convinces-woman-to-seek-justice/articleshow/81372305.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 7, 2021||Delhi||AAP govt plans flag masts across Delhi to mark 75 years of freedom||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government is planning to install flag masts across the city to hoist the tricolour. It is likely to replicate the Connaught Place model and install similar flag poles across the capital. It also plans to organise functions on the inspirational lives of freedom fighters. The government is planning to celebrate 75 weeks from March 12 as “weeks of patriotism” on August 15, 2022, to mark 75 years of independence. “The government wants to organise functions based on the inspirational lives of B R Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh. From this academic session, the Delhi government is also going to launch a ‘Deshbhakti curriculum’ in its schools — KG to Class 8 — aimed at instilling a sense of pride for the country in children,” said a source. Education, health may get key shares in Delhi budgetMeanwhile, the budget session will begin on Monday with the lieutenant governor’s speech. The budget may reflect Kejriwal’s long-term vision for the city and the country. A significant percentage of the budget is expected to be allocated to education and health, the two sectors which have been areas of focus of the AAP government since it came to power. The session is likely to start at 11am and the economic survey and outcome budget are likely to be presented on the first day. The budget is likely to be presented on Tuesday. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will be presenting it for the seventh consecutive term. The session will conclude on March 16. Since it is the first session of the year, the LG will address the assembly on the first day at 11am and MLAs have been requested to be in their seats by 10.45am. Thirty minutes after the LG’s departure, the listed business of the house will be conducted. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel has directed all members to carry a Covid-19 test report (RT-PCR or antigen) for attending the session. In view of the pandemic situation, the members have been requested to wear a face mask and practise social distancing. The members are also needed to display their identity cards while wearing face masks which would help in identifying them in the assembly complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-govt-plans-flag-masts-across-delhi-to-mark-75-years-of-freedom/articleshow/81372338.cms||Alok K N Mishra
March 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP reports over 100 Covid cases five days in a row||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 115 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,90,556. This is the fifth day in a row that the state recorded more than 100 cases a day. The toll increased to 7,173 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease in Chittoor. Altogether 93 patients have been declared cured of the pandemic. There are currently 921 active cases with 8,8,2,462 cumulative recoveries and 7,173 fatalities. Chittoor reported 32 new infections on Saturday, followed by Krishna (20) and Visakhapatnam (18). Prakasam and Nellore districts have not recorded any new cases. The remaining eight districts posted single-digit case numbers. About two weeks ago, the active case load had dropped below the 100-mark in all districts. But now with the increasing daily cases, the active case load crossed the 200-mark in Chittoor district, while it is above 100 in Krishna. Andhra Pradesh tested 46,566 Covid-19 samples on Saturday and detected 115 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.25%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-over-100-covid-cases-five-days-in-a-row/articleshow/81369471.cms||---
March 7, 2021||India||Two days after she was set ablaze at home, rape survivor dies||JAIPUR: A 23-year-old rape survivor who was set ablaze by an unidentified person at her residence in Hanumangarh’s Dhan Mandi area on March 4, succumbed to injuries at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital on Saturday. None has been arrested so far. She had sustained 90% burns in the attack and was shifted from Sriganganagar hospital to the Jaipur facility after her condition deteriorated, where she was put on life support. “Her condition was very critical and vital organs failed due to internal bleeding,” said a doctor. The girl had filed a rape case against one Pradeep Bishnoi in 2018 in Hanumangarh. He was released on bail after spending six months in prison. He was detained on March 4 after the girl’s kin filed a police complaint alleging he was behind the attack. CCTV footage, however, revealed that Bishnoi wasn’t the assailant caught on camera. “We are still questioning Bishnoi. His phone calls and locations for the past 10-15 days are being scrutinised for clues,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-days-after-she-was-set-ablaze-at-home-rape-survivor-dies/articleshow/81372344.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation polls: Postal ballots polling between 8am and 5pm||VIJAYAWADA: Authorities of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), along with five other municipalities from Krishna district, have completed arrangements for postal and in-service ballot polling scheduled for Sunday. Postal ballots from VMC employees will be received at Tummalapalli Kalakshetram in the city on Sunday and Monday. Around 3,500 employees deployed for election duties across municipal areas in the district are going to cast their vote through postal ballot. Employees have been told to cast their vote by contacting returning officers of specific division by showing their voter ID and employee ID cards. Ahead of the postal ballot, political parties have turned their attention towards municipal employees with TDP promising clearance of salaries under the 010 bill, health insurance among others while the YSRC has promised a friendly and stress-free work environment for municipal employees should they win. Postal ballot for employees involved in election duties at Machilipatnam will be conducted at Hindu College and ballots for Nuzividu, Pedana, Tiruvuru, Vuyyuru will be provided at municipal offices locally. Employees who wish to avail postal ballot should cast their vote between 8 am to 5 pm. Around 190 in-service voters from the city, working in various parts of the country, have been identified for voting and officials have sent ballots to them through post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/postal-ballots-polling-between-8-to-5-today/articleshow/81369499.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Ward volunteers not allowed to electioneer||Vijayawada: Ahead of municipal polls, the state election commission (SEC) is focussed on ensuring that ward volunteers are not used in electioneering in support of candidates. The SEC on Saturday asked the public to make use of a 24x7 call centre to lodge complaints if they find ward volunteers engaging in electioneering. In a press release issued Saturday, the SEC said that ward volunteers shall not contact any beneficiary group in any illegal manner to solicit votes for a favoured candidate. “Electioneering involving ward volunteers is strictly punishable electoral offence and a violation of Model Code of Conduct (MCC). One can raise a complaint by calling 0866-2466877 helpline number or sending an e-mail to secy.apsec2@gmail.com,” the SEC stated. The SEC directed the district collectors and municipal commissioners to take immediate necessary action against electioneering by ward volunteers. In adherence with the SEC orders, Further, the SEC is also focussing on the misuse of money and liquor to influence voters. The commission is focussing on Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Guntur and Tirupati, places from which it has received complaints about money and liquor being used in a bid to woo voters. The SEC has also requested the income tax department and the enforcement directorate (ED) to remain vigilant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ward-volunteers-not-allowed-to-electioneer/articleshow/81369533.cms||Venu Lanka
March 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Amid spurt in Covid cases, Centre asks Andhra Pradesh to ‘test, track, treat’||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Union government on Saturday asked Andhra Pradesh to return to the fundamentals of ‘test, track and treat’ that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic last year. The state has in recent weeks seen a gradual increase in cases with daily numbers rising from 30 cases on February 15 to over 100 cases over the last few days. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and member (health), NITI Aayog, Dr Vinod K Paul interacted with health secretaries of several states and Union territories, including Andhra Pradesh, on Saturday. A presentation during the meeting showed that 10 districts of Andhra Pradesh continue to be of concern because of the low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in the weekly positivity rate and poor contact tracing. Stress was laid on prompt isolation and medical supervision of home isolation cases for quick identification of early deterioration. State officials have been asked to actively watch out for super-spreader events and share their best practices in breaking the chain of transmission. Speaking to STOI, AP Covid-19 nodal officer Dr K Rambabu said the health department has increased testing to 50,000 a day, in view of the increase in cases. “Chittoor has been consistently recording higher daily case numbers, while Krishna reported 20 cases on Saturday. Visakhapatnam is also witnessing early signs of resurgence. Officials in the districts have been asked to follow the prescribed containment strategy focused on surveillance, containment and management of the pandemic,” said Dr Rambabu. Andhra Pradesh has been asked to carry out an average close contact tracing of a minimum of 20 persons per positive case and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. The Centre also directed the state to actuate health infrastructure for effective clinical management as a surge in cases may affect the fatality rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/amid-spurt-in-cases-centre-asks-ap-to-test-track-treat/articleshow/81369560.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi to have own education board for new session: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: The Delhi cabinet approved constitution of a Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) on Saturday. This was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who said that for the 2021-22 session, around 20-25 schools will be affiliated to the new board. Delhi will have its own school board for the first time since 1952 when its board was merged with CBSE. Kejriwal had announced in 2015 that Delhi would be setting up its own school education board. Explaining the rationale behind it, he said on Saturday that it will conduct assessments throughout the year to develop holistic learning outcomes instead of once in a year which essentially focuses on rote learning. The emphasis has to be on “understanding” and “personality development” instead of rote learning, he said. “The interest, need and specialisation of each student would be taken into account to get insights on what courses they should take up for their careers. This is in sharp contrast to the model of rote learning,” he said. “The Delhi education board will bring about radical changes, making India a progressive and developed nation,” said the CM. Over 20 schools to be under new Delhi board this sessionIt will prepare students to take responsibility for their country, focus on making them good human beings, beyond all religion, caste, and class differences, and enable them to emerge as job givers and not job seekers,” said the CM. “Around 20-25 schools will be affiliated to this board in the 2021-22 academic session, after which other schools will be looped in in the next four to five years,” he added. Delhi government sources said the initial lot will be government schools. Expanding on his vision of “global education”, the CM said the board will function in close coordination with national and international boards and will develop world-class education practices that will enable a shift in teaching-learning practices across Delhi. “The board will ensure that each student’s talent is harnessed and they apply what they learn,” he stressed. Describing it as an “international-level board”, the CM said aid would be sought from various international organisations. “International practices and teaching methods had been analysed, based on which we would adopt similar practices and methodology in the Delhi schools under DBSE,” he said. Pointing out that there are about 1,000 government and 1,700 private schools in Delhi, with most of them affiliated to CBSE, Kejriwal said that for the first year, “the schools are being chosen based on suggestions from students, teachers and parents”. He, however, expressed the hope that in the next 4-5 years, all government and private schools would be affiliated to DBSE. The board will be governed by a governing body under the chairpersonship of the Delhi education minister. This body will include education officials, experts from higher education, principals from government and private schools, teachers and parents as well as educationists from other spheres. “The board’s everyday activities shall be coordinated by the executive body which will be a professional body. This will be headed by a chief executive officer with longterm experience in education, assessments and school administration,” said Kejriwal. The chief minister added that the board would be very different from the education boards of other states. “It has not been the Delhi government’s intention to seek applause by establishing this board. Education has been a priority for this government with 25% of the budget being spent on it,” he said. He said the entire country had witnessed revolutionary changes brought about by the Delhi government in the field of education in the past six years with 25% budget funds being reserved for it, large-scale training being given to teachers and principals of government schools in countries like Singapore, Finland, America, Canada, etc, empowering of principals and introduction of the happiness and entrepreneurship curriculum. “When I earlier worked with various NGOs, I always felt that our system of education lags behind and it is only by improving it would we be able to solve the plethora of issues that our country faces. Our six-year journey has been quite productive and I believe that the beginning of this next phase will transform the education system,” the CM said. Watch Delhi to have its own board of school education: CM Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-have-own-education-board-for-new-session-cm-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/81372349.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
March 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Will Vizag overcome its low voter turnout this election?||VISAKHAPATNAM: With only days left before the much-awaited municipal elections in Visakhapatnam, political parties are busy making calculations about voter turnout in the city this year. Municipal polls in Vizag typically see low voter turnout, limited to around 50 per cent in the last four elections. In the 2007 elections, voter turnout was 52 per cent; while in 2000 it was nearly 50 per cent. 49 per cent voters cast their ballot in 1995. Delving into the cause of low voter turnout, political observers opine that a sense of futility, political disenchantment and apathy contribute to people distancing themselves from the municipal electoral process. In a bid to encourage voting, the Visakhapatnam district administration has asked all public and private undertakings in areas notified for municipal polls to declare a paid public holiday on March 10. Speaking to TOI, Prof V Haribabu, a political science department of Andhra University (AU), said that participation is the mainstay in safeguarding democracy. "As has become the pattern or trend, voter turnout in urban areas continues to be on the lower side, even including the recent Hyderabad municipal polls. But it should be seen as a serious issue as election results may not be the original preference of citizens. Voting is the formal expression of public preference and can influence the decision-making process," Haribabu said. B Raviteja, who is going to vote for the first time in the municipal polls, said that he is eager to cast his ballot. "Unfortunately, there hasn’t been much youth participation has not been seen in the municipal polls," said Raviteja. The recently concluded four-phase panchayat elections in Andhra Pradesh witnessed at least 80 per cent voter turnout in each phase. Officials expect that the same trend would continue in GVMC polls as the stakes are high this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/will-vizag-overcome-its-low-voter-turnout-this-election/articleshow/81369578.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 7, 2021||Vijayawada||74 places marked ‘highly sensitive’ in Vij||Vijayawada: Ahead of elections to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), city police commissioner B Sreenivasulu said on Saturday that 1,897 habitual offenders have been bound over from across the city. Addressing a press conference, the city police chief said that around 3,000 personnel have been deployed for election duties on March 10. Civic body elections will be conducted across 64 divisions within VMC limits and 18 wards in Vuyyuru nagar panchayat. 788 polling stations have been set up across city. Srinivasulu said that the police have identified 74 places as ‘highly-sensitive’ and 61 as ‘sensitive’ within VMC limits. In Vuyyuru nagar panchayat, 17 places have been flagged as either ‘highly-sensitive’ or ‘sensitive’. 12 MCC teams and two static surveillance teams will be on duty on polling day. The commissioner further said that the police have opened rowdy sheets against 341 persons and suspect sheets against 412 persons; 264 persons were booked to protect law and order. 285 weapons having valid license were recovered. Cops have also seized Rs 36.77 lakh cash and gold while enforcing the model code of conduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/74-places-marked-highly-sensitive-in-vij/articleshow/81369588.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Mandapeta readies for municipal polls||Rajahmundry: Mandapeta municipality in East Godavari district is a pleasant mix of rural peace and urban facilities. A thriving municipal area, Mandapeta is a hub of agriculture-based industries and rice and paper mills. Spread over 21.65 square kilometres, the area provides employment to thousands of people from surrounding villages. Mandapeta became a grade three municipality in 1958. The area had a population of 15,000 at the time. Vegulla Veerraju who was the sarpanch at the time was elected as the first chairman of Mandapeta municipality in 1959. In 1987, Mandapeta became a grade two municipality. While the urban local body has prospered over the decades, there are several problems that need to be addressed. Traffic is a major problem as roads have not expanded in tandem with the growing population. Air pollution is a major problem due to the presence of rice mills. The lack of a compost yard and mosquito menace are other issues facing the area. The municipal area is set to see a contest between YSRC and TDP for the municipal chairperson post which is reserved for BC woman. Jana Sena too is trying to project its strength. TDP has been in power at Mandapeta since 1995. YSRC is leaving no stone unturned to win the polls this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mandapeta-readies-for-municipal-polls/articleshow/81369619.cms||Samson Raj
March 7, 2021||World||Body of ‘Everything will be OK’ protester exhumed to absolve police of the killing||Myanmar authorities exhumed the body of a 19-year-old woman who was shot dead wearing a T-shirt that read “Everything will be OK” and their examination exonerated police from the killing, state television MRTV said on Saturday. Kyal Sin, widely known as Angel, died on Wednesday from a shot to the head as protesters came under fire from security forces trying to end demonstrations against the February 1 coup. She has become an icon of the protest movement. The exhumation of Kyal Sin has brought fresh outrage from opponents of the coup, who accuse the junta of trying to conceal the fact she was killed by their forces. State television said police, a judge and doctors had exhumed the body and carried out a surgical investigation. They found a penetration wound in the back of the head and a piece of lead measuring 1.2 cm by 0.7 cm in the brain and said that it was different from the tips of bullets used by the police. State television said police had been face-to-face with the protesters and the wound was at the back of the head and that the object which killed Kyal Sin could be fired from a gun able to shoot .38 calibre bullets. “Therefore, it can be assumed that those who do not want stability conducted the assassination,” MRTV said. On social media, coup opponents called the exhumation as an insult to Kyal Sin and her family, with the intention of giving a false account of what happened. A military spokesman did not answer calls seeking comment. Reuters was unable to contact police for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/body-of-everything-will-be-ok-protester-exhumed-to-absolve-police-of-the-killing/articleshow/81372358.cms||---
March 7, 2021||World||Pope, top Iraq cleric hold historic meeting||UR (IRAQ): Pope Francis and Iraq’s top Shia cleric delivered a powerful message of peaceful coexistence on Saturday, urging Muslims in the Arab nation to embrace Iraq’s long-beleaguered Christian minority during a historic meeting in the holy city of Najaf. Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani said religious authorities have a role in protecting Iraq’s Christians, and that Christians should live in peace and enjoy the same rights as other Iraqis. The Vatican said Francis thanked al-Sistani for having “raised his voice in defence of the weakest and most persecuted” during some of the most violent times in Iraq’s history. Al-Sistani, 90, is one of the most senior clerics in Shia Islam and his political interventions have helped shape present-day Iraq. The 84-year-old pontiff arrived in Najaf and pulled up along a street which ends at the golden-domed Imam Ali Shrine, one of the most revered sites in Shia Islam. He then walked the few metres to al-Sistani’s modest home. The official said al-Sistani, who normally remains seated for visitors, stood to greet Francis at the door of his room — a rare honour. The “very positive” meeting lasted a total of 40 minutes, said a religious official in Najaf. The pope later arrived in the ancient city of Ur for an interfaith meeting in the traditional birthplace of Abraham, the biblical patriarch revered by Christians, Muslims and Jews. “From this place, where faith was born, from the land of our father Abraham, let us affirm that God is merciful and that the greatest blasphemy is to profane his name by hating our brothers and sisters,” Francis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/pope-top-iraq-cleric-hold-historic-meeting/articleshow/81372368.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||‘Best time to know about cyber psychology is now’||Since the last three years, veteran psychiatrist Dr Sudhir Bhave has been working as national chairman of the speciality section on cyber psychology and mental health established by the Indian psychiatric society (IPS). Recently, the IPS released a first of its kind publication on cyber psychology. It has chapters by eminent mental health professionals of the world. Dr Bhave is the editor of this publication while Dr Sushil Gawande is the co-editor. In an interview to TOI, Dr Bhave says the pandemic is the best time to learn about cyber psychology and how to deal with uncertainty and more importantly, the overuse of screen space. Excerpts... Q. What is cyber psychology? A. It’s a psychological phenomena associated with emerging technology. Cyber psychology is a study of how the human mind and behaviour changes after introduction, impact and effect of technology. It specifically deals with virtual reality and social media. Indians account for a large chunk of Internet-users in the world. We all are cyberspace users and we get affected by it. As the pandemic has increased our online presence, now is the best time to learn about cyber psychology. Q. Why is this publication being considered as a milestone? A. Indians have been facing psychological issues related to technology since years. There was no documentation of these issues. Finally, we have come out with a comprehensive publication with eminent authors as contributors. The book is going to be of valuable help to reduce the misuse of cyberspace. This is one among the very few comprehensive and authoritative texts in the field of cyber psychiatry. It has various facets of psychological problems associated with the use of the Internet. It’s not only for doctors but also for teachers, parents and every person using cyberspace. Being a source of knowledge, it will soon be available in digital format for all on the IPS website. Q. What are the most common psychological issues faced by Indians? A. Internet has been affecting human behaviour and social relationships and most of us are facing some or the other issue. Right from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in kids to cyberbullying, cyberstalking, addiction to surfing, social media, stock trading, online shopping, porn, gaming and gambling — every age group is facing cyberspace-related psychological issues. Q. Can one avoid or control these problems? A. Of course, but we have to learn it. Self-control, self-discipline and self-regulation are the keys to reduce your screen time. Gaining control over your screen time is a major step towards resolving these issues. Q. Screen time of all age groups has increased significantly during pandemic. A. It has. We are staying indoors and there are restrictions on our movements and gatherings. We have adopted an online working style. Schools and colleges have become online. Work from Home keeps us glued to our screens. Uncertainty and fear of losing jobs and business makes many of us impatient. After almost a year of restrictions, some have got irritated, some have become addicted to screens. Q. How can children and WFH professionals control screen time? A. It’s not easy. Parents must monitor their wards. Professionals must understand that nowadays, most of us have a concentration span of 20-25 minutes. Take 5-minute breaks, move around, read, listen to music and then get back to work. This process will refresh you. Q. What kind of psychological problems are people facing because of the pandemic? A. The biggest is screen addiction. Even elderly people have become addicted to screens to avoid boredom. The pandemic has created many naysayers around us. An overdose of news on various platforms is adding to the negativity. Unfortunately, our media mostly highlights only the negative side just to make it sensational. The pandemic has changed the way of life of many. People are facing problems in their marital life and other relationships. Many issues remained unresolved during the pandemic as people couldn’t get psychiatric treatment. Many lost their jobs and are depressed. Q. Your advice for those who lost jobs or suffered losses in business? A. No doubt losing a job or business is a great loss. But look at your entire lifespan which is 70-80 years and consider this year or two as a passing phase. A ten-year-formula works on most of the problems. Ask yourself whether this problem will be there after 10 years and you will get the answer that most of the problems won’t be there in the future. Q. How should students approach their forthcoming exams? A. In the current scenario, it’s difficult to prepare for any exam. There’s a smart phone in your hand as a study material and this device has all the possibilities to distract you from your studies. Self-discipline plays a very important role. Get over the things that distract you. Reward yourself for avoiding excess use of the screen. You can also use apps to monitor your screen time. Ultimately, a good performance in exams is more important than any other virtual achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/best-time-to-know-about-cyber-psychology-is-now/articleshow/81369693.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||University results delayed as Covid strikes employees||Nagpur: With Covid-19 cases surging in the city, Nagpur University (NU) is also facing the heat. Many of its staffers have tested positive in the last couple of weeks, particularly from the examination Section, which led to a delay in the declaration of results.After declaration of the regular (winter) exams schedule, many students took to social media, seeking replies from the NU administration on their results. A few of them also commented on TOI’s report on the internet, complaining that NU had not declared the results for courses like BSc and others for over two months.Board of Examination and Evaluation (BoEE) director Prafulla Sable said that some results of external students’ exams were delayed since a few employees from the examination section — who were looking after evaluation work — contracted the deadly coronavirus. “We’ve closed down the entire office working on exam evaluation as a precautionary measure, so that other employees stay safe. We’ve also prohibited entry of outsiders into the exam section building for the same purpose. We’re following all the protocol and standard operating procedures (SOPs) advised by the district administration. We will resume working as soon as the situation gets normal,” he told TOI.Assuring the students, Sable added that NU had declared all results of its summer 2020 examinations in record time, and only those of external students were remaining. The aggrieved students, however, told TOI that they would suffer more as their papers were already delayed and they wouldn’t be able to apply for postgraduate admissions or jobs until they got mark sheets in their hands.This is the second time the contagious virus has plagued the NU exam section. Last year too, many of its employees were infected by the virus and one of them lost his life. Some top officials from the exam Section were found positive that time, and exam work was affected significantly, as papers were delayed.As per NU officials, the virus has also made inroads into Jamnalal Bajaj administrative block with a couple of employees, including from vice-chancellor (VC) Subhash Chaudhari’s office, found to be positive after their RT-PCR test. As a result, registrar Raju Hiwase, temporarily looking after the charge, issued a letter barring entry of all outsiders, including students, into the premises.Except NU employees, no one was allowed to meet the VC, pro-VC and other officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/university-results-delayed-as-covid-strikes-employees/articleshow/81369707.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Naxals were trying to manufacture grenade launcher||Nagpur: The arms manufacturing unit of the Naxals in the hilly terrain of the densely-forested Abhujmadh in Chhattisgarh, busted by the C-60 commandos on March 4, was in the process of preparing a grenade launcher which could have been a major threat to the security forces. Naxals’ politburo member Bhupathi alias Sonu too was present in the vicinity where the firing took place. Sources in the police department said the Naxals had continued to fire heavily, aiming at the C-60 commandos to shield their senior member. Meanwhile, the injured C-60 jawan, who was brought from Gadchiroli to Orange City Hospital and Research Institute with a bullet wound, is said to be stable after reaching the city on Friday night. He got a surprise call from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray who waited for more than 24 hours to have a word with the injured C-60 commando. Thackeray, who lauded the efforts of the commandos, assured them of support from the government. The arms factory, located around five kilometres away from the Maharashtra border inside Chhattisgarh, had several machines and tools which helped the Naxals’ expert teams to shape crude grenade launchers and other ammunition meant to be used in it. DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil, who had supervised the 48-hour operation along with SP Ankit Goyal, said the Naxal literature had helped the police to know their strategy of manufacturing artillery to fight security forces. It was underlined once again by the latest discovery and seizure from the arms factory. “The Naxals may not be able to manufacture sophisticated weapons and ammunition but they were certainly in the process of preparing some local version of the under-barrel grenade launcher (UBGL),” he said. Patil, who had provided food for the injured jawan from his residence, said the Naxals had least expected the C-60 commandos to reach the interiors of their territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/naxals-were-trying-to-manufacture-grenade-launcher/articleshow/81369716.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 7, 2021||Nagpur||Over 20 lawyers tender apology for flaying HCBA EC panel||Nagpur: Adding a twist to the High Court Bar Association (HCBA) election controversy, over 20 lawyers, who had signed on a representation that raised questions on the Election Committee members’ credibility, have retracted their stand.Tendering their unconditional apology to the EC members, the lawyers said they signed on the blank paper in good faith and were unaware of the content in the representation signed by over 50 lawyers, including some leading ones. Following this representation and a TOI report, the HCBA meeting held on Friday had witnessed high drama with the EC members putting down their papers.Reaffirming their faith in the EC members, the lawyers said they were misguided by their friends to sign on the representation through which a section of lawyers strongly opposed plans to defer the March 12 polls due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. Some of the EC members censured these lawyers, mostly youngsters, for blindly signing on the form despite being from the legal fraternity. While warning them to remain careful in future, the EC veterans advised them to thoroughly check the content before signing on any document, “as common citizens held them in high esteem”.The veteran EC members had earlier strongly objected to the content of the representation that questioned their integrity and fairness in the election process. “Serious questions are being raised by a large number of HCBA members that certain EC members are hand-in-glove with some candidates. Consequently, their integrity and credibility have been put under the scanner,” it said.Another paragraph in the representation stated that stalling elections on one count or other would also put HCBA to shame. “Many are casting aspersions and levelling allegations against the conduct of EC for acting in fanciful, whimsical and capricious manner. It needs to be dealt with immediate effect to quell any doubts being raised about the integrity and credibility. Otherwise, it would reflect HCBA in a bad light and also demean and derogate its sanctity,” it said.After the controversy, the HCBA office bearers and senior lawyers appealed to the EC members to take back their resignations and continue their good work.Earlier, many lawyers have protested against HCBA’s suggestion to EC for conducting e-voting in view of surge in Covid-19 cases in the city and standard operating protocols (SOPs) in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-20-lawyers-tender-apology-for-flaying-hcba-ec-panel/articleshow/81369723.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Charges fly as BJP man dies in bomb blast||Kolkata: A BJP worker was killed and six were injured in a crude bomb blast at Arampur in Gosaba area of South 24 Parganas early on Saturday. Police said an accident took place while they were making bombs. While BJP worker Sobhan Debnath died at Canning hospital, some of the critically injured were shifted to SSKM hospital. Bomb squad officials were sent to the spot and they found crude bombs stashed beside the house. Additional SP, Baruipur, Indrajit Basu said police had initiated a probe and seized materials from the site. “It is evident that the blast took place while preparing bombs,” Basu said. Gosaba’s Trinamool MLA Jayanta Naskar claimed BJP supporters were making bombs for the upcoming polls. Local BJP leader Biswajit Sit, however, said the workers were attacked while on their way back from a wedding. They were resting in front of a house when the bombs were hurled at them, Sit claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/charges-fly-as-bjp-man-dies-in-bomb-blast/articleshow/81370380.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal assembly polls: Seven defectors on BJP list for first two phases||MIDNAPORE: As many as seven turncoats from other parties have found place on the BJP’s candidate list for 57 of the total 60 Bengal assembly seats going to polls in the first two phases on March 27 and April 1. Former state minister Suvendu Adhikari and his two loyalists, outgoing CPM MLA from Haldia Tapasi Mandal and outgoing Congress MLA from Purulia Sudip Mukherjee who defected to the BJP, are among candidates. Mukherjee had accompanied Suvendu when he went to the Bengal assembly to submit his resignation as Nandigram MLA. Suvendu is using the slogan ‘Nandigram bhumiputra ke chay (Nandigram wants son of the soil)’ against Mamata Banerjee at a time Trinamool has launched its ‘Bangla nijer meyekei chay’ campaign across the state. He has been harping on the ‘bhumiputra’ slogan across Jangalmahal for a few months now, introducing himself as ‘gramer chhele (rural boy)’ being pitted against TMC’s Kolkata leaders. Former Trinamool-run zilla parishad karmadhyaksha Amulya Maity, close to the Adhikari family for long, and Suvendu loyalists zilla karmadhyakshas Ramprasad Giri and Shibram Das are BJP candidates from Narayangarh and Sabang in West Midnapore. CPM-run zilla parishad chairperson Antara Bhattacharya is BJP’s candidate from Pingla. However, Suvendu loyalist and former Midnapore Municipality chairman Pranab Basu didn’t get a ticket from Midnapore. The BJP gave the ticket to Dilip Ghosh loyalist Shamit Das, an RSS pracharak till the other day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/7-defectors-on-bjp-list-for-first-two-phases/articleshow/81370311.cms||Sujoy Khanra
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal assembly polls: BJP picks Suvendu Adhikari to take on Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram||KOLKATA: It is going to be a Mamata Banerjee-versus-Suvendu Adhikari fight in Nandigram. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh announced Adhikari's candidature from the seat at the party headquarters in Delhi on Saturday while releasing a list of 56 candidates for the 60 seats going to vote in the first two phases of the eight-phase Bengal polls beginning March 27. Several East Midnapore and West Midnapore nominations have gone to defectors, with the most prominent of them being Adhikari himself. Other defectors to have got tickets in East and West Midnapore are Tapasi Mandal (Haldia, outgoing CPM MLA), former Trinamool zilla parishad office-bearers Amulya Maiti (Sabang) and Ramprasad Giri (Narayangarh), former Trinamool Ramjibanpur Municipality chairman Shibram Das (Chandrakona) and former CPM Paschim Midnapore zilla parishad chairperson Antara Bhattacharya (Pingla). Another defector, outgoing Congress MLA Sudip Mukherjee, has been named from Purulia. Altogether, the BJP has announced candidates for 30 out of East and West Midnapore’s 31 seats. It is yet to name the candidate for Kharagpur Sadar from where Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh made his debut entry in the assembly in 2016. Ghosh resigned as MLA after he got elected from the Midnapore Lok Sabha constituency in 2019. The BJP also didn’t announce candidates for Kashipur in Purulia and Barjora in Bankura. The Baghmundi seat in Purulia has gone to ally All Jharkhand Students’ Union (AJSU). Another key contest will unfold in West Midnapore’s Debra. Trinamool nominated former IPS officer Humayun Kabir on Friday; the BJP on Saturday nominated another ex-IPS officer, Bharati Ghosh. The BJP has fielded cricketer Ashok Dinda from the Moyna assembly seat in Purba Midnapore and retired IIM-C professor Ambujaksha Mahanti from Patashpur. The Mahato community (kudmis), fighting for recognition as scheduled tribes, has been given representation in three general category seats — Gopiballavpur, Balarampur and Joypur — as against santhals, who got tickets in seven seats reserved for scheduled tribes. The Bauri community has also found fair representation in the 12 seats reserved for scheduled castes. BJP’s chief campaigner in the first two phases, Suvendu Adhikari, has resorted to using the “outsider” slogan against Mamata Banerjee, who has slapped the same tag on national BJP leaders like PM Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda. “Nandigram wants a son of the soil. Voters here won’t support an outsider coming after five years. She has fled from her home turf because the party didn’t win in the Mitra Institution polling centre where she casts her vote,” Adhikari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-picks-suvendu-to-take-on-mamata-in-nandigram/articleshow/81371259.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Stars, former TMC netas set to add glitter, muscle to PM Narendra Modi’s Brigade show today||KOLKATA: PM Narendra Modi’s first pre-poll Brigade rally on Sunday may be a star-studded affair, with several former Trinamool dissidents — who have complained of “feeling stifled” in their old party or have not got poll tickets — likely to be in attendance. Actor Mithun Chakraborty would join the rally, his son, Namashi Chakraborty, confirmed. Bolly superstar Akshay Kumar may also address the rally. But the more substantial boost to BJP came from a string of defections on Saturday, a day after the Trinamool Congress announced its entire list of Bengal poll candidates. Former railway minister and former Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi formally joined the BJP in Delhi. “I have joined the people’s family,” he said in BJP president JP Nadda’s presence, promising to be part of Modi’s Brigade show. Many of the 28 Trinamool MLAs, who have not got the party ticket this time, may also be seen at the rally. Assembly deputy speaker and outgoing Satgachhia MLA Sonali Guha and Trinamool veteran and outgoing Shibpur MLA Jotu Lahiri have already spoken of leaving the Trinamool. Bengal BJP leaders hinted at some more “surprises”. The party has not yet given up on BCCI boss Sourav Ganguly joining the Brigade show though the former Team India captain told a private channel a few days ago that he was a sportsman and would not take political questions. TOI messaged Ganguly but there was no response. BJP leaders said they were “expecting another stalwart from the cultural field”, fuelling a buzz on Tollywood numero uno Prosenjit Chatterjee. The actor, however, protested vehemently: “I don’t know why such a rumour is being spread. Honestly, nobody from the BJP has even approached me to be at the Brigade rally. I am in Pune right now, shooting for an advertorial, and will be here till March 21-22. I don’t know why my name is being dragged into all this.” Chatterjee has stayed away from political programmes. He attended the 125th birth anniversary celebration of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Victoria Memorial, in which Modi was the chief guest, and unveiled a book written by Syama Prasad Mookerjee Research Foundation director Anirban Ganguly. But he later clarified that he was just being a good host. “There is no political inclination nor agenda. I stay focused on what I know best, acting,” the actor had tweeted. The only confirmation came from Mithun’s camp. Advocate Biman Sarkar, the star’s lawyer, said Mithun would be taking the BJP flag at the Brigade meeting. Mithun was a Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP till quitting in 2015. BJP supporters from across the districts have started reaching the city. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and state minder Kailash Vijayvargiya went to the venue on Saturday to oversee arrangements. Modi, a few stars and senior Bengal BJP office-bearers will be on the main dais and district office-bearers, MPs and MLAs will be seated on nearby hangars. BJP workers have reached out to households with written invitations for the rally. The party has also appealed to Hindu organisations to make up the numbers. “We know there will be obstacles and the state government might try to put up hurdles. We are instructing office-bearers to make alternative arrangements if that happens,” water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said. “There is an enthusiasm about the BJP in Bengal and I will not be surprised if more politicians join us,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stars-former-tmc-netas-set-to-add-glitter-muscle-to-modis-brigade-show-today/articleshow/81371287.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal assembly polls: Denied ticket, TMC leaders now make a beeline for BJP||KOLKATA: Dropped from the Trinamool Congress candidate list, several leaders made a beeline for the BJP on Saturday. Leading them was Sonali Guha, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s aide for over three decades, who not only spoke to Mukul Roy but said she was ready “to work for the BJP” even if not given a ticket. The list of dissenters included five-time MLA Sital Sardar, Jotu Lahiri, Dipali Saha and Dinesh Bajaj. Guha, a four-time MLA from Satgachhia, said she was closely associated with Banerjee since 1989. “I never thought of deserting Didi, but she did. It is unbelievable. I was with her even when she lost the 1989 Lok Sabha polls. I do not know what I did to deserve this. The last time I met her she blessed me and asked to meet her after winning the polls. So, being denied a ticket was a shock. That is why I contacted Mukul Roy and told him I will join the BJP on Monday,” she told TOI. Guha never lost in Satgachia since 2001. Former chief minister Jyoti Basu had been winning the seat since 1977, but he last contested in 1996. “I never thought that there would be a day when I will have to quit Trinamool. I had wanted to die in the battle fighting for Didi. I do not want to contest on a BJP ticket. I made it clear to Mukulda. In BJP, there are many ticket seekers; I do not want to create any problems. If I am given an honourable post, I will campaign for BJP. Today, some people contacted me from Kalighat, but I refused to talk to them. I had expected Didi’s call on Friday night and stayed awake. The call never came,” she said, adding that she had kept quiet when she was removed from the deputy speaker’s post, but not anymore. Shibpur MLA Lahiri was equally quick to turn to BJP. “I was betrayed (by TMC) and so I have joined the BJP.” The octogenarian feels the BJP will give him his due. Long-time MLA from Howrah, Sardar said he had been winning Sankrail since 1996. “I cannot bear this humiliation. I am physically fit to serve the people. I was not consulted when my name was dropped. So, I left. At this age, honour matters,” he said. Former MLA Dinesh Bajaj said he too would join the BJP soon. “I had wanted honour, but I was insulted. Hence, I decided to quit Trinamool. I was unhappy not seeing my name on the list, after which I met Mukul Roy. I am confident to win if BJP gives me a ticket.” Dipali Saha, outgoing MLA of Sonamukhi in Bankura, said she had joined the BJP on Saturday because she was frustrated. For Moinuddin Shams, the outgoing MLA of Nalhati, it is a different case. An advocate by profession, Shams decided to quit Trinamool on Friday after he was dropped as a candidate. The son of former Forward Bloc leader Kalimuddin Shams, he first tried to reach the party for a ticket. However, FB told him the Left Front list had been declared. “I will contest from Nalhati anyway,” he said. Protests meanwhile hit some pockets of North 24 Parganas. Supporters of Shankar Adhya, ex-chairman of Bongaon Municipality, demanded his candidature from North Bongaon. They blocked the road and burnt tyres to stall traffic. On Habra-Naihati Road, Trinamool supporters blocked the road demanding Dhiman Ray be dropped as Ashoknagar candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/denied-ticket-tmc-leaders-now-make-a-beeline-for-bjp/articleshow/81370300.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal assembly polls: Congress’s first list of 13 packed with several new faces||KOLKATA: The All India Congress Committee announced a total of 13 candidates for the 60 assembly seats going to polls in the first two phases. The list is packed with new faces, other than sitting Baghmundi MLA Nepal Mahato. Congress has fielded Partha Pratim Banerjee for the Purulia seat after outgoing MLA Sudip Mukherjee left Congress and joined BJP. Pradesh Congress leaders will have another round of talks with Left Front leaders on Sunday to sort out “teething problems” over seat-sharing in north Bengal. Congress is not in a mood to share seats with Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front (ISF) in Malda and Murshidabad. State Congress veterans Pradip Bhattacharya and Abdul Mannan will leave for Delhi on Sunday night for a meeting to finalise candidates for the remaining 79 seats. Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury will place his proposals at the meeting. They include candidates for the five Kolkata seats the Congress will be contesting. Congress leader Sonia Gandhi has been urging state party office-bearers to iron out differences over seats and clinch the deal with Left and other allies. As of now, Congress is set to contest from 92 seats, the Left Front from 165 and the Indian Secular Front (ISF) from 37 seats. Left and Congress leaders hit the streets on Saturday, marching from Entally Market to Mahajati Sadan, in protest against fuel and cooking gas prices. Leaders of ISF couldn’t join the protest because they were busy with the Swaab gathering at Hooghly’s Furfura Sharif.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/congs-first-list-of-13-packed-with-several-new-faces/articleshow/81370308.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||EC defends officer against TMC complaint||Kolkata: Responding to a Trinamool complaint seeking removal of deputy  commissioner Sudeep Jain over two decisions he took in Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the EC in a statement said, “The Commission has full faith in the integrity and fairness of Shri Sudeep Jain, DEC. Unfortunately, it is not for the first time that a concerted campaign is mounted against senior officers of the Commission on the eve of/during the process of elections.” Referring to TMC’s allegations, the EC said: “It is clarified that both these decisions were taken by the Commission in the interest of holding free fair and peaceful elections and implemented by the district election machinery under supervision of DEC, Chief Electoral Officer, Police Nodal Officer and other concerned senior officials.” The poll panel added: “The Commission would like to categorically state that all our Deputy Election Commissioners and other officials posted in the ECI headquarters and/or working in the field are discharging their duties strictly as per Constitution of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ec-defends-officer-against-tmc-complaint/articleshow/81370334.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Remove PM pic from vax certs: EC to Centre||New Delhi/Kolkata: The Election Commission has asked the Union health ministry to exclude the image of PM Narendra Modi from the Covid-19 vaccination certificates being issued to recipients in poll-bound Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. The Trinamool Congress had complained to the EC on March 2 against the use of Modi’s face on the certificates ahead of elections in Bengal. The EC cited a 2004 instruction, barring political functionaries from “using public resources to enhance their personal image”, while writing to the health ministry on Thursday. The ministry may find a technical solution to the issue by “using appropriate filters” in the poll-bound states, the EC said. Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien wrote to the EC on March 2, complaining that the use of the PM’s image on vaccination certificates was a violation of the model code of conduct. It was also “misuse of taxpayers’ money for publicity ahead of elections”, he had said, adding: “Credit should be given to healthcare staff.” Several hospitals in Kolkata reported not being able to download the vaccination certificates to be given to recipients on Friday and Saturday. Hospitals have, therefore, started giving out chits to vaccine recipients as confirmation of the completion of the process. Recipients used to get a systems-generated SMS after the second shot, which gave them a link from where they could download vaccination certificates. But, since Friday, recipients have reported lack of any response when the link is clicked. “So we have started issuing recipients a stamped chit, mentioning the date and time and venue,” an SSKM Hospital official said on Saturday. Private-sector hospitals, too, said they had started following the same procedure after complaints from vaccine recipients. The Trinamool said on Saturday that it was monitoring recipients’ complaints and hospitals’ responses. “We welcome this if it has happened because of any EC directive,” Trinamool RS MP Santanu Sen said. “But we have not got any official response so far,” he said on Saturday evening. “The misuse of public money for self-promotion is nothing new. We saw the same thing happening for Ayushman Bharat too,” Sen added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/remove-pm-pic-from-vax-certs-ec-to-centre/articleshow/81371445.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Kolkata||Remove PM pic from vax certs: EC to Centre||New Delhi/Kolkata: The Election Commission has asked the Union health ministry to exclude the image of PM Narendra Modi from the Covid-19 vaccination certificates being issued to recipients in poll-bound Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. The Trinamool Congress had complained to the EC on March 2 against the use of Modi’s face on the certificates ahead of elections in Bengal. The EC cited a 2004 instruction, barring political functionaries from “using public resources to enhance their personal image”, while writing to the health ministry on Thursday. The ministry may find a technical solution to the issue by “using appropriate filters” in the poll-bound states, the EC said. Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien wrote to the EC on March 2, complaining that the use of the PM’s image on vaccination certificates was a violation of the model code of conduct. It was also “misuse of taxpayers’ money for publicity ahead of elections”, he had said, adding: “Credit should be given to healthcare staff.” Several hospitals in Kolkata reported not being able to download the vaccination certificates to be given to recipients on Friday and Saturday. Hospitals have, therefore, started giving out chits to vaccine recipients as confirmation of the completion of the process. Recipients used to get a systems-generated SMS after the second shot, which gave them a link from where they could download vaccination certificates. But, since Friday, recipients have reported lack of any response when the link is clicked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/remove-pm-pic-from-vax-certs-ec-to-centre/articleshow/81371351.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Centre introduces EWS quota in MTech at Anna University||CHENNAI: In a move that could stoke controversy in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, the department of biotechnology (DBT), Government of India, implemented 10% quota for economically weaker sections (EWS) in admissions to MTech biotechnology over the 49.5% reservation. The merit list released for the course reserved three seats of sanctioned strength of 25 seats. As directed by the Madras high court, DBT has prepared the merit lists for admission to MTech biotechnology and MTech computational biology courses at Anna University for 2020-21 session by following Centre's reservation of 49.5% and released it on its website. The merit lists were prepared based on scores in the Graduate Aptitude Test of Biotechnology (GAT-B) exam and the Centre's reservation. According to the biotechnology merit list, of the 25 seats, nine were allotted to general category (unreserved category) students, seven seats for OBC (non-creamy layer) students, four seats for SC students, and two for ST students. Three candidates from EWS also feature. For the MTech computational biology course, DBT has not followed the EWS quota giving the reason that no EWS candidate was available. The department-sponsored 21 candidates for 20 seats, stating two students secured the same GAT-B score on the merit list. Aspirants said the merit list for the MTech biotechnology course prepared without creating supernumerary seats. "With the EWS quota, the total number of seats crosses 50% and they have to create supernumerary seats. But, even for Bharathidasan University's MTech admissions, they followed EWS quota without creating seats over and above the sanctioned strength," said advocate A Saravanan. Parents said the 69% reservation would have helped seven to nine more students from the state to get admission. "The state should take efforts to conduct admission based on state's reservation policy from next year," K Muthukumaran, a parent said. When asked, officials from Anna University said the university is not involved in admissions and the Union government prepared the merit list as per the court order. Anna University had suspended admission to the MTech courses stating the Union government's 49.5% rule was not acceptable to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-introduces-ews-quota-in-mtech-at-anna-university/articleshow/81372436.cms||A Ragu Raman
March 7, 2021||Mangaluru||Covid vaccination: 3,000 centres in Karnataka to administer shots||BENGALURU/MYSURU: From Monday, 3,000 vaccination centres will be operational in the state, said health minister K Sudhakar. These include primary health centres and taluk and district hospitals. Karnataka, he added, plans to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people every day. While the government has set an ambitious target, technical issues continue to dog phase 2 of the vaccination drive in the Mysuru region. According to several people, no slots for vaccination are available in Mysuru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Mandya till April 2 on the self-registration portal (cowin.gov.in). “I wanted to return to Delhi on April 1. My plan was to get my parents vaccinated before that. However, no slot is available till April 2. If we ask the authorities, they ask us to visit any centre where spot registration is done. If that is the case, why do we need the online registration?” said Girish Kumar. In some districts, the response to the drive has been poor. In Chamarajanagar, till Friday evening, just 37 persons in the age group of 45-59 years received the vaccine, the lowest in the state. According to Satish J, a resident of Balehonnur, the biggest challenge is to register online. “The process starts with an OTP. Poor network connectivity affects the process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/3000-centres-in-karnataka-to-administer-shots/articleshow/81372470.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Covid vaccination: 3,000 centres in Karnataka to administer shots||BENGALURU/MYSURU: From Monday, 3,000 vaccination centres will be operational in the state, said health minister K Sudhakar. These include primary health centres and taluk and district hospitals. Karnataka, he added, plans to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people every day. While the government has set an ambitious target, technical issues continue to dog phase 2 of the vaccination drive in the Mysuru region. According to several people, no slots for vaccination are available in Mysuru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Mandya till April 2 on the self-registration portal (cowin.gov.in). “I wanted to return to Delhi on April 1. My plan was to get my parents vaccinated before that. However, no slot is available till April 2. If we ask the authorities, they ask us to visit any centre where spot registration is done. If that is the case, why do we need the online registration?” said Girish Kumar. In some districts, the response to the drive has been poor. In Chamarajanagar, till Friday evening, just 37 persons in the age group of 45-59 years received the vaccine, the lowest in the state. According to Satish J, a resident of Balehonnur, the biggest challenge is to register online. “The process starts with an OTP. Poor network connectivity affects the process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3000-centres-in-karnataka-to-administer-shots/articleshow/81372466.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Hubballi||Covid vaccination: 3,000 centres in Karnataka to administer shots||BENGALURU/MYSURU: From Monday, 3,000 vaccination centres will be operational in the state, said health minister K Sudhakar. These include primary health centres and taluk and district hospitals. Karnataka, he added, plans to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people every day. While the government has set an ambitious target, technical issues continue to dog phase 2 of the vaccination drive in the Mysuru region. According to several people, no slots for vaccination are available in Mysuru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Mandya till April 2 on the self-registration portal (cowin.gov.in). “I wanted to return to Delhi on April 1. My plan was to get my parents vaccinated before that. However, no slot is available till April 2. If we ask the authorities, they ask us to visit any centre where spot registration is done. If that is the case, why do we need the online registration?” said Girish Kumar. In some districts, the response to the drive has been poor. In Chamarajanagar, till Friday evening, just 37 persons in the age group of 45-59 years received the vaccine, the lowest in the state. According to Satish J, a resident of Balehonnur, the biggest challenge is to register online. “The process starts with an OTP. Poor network connectivity affects the process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/3000-centres-in-karnataka-to-administer-shots/articleshow/81372469.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mysuru||Covid vaccination: 3,000 centres in Karnataka to administer shots||BENGALURU/MYSURU: From Monday, 3,000 vaccination centres will be operational in the state, said health minister K Sudhakar. These include primary health centres and taluk and district hospitals. Karnataka, he added, plans to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people every day. While the government has set an ambitious target, technical issues continue to dog phase 2 of the vaccination drive in the Mysuru region. According to several people, no slots for vaccination are available in Mysuru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Mandya till April 2 on the self-registration portal (cowin.gov.in). “I wanted to return to Delhi on April 1. My plan was to get my parents vaccinated before that. However, no slot is available till April 2. If we ask the authorities, they ask us to visit any centre where spot registration is done. If that is the case, why do we need the online registration?” said Girish Kumar. In some districts, the response to the drive has been poor. In Chamarajanagar, till Friday evening, just 37 persons in the age group of 45-59 years received the vaccine, the lowest in the state. According to Satish J, a resident of Balehonnur, the biggest challenge is to register online. “The process starts with an OTP. Poor network connectivity affects the process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3000-centres-in-karnataka-to-administer-shots/articleshow/81372468.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Racket offering jobs as bodyguards of actresses busted||CHENNAI: The lure of glamour and film stars and promise of money is hard to resist and that's the con formula a Mumbai-based couple used. Police on Friday arrested the duo for cheating several Chennai residents of huge sums of money promising them jobs of bodyguards for Bollywood actresses and as escorts for women from foreign countries. While Dipankar Das Navis and Yasmin Khan Resul Begum were nabbed on the basis of a complaint from Anna Nagar resident Manish Gupta, police are expecting more similar complaints. A central crime branch (CCB) officer said Das and Begum, had been arrested by police in Mumbai for making pornographic movies and were in prison in that city. They were brought to Chennai before a court sent them to jail. In 2019, the CCB officer said, Manish Gupta, a businessman, came across a website called 'MenxHer' offering a highly-paid job of an escort and approached the website managers later identified as Das and Begum. Taken in by their lurid tales of being a bodyguard for leading Bollywood actresses and befriending rich women from several foreign countries, he transferred about 16 lakh over a few months as processing fees until he realised he had been tricked. He then approached the bank fraud prevention wing of the city police which registered a case. A team of the wing then went to Mumbai in search of the suspects but failed to find out where they were. Its members shared the suspects' details with their counterparts in Mumbai. In February, the Mumbai police told them the couple had lodged in a prison after they were caught making adult films. On Friday, a team of CCB officers rushed to Mumbai and brought the accused to Chennai. Their bank accounts were frozen and they are now at the Central Prison in Puzhal. In a separate incident, a squad of the CCB's cybercrime wing arrested a 35-year-old man who using different profiles posted ads on social media claiming to sell used home appliances at throwaway prices. S Saravanakumar of Bodinayakkanur in Theni district, was secured from his hometown. Investigation revealed that he had cheated people in Trichy, Coimbatore and Dindigul. Laptops, phones and SIM cards were seized from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-racket-offering-jobs-as-bodyguards-of-actresses-busted/articleshow/81372473.cms||A Selvaraj
March 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Passengers can rent bikes at KIA||BENGALURU: Passengers landing at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) can now take bike—Harleys, Triumphs or Royal Enfields—on rent to head to their destinations. Royal Brothers, a motorcycle rental service, claimed to be the first among Indian airports, was unveiled on Friday by minister for urban development BA Byrathi Basavaraj at KIA. The facility is stationed opposite gate number 11 near the arrival area. With the option of prior online booking of motorcycles available through the company’s official website www.royalbrothers.com,disembarking passengers can ride a two-wheeler to their destinations and back. The firm has also given the option to drop off the bikes in different cities . Riders can also pick jackets, helmets, gloves and knee guards. Abhishek Chandrashekar, CEO and co-founder of Royal Brothers, said: “We had a soft launch last week and received a lot of bookings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-passengers-can-rent-bikes-at-kia/articleshow/81372489.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Chennai||Three Tangedco officials booked for taking bribe to give EB line in Chennai||CHENNAI: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption has booked three Tangedco officials for allegedly demanding bribe to provide power connections to a resident in Iyyapnthangal in west Chennai. According to the FIR, the accused were S Mohammed Shahul Hameed, assistant engineer (operation and maintenance), T Perumal, inspector of assessment, and K Ravi, executive engineer (operation and maintenance). All three worked in the Iyappanthangal or Porur section. DVAC said a resident E Usha Nandhini had constructed a two-floored building in Iyappanthangal on Mount-Poonamalee High Road. Her husband applied for service connections for the building and met Shahul Hameed at his office. DVAC said Usha Nandhini's husband K Ethiraj filed an application for three three-phase connections. DVAC said, on September 19, 2018, Shahul Hameed and Perumal visited the house for an inspection and on the spot demanded 10 lakh as a bribe for providing the connection. The family tried to negotiate, after which Shahul Hameed reduced the bribe amount to 6 lakh. Perumal said 1 lakh had to be paid in cash upfront, which the couple paid. After this, Ethiraj also paid the EB fee of 34,392 for the service connections. A week later, Ethiraj was called to the EB office. This time, K Ravi allegedly demanded a bribe of 6 lakh at the rate of 2 lakh per connection from him, for the trio. DVAC said the officials refused to process the application without payment of the bribe. Three weeks later, Shahul Hameed and Perumal met Ethiraj and reiterated their demand and received a bribe of 5 lakh. After this, one service connection was given. When Ethiraj asked about the other two, he was told that Perumal and Ravi had been transferred to some other location. DVAC said that Ethiraj neither got the connections nor was the bribe money returned. DVAC said this was abuse of official position by the trio and a case was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/three-tangedco-officials-booked-for-taking-bribe-to-give-eb-line-in-chennai/articleshow/81372496.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Mangaluru air crash: HC quashes proceedings against AI, AAI||BENGALURU: The high court has quashed the proceedings against Air India (AI), Airports Authority of India (AAI) and two of their officers in a criminal case registered in connection with the May 22, 2010 crash of Air India Express 812 flight at Mangaluru’s Bajpe Airport in which 158 passengers lost lives. Allowing the petitions filed by AI, AAI, Ansbert D Souza of AI and Peter Abraham of AAI, Justice Ashok G Nijagannavar has pointed out the probe report by the Court of Inquiry is with the Centre and other appropriate authorities and it is for them to take action. The judge noted the Mangaluru trial court has failed to consider the fact that the reason for closure of the chargesheet, as the pilots—arraigned as accused—have died in the crash and also on the basis of the Court of Inquiry report. As the officers are not residing in its territorial jurisdiction, the magistrate should have inquired as per section 202 (1) of CrPC before issuing summons, he added. Complaint by FoundationOn June 3, 2010, the Centre constituted the Court of Inquiry headed by Air Marshal BN Gokhale under the provisions of the Aircraft Rules. On October 31, 2010, a report was submitted, holding the pilot and the co-pilot responsible for the accident. Police then filed a closure report and the magistrate at Mangaluru disposed of the case as having abated. Thereafter, a complaint was lodged by 812 Foundation, represented by its secretaries Nayana Pai and Yeshwanth Shenoy in March 2012, alleging negligence and violation of safety norms. On February 19, 2013, JMFC Court in Mangaluru passed an order taking cognizance of the offences under section 304A of IPC. The trial court also held there is deemed sanction to proceed against the accused and issued summons. Both AI, AAI and the two officers challenged the order. Senior advocates Gurudas S Kannur and Udaya Holla, who appeared for the petitioners, contended that the applications seeking prior sanction to proceed against the accused have already been rejected by the competent authorities. They argued the proceedings before the magistrate would be a futile exercise as the Court of Inquiry had already given its finding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mangaluru-air-crash-hc-quashes-proceedings-against-ai-aai/articleshow/81372499.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Mangaluru||Mangaluru air crash: HC quashes proceedings against AI, AAI||BENGALURU: The high court has quashed the proceedings against Air India (AI), Airports Authority of India (AAI) and two of their officers in a criminal case registered in connection with the May 22, 2010 crash of Air India Express 812 flight at Mangaluru’s Bajpe Airport in which 158 passengers lost lives. Allowing the petitions filed by AI, AAI, Ansbert D Souza of AI and Peter Abraham of AAI, Justice Ashok G Nijagannavar has pointed out the probe report by the Court of Inquiry is with the Centre and other appropriate authorities and it is for them to take action. The judge noted the Mangaluru trial court has failed to consider the fact that the reason for closure of the chargesheet, as the pilots—arraigned as accused—have died in the crash and also on the basis of the Court of Inquiry report. As the officers are not residing in its territorial jurisdiction, the magistrate should have inquired as per section 202 (1) of CrPC before issuing summons, he added. Complaint by FoundationOn June 3, 2010, the Centre constituted the Court of Inquiry headed by Air Marshal BN Gokhale under the provisions of the Aircraft Rules. On October 31, 2010, a report was submitted, holding the pilot and the co-pilot responsible for the accident. Police then filed a closure report and the magistrate at Mangaluru disposed of the case as having abated. Thereafter, a complaint was lodged by 812 Foundation, represented by its secretaries Nayana Pai and Yeshwanth Shenoy in March 2012, alleging negligence and violation of safety norms. On February 19, 2013, JMFC Court in Mangaluru passed an order taking cognizance of the offences under section 304A of IPC. The trial court also held there is deemed sanction to proceed against the accused and issued summons. Both AI, AAI and the two officers challenged the order. Senior advocates Gurudas S Kannur and Udaya Holla, who appeared for the petitioners, contended that the applications seeking prior sanction to proceed against the accused have already been rejected by the competent authorities. They argued the proceedings before the magistrate would be a futile exercise as the Court of Inquiry had already given its finding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-air-crash-hc-quashes-proceedings-against-ai-aai/articleshow/81372500.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Trio assaults two law students with slippers for feeding stray dogs in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A girl student and her friend were abused and attacked with stones and slippers by three members of a family in Vinayaka Layout in Nagarbhavi on Friday night. The bone of contention: Feeding stray dogs. The incident, which has been captured on camera, has evoked mixed reactions on social media. Many condemned the attack on the animal lovers, while a few nudged the civic authorities to contain the stray dog population in the city. The issue has now reached Annapoorneshwarinagar police station with the girl, a law student, lodging a complaint. Trouble fomented at 10pm on 30th Cross Road in Vinayaka Layout when Priya C and Satyajit, who stay in the area, came down with food to feed the strays. As they went about their routine, they were intercepted by a man, his wife and son, who took objection to giving food to dogs. The trio alleged that the number of strays had increased on the street and blamed the girl for feeding them. Priya’s neighbours intervened and tried to pacify the trio, but in vain. “We did not provoke them and continued to feed the dogs, but they started hurling expletives,” said Priya. She has been living in the area for the past three years. “We have vaccinated and sterilised these dogs and take care of them well; we feed them every day,” she said. One of them asked her to feed dogs in her house, not on the street. “We are paying taxes and this is not your street,” he said, and threatened to break her head. In the video, the woman is seen charging towards the girl and the youngster taking out his slipper and throwing at her. When the situation went out of control, the girl requested her friend and neighbours to call police. “They threw stones and slippers at me and used filthy language. This is unacceptable. We are told that they were not from our lane, but had come there yesterday,” Priya said. Along with the complaint, she has submitted the visuals pertaining to the incident to police. Watch Bengaluru: Girl abused for feeding stray dogs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/trio-assaults-two-law-students-with-slippers-for-feeding-stray-dogs-in-bengaluru/articleshow/81372507.cms||Kiran Parashar
March 7, 2021||Gurgaon||Residents to take a nature walk for park||Gurgaon: To raise awareness about the upcoming Khedla-Damdama Biodiversity Park, the district administration’s GuruJal team is set to conduct a nature walk for the residents on Sunday. More than 100 people have registered for the walk so far, said officials. They added it is one of the several activities that have been planned to apprise the citizens about the biodiversity in the area. The biodiversity park will come up on 420 acres of land in the next five years. It will be spread across two villages, including Khedla and Damdama. “We have planned a nature walk apart from a slew of activities planned to make people aware of the biodiversity in this part of Gurgaon. We expect to see around 120 people from the city attending this walk, in which we will spot various species of plants. We are also going to give certificates to the participants to encourage them. A detailed project report of the biodiversity park is being prepared and the park is likely to come up in the next five years,” said Adarsha, associate, GuruJal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/residents-to-take-a-nature-walk-for-park/articleshow/81370219.cms||Vishakha Chaman
March 7, 2021||India||PM Modi to dedicate 7500th Janaushadhi Kendra in Shillong today||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address Janaushadhi Diwas celebrations and dedicate the 7500th Janaushadhi Kendra at North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health & Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS), Shillong on Sunday via video conferencing. "Prime Minister will dedicate to the nation the 7500th Janaushadhi Kendra at NEIGRIHMS, Shillong during the event," Prime Minister's Office said in a press release. He will interact with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana and also give awards to stakeholders by recognizing their excellent work. Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda will also be present on the occasion. Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana's initiative endeavours to provide quality medicines at an affordable price. The number of stores under the scheme has grown to 7499, with all districts of the country covered. Sales in the financial year 2020-21 (up to March 4, 2021) led to total savings of approximately Rs. 3600 crore for common citizens, as these medicines are cheaper by 50 per cent to 90 per cent than the corresponding market rates. In order to create more awareness about Janaushadhi, an entire week from March 1-7 is being celebrated as 'Janaushadhi Week' across the nation, with the theme of 'Jan Aushadhi - Seva bhi, Rozgar bhi'. The last day of the week i.e. March 7 will be celebrated as 'Janaushadhi Diwas'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-dedicate-7500th-janaushadhi-kendra-in-shillong-today/articleshow/81372558.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Lucknow||UP govt nominates two women, Firangi Mahal cleric to Sunni Waqf Board||AYODHYA : The state government on Saturday nominated two women and a Firangi Mahal cleric as members of Uttar Pradesh Sunni Waqf Board, a day after eight members were elected unopposed, following twin withdrawal of nominations by Amroha SP MLC Amroha Parvez Ali and Sambhal SP MLA Iqbal Mahmood. State nominations helped constitute the waqf board’s quorum of 11, paving way for the crucial election of the chairman on Tuesday. Frontrunner Zufar Farooqui, who’s eyeing a third consecutive stint at the helm told TOI he’s hopeful the chairman would be elected unanimously. On Saturday, two women nominated by the UP government included prominent social worker and resident of Lucknow’s Lal Bagh locality, Sabiha Ahmad, and joint director (administration), health directorate, Dr Tabassum Khan. The third notable government nomination was of Maulana Naeem ur Rahman Siddiqui, principal of Darul Uloom Firangi Mahal — an Islamic institute in Lucknow run by Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah and executive member of All-India Muslim Personal Law Board, Maulana Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahali. Principal secretary, minorities affairs department, B L Mina, has summoned a meeting of newly elected waqf board members at Bapu Bhawan, Lucknow, on Tuesday to elect the chairman. Top sources in the Board said, Kunwar Danish Ali may be in the fray for the post of chairman. However, the BSP MP harped on consultation and unanimity while talking to TOI on a probable contest for the top job. “I am a member of parliament and my priorities lie in my constituency. On the question of chairmanship of waqf board, it will be decided unanimously after consultation. UP Sunni Waqf Board is a great institution and I am here to ensure it serves every member of the community. I will work to mobilise revenue for the Board, which will be used for the community’s uplift,” he said. On Friday, eight members were elected unopposed which included two from the mutawalli quota — former chairman of Sunni Waqf Board and president of the Ayodhya mosque trust Zufar Farooqui and another trustee, Adnaan Farrukh of Gorakhpur. For the two seats from Member of Parliament quota, Samajwadi Party MP S T Hasan from Moradabad and Bahujan Samaj Party MP Kunwar Danish Ali from Amroha were elected without contest. For the two seats of MLA/MLC quota, SP MLAs Abrar Ahmad from Sultanpur and Nafees Ahmad from Azamgarh too had a cakewalk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-nominates-two-women-firangi-mahal-cleric-to-sunni-waqf-board/articleshow/81372666.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
March 7, 2021||Gurgaon||Comorbid list too limited, not able to get certificate, say those above 45||Gurgaon: In the five days since vaccinations began for the 60-plus population and those above 45 with comorbidities, there has been a huge difference in their turnouts. Till Saturday, 11,375 people over the age of 60 had got their first jabs. In contrast, only 1,129 recipients between 45 and 59 years of age with comorbid conditions have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine. There are two factors behind this. One, only 20 comorbidities have been specified by the ministry for getting vaccinated, leaving many with other ailments ineligible. Secondly, several people have found it difficult to get a certificate from a registered medical practitioner. Some of the listed comorbid conditions are heart failure with hospital admission in the past one year, hypertension or diabetes on treatment, end-stage kidney disease, leukaemia, bone marrow failure/thalassemia major, HIV infection and muscular dystrophy/acid attack with involvement of respiratory system. The tricky part is that hypertension alone doesn’t find a place in the list but is clubbed with other ailments. Neither does diabetes, unless the condition has existed more than 10 years or there are complications. Mukesh Singh (55), who suffers from hypertension, said he is unable to get a certificate of comorbidity. “I tried going to several session sites in the past two days and was told hypertension alone is not a comorbid condition. This is not fair. I wanted to get the jab so that I could go out. The cases are again going up and I don’t want to get infected,” he told TOI. At one of the session sites, Rakesh Yadav (49), who has diabetes, got into a heated argument with some doctors. “I was told that I would have to undergo tests even though I have a prescription for medicines. They are asking me to get a certificate from the doctor I am consulting for diabetes treatment before I can take the vaccine,” a visibly upset Yadav said. The health department said people should get a certificate of comorbidity from their doctor. “We have shared the document that needs to be filled by a registered medical practitioner. Getting a comorbid certificate on the session site is not possible,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurgaon. Meanwhile, doctors said they are getting a lot of requests for such certificates but they can’t provide them if they are not fully aware of a person’s medical history. Dr Amitabh Parti, director, internal medicine, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said, “Many people are reaching out but not everyone is eligible. We are counselling them as they are becoming impatient to get the vaccine. Some are requesting doctors to sign a comorbid certificate even though they do not meet the criteria.” Dr Shuchin Bajaj, founder and director, Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals, said people should wait for their turn to get vaccinated. “Some people who have had controlled diabetes for a few years or have hypertension are putting up a request even if those are not in the listed comorbidities. Doctors are getting 20 to 30 requests daily,” he said. Dr Arunesh Kumar, head of department of Paras Chest Institute, Paras Hospital, said, “We are getting many queries from patients about the safety of vaccines. On an average, we are getting about five requests every day for a comorbidity certificate. We issue the certificate only if the person meets the ministry guidelines and criteria.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/comorbid-list-too-limited-not-able-to-get-certificate-say-those-above-45/articleshow/81370594.cms||Ipsita Pati
March 7, 2021||Gurgaon||3,000 get first dose at 30 private hospitals on Saturday||Gurgaon: A total of 3,049 senior citizens and people aged over 45 years with comorbidities received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the third phase of inoculation on Saturday. Session sites were set up at 30 private hospitals across the city. No session sites were set up at government facilities on Saturday. Officials from the health department said the government set-ups will have session sites for the third phase only on four days a week — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. Private health facilities have been directed to hold session sites from Monday to Saturday and no cap has been put on the number of recipients. Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said: “We are holding vaccination drive for the third phase on four weekdays. We conduct the universal immunisation programme (UIP) on Wednesdays and Saturdays, since it is also necessary to carry out UIP for children. If we conduct vaccination drives on all days, our UIP will suffer. We have to balance everything.” “We have not capped the number and are vaccinating everyone who turns up at session sites,” chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said. Private and government health facilities have vaccinated 12,504 recipients so far, out of whom 11,375 are above 60 years of age and 1,129 are people between 45 years and 59 years of age with comorbidities. Health officials said they have directed anganwadi and ASHA workers to conduct fresh surveys in Gurgaon to find out the number of senior citizens and motivate them to get vaccinated. Meanwhile, Gurgaon reported 48 fresh Covid cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 59,272. With 51 recoveries on Saturday, the total number of recoveries is 58,529 in the city. There are now 385 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3000-get-first-dose-at-30-private-hospitals-on-saturday/articleshow/81370609.cms||Vishakha Chaman
March 7, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: They offered tech support, cheated US citizens; 1 held||GURUGRAM: An illegal call centre in Sector 50 was busted for allegedly cheating US citizens on the pretext of providing technical support, the police said on Saturday. The case came to the fore when a team from the cyber police unit raided the office on the fourth floor of Nirvana Courtyard. One person, Aayush from Nirvana Country, has been held in the case. Aayush, a graduate, had worked with an e-commerce company from 2004 to 2019. While working with the company, he got in touch with a youth through Facebook. The youth claimed to be from Delhi and assured to provide inbound calls from US for repairing Canon and HP printers and payment gateway for receiving money. To earn quick money, they opened the call centre. Thirteen youths were found working at the company. “They registered a firm and rented a space in the city’s Sector 50 and hired a few youngsters,” said ACP (DLF) Karan Goyal, adding that for providing online tech support for printers they used to charge USD 200 to 300. The youth used to keep 45% of the amount for providing the payment gateway and handed over the remaining amount at the call centre. The accused was produced before a court and taken on a two-day police remand. A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of IPC and the IT Act, said an officer, adding that a probe is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/they-offered-tech-support-cheated-us-citizens-1-held/articleshow/81370108.cms||Bagish Jha
March 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala assembly elections: Decision still pending on V Muraleedharan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The BJP core committee is learnt to have short listed candidates for at least 15 constituencies, based on the opinion of assembly constituency committees, on Saturday. According to sources, Union minister V Muraleedharan may not contest from Kazhakuttom seat as expected. This, they claim, is because the central leadership wanted Muraleedharan to spearhead the campaign. However, there are also speculations that he may get a ‘go ahead’ in the last minute. As per the preliminary list, K Surendran is likely to be contested from Konni where he finished third in the last election. If Muraleedharan keeps away from contest, Surendran might contest from Kazhakuttom where Muraleedharan had finished second in the last election. There is no clarity yet on the seat in which E Sreedharan would contest. Though Sreedharan is keen on Ponnani, the party may ask him to contest from Thrissur. In Nemom, the only sitting seat of BJP, Kummanam Rajasekharan would contest. Former state president P K Krishnadas may contest from Kattakkada. BJP Thiruvananthapuram district president V V Rajesh, from Vattiyoorkavu and BJP state secretary S Suresh from Kovalam. Actor Krishnakumar may be fielded in Thiruvananthapuram. BJP state vice-president A N Radhakrishnan would contest in Manalur and general secretary M T Ramesh in Kozhikode north. Yuva Morcha leader Sandeep Warrier may contest from Palakkad. BJP spokesperson B Gopalakrishnan may contest from Kodungallur which BJP would be taking over from BDJS. Former DGP Senkumar is also considered for the seat. The preliminary list would be discussed with party president Amit Shah at the core committee meeting on Sunday. The final list of over 100 candidates is expected to be announced by March 12 after clearance from the central election committee. Amit Shah will also be attending the concluding rally of Vijaya Yathra on Sanghumugham beach on Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-assembly-elections-decision-still-pending-on-v-muraleedharan/articleshow/81372751.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Ex-militia member killed by Maoists||VISAKHAPATNAM: Members of banned CPI-Maoists killed a former militia member late on Friday night suspecting him to be a police informer. The victim was identified as Korra Pilku of Kothapalem village in GK Veedhi mandal of Vizag Agency area. He is survived by his wife and four children. Police said 35-year-old Korra Pilku was an active member of CPI-Maoists and used to arrange food and shelter for the banned outfit. He also acted as their local guide, besides gathering people for Maoist meetings. However, he was reportedly keeping himself away from Maoist activities in recent months and was staying in his native village Kothapalem near Mandapalli area. On Friday night, a group of Maoists entered the village, dragged Pilku out from his house and hacked him to death. They also left a letter in the name of Galikonda area committee near the body, which said that Pilku had become a police informer and was passing information on Maoist movements to the police. The letter also alleged that police acted against them based on the information passed on to them by Pilku. The letter further said that Pilku was warned by the Galikonda area committee in a ‘praja’ (people’s) court last year but he did not mend his ways and continued to act as a police informant. “He passed on information about a Maoist squad’s movement in January,” the letter added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-ex-militia-member-killed-by-maoists/articleshow/81372762.cms||Siva G
March 7, 2021||Kochi||Kerala elections 2021: BJP sets its sights on seven seats in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Ernakulam district which came to state BJP election committee’s attention with good performance in the local polls is planning to push the focus on at least seven constituencies — Tripunithura, Paravoor, Vypin, Aluva, Perumbavoor, Ernakulam, Kalamassery — in Ernakulam where the party machinery is working hard for a good fight. While the total vote share of the NDA was around 9.6% in the local body polls, BJP had nearly 13% vote share in the last assembly and the parliamentary polls. Most of these constituencies had recorded more than 11% vote share in the local body polls, with the highest 17% in Tripunithura. Ernakulam constituency had nearly 13% votes. The mood is upbeat in Tripunithura as it has become the highlight following reports that this was one place which has been identified as a possible seat for metroman E Sreedharan. “The people of Tripunithura and Ernakulam have showered their love on me. However, the party will decide where I will contest from,” Sreedharan had said, when asked if he would be contesting from there. Also, the fact that Ernakulam is the commercial capital has its attraction for the district leadership which is pushing to ensure a few wins. Party leaders said that they had started work for the assembly elections well before the local body polls because Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s second consecutive win had changed the profile of the party in Kerala. “While we admit that we do not have 100% booth presence in all constituencies, we have improved so much that we can claim it is now around 75-90% in most constituencies,” said a senior leader coordinating the election campaigning. While the BJP does not have the coverage like LDF or UDF, there are page pramukhs or people who cover around 40-50 houses in a voter list. “Our grassroot level activities are being well coordinated, and we have formed booth committees in many places. This time, the party has not just our members but many public figures, who are not politicians, have also come in, and hence it has become important to be very professional in our campaigning,” said S Jayakrishnan, district president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-elections-2021-bjp-sets-its-sights-on-seven-seats-in-ernakulam/articleshow/81372766.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
March 7, 2021||Gurgaon||Farmers block expressways on 100th day of protest||Gurgaon/Ghaziabad/Noida: Hundreds of vehicles were stranded for hours on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal and Eastern Peripheral expressways, the two speedways that form a ring around Delhi, as farmers blocked several stretches to mark the 100th day of their agitation on Saturday. On the KMP, traffic was thrown out of gear at Badli, Asaudha, Kharkhoda, Kundli and Palwal as the protesters, including women, waved black flags and stopped collection at seven toll plazas. The blockade continued for five hours from 11pm. Traffic from the city was, however, spared the woes as police diverted vehicles on the expressway itself. There was no disruption at the toll booths in Manesar and Pataudi, but vehicles moved at snail’s pace through the others. Commuters bore the brunt. “I am headed for Agra. Little did I know that farmers would block the expressway. Even the traffic police in Gurgaon or Palwal hadn’t issued any alert,” said Satish Kumar, a city resident. Farmers insisted the blockade was peaceful and that they made way for emergency vehicles. “At the toll plaza in Palwal, vehicles that had children and women were allowed to go. Even ambulances and cranes were not stopped. The rest turned back on their own after we requested them. We served tea, food and water to those who remained stranded,” said Mahender Chauhan, a farmer leader from Palwal. In Jhajjar and Sonipat districts, farmers parked their tractors in the middle of the expressway. “Our agitation against the three farm laws will continue until the Centre withdraws them. We are currently mobilising our strength. Farmers from across the state are joining us. Many of their tractor-trolleys have already reached the KMP,” said Vinod Gulia, who spearheaded the protest at the Badli toll plaza. In order to avoid a spillover in the city, police had deployed several teams on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, which connects with KMP. “All senior police officers were patrolling their respective areas. Hundreds of policemen had been deployed at strategic locations on the highways. Besides, a fire engine and an ambulance were also stationed at the spot to deal with any untoward situation,” an officer said. On the EPE too, farmers blocked the stretches in Dasna and Duhai for five hours from 11am. The queue of vehicles stretched several kilometres, but ambulances and other emergency vehicles were allowed to go. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, however, claimed that the traffic disruption was because of the police putting up barricades. “We allowed ambulances and anyone in emergency to pass. We did not block the road. The police put up barricades at various places,” he added. He also criticised the government over rising LPG prices. “We will have to plan another round of agitation for the hike in price of cooking gas. We will place place gas cylinders in the middle of the road and start a protest,” the farmer leader said. In an oblique reference to the 2024 general election, Tikait said, “The problems will be solved in 2024.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-block-expressways-on-100th-day-of-protest/articleshow/81370958.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Noida||Feeding strays to RERA, residents voice their problems||Noida: From feeding stray dogs to more powers for UP-RERA, residents’ representatives voiced their problems during the three-hour interactive session with the chief secretary and other senior officials of the UP government on Saturday. At the end of the meeting, officials insisted on a feedback system where residents would be given the option of rating the Noida and Greater Noida authorities on the basis of the services offered and the time taken to resolve the grievances. Apart from chief secretary RK Tiwari and senior officials of the two authorities, police commissioner Alok Singh and district magistrate Suhas LY also attended the meeting. Among the issues that were raised was the tension between residents and neighbours over feeding stray dogs. The practice of feeding animals has been the bone of contention among residents of several societies, with many complaining of dog bites while others alleging that the animals are being tortured. Strengthening the UP-RERA bench was another point that was discussed at length. Since group housing projects commissioned before 2016 do not fall under the purview of the regulatory authority, residents who have been waiting for their houses for eight to 10 years asked the chief secretary to either give more powers to RERA or create another such institution to deal with their problems. Abhinav Saini from Grand Ajnara Heritage society in Sector 74 said since the registry of flats had been delayed without any fault of the buyers, the stamp duty should be levied in keeping with the circle rate that prevailed during the time they were offered possession and not the prevalent one. Rajesh Sahay, a member of the federation of apartment owners in the city, said the Authority officials should inspect the premises of group housing projects at the time of granting completion certificates to ensure common facilities mentioned in the layout are in place. Chief secretary Tiwari said the key issues of buyers had been noted down and a resolution would be announced within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/feeding-strays-to-rera-residents-voice-their-problems/articleshow/81370191.cms||Shalabh
March 7, 2021||Ghaziabad||UP Gate: The highs and lows of the agitation||GHAZIABAD: On November 26 last year, about 1,500 farmers mostly from western UP districts set off for UP Gate. By November 28, they assembled under the Delhi-Meerut-Expressway bridge at UP Gate. At that time little did they know that UP Gate would become a focal point for farmers’ protests, which will eventually spread to other parts of the country. December 17 marked an important phase of the protest when a ‘mahapanchayat’ was held at UP Gate in which 18 khaps participated, setting the tone for the protest which culminated on January 26 when farmers took out a tractor rally to Delhi, precipitating a dramatic turn of events. Balbir Singh, a farmer from Baghpat has been camping at UP Gate since the first week of December, and is a witness to the highs and lows at UP Gate in the last 100 days. “January 28 will be etched on my memory forever. It was a day when we had all given up hope. Many of our friends had left and UP Gate looked like a deserted spot, there was no electricity even as the temperature kept on plummeting,” he said. “I was literally shivering and the sight of the huge contingent of police force near the stage gave me an unsettling feeling. However, things changed dramatically when farmer leader Rakesh Tikait made a tearful appeal and we were all charged up again. What happened next is now history,” he said. Sharing his experience, Som Dutt, another farmer, said, “The body of 25-year old farmer Navreet Singh, who died during the tractor rally violence on 26 January, broke my heart into a million pieces. The deaths of Choudhary Galtan Singh and Kashmir Singh a day later came as a shocker too. I distinctly remember that it had rained that night and we had wrapped ourselves in quilts to protect ourselves from cold.” Recollecting the days just before 26 January, Babli Choudhary from BKU said, “There was not an inch of space left as the entire stretch was packed with tractor trolleys. But after Republic Day, the face of the protest changed completely. It was phase 2 of the protest, with the agitation now centred round Rakesh Tikait. We were so overwhelmed when people from far and wide came with pitchers of water to offer it to Tikait. At that moment, I was convinced that we would emerge victorious.” While the farmers braved the winter chill and stood united against numerous attempts to break the agitation, over the past fortnight or so, the number of protesters has been declining at the site. “There were times when farmer leaders flocked at UP Gate and there was no dearth of speakers, but off late the stage sometimes looks deserted,” said Mohan Pratap, a pharmacist who is a regular visitor to UP Gate. “Tikait has shifted his focus to mahapanchayats and is always on tour. So, there is a leadership vacuum at UP Gate. We can’t say for sure whether the protest will see another 100 days or not,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/up-gate-the-highs-and-lows-of-the-agitation/articleshow/81370960.cms||Abhijay Jha
March 7, 2021||Amaravati||Nandamuri Balakrishna at it again, slaps TDP activist||TIRUPATI: Tollywood actor and senior TDP leader Nandamuri Balakrishna is at it again. On Saturday, he lost his cool and slapped a man who was taking photographs during his visit to Hindupur assembly constituency. The video of Balakrishna slapping the man twice later went viral on social media. Balakrishna, who is a two-time MLA from Hindupur, was in the town in Anantapur district to campaign for TDP candidates in the ensuing municipal elections. During the campaign, Balakrishna went to a house in the ninth ward to meet voters. A person present there tried to take videos and pictures of the actor, who suddenly lost his cool and slapped him twice. he also asked him to delete the photos. It is learnt that the person slapped by Balakrishna was Somu, who is the brother-in-law of the local TDP candidate in the municipal polls. Moments after the incident happened, the video of Balakrishna’s latest slapgate went viral in social media. It may be recalled that Balakrishna was involved in similar incidents in 2017 when he went on a slapping spree. Many die-hard fans of the actor were at the receiving end of his slaps. The actor has often received flak for his short temper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/nandamuri-balakrishna-at-it-again-slaps-tdp-activist/articleshow/81372784.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
March 7, 2021||Noida||With 1k signs, Wish Town buyers to move SC for flats’ construction||NOIDA: Homebuyers waiting for a judicial resolution for the construction of 17,000 Wish Town flats are now putting together a batch of 1,000 affidavits to make a collective appeal in the Supreme Court. The apex court had on October 8 reserved its judgment in the Wish Town case. Five months on, the buyers are still waiting for an order directing the authorities to resume construction as early as possible. “We already have 760 names on the list. When we reach 1,000, we will make an appeal in the Supreme Court so that construction can resume on the ground irrespective of the status of the financial resolution,” said Ashish Mohan Gupta, a buyer. Gupta has been working on getting people on board for this joint appeal. Although NBCC has been selected as the agency to complete 17,756 flats in 168 towers, construction hasn’t progressed in months. “This delay of five months has tested our patience. We have no other option but to make an appeal in the Supreme Court. We have sufficient number of affidavits for that,” said Gupta. Of the 30,000 flats in Wish Town, 17,756 are yet to be completed, according to NBCC. Of these pending flats, there are 656 in Aman, Garden Isles has 2,945 flats, Kasa Isles 1,871, Kensington Boulevard 3,372, Klassic 1,371, Krescent Homes 2,585 flats, Orchards 1,103 and so on. It was in August 2017 that JIL had gone into the insolvency process after NCLT admitted an application by an IDBI Bank-led consortium. In December 2019, a committee of creditors (CoC) comprising 13 banks and around 21,000 homebuyers had approved the resolution plan of NBCC with 97.4% votes in its favour. “We had thought things would speed up this year as lockdown had impacted judicial proceedings for most of 2020. But we have only been waiting for the order,” said Jayshree Swaminathan, another buyer. The top court had taken over the Wish Town case after state-owned NBCC had moved the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) challenging the insolvency resolution at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) over financial obligations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/with-1k-signs-wish-town-buyers-to-move-sc-for-flats-construction/articleshow/81370214.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala elections: New faces in 60% of seats, Congress list to be out by Mar 9||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Congress party will field new faces, including youngsters and women, in 60% of the seats it is contesting in this assembly election. This was finalized by the KPCC screening committee headed by AICC leader H K Patil in its second meeting here on Saturday. The final meeting of the screening committee will be held in New Delhi on Monday, for which the state leaders will be leaving on Sunday. The final list will be handed over to the party high command and the announcement of the names will be made on March 9, said Patil after the meeting. However, the high command decision that those who have continuously won the assembly elections four times should stay away from the fray would not be implemented fully. The election management strategy committee headed by Oommen Chandy decided not to implement this. The committee decided against this since it will affect the chances of senior leaders like K C Joseph, Thiruvanchur Radhakrishnan, A P Anil Kumar and V D Satheesan. The high command was of the view that only Chandy should be given the exemption and all other should be kept away from the fray. However, the screening committee has finalized a probable list for the 92 seats in which the party is certain to contest. In each constituency, a panel of three to four names of probable candidates have be included. The state leaders are of the view that the final list of the candidates will be announced without much difficulty as the entire process was being monitored by the AICC. “We have requested all the leaders and aspirants in the state not to rush to New Delhi for finalising the candidates. Only the screening committee members are needed there to take the decision,” said H K Patil. For the Congress it is a routine practice that the leaders and the group managers begin intense lobbying in Delhi for getting the seats. This time the AICC has strictly made it clear that such lobbying will not be entertained. Even though there was a popular sentiment in the committee meeting that all the sitting MLAs should be given seats, the leaders believe that anything can happen in Delhi when the final list comes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-elections-new-faces-in-60-of-seats-congress-list-to-be-out-by-mar-9/articleshow/81372795.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Gurgaon||Four rape 12-year-old girl in Gurugram, 1 arrested||GURUGRAM: A youth has been arrested on Saturday after he and three of his friends allegedly raped a 12-year-old girl in Sector 10 on March 3. The Class 5 student’s father works at a mobile shop, while the mother works as a domestic help. The parents said she used to stay alone at home during the day, while her parents were off to work. The father told police they were out for work on March 3 when four youths, who live in the same building, came to their house and took turns to rape her. They threatened to kill her if she told anyone. “She seemed tensed when we returned. Upon being enquired by her mother, she revealed her ordeal to her,” the complaint read. The youth arrested by the police claimed that the girl was his friend and she used to visit their room when her parents were at work and used to talk over the phone as well. All four accused share a single room and work as daily wagers. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/4-rape-12-year-old-girl-1-arrested/articleshow/81370986.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Noida||‘Insurance fee’ in maintenance bill: Wish Town residents stage protest||Noida: Residents of Jaypee Wish Town staged a protest on Saturday against the developer for raising an “insurance fee”, clubbing it with this year’s quarterly maintenance bill and deducting the entire amount from pre-paid electricity meters without their consent. The Jaypee management, however, claimed that ‘insurance’ is a component mentioned in the maintenance agreement with buyers. Around 10am, more than 150 residents gathered on the Wish Town campus and protested against the “hiked” upkeep bills. The residents claimed that depending on the size of their flats, they were charged anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 1,500 under the insurance head for the January-March quarter. According to the residents, insurance is one of the three components which has been merged with maintenance and deducted in one go from their pre-paid electricity meters. Earlier, the developer used to raise quarterly upkeep bills only under two heads — maintenance and solid waste. Sanjay David, a resident, said, “This quarter, the residents were compelled to pay maintenance charges ranging between Rs 9,000 and Rs 20,000 — a 50% year-on-year increase. This amount also includes the Rs 500-Rs 1,500 insurance fee.” “What’s shocking is that the entire upkeep fees have been deducted from pre-paid meters and that too, without our consent,” he added. And those who did not have sufficient balance in their pre-paid meters, residents alleged, the maintenance office had abruptly disconnected the power supply to their flats. Some 10,000 families live in Wish Town currently. The maintenance of Jaiprakash Associates Limited flats are currently done by the builder himself. Ajit Kumar, an advisor to Jaypee group, told TOI, “We have insured the properties of Wish Town — mainly the towers and the common areas against damage — and have been paying premium for the past five years. The cost of the insurance has now been passed on to the residents as per the maintenance agreement. We met the buyers on Saturday and asked them to meet us on Monday again for some negotiations.” Residents said they had approached the Noida Authority on the hidden costs. “We have already submitted a written complaint to Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari,” said Tyagi. Noida CEO Maheshwari said, “I am not aware of this case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/insurance-fee-in-maintenance-bill-wish-town-residents-stage-protest/articleshow/81370224.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Kochi||Oracles proclaim: Do not scale down temple fest||THRISSUR: A group of oracles came to Kodungallur Sree Kurumbha Bhagavathy Temple on Saturday and performed the ritual dance “Thullal” to protest against the decision to scale down the famous Bharani festival in the backdrop of the Covid pandemic. The protest invited criticisms from the temple authorities, including the representatives of the Kodungallur Kovilakam, the temple’s custodians. “They gathered around claiming their protests were to protect the rituals, but what they have done in fact was a violation of the rituals,’’ said Surendra Varma, a representative of the Kodungallur Valiya Thampuran. The oracles, numbering about 300, who had come from different parts of the state in their traditional attires, took part in the “blood offering” by hitting their foreheads with swords. The devaswom board had decided to close the temple for devotees from March 9 to avoid the rush of people during the Meena Bharani festival falling this year on March17. Only the oracles were to be allowed at the temple to perform the “Kozhikkallu Moodal” ritual scheduled on March 10. “Last year too we could not perform the rituals. So, this year we wanted to perform them as the devotees have been preparing for it for the whole year. Festivals are being conducted in several other temples with traditional pomp and excitement. Why is Kodungallur being exempted,’’ asked Sundareshan Master, the leader of the protesters. However, Varma said as per the customs, the oracles can perform “Thullal” at the temple only on the day the “Kozhikkallu Moodal” ritual is performed. Sundareshan Master said as per the belief systems of the devotees, the oracles can perform “Thullal” at the temple any time after the flag has been hoisted, usually done a month before the Meena Bharani festival kicks off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/oracles-proclaim-do-not-scale-down-temple-fest/articleshow/81372822.cms||T Ramavarman
March 7, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala polls: Denial of seat to P Jayarajan sparks social media protest||KOZHIKODE: The reported non-inclusion of CPM state committee member and Kannur party strongman P Jayarajan in the party’s candidate list sparked off protests on social media and also saw the vice-president of the Kannur district sports council, N Dheeraj Kumar, resigning from the post on Saturday. Kumar, who quit the post over the denial of seat to Jayarajan, is a member of the CPM Chettipeedika branch committee. However, in a swift clamping down on dissent, the party district committee expelled Kumar from the party in the afternoon for anti-party activities. Jayarajan himself issued a public statement on Facebook asking party supporters to desist from any campaign linking his name to assembly election candidature. He also dissociated himself from the social media campaigns carried out mostly in the FB page ‘PJ Army’ saying that he has no connection with them. Several party supporters vented their protest on social media under the newly uploaded images of Jayarajan saying that the party will have to pay a heavy price for denying seat to him. Kumar told reporters that he resigned from the post in protest against the denial of seat to Jayarajan. “P Jayarajan is a living martyr. He has been along with the chief minister from the times of the Thalassery riots. If he cannot understand this, then who else can. The chief minister should intervene in the matter and find a lasting solution,” he said. While the party has decided to give relaxation to four senior leaders who had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and field them in assembly elections, Jayarajan, who had been the party Kannur district secretary from 2010 till 2019, when he stepped down from the post to unsuccessfully contest from Vadakara parliament constituency, was not given such allowance. Jayarajan in his Facebook post also warned of legal action against those who use his photo to take out campaigns against the interests of the CPM. “Being a party worker, it is up to the party to decide on which post should (I) hold. It is learnt that the enemies of the party are trying to degrade LDF candidates using campaigns from certain quarters. At a time when continuity of LDF rule is to be ensured, dragging (me) to such controversies will benefit only the enemies of the party. It is with the participation of me also that the candidates are being selected. So, all those love the party and me should actively participate in the campaign for LDF candidates. I state that the campaign being propagated by some using social media title PJ Army doesn’t have any connection with me. I also warn that legal action will be initiated against those conducting such campaigns,” Jayarajan wrote on his FB page. Jayarajan had earlier found himself in trouble over propaganda by his fan base glorifying him through a musical album which invited criticism in the state committee meeting in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-polls-denial-of-seat-to-p-jayarajan-sparks-social-media-protest/articleshow/81372851.cms||---
March 7, 2021||Bhopal||Covid helplines go abuzz ahead of school exams||BHOPAL: Ankit Kumar, a class 12 student, is preparing on two fronts: Preparing for his exams as well as on ways to keep himself safe while appearing in the exam. With his sets of queries, he dialled a helpline regarding it. Ankit is not the only student. Most of the students appearing for class 10 and 12 exams are asking about Covid on various helpline numbers. Majority of the students appearing for class 10 and class 12 on the helpline are asking about the Covid-19. Students want to know how schools will ensure the safety of students during exams. “I have heard that the Covid cases are on the rise. In such a situation my family is concerned about me,” said Ankit. Students are also asking about the preparations done by the schools. “I need to know how schools have prepared for fighting against Covid. Centre of the exam must be a school. In such a situation, I need to know everything about the preparations,” said Swati Gajbhiye, a class 10 student. Students are also asking about the history of the schools. “Several schools were made Covid centres. I need to know whether the school in which I will get the centre was a Covid centre. I must know everything about it,” said Vimal Yadav, a class 10 student. Students said that even CBSE have shifted dates of exam as per the revised dates. “I do not know the exact reason for shifting the dates of the exam. It must be because they want to give more time to the students as cases are on the rise,” said Anshul Updahya, a class 12 student. CBSE has revised the dates for classes 10 and 12 exams. The dates for the class 12 physics paper and applied physics are shifted from May 13 to June 1. Besides, the dates for History and Banking papers have also been revised. Similarly, the class 10 mathematics paper will be held on June 2 instead of May 21 as per the revised date sheet, including other various subjects. Even parents are worried about their children. “We are worried. We have sent our kids to schools to appear in exams for more than 3-4 hours. My child had gone for a few offline classes but he had also stopped it. I do not know what will happen at the time of the exam,” said Sanjeev Nigam, a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-helplines-go-abuzz-ahead-of-school-exams/articleshow/81372908.cms||Ramendra Singh
