March 8, 2021||Mumbai||#WOMENSDAY: Frontline workers urge everyone to be safe||In pic: (L-R) Dr Meenakshi Dhanu, Consultant Intensivist, Chief Nursing Officer Jessica D’souza, Dr Mili Shah, Ozone TherapistDuring the pandemic the women frontline workers like doctors and nurses had a great deal to go through. They sacrificed all their comforts, their family lives, and worked dedicatedly to serve the pandemic-stricken nation. On the occasion of International Women’s Day, we spoke to three selfless servers who braved a lot and yet went on with their duties. Check out what they had to say… It’s not over yet, so be safe: Dr Meenakshi Dhanu, Consultant Intensivist Dr Meenakshi Dhanu, 34, joined the hospital chain since the pandemic began, and worked as a frontline worker for the Covid ICU. Talking about her experience she says, “I have been seeing Covid-19 patients since beginning of the pandemic. Honestly, I’ve forgotten the count. Initially, I traveled from Mahim to Meera Road. Going home after duty was a big task. Always at the back of my mind there was the fear for my family. Constant fear for what if family members get infected because of me. But thankfully the hospital arranged for accommodation and every intensivist used to do one week duty and one week off for isolation.” Dr Dhanu adds, “It is very tiring both mentally as well as physically. The patient load, necessity for precautions, the mental engagement, the paperwork and physical work increased manifold. And after donning the PPE, the physical strength needed to do all this work doubles. It’s very nauseating, you can’t feel anything, your hands will be numb in the gloves and you will be sweating profusely. The temperature of your body shoots up and you start feeling dizzy. The longer you spend wearing the kit, the longer all these reactions will last. But you have to do it for the patients.” As a frontline worked she released many things. She says, “Every patient has different presentations. You never know how the virus is messing with your body. The biggest challenge was not only have to treat patients but also to protect ourselves and our families from getting infected, over and above to deal with mental stress, anxiety, isolation.” Talking about wearing PPE for hours, she shared, “Imagine being wrapped in a non-porous sheet for over eight hours in sweltering heat. We were all going through this harsh experience as healthcare professionals. By the time shift ends, we are drenched in sweat. What’s more, we also experience dehydration, hypoxia due to decreased supply of oxygen as well as skin rashes. Doffing is again big task, as you have to remove PPE kit very carefully as high chances of getting infected.’ However, despite all this work for these women frontline workers never suffered. “No matter how stressed and anxious we are, as we entered the ICU, everything - our sadness, anxiety etc we would keep it all aside. The best thing our hospital Fortis, arranged for our patients and their relatives is that they arranged one person who can daily do video call for each relative and show them the condition of their patient. This has helped many patients overcome loneliness.” With the world still fighting the pandemic for over a year, front line worker, Dr Dhanu told us, “I would like to explain it all in one line- its not over yet, so be safe. After all, your health is above everything else in life.” Among the entire healthcare force, the nurses are the strongest and bravest: Chief Nursing Officer Jessica D’souzaChief Nursing Officer Jessica D’souza, had been on duty since March 18, last year. She battled all conditions, and safeguarded everyone including her family and when she tested positive for Covid-19, in September 2020, she battled that out too. She spoke to us about the trying times. “Since March 18 I had been on the Covid duty with my nursing team. It was very hard to keep a count of patients but there were many admissions each day. As the cases increased, we increased the wards so that they could accommodate more patients respectively. The work was challenging but the nurses never backed away. I used to travel back home as I have kids and family, whereas there were many nurses who were staying in the hospital hostel while their families were elsewhere. We arranged all the facilities for them so that they have a comfortable stay. I was taking all precautions but I was infected with Covid-19 in September 2020. My whole family including my in-laws, children and my husband also tested positive but we all recovered. I got back to work as soon as I recovered. My family supported me a lot; my in-laws and husband not only took care of my children but also cooked nutritious food for me. My husband even ensured to give me a glass of fresh fruit juice when I returned back home. All this is the reason that I am able to work really well today. The best thing about the pandemic was that among the entire healthcare force, the nurses are the strongest and bravest. When people were afraid of the scenario, the nurses team came forward to work and take care of the patients. This was an overwhelming experience for me. There were examples of teamwork, unity and team spirit. The most challenging part would be when some of the nurses didn’t want their families to know that they were working in Covid units. This was a challenge as I had to make sure that they were safe here in the hostel. I had to balance this between the nurses and their families but I could handle the issue carefully and counsel the family assuring that our hospital would provide the best care. The management was always very supportive in the whole scenario.” We managed everything as it was a call of duty and our services were required: Dr Mili Shah, Ozone TherapistDr Mili Shah, has been working on ozone therapy since the last 15 years. She also worked with Covid patients because Ozone is mixed with oxygen to help control the infection. She shares, “We treated around 100 patients in a day over two shifts and doctors stayed back overnight. Since 9.30am we would wear PPE suits for hours and treated all employees in order to keep everyone safe. This happened up to two to three months continuously at least twice a week doing double shift across both morning and night shifts. While morning shift was easier, it was the night shift for our essential staff when they needed the control treatment using multivitamin and ozone therapy. Since I have a family of four and two elders, I would immediately come home and isolate myself following all norms and hygiene protocols at home. Yes, we didn’t want our families to be affected so the moment we would go out, we did a 14- day isolation separately in the house following all norms. During our menstrual periods, PPE can be a struggle as we would perspire and feel dehydrated but we didn’t complain. Especially women in PPE never complained and in addition once we would come out of it, we also had to do work in the house as there was no domestic help. But we managed everything as it was a call of duty and our services were required. Situation was tough for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/womensday-frontline-workers-urge-everyone-to-be-safe/articleshow/81377585.cms||Debarati S Sen
March 8, 2021||India||Six habitations in remote Kishtwar get electrified for the first time||JAMMU: Villagers in six remote habitations of Kishtwar district in Jammu & Kashmir finally saw a light bulb glow in their homes seven decades after the country set forth to chart its own destiny. Remote habitations including Pethgam, Bungam, Chinab, Dindoo, and Watsar in the mountainous Chatroo sub-division of Kishtwar on Sunday were electrified by connecting them with the National Electricity Grid. Interestingly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on April 29, 2018, declared 100 percent electrification of the country's 600,000-plus villages, the last being Leisang in Manipur. Kishtwar deputy commissioner Ashok Sharma visited the villages and formally declared them electrified by lighting a bulb amid elated locals. “People of the six inhabitations appreciated the efforts of the district administration for bringing light in their life after seven decades of wait. Since I took charge, I took up the matter with the executing agency and solved the pending issues, besides closely monitoring the progress of the work on a daily basis, providing all logistic support to the JPDCL team and the executing agencies involved in the project," he said. Families in the remote villages on Sunday got together and celebrated the moment. “Children appeared as joyful as the elderly, who had been waiting in excitement to see their homes brighten ever since the work resumed some three months ago,” the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/six-habitations-in-remote-kishtwar-get-electrified-for-the-first-time/articleshow/81381495.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
March 8, 2021||India||Farooq pitches for thaw in Indo-Pak relations||JAMMU: Invoking the words of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee that “you can change your friends but not your neighbours,” National Conference president Farooq Abdullah stressed on Sunday the need for a thaw in India-Pakistan relations. “Hostilities on borders bring only agonies and miseries to the dwellers, halt agriculture and economic activities, and impact the way of life of every segment of society,” Abdullah said while addressing party workers in Udhampur. Referring to the recent reiteration by both countries to abide by the ceasefire agreement in letter and spirit, the former J&K CM said the people of Jammu & Kashmir wished and prayed for the success of this measure as it would bring them some sort of relief. He said the choice was simple: either nurture friendship and prosper or continue the enmity and lose any hope for prosperity. The NC leader said that the two countries are spending a substantial portion of their budgets on defence procurement, thus taking away from welfare spending. “Peace is in the larger interest of the region, especially as the people of the two countries have been yearning for good relations,” he said. Echoing apprehensions in the minds of the people of J&K about their lands and jobs going in the wake of the August 2019 political developments, the NC chief said, “Article 370 was not just a Kashmir-centric issue, it was as important to the regions of Jammu and Ladakh.” “To save the people, especially those of Jammu, from the hegemony of the elite and affluent from neighbouring states, Maharaja Hari Singh brought the law in 1927,” he said. Abdullah exhorted the party cadre to reach out to people and work for their betterment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farooq-pitches-for-thaw-in-indo-pak-relations/articleshow/81381618.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
March 8, 2021||India||Jaishankar, US' special envoy for Afghanistan discuss Afghan peace talks||NEW DELHI: As the US ramps up its diplomatic efforts to advance the peace process in Afghanistan, foreign minister S Jaishankar held talks with the US special envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad on Sunday. The Biden administration has been doing its own review of the peace process in Afghanistan, as a result, the US has advanced a five-point process to take this forward, worried that the security situation in Afghanistan would deteriorate after the US withdrawal on May 1, leading to the Taliban making “rapid territorial gains.” The US Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, in a letter to the Afghan president Ashraf Ghani said “to move matters more fundamentally and quickly towards a settlement and permanent and comprehensive ceasefire”, the US would take several steps — the first of which would entail asking the UN to convene a meeting of foreign ministers from India, Pakistan, China, Iran, Russia and US to discuss a unified approach to Afghanistan. This is significant — it would bring the regional powers with stakes but different interests in Afghanistan to the same table, to chart a common way forward. It is in context of such a meeting that Jaishankar held a phone conversation with Zalmay Khalilzad. Jaishankar tweeted, “Received a call from US Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad @US4AfghanPeace. Discussed latest developments pertaining to peace talks. We will remain in touch.” Received a call from US Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad @US4AfghanPeace. Discussed latest developments pert… https://t.co/zwztrAvF01— Dr. S. Jaishankar (@DrSJaishankar) 1615120659000“Even with the continuation of financial assistance from the United States to your forces after an American military withdrawal, I am concerned that the security situation will worsen and that the Taliban could make rapid territorial gains,” Blinken said in his letter to Ghani. The US, as the letter shows, is keen that the Afghan government and Taliban work on “a roadmap to a new, inclusive government”, and a permanent ceasefire. The first is also known as an “interim” government which essentially brings the Taliban at par with the Afghan government. The escalating violence in Afghanistan over the past weeks make the idea of a ceasefire worthy but perhaps unattainable at this point. Ghani, speaking to the Afghan parliament on Saturday, refused to step aside for an interim government. “Any institution can write a fantasy on a piece of paper and suggest a solution for Afghanistan” he said, demanding that any government would have to come through elections. The Taliban is more amenable to an interim government, with their officials saying they would choose people of “good reputation” for the government. The fear in Kabul is such a government would be undemocratic and essentially inserting the Taliban into sharing power with the elected government. The Blinken letter conveyed a lot of the urgency of the Biden administration. A similar urgency is not reflected on the Afghan side. India has maintained that Pakistan’s malafide interest in Afghanistan is the sole cause of the continuing insurgency, since Islamabad/Rawalpindi continues to support the Taliban and the Haqqani network, two of the top terror groups responsible for a lot of the killing in Afghanistan. However, with a recent India-Pakistan ceasefire in place, the two countries may be persuaded to sit together at the same table, even though they might have very different solutions to the Afghan peace process. Blinken told Ghani that he had asked Khalilzad to give written proposals “for accelerating discussions on a negotiated settlement and ceasefire.” The Taliban have mounted deadly violence in recent weeks, putting the Doha peace process with the US under sever strain. The US, Blinken told Ghani, intends to leave by May 1 — which could prompt the Taliban to continue doing what they’re best at, waiting the US out. Clearly indicating that the Doha process may have run its course, Blinken said the US would ask Turkey to convene a meeting of the two sides to “finalise a peace agreement.” The Doha pact between US and Taliban was supposed to lead to intra-Afghan talks. That did not happen, instead violence has only increased. Blinken also said the US had prepared a 90-day reduction-in-violence proposal which the Afghan government and Taliban have been urged to abide by, “which is intended to prevent a spring offensive by the Taliban.” Blinken said, “I urge you to positively consider the proposal.” But there is no word whether the Taliban would also obey. Blinken, importantly, reminded Ghani that disunity among Afghan leaders in the 1990s had proved costly — he said Ghani should work with his CEO Abdullah Abdullah, former president Hamid Karzai and Prof Sayyaf, even expand the group to make it more representative of all Afghans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaishankar-us-special-envoy-for-afghanistan-discuss-afghan-peace-talks/articleshow/81381777.cms||Indrani Bagchi
March 8, 2021||World||Yemen's Houthis say fired drones, missiles at Saudi oil facilities, military sites||LONDON: Yemen's Iran-aligned Houthi movement fired 14 drones and eight ballistic missiles at facilities of oil firm Saudi Aramco in Ras Tanura and at military targets in the Saudi cities of Dammam, Asir and Jazan, the Houthi military spokesman said on Sunday. There was no immediate confirmation from Aramco or from Saudi authorities. The Saudi-led military coalition engaged in Yemen said earlier on Sunday it had intercepted 12 Houthi drones without disclosing locations in the kingdom and two ballistic missiles fired towards Jazan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/yemens-houthis-say-fired-drones-missiles-at-saudi-oil-facilities-military-sites/articleshow/81381934.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||I felt low at times, but I did not let it bog me down: Taniya Sanyal||When I applied for the job of a firefighter at the Indian airports, I was not aware that this role was opening up for women for the first time. I could only tell my parents after I cleared the written test. But I never faced any family pressures to back off. Although they were a little unsure – so was I – they told me to give it a try. My challenges were different. It was more to do with my physical endurance as a woman. I just got about 15 days to train myself to run 100 metres in 20 seconds. When I joined the firefighters’ training team, what made me realise that I was in a male-dominated profession was the fact that I felt drained after the exercises. There were days I would feel down, lonely and unable to cope with the training schedule but I tried to do my best. People often interpret equality as men and women being similar. The two genders have different physiologies. But when provided with equal opportunities, both can give their best, which is all about dedication. Being in the emergency services and part of the first responders, I never hesitated when asked to be on duty during the lockdown. Fearing for my elderly parents’ health made me even more careful during 2020. The lessons learnt were many. With the defeat of this virus, the world will also be able to break taboos that women still face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-felt-low-at-times-but-i-did-not-let-it-bog-me-down-taniya-sanyal/articleshow/81381941.cms||Debolina Sen
March 8, 2021||World||French billionaire politician Olivier Dassault killed in helicopter crash||Conservative billionaire politician Olivier Dassault was killed on Sunday in a helicopter crash, French President Emmanuel Macron said on Twitter. Dassault, 69, was the eldest son of French billionaire industrialist Serge Dassault, whose group builds the Rafale war planes and owns Le Figaro newspaper. "Olivier Dassault loved France. Captain of industry, lawmaker, local elected official, reserve commander in the air force: during his life, he never ceased to serve our country, to value its assets. His sudden death is a great loss. Thoughts on his family and loved ones," Macron said on Twitter. The private helicopter crashed on Sunday afternoon in Normandy, where he has a holiday home, according to a police source. A lawmaker for the conservative Les Republicains party since 2002, Dassault was considered the 361st richest man in the world alongside his two brothers and sister, according to the 2020 Forbes rich list. He stepped down from his role on the board of Dassault due to his political role to avoid any conflict of interest. Olivier, seen as the favourite of founder Marcel, was once considered favoured to succeed Serge at the head of the family holding, but that role went to former Dassault Aviation CEO Charles Edelstenne. "Great sadness at the news of the sudden disappearance of Olivier Dassault," Valerie Pecresse, a conservative politician who is president of the Paris region, said on Twitter. "A businessman, but also a renowned photographer, he had a passion for politics in his blood, rooted in his department of Oise. My warm thoughts to his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/french-billionaire-politician-olivier-dassault-killed-in-helicopter-crash/articleshow/81382193.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Little to choose as Mumbai, Goa go to war for place in final||Panaji: The war is now out in the open. That FC Goa and Mumbai City FC wouldn’t see eye to eye was known even before the start of this season’s Indian Super League (ISL). The controversial sacking of coach Sergio Lobera started it all, and the exodus of star players made it worse. In the two league clashes between the teams, there was an air of cordiality. But all that appears to have changed after the first leg semifinals which ended 2-2 at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Friday. The tackle of Mourtada Fall on Princeton Rebello – which left the young midfielder with a dislocated toe – was the tipping point. Goa coach Juan Ferrando was the first to react, terming the tackle as taekwondo. As expected, Goa wrote to the disciplinary committee for additional sanctions, and Mumbai have made their displeasure known, ahead of the crucial second leg semifinal at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Monday. “When Jamshedpur scored (against Goa in the first leg), referee did not give the goal and Goa scored, nobody spoke about this. Maybe with this point, Hyderabad could have been in the playoffs,” said Lobera. The Mumbai coach didn’t hold any punches at the pre-match media briefing, landing one straight on Goa captain Edu Bedia for his ‘bite’ on Deepak Tangri, a “situation which nobody speaks about.” There were others in the firing line too. “I don’t like to cry because I think it’s not a good way,” Lobera told TOI. “We also have injuries, we also have suspensions, we also have players playing out of positions. But I didn’t speak about this all week, explaining my problems to everyone.” Lobera was responding to questions that the champions, unlike the two league games, didn’t appear in control of the proceedings in the first leg semifinal when Goa played a different tune. Goa took the lead twice in the first leg and Ferrando believes they should have got more than just a draw. The result, though, keeps them in the hunt for a third appearance in the final. "We get two days of recovery time and when we are preparing for the game, we want more days. But it is okay, it is the schedule. The most important thing is the players are 100 % ready. All the players are happy. It is a great opportunity for us to continue to improve and hopefully, we will be in the final," said the Goa coach. While Princeton is out and there is huge question mark over Seriton Fernandes, the return of Alberto Noguera, Ivan Gonzalez and possibly even Brandon Fernandes provides a much-needed boost for Goa. “All players are important for me. When you have all players ready, it’s good. We can have plans for even substitutions. We can change tactical plans (midway into the game). Just because we have all foreigners, it doesn’t mean we will win,” said Ferrando. Winning will take quite an effort. Ferrando’s own team is now unbeaten in a record 14 games, but in three attempts, they still haven’t found a way past Mumbai. The last two games between these teams have ended 3-3 and 2-2. Without the away goal rule, should Monday’s battle also end in a tie, there will be extra time and tiebreaker. “Yes, we practiced penalties,” said Ferrando. “But I hope it’s not necessary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/little-to-choose-as-mumbai-goa-go-to-war-for-place-in-final/articleshow/81382268.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 8, 2021||Goa||Fall didn’t have bad intention with tackle, he’s a very good professional: Lobera||Panaji:Mumbai City FC coach Sergio Lobera has asked everyone not to provoke “bad words” against defender Mourtada Fall, a “big player and very good professional.” Fall has come under heavy criticism for his two-footed challenge against FC Goa midfielder Princeton Rebello in the first leg semifinal of the Indian Super League (ISL) on Friday. In the second minute of second half stoppage time, Fall came up with a two-footed tackle to leave the young midfielder with a dislocated toe. After the 2-2 draw, Goa coach Juan Ferrando said Fall’s tackle was like ‘taekwondo’, while the club has appealed to the All India Football Federation’s (AIFF) disciplinary committee for heavier sanctions, rather than just the yellow card shown by referee Pranjal Banerjee. “The people (who) are speaking about Fall that he had bad intentions in this tackle are those who don’t know Fall,” Lobera said ahead of the team’s second leg semifinal clash against Goa. “He’s a big person, big player, very good professional. Princeton is his friend. There are no bad intentions about this situation. I am sure 100%. I don’t like when people speak or try to provoke bad words against the player. Fall is here for a long time, everyone knows the player.” The Mumbai coach who guided his team to a league triumph – having done the same with Goa last season – said it was unfair to single out Fall for criticism when others had gone scot free. “If you want to compare, it’s possible. For example, a bite from Edu Bedia to (Deepak) Tangri and he’s playing now. Nobody speaks about this situation. You can compare the situation. I had (Hugo) Boumous (out for) four games with suspension. Everyone watched, when at the end of the last game (first leg semis), how some people speak with the match commissioner or referee. If we want to complain, we can complain of a lot of things,” said Lobera. The Spanish coach said he would never speak about referees, while the same could not be said about other coaches, who voice their frustrations only when it inconveniences their teams. “When Jamshedpur scored (against Goa in the first leg), referee did not give the goal and Goa scored, nobody spoke about this. Maybe with this point, Hyderabad could have been in the playoffs. “I want to focus on myself. I don’t like people crying all the time. I want to play football. Every team has a lot of problems during this season with very special circumstances, and I don’t like when people are speaking bad against my player and a player like Fall. “When he scored the goal (against Goa), you can watch the reaction. He apologises against his former team. I don’t like this situation. We need to play football on the pitch, and on the pitch, we need to respect all the people. We need to try to help the people who are doing a very hard and difficult job, the referees, match commissioners and people in the league. I don’t like when people try to use one action against my player. I cannot allow his image to be damaged,” said Lobera. Having previously worked with the player in Morocco, Lobera got Fall to India during his time with Goa. Since then, the Senegalese defender has improved by leaps and bounds, playing a significant role in league triumphs for Goa last season and Mumbai now. “You can see the numbers,” Lobera told TOI on Sunday when asked about the player’s importance to his team. “He is the player with highest number of goals in knockout games. He has scored 13 goals as a defender. It’s not just with Mumbai City; he is a good person, player and professional. He’s important. You know the most important thing is the team. If you are playing well, the individual is expected to shine. He’s important, like the other players.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fall-didnt-have-bad-intention-with-tackle-hes-a-very-good-professional-lobera/articleshow/81382302.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 8, 2021||Goa||Edu Bedia ready to fight for FC Goa despite two hairline fractures||Edu Bedia has already played with hairline fractures and the FC Goa captain doesn’t mind going through the pain again in the second leg semifinals against Mumbai City FC on Monday. Despite his injury concerns with two hairline fractures, the club's longest-serving foreigner played a stellar role and did not slow down in their 2-2 draw in the first leg. “It was an important game obviously. I spoke to the medical team and they said there was no risk of it getting further aggravated. It was just the case of whether I could handle the pain or not, but you know that didn’t happen,” Edu told TOI in an online interaction on Sunday. The Spaniard has been with the club for four seasons and understands how important it is to win their maiden title after two failed attempts, one in which he was part of in 2019. Goa have been the most consistent teams in seven editions after making the play-offs on six occasions. Head coach Juan Ferrando will be boosted with the return of midfielder Alberto Noguera and Ivan Gonzalez from suspensions. However, Goa will miss the services of Princeton Rebello due to a dislocated toe. “There are also other players playing with injuries and difficulties. I don’t want to think more about this. Now we just got to focus on the next game we have which will be the most important game of the season for us. So, we just want to ensure we try and do well in the playoffs,” said Edu. The 31-year-old has made 1,420 passes, the most in the league this season in 19 games. His timely tackles and interceptions slowed down Mumbai’s midfield in the last game and surprised many with Goa’s performance against the league champions. “We will try to play our good football. The pressure is obviously on them because everybody considers them to be the best team in the league right now. So, we just have to keep going on what we want to do and just keep playing our good football and see how the result shapes up,” said Edu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/edu-bedia-ready-to-fight-for-fc-goa-despite-two-hairline-fractures/articleshow/81382344.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
March 8, 2021||India||I’m a cobra: Mithun joins BJP, draws ‘party hopper’ barb from Trinamool||KOLKATA: After half-a-decade of self-imposed exile, Mithun Chakraborty once again stepped into Bengal politics on Sunday with his “I am a cobra” punch line which immediately started trending on social media. “Ami joldhorao noi, bele borao noi, ami ekta cobra (I am not a harmless snake, but a cobra),” Mithun told the crowd at the Brigade parade ground in Kolkata which cheered him back, shouting “mahaguru, mahaguru”. He then told them, “I have a new punchline for you — Ek chhobol-ei chhobi (will turn you into a photograph with one bite).” #cobra became an immediate netizens’ favourite. Mithun’s reference to a venomous snake led to a barrage of social media posts, from barbs to adulation. Images from his 2001 movie ‘Zahreela’ started doing rounds. Read Also'Koi Shaque?': Mithun’s political life comes full circleIf politics is colour, Mithun Chakraborty has seen every shade. In his youth, he embraced the extreme Red. The hue got lighter with success as he grew friendly with CPM politicos. Down the line, he turned blue becoming a Rajya Sabha member, courtesy centrist TMC. On Sunday, the 70-year-old actor’sOn Sunday, dressed in a white dhoti-kurta, black cap and sporting a salt and pepper beard, he reached PM Modi’s Brigade rally amid a huge applause. Though the actor spoke of his “dream to do something for the poor”, he faced sharp jabs from his former party colleagues in Trinamool Congress who alleged it was “the threats by central agencies that forced him to switch party”. Trinamool MP Saugata Roy alleged, “BJP threatened him with cases by ED and he left Rajya Sabha. He has changed the party four times and has joined BJP now. As a star of yesteryear, he has no credibility, no respect, and no influence among the people.” Senior minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “I know him for long and it is his personal decision. But even if he addresses Narendra Modi as the biggest leader of the world, that is not going to change the truth.” Mithun did not respond to TMC jabs. He insisted he didn’t want to point fingers at anybody in the Trinamool and said, “It was my bad decision” urging to “leave it at that and end things there”. Referring to his Naxal links and closeness to CPM when it was in power in Bengal, which several have questioned, he said: “Yes, I did politics but was never associated with anyone. TMC made me an MP. That’s about it.” Mithun was nominated to the Rajya Sabha by Mamata Banerjee in 2014. Mithun later said he will start his campaign for BJP from March 12. Watch West Bengal assembly polls: Actor Mithun Chakraborty joins BJP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/im-a-cobra-mithun-joins-bjp-draws-party-hopper-barb-from-trinamool/articleshow/81383088.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 8, 2021||---||I’m a cobra: Mithun joins BJP, draws ‘party hopper’ barb from Trinamool||KOLKATA: After half-a-decade of self-imposed exile, Mithun Chakraborty once again stepped into Bengal politics on Sunday with his “I am a cobra” punch line which immediately started trending on social media. “Ami joldhorao noi, bele borao noi, ami ekta cobra (I am not a harmless snake, but a cobra),” Mithun told the crowd at the Brigade parade ground in Kolkata which cheered him back, shouting “mahaguru, mahaguru”. He then told them, “I have a new punchline for you — Ek chhobol-ei chhobi (will turn you into a photograph with one bite).” #cobra became an immediate netizens’ favourite. Mithun’s reference to a venomous snake led to a barrage of social media posts, from barbs to adulation. Images from his 2001 movie ‘Zahreela’ started doing rounds. Read Also'Koi Shaque?': Mithun’s political life comes full circleIf politics is colour, Mithun Chakraborty has seen every shade. In his youth, he embraced the extreme Red. The hue got lighter with success as he grew friendly with CPM politicos. Down the line, he turned blue becoming a Rajya Sabha member, courtesy centrist TMC. On Sunday, the 70-year-old actor’sOn Sunday, dressed in a white dhoti-kurta, black cap and sporting a salt and pepper beard, he reached PM Modi’s Brigade rally amid a huge applause. Though the actor spoke of his “dream to do something for the poor”, he faced sharp jabs from his former party colleagues in Trinamool Congress who alleged it was “the threats by central agencies that forced him to switch party”. Trinamool MP Saugata Roy alleged, “BJP threatened him with cases by ED and he left Rajya Sabha. He has changed the party four times and has joined BJP now. As a star of yesteryear, he has no credibility, no respect, and no influence among the people.” Senior minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “I know him for long and it is his personal decision. But even if he addresses Narendra Modi as the biggest leader of the world, that is not going to change the truth.” Mithun did not respond to TMC jabs. He insisted he didn’t want to point fingers at anybody in the Trinamool and said, “It was my bad decision” urging to “leave it at that and end things there”. Referring to his Naxal links and closeness to CPM when it was in power in Bengal, which several have questioned, he said: “Yes, I did politics but was never associated with anyone. TMC made me an MP. That’s about it.” Mithun was nominated to the Rajya Sabha by Mamata Banerjee in 2014. Mithun later said he will start his campaign for BJP from March 12. Watch West Bengal assembly polls: Actor Mithun Chakraborty joins BJP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/im-a-cobra-mithun-joins-bjp-draws-party-hopper-barb-from-trinamool/articleshow/81383079.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 8, 2021||India||Mamata hits back at Modi, says ‘change will come in Delhi’||SILIGURI: The only “syndicate” in India is that of PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee said on Sunday in response to accusations by both that Trinamool Congress has institutionalised “syndicates” in the state. Equating the upcoming assembly elections with a “battle for survival”, Mamata exhorted a large gathering in north Bengal’s Siliguri to help her win the fight. “If you can’t ensure that (survival), Modi will divide and take pieces of Bengal away,” she warned. Read AlsoYour game's over: PM Modi targets Didi at massive Kolkata rallyPlaying on Mamata Banerjee’s winning 2011 slogan of “paribartan (change)” while declaring that the “game” is over for her party, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday pitted BJP’s “politics of development” against Trinamool’s “model of corruption and violence” and urged Bengal voters to help him usher “asholMamata dared the PM to have a debate with her one on-one at a time and place of his choosing. "The PM lies. It’s a behaviour that does not behave the PM’s chair. Give me a date and time. Tell me when I will come for a debate. Khela hobe (the match is on). People will be the judges.”  On PM Modi’s allegation that 10 years under TMC had turned Bengal into a land of “tolabaazi (extortion)” and “syndicates”, Mamata said the “Narendra Modi Amit Shah syndicate does not even listen to BJP”. “Prime Minister, you never come to Bengal for work. You come here to spread canards and lies,” she said. “You can come for your political compulsions. You came today, too (to Kolkata). But before campaigning, explain why the price of an LPG cylinder is nearly Rs 900. Why are kitchens on fire? Why are petrol and diesel prices rising daily? Bengal gives free rice. But one needs to buy gas for Rs 900 to even boil it.”  She also countered PM Modi on his claim that Bengal would see “ashol paribartan (real change)” after the polls. “Change will come in Delhi. You will have to leave then,” she said. “The four states and one UT (going to polls) will hit BJP for a six. You will lose everywhere. You talk of Sonar Bangla after selling Delhi. After selling off the Red Fort, Indian Railways, BSNL, Coal India, Air India, the only thing left is to replace India’s name with your name. You are the biggest tolabaaz. Poor people may perhaps get Rs 5 or Rs 100 if they engage in tolabaazi. What happens when you do it? SAIL was sold for how much? Rail, how much?”  The CM also accused the PM of Covid mismanagement. “When people were dying due to Covid, where were you? I was on the streets and hospitals. You spoke virtually. And now the vaccines will have your name.” Referring to Modi's promise of women's safety in Bengal if BJP comes to power, Mamata said, “In Bengal, women can still step out on streets at night. In Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, can they do that after 3pm?” Watch India knows about Modi and Amit Shah’s syndicate: WB CM Mamata Banerjee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mamata-hits-back-at-modi-says-change-will-come-in-delhi/articleshow/81383295.cms||Roshan Gupta
March 8, 2021||---||Mamata hits back at Modi, says ‘change will come in Delhi’||SILIGURI: The only “syndicate” in India is that of PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee said on Sunday in response to accusations by both that Trinamool Congress has institutionalised “syndicates” in the state. Equating the upcoming assembly elections with a “battle for survival”, Mamata exhorted a large gathering in north Bengal’s Siliguri to help her win the fight. “If you can’t ensure that (survival), Modi will divide and take pieces of Bengal away,” she warned. Read AlsoYour game's over: PM Modi targets Didi at massive Kolkata rallyPlaying on Mamata Banerjee’s winning 2011 slogan of “paribartan (change)” while declaring that the “game” is over for her party, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday pitted BJP’s “politics of development” against Trinamool’s “model of corruption and violence” and urged Bengal voters to help him usher “asholMamata dared the PM to have a debate with her one on-one at a time and place of his choosing. "The PM lies. It’s a behaviour that does not behave the PM’s chair. Give me a date and time. Tell me when I will come for a debate. Khela hobe (the match is on). People will be the judges.”  On PM Modi’s allegation that 10 years under TMC had turned Bengal into a land of “tolabaazi (extortion)” and “syndicates”, Mamata said the “Narendra Modi Amit Shah syndicate does not even listen to BJP”. “Prime Minister, you never come to Bengal for work. You come here to spread canards and lies,” she said. “You can come for your political compulsions. You came today, too (to Kolkata). But before campaigning, explain why the price of an LPG cylinder is nearly Rs 900. Why are kitchens on fire? Why are petrol and diesel prices rising daily? Bengal gives free rice. But one needs to buy gas for Rs 900 to even boil it.”  She also countered PM Modi on his claim that Bengal would see “ashol paribartan (real change)” after the polls. “Change will come in Delhi. You will have to leave then,” she said. “The four states and one UT (going to polls) will hit BJP for a six. You will lose everywhere. You talk of Sonar Bangla after selling Delhi. After selling off the Red Fort, Indian Railways, BSNL, Coal India, Air India, the only thing left is to replace India’s name with your name. You are the biggest tolabaaz. Poor people may perhaps get Rs 5 or Rs 100 if they engage in tolabaazi. What happens when you do it? SAIL was sold for how much? Rail, how much?”  The CM also accused the PM of Covid mismanagement. “When people were dying due to Covid, where were you? I was on the streets and hospitals. You spoke virtually. And now the vaccines will have your name.” Referring to Modi's promise of women's safety in Bengal if BJP comes to power, Mamata said, “In Bengal, women can still step out on streets at night. In Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, can they do that after 3pm?” Watch India knows about Modi and Amit Shah’s syndicate: WB CM Mamata Banerjee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/mamata-hits-back-at-modi-says-change-will-come-in-delhi/articleshow/81383158.cms||Roshan Gupta
March 8, 2021||India||Amid LAC ‘thaw’, China blames India for tension||NEW DELHI: As India seeks early troop disengagement in remaining areas in Ladakh after Pangong Tso, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi on Sunday reiterated Beijing’s position that the border issue was not the “whole story” of the bilateral relationship and the two countries need to create “enabling conditions” to resolve the dispute and move on. Speaking at his annual press conference, while he said India and China were partners and not rivals, Wang again blamed India for the border flare-up last year and called for the countries to manage disputes properly. Responding to a query on ties with India, Wang claimed the “rights and wrongs” of what happened at the border were clear and “so are the stakes involved”, suggesting the two sides move on. In his recent interaction with Wang, foreign minister S Jaishankar had, however, made the point that ties could not be reset as long as there were tensions on the border caused by aggressive Chinese actions. “The two sides need to help each other to succeed instead of undercutting each other. We should intensify cooperation instead of harbouring suspicion,” Wang said. “We are committed to settling the boundary dispute through dialogue. At the same time, we are resolved to safeguard our sovereign rights,” he added, as he refrained from making any direct comment on disengagement and de-escalation efforts in eastern Ladakh. Wang had a telephone conversation with Jaishankar recently in which the latter had emphasised that with the completion of disengagement in the Pangong area, the two sides should move quickly to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Wang said the world expected China and India to safeguard their common interests and advance multipolarity in the world. “On many important issues, our positions are the same or close due to similar national realities, therefore China and India are friends and partners, not threats or rivals,” he said. Wang said it was the responsibility of both sides to solidify the existing consensus, strengthen dialogue and communication and improve the various management mechanisms to jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas. On how China looks to move forward its relations with India after the border standoff, Wang said, “ “Together we can bring greater benefits to the 2.7 billion people in China and India, make greater contributions to the advent of the Asian Century.” He added that the China-India relationship was essentially about how the world’s two largest countries get along and pursue development and rejuvenation together. Watch Ladakh face-off: Amid LAC ‘thaw’, China blames India for tension||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-lac-thaw-china-blames-india-for-tension/articleshow/81383486.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Business||Central banks in no rush to raise rates, will back growth: Shaktikanta Das||NEW DELHI: RBI governor Shaktikanta Das is optimistic about the growth prospects of the economy. In an hour-long interview with TOI’s Sidhartha and Surojit Gupta, he said that savers can look at various small savings schemes for better returns while asserting that inflation management remains a top priority. He said equity investors must be judicious and not get carried away by short-term trends. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the economy?Growth impulses are gradually and steadily getting broad-based. The high-frequency indicators such as steel consumption, PMI for manufacturing and services are expanding, GST collections and e-way bills are showing improvement. Earlier, there was an impression that it was due to pent-up and festival demand. But now, it is genuine demand that is visible. The vaccination drive is giving greater confidence to consumers, so the demand is expected to sustain. Read AlsoFraudulent loans cannot be sold to bad bank: RBIThe RBI has said that loans classified as fraud should not be sold to the proposed national asset reconstruction company (NARC) to be set up by public sector banks. This would mean that a big chunk of sticky loans would continue to remain on the books of banks.The only downside risk is the recent spike in the number of Covid cases in certain parts of the country. With daily vaccination numbers going up, we should be able to contain a further spike. But we need to be watchful. International crude and commodity price increase renders some amount of uncertainty, not just to the process of revival in India, but globally, which can have an impact. There is always a demand-supply balance that plays out in the commodity space. Is credit flow an area of concern?Overall credit growth has now crossed 6% after remaining low for a prolonged period. Deposit growth (YoY) is around 11.5%. Credit in the retail sector is picking up. What needs to pick up is loans to industry and manufacturing. The benign financing conditions resulting from RBI’s action in reducing interest rates and making liquidity available in abundance have been utilised by corporates to raise money and deleverage their balance sheets. There was a lot of repayment of previously availed high-cost loans. There is space in their balance sheets to invest. According to our monetary policy statement, capacity utilisation is around 63%, which is an improvement over previous months. Once capacity utilisation starts picking up and with all the positive trends on growth, and the scope for leverage, there should be more credit offtake by corporates and businesses in the months to come. There is enough credit available for any business with a good proposal and a good balance sheet. Do higher commodity prices and hardening rates limit your ability to cut rates?Interest rates are in the domain of the monetary policy committee (MPC). The hardening of bond yields currently is an international phenomenon. But what is important to note is that communication from almost all central banks is quite similar. Every central bank is on the same page in terms of commitment to support the process of economic revival, avoid any premature withdrawal of liquidity and avoid premature tightening of monetary policy. What can be done to carry the process of government borrowing smoothly given the high bond yields?The RBI remains committed to implementing the government’s borrowing programme in a non-disruptive manner. Some questions have been raised about the size of borrowing. Next year (2021-22), the gross borrowing is around Rs 12 lakh crore, the net is around Rs 9 lakh crore. In the current year, we have done open market operations (OMOs) of Rs 3 lakh crore and next year also we will do Rs 3 lakh crore, or more, depending on the situation. We have extended the held-to-maturity dispensation, which opens the space for another Rs 4 lakh crore. Against the net borrowing requirement, already Rs 7 lakh crore is on the table. As for the gap and state government borrowings, we have assured the provision of ample liquidity in the system. One important signal in our latest Operation Twist notification is that we are injecting liquidity via OMO purchase of Rs 20,000 crore but we are taking back Rs 15,000 crore through the sale of short-term securities. This is a change from our earlier position. We are signalling that RBI will support the market with adequate liquidity at appropriate places, where required. We are injecting liquidity at the longer-end of maturity. The actions of the central bank should be read from its communication, its actions, and its signals. The latest notification is an action plus a signal. I have already said the yield curve is a public good and there should be an orderly evolution of the yield curve because every market participant is a stakeholder. The US Fed has also recently said the yield curve cannot be disorderly. Again, you can see all central banks are almost on the same page. Crude prices are rising and retail fuel prices are at historic highs in India. What are your views on tax cuts by the government?The tax cut has to be a coordinated action by the Centre and the states. International crude prices have touched $67-68 per barrel, while they were around $70 just before Covid hit. It’s a very dynamic sector and if prices harden further, shale should hit the market and that can have a sobering role. Is it time to look at GST?It is provided for in the Constitution. It is for the GST Council to take a call. It is desirable in the medium or long term, but its implementation may involve some revenue sacrifice initially by the Centre and the states. The inflation target is up for review. Your views?It has to be consumer price inflation. It’s the pattern world over. Inflation management is very important for the common man, especially the poor. A reasonable level of inflation is good for the economy. A stable inflation framework and a stable inflation outlook and anchoring of inflationary expectations help in attracting investment, both domestic and foreign. Work done by the RBI research team shows that inflation over 6% can be negative for growth. How does one save the savers in a falling interest rate scenario?For savers, the first thing to be checked is inflation because if inflation goes very high, then obviously the real return for the saver gets reduced. Therefore, the first thing is to have inflation within the target range; ideally, it should be 4% but depending on exceptional situations as we had in the Covid times, the MPC decided to tolerate inflation of about 5% or a little above 5%. That is because the situation demanded it and you could not have prematurely gone for a tightening of the rates. Inflation did go up for a certain period but has now started moderating. Second, we have reduced the policy rates from 6.5% to 4%, which in the history of RBI is one of the lowest. Therefore, when the rates have come down there is an issue for savers. It is for banks to evolve the products. With regard to small savers, I would like to say that various instruments under small savings schemes are available. Is there a need to look at some sort of a penalty mechanism for banks for technical glitches which hurt consumers?We are constantly evaluating the technology of banks. It is very important that they should continue to invest in technology. An increase in the asset side of banks, an increase in loan books should be accompanied by simultaneous investment in technology. In fact, investment in technology should precede the expansion of the business of banks. You have to have the capacity to deal with a wider volume of operations and that is also something which we examine as part of our supervision. We have an enforcement system whereby such lapses can attract supervisory action and/or monetary penalties. These sorts of actions are already being taken. From time to time, we levy monetary penalties on individual banks for lapses, including technology failures. Recently, we have issued guidelines for introducing a system of disincentives for banks under the ombudsman scheme. If grievance resolutions are delayed, there will be a penalty in the form of recovery from banks of the cost of handling complaints under the banking ombudsman scheme. This is expected to act as a disincentive. It is not the quantum, but it is the signal. We are giving the highest importance to technology and we will not hesitate to take any action as may be warranted to see that technology is kept robust and in tune with the requirements. What should be the ideal path that the government should take in the proposed privatisation of two public sector banks and does it also mean that the corporate sector should be allowed?Amendments to the Bank Nationalisation Act would be required because, under it, the government enjoys special powers, the government is not just an ordinary majority shareholder, it is a privileged shareholder with special powers. Second, which kind of banks? It is for the government as the owner of the banks to decide and from the RBI’s point of view, we would be particular about two things: One, the entity (or the individual) which takes over the bank meets the RBI’s fit and proper criteria, and two, what size of additional capital it is bringing to the bank. There was an internal working group, which we had formed. If you look at the RBI’s regulatory framework for scheduled commercial banks, it evolved over a period of time. Depending on when a particular bank got a licence, a different set of regulations applies to it. There was a need to synergise the regulatory framework for banks irrespective of when the licence was granted, whether it was granted 20-25 years ago, or it was granted recently, about 7-8 years ago. There was a need to bring in consistency and uniformity in the regulatory framework. Besides, the Indian economy has grown and is expected to grow further. There is a need for greater credit penetration, improving our credit to GDP ratio. How do we ensure that it happens? Technology is also evolving, the economy is very dynamic. India is increasingly becoming globally integrated and our banking sector should keep pace. Therefore, in this background, we formed the internal working group which has given its recommendations. Our idea of putting it in the public domain was to have an informed discussion and get stakeholders’ inputs. The inputs have come and are under examination. We will take a suitable decision on this in due course. What are the concerns over cryptocurrencies?I would like to say that there are two aspects. One is the technology that is blockchain or the distributed ledger technology (DLT). The technology needs to be harnessed. There are many positive applications that need to be exploited keeping in mind of course their high energy consumption. The other aspect is the cryptocurrencies, where some sort of digital codes are being traded. On that, we have major concerns which we have communicated to the government and now it will take a call and perhaps go to Parliament as may be required. What are your views on the soaring stock markets?The investor will have to take his or her own decision. But as the central bank what I have observed and said is that there is a divergence between the real fundamentals of the economy and certain segments of the financial markets which appear to be moving much ahead of the curve. In the normal course of things, both will adjust to each other. In situations like these, it is essential that every investor takes a very judicious call and not get carried away by short-term trends or developments and particularly small investors need to be very watchful and take their own decisions. The IBC has been suspended and some banks are not keen on the freeze to be lifted. Your views?The amendment to the IBC has a sunset date and it is expiring on March 25. I am not aware of any bank wanting an extension of that date. The RBI came out with a resolution framework for Covid-related stressed assets on August 6 last year. It would be better for borrowers to avail the benefit under that particular restructuring package and move on rather than remain static. That framework needs to be utilised. Further, a very positive development in recent months has been that both public and private sector banks have proactively made provisions for the Covid-related stressed assets, notwithstanding the moratorium which was granted by RBI and the asset classification standstill which is operational at the moment in view of the Supreme Court orders. RBI has talked about the possibility of a spike in NPAs and about the need for banks to be ready with capital…In our latest financial stability report, the baseline stress scenario is 13.5% and in a severe scenario, we have given a higher number. The first thing to be noted that it is not a forecast and we have said that in very clear terms in the report. It is a projection based on certain models and the purpose of making this projection is to sensitise the financial sector players, especially the banks, to proactively take steps to protect and preserve the soundness of their balance sheets. The banks have also responded quite positively, and this is something I have been articulating right from July last year, that is the need for additional capital by every bank, both public sector and private sector banks. Both groups of banks have raised additional capital in the last few months. How has your experience as a civil servant helped you navigate one of the most turbulent times in history?More than 40 years ago I did not do MA-economics, I did postgraduation in a different subject. But over the last 40 years, because I started my career in civil service in 1980, I have been a very keen observer and a keen student of the Indian economy and I was also fortunate to have worked in the economic sector both at the state and Central level for a sufficiently long period of time. As a civil servant, what helps is that it places you in a very unique position where you take a 360-degree view of things from day one of your career. You learn how to read the nuances and the complexities of every problem and how to deal with real-life challenges. You are aware from day one that action has to be timely, it cannot be delayed and it also should not be premature. This is something civil service teaches you.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/central-banks-in-no-rush-to-raise-rates-will-back-growth-shaktikanta-das/articleshow/81383567.cms||Sidhartha
March 8, 2021||India||Mukesh Ambani case: ATS probes businessman's death as murder||MUMBAI/THANE: The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad registered a case of murder in the Mansukh Hiran (mistakenly spelled as Hiren in earlier reports) death case on Sunday, two days after the body of the 48-year-old businessman was found floating in a creek in Mumbra and 10 days after his “stolen” SUV was found with explosives in it near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Insiders said the investigations suggested that the killers took Hiran’s mobile phone to Vasai — where the police found his last mobile location — and kept it on till 11.30pm to throw investigators off track. They also said Hiran was probably killed before he was thrown into the creek. In the morning, a team of ATS officers visited the spot where Hiran’s body was found. The team is learnt to have surveyed the stretch for evidence. Later in the day, a police team visited the residence of the Hirans and questioned Hiran’s wife, Vimala, and the couple’s son. Read AlsoMansukh Hiran a good swimmer, says his friend, doubts drowning theoryThe body of Mansukh Hiran (48), owner of the Scorpio found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was found by police in a creek near Mumbra on Friday. The probe into the explosives-in-vehicle case, initially being overseen by Sachin Waze who belongs to the crime branch’s crimeThe murder case was registered on a complaint from Vimala. The accidental death case initially registered by the Mumbra police station was taken over by the ATS and converted into a murder case, said a police source. Hiran’s brother Vinod said the family suspected murder. Hiran had written a letter to the state home minister and commissioners of police in Thane and Mumbai complaining about harassment at the hands of various investigating agencies. Hiran resided in Thane and left his flat around 8pm on Thursday, saying he was stepping out to meet a person called Tawde on Ghodbunder Road. Read AlsoMukesh Ambani case: SUV ‘owner’ found dead in Thane creekMUMBAI/THANE: On a day the body of Mansukh Hiran (48), owner of the Scorpio found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was found by police in the Reti Bunder creek near Mumbra and opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis levelled charges against assistant inspector Sachin Waze and demanded anInvestigators were unable to find his mobile phone. The postmortem report was inconclusive and the viscera samples were sent to the state forensic lab for further tests. Sources said there were some observations in the report, including the nature of some injuries, that gave rise to suspicion of foul play. Questions were also raised after handkerchiefs were found stuffed inside his mouth, said an officer. The ATS registered a case of murder, causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender, acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention and criminal conspiracy. The investigation is being headed and monitored by ATS chief Jai Jeet Singh and DIG Shivdeep Lande. The ATS team will also look at the line of investigation initially pursued by the crime branch team. This is also relevant considering that Hiran had hired an Ola cab on February 17, the day the SUV went missing from his possession, to the police headquarters in Crawford Market but ended up taking the cab to another location at CST. The cab driver, whose statement has been recorded, said that Hiran kept often referring to a certain “Sir” on the cellphone all through the trip. Officials will also ascertain if Hiran had any inkling about the identity of the person who parked the SUV near Ambani’s residence. The explosive-laden SUV was found on Carmichael Road on February 25. The SUV was stolen on February 17, after Hiran left it on the Mulund-Airoli road because it had developed a snag. A neighbour said last he saw “Bhaije” (elder brother), as Hiran was fondly called, a few hours before he left home last and said he seemed stressed about the continuous grilling and visits to police stations in the SUV explosives case. A family associate from Ameth village in Rajasthan, from where the family hails, said Hiran was socially active and was known to many people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ambani-case-ats-probes-businessmans-death-as-murder/articleshow/81383625.cms||Mateen Hafeez
March 8, 2021||India||Sex ratio gets worse with 2nd, 3rd births: Study||NEW DELHI: A study that analysed over 5.53 lakh births between 2005-16 in households interviewed under the National Family Health Survey-4 (2015-16) puts worrying focus on an already skewed sex ratio at birth (SRB) getting worse with the second, third and higher birth orders, that is, a couple’s second, third or more children. A research paper published in the international journal ‘Studies in Family Planning’ showed that SRB generally increased, ranging from 107.5 boys per 100 girls for birth order 1 to 112.3 boys per 100 girls for third borns and beyond. The analysis was carried out by researchers from India’s International Institute for Population Sciences and the University of California San Diego’s Centre on Gender Equity and Health. Under normal circumstances, SRB varies between 103 and 106 male births per 100 female births with the estimated global average value being 105. Data showed that SRB was well within the normal range when community-level fertility was above 2.8 children per woman (103.7). It jumped to 111.9 among mothers in communities where average fertility was 1.5 children per woman or lower. “The research shows that at birth order 3 or higher, increase in mother’s schooling was associated with higher odds of a male birth. Increase in mother’s education was, however, not associated with increased odds of a male birth at birth orders 1 and 2,” said Professor Abhishek Singh, one of the lead researchers from IIPS. So, smaller and wealthier families were more prone to sex selection. The analysis warned that the factors at work were desire for sons in the absence of a living male child, which could drive families towards illegal practices like sex selection. The researchers analysed differentiation of factors with SRB across birth orders, a key determinant in societies affected by son preference. Prof Singh said SRB at birth order 1 in India was already outside the biological normal limit (despite recent improvements), and deteriorated further with more births. The study found that SRB in the absence of a surviving male sibling was 111.4, which was far above the biological normal level, and significantly different from SRB in the presence of a surviving male sibling (105.8, which is within normal limits). “We found that SRB at birth order 1 was responsive to a few socio-economic variables. At the national level, the probability of a male birth was associated with being in the middle and richest wealth quintiles and residing in a lower fertility community. Interestingly, most of these SRB correlates were visible for birth order 3 or higher,” Prof Singh said. This might mean that better-off households actually used their privilege to access sex selection. Overall, these findings demonstrate that SRB remains a major concern in India, even as the fertility rate fell from 2.9 children per woman in 2005 to 2.2 in 2018. A key area that likely affects son preference and SRB is land inheritance. The findings showed that at birth orders 2 and 3 or higher, mothers from households holding 10 or more acres of land were more likely to have a male birth than mothers from households having no land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sex-ratio-gets-worse-with-2nd-3rd-births-study/articleshow/81383677.cms||Ambika Pandit
March 8, 2021||India||Sonia Gandhi calls Stalin, settles for 25 assembly seats||CHENNAI: It took a call from Congress president Sonia Gandhi to DMK president M K Stalin on Saturday night to bring the meandering seat-sharing talks between the two sides to a logical end. DMK and Congress on Sunday signed a seat-sharing agreement for contesting the Tamil Nadu assembly election together. DMK has allotted 25 assembly seats for Congress in the alliance, besides the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat that fell vacant after H Vasanthakumar was infected with Covid-19 and died in August last year. Sonia Gandhi reached out to Stalin and stressed the need to sustain this secular alliance in the wake of the BJP onslaught, a senior AICC leader based in Delhi told TOI. Besides the assembly seats, the talks centred around Congress's request for two Rajya Sabha seats, with one directly from DMK and another based on the outcome of the assembly election. “The DMK had assured to consider the request at the right time. We do not put these in black and white and it works on mutual trust,” said the AICC leader. Following the conversation, Stalin invited TNCC president K S Alagiri and AICC general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao to his residence late Monday evening. DMK women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi too was present. Significantly, it was the first such meeting that Stalin held at his residence, as DMK held all its negotiations at its party office. On Sunday morning, Stalin and Alagiri formally signed the seat-sharing agreement at Anna Arivalayam, the DMK headquarters. Dinesh Gundu Rao, Congress legislature party leader K R Ramasamy and Kanimozhi were present. The development brings to an end the protracted negotiations that DMK had with Congress. The first round of talks began on February 25, followed by the second round last Tuesday, amid tears, angst and recriminations. Last Friday, at an internal meeting of the TNCC, Alagiri broke down while narrating to party colleagues how the negotiating team was “treated” by DMK leaders. “This election is more about the need to strengthen the secular plank rather than the number of seats. To prevent the spread of the BJP, which is more dangerous than the coronavirus, all secular parties had to join hands with the single aim of defeating the BJP and its allies,” Alagiri told reporters after signing the deal. He recalled that in his recent campaign in Tamil Nadu, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi described the assembly election as an ideological war, more than a mere change in regime. "This secular front will win big in this election, " Dinesh Gundu Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-gandhi-calls-stalin-settles-for-25-assembly-seats/articleshow/81383711.cms||D Govardan
March 8, 2021||---||Sonia Gandhi calls Stalin, settles for 25 assembly seats||CHENNAI: It took a call from Congress president Sonia Gandhi to DMK president M K Stalin on Saturday night to bring the meandering seat-sharing talks between the two sides to a logical end. DMK and Congress on Sunday signed a seat-sharing agreement for contesting the Tamil Nadu assembly election together. DMK has allotted 25 assembly seats for Congress in the alliance, besides the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat that fell vacant after H Vasanthakumar was infected with Covid-19 and died in August last year. Sonia Gandhi reached out to Stalin and stressed the need to sustain this secular alliance in the wake of the BJP onslaught, a senior AICC leader based in Delhi told TOI. Besides the assembly seats, the talks centred around Congress's request for two Rajya Sabha seats, with one directly from DMK and another based on the outcome of the assembly election. “The DMK had assured to consider the request at the right time. We do not put these in black and white and it works on mutual trust,” said the AICC leader. Following the conversation, Stalin invited TNCC president K S Alagiri and AICC general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao to his residence late Monday evening. DMK women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi too was present. Significantly, it was the first such meeting that Stalin held at his residence, as DMK held all its negotiations at its party office. On Sunday morning, Stalin and Alagiri formally signed the seat-sharing agreement at Anna Arivalayam, the DMK headquarters. Dinesh Gundu Rao, Congress legislature party leader K R Ramasamy and Kanimozhi were present. The development brings to an end the protracted negotiations that DMK had with Congress. The first round of talks began on February 25, followed by the second round last Tuesday, amid tears, angst and recriminations. Last Friday, at an internal meeting of the TNCC, Alagiri broke down while narrating to party colleagues how the negotiating team was “treated” by DMK leaders. “This election is more about the need to strengthen the secular plank rather than the number of seats. To prevent the spread of the BJP, which is more dangerous than the coronavirus, all secular parties had to join hands with the single aim of defeating the BJP and its allies,” Alagiri told reporters after signing the deal. He recalled that in his recent campaign in Tamil Nadu, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi described the assembly election as an ideological war, more than a mere change in regime. "This secular front will win big in this election, " Dinesh Gundu Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/sonia-gandhi-calls-stalin-settles-for-25-assembly-seats/articleshow/81383699.cms||D Govardan
March 8, 2021||India||Amid campaigning in states, Parliament session starts today||NEW DELHI: The second part of the Budget session of Parliament begins on Monday at a time when most parties are involved in campaigning for the assembly polls in four states and one Union Territory and also when farm unions are continuing their dharna demanding repeal of the three farm laws. The government’s main focus in this session is to get the various demands for grants for 2021-22 passed along with the finance bill which carries various tax proposals. It has listed various bills for passage in the session which concludes on April 8. Some of the bills listed by the government include the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill, Electricity (Amendment) Bill and Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill. Senior members of various parties are likely to skip most of the House sittings to focus on campaigning. There might be pronged absence of senior BJP functionaries too, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit shah, who are likely to address several rallies in poll-bound states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-campaigning-in-states-parliament-session-starts-today/articleshow/81383814.cms||---
March 8, 2021||India||Covid cases rise for third week running, up by 10% in 7 days||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 cases surged by 10% in the just concluded week, registering a rise for the third week running although the increase had slowed a bit from the 19% growth seen in the previous seven days. Deaths decreased by 12% over the previous week while the daily average also fell marginally below 100 at 98.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Maharashtra continued to drive the surge in weekly cases but infections were also rising in Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Haryana, MP, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. India recorded 1,17,198 new cases in the week (March 1-7), around 10,500 more than the previous week’s tally, as per TOI’s data collated from state governments. This translates to a daily average of over 16,700 cases, up from 15,235 recorded last week. On Sunday, India recorded 18,631 fresh cases. Kerala’s count dropped to 2,100 from 2,791 the previous day. Fresh cases in Mumbai hit a 131-day high of 1,361. From 427 daily cases on March 1, Gujarat numbers rose to 575 on March 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-cases-rise-for-third-week-running-up-by-10-in-7-days/articleshow/81383837.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
March 8, 2021||Bengaluru||CM BS Yediyurappa banks on budget moves, divine help to lift economy||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who will present his eighth budget on Monday, appears to have sought divine intervention for a better fiscal as his government looks to shore up revenue and revive the economy. After consulting astrologers, his office has carefully picked the time of 12.05pm for him to table the 2021-22 budget in the assembly. According to astrologer Daivajna KN Somayaji, whose advice was reportedly sought, the chosen time is called ‘Abhijit Muhurat’, which symbolises victory and is considered auspicious for starting a new venture. Last week, Yediyurappa performed a special puja at the Raghavendra Swamy Mutt in the city, seeking some help from above. “These rituals may give us a much-needed psychological boost. But apart from this, we have done strong groundwork to prepare a budget relevant to the prevailing financial situation. It will ensure growth without burdening people much with taxes,” said an official. One area of considerable public interest is high fuel prices. Yediyurappa had increased the state tax on petrol and diesel by 3 per cent (Rs 1.6 per litre) last year, but he is unlikely to touch the rate this time. Recently, he said that he didn’t plan to propose tax hikes, and traders are hoping that he won’t raise the levies on property and vehicle registration. An official said that Yediyurappa might marginally increase the excise duty on liquor. The view in the industry is that the government should focus on other sources of revenue. “This is the time for the government to mobilise resources through nontax revenue. Asset monetisation, borrowings and other means look prudent,” said BT Manohar, the taxation chairman at the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries. Falling revenues had earlier forced Yediyurappa to consider cutting the budget size from Rs 2.3 lakh crore in 2020-21 to Rs 2.1 lakh crore this fiscal. Improving collections of commercial taxes and excise duty have changed his mind and he has reportedly increased the budget outlay by at least 10 per cent. The budget will be unveiled on International Women’s Day and the chief minister is expected to allot more funds to welfare programmes for women. The agriculture sector, which had taken the highest cut (24 per cent) last time, is also expected to get a substantial allocation. The allocation may include funds for new cow shelters across the state. Meanwhile, former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy has opposed the proposal to include petrol and diesel under the GST regime, saying it would lead to revenue loss for states. “The Centre seems to be using people’s anger against price rise as an opportunity to bring petroleum products into the ambit of GST. It is hatching a systematic conspiracy to achieve this,” he alleged in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/budget-today-yediyurappa-may-spare-tax-blow/articleshow/81383810.cms||BV Shivashanakar
March 8, 2021||World||At least 20 dead, 600 wounded in Equatorial Guinea blasts||OUAGADOUGOU: A series of explosions at a military barracks in Equatorial Guinea killed at least 20 people and wounded more than 600 others on Sunday, authorities said. President Teodoro Obiang Nguema said the explosion at 4 pm local time was due to the “negligent handling of dynamite” in the military barracks located in the neighbourhood of Mondong Nkuantoma in Bata. “The impact of the explosion caused damage in almost all the houses and buildings in Bata," the president said in a statement, which was in Spanish. The defence ministry released a statement late Sunday saying that a fire at a weapons depot in the barracks caused the explosion of high-calibre ammunition. It said the provisional toll was 20 dead and 600 injured, adding that the cause of the explosions will be fully investigated. The country's president said the fire may have been due residents burning the fields surrounding the barracks. State television showed a huge plume of smoke rising above the explosion site as crowds fled, with many people crying out “we don't know what happened, but it is all destroyed.” Images on local media seen by The Associated Press show people screaming and crying running through the streets amid debris and smoke. Roofs of houses were ripped off and wounded people were being carried into a hospital. Equatorial Guinea, an African country of 1.3 million people located south of Cameroon, was a colony of Spain until it gained its independence in 1968. Bata has roughly 175,000 inhabitants. Earlier, the Health Ministry had tweeted that 17 were killed and the president's statement mentioned 15 dead. The Health Ministry made a call for blood donors and volunteer health workers to go to the Regional Hospital de Bata, one of three hospitals treating the wounded. The ministry said its health workers were treating the injured at the site of the tragedy and in medical facilities, but feared people were still missing under the rubble. The blasts were a shock for the oil rich Central African nation. Foreign Minister Simeón Oyono Esono Angue met with foreign ambassadors and asked for aid. “It is important for us to ask our brother countries for their assistance in this lamentable situation since we have a health emergency (due to COVID-19) and the tragedy in Bata,” he said. A doctor calling into TVGE, who went by his first name, Florentino, said the situation was a “moment of crisis” and that the hospitals were overcrowded. He said a sports center set up for COVID-19 patients would be used to receive minor cases. Radio station, Radio Macuto, said on Twitter that people were being evacuated within four kilometers of the city because the fumes might be harmful. Following the blast, the Spanish Embassy in Equatorial Guinea recommended on Twitter that “Spanish nationals stay in their homes."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/at-least-20-dead-600-wounded-in-equatorial-guinea-blasts/articleshow/81383860.cms||---
March 8, 2021||India||Why Stalin wants son to stay out of poll race||CHENNAI: Doubts remain that DMK president M K Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi, the party’s youth wing secretary who has applied for the party ticket for the Chepauk seat, may at the last minute not contest the April 6 assembly elections, according to multiple sources close to developments in the main opposition party. Some in the DMK worry that the AIADMK campaign against dynastic politics could gain ground if Udhayanidhi contests, while others say he has earned the right. At the ‘nerkanal’ (interview session) with his father at the DMK headquarters in Chennai on Saturday, a process to screen prospective candidates, Stalin is said to have pointed out to Udhayanidhi that he would also have to campaign for 234 constituencies.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); “Thalaivar (Stalin) asked his son if he could manage to do that as well as take care of Chepauk,” said a DMK leader, privy to the meeting. Senior leaders present at the meeting, including DMK general secretary S Duraimurugan, party treasurer T R Baalu and principal secretary K N Nehru, besides A Raja and Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan, extended support for his candidature, assuring him that they would convince Stalin, said this leader. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami mocks the DMK as “a corporate firm where only family members can be made directors”. So, a section in DMK is keen to avoid “anything that may diminish, even if to a small extent, the goodwill gained by the party”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-stalin-wants-son-to-stay-out-of-poll-race/articleshow/81383879.cms||Jaya Menon
March 8, 2021||---||Why Stalin wants son to stay out of poll race||CHENNAI: Doubts remain that DMK president M K Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi, the party’s youth wing secretary who has applied for the party ticket for the Chepauk seat, may at the last minute not contest the April 6 assembly elections, according to multiple sources close to developments in the main opposition party. Some in the DMK worry that the AIADMK campaign against dynastic politics could gain ground if Udhayanidhi contests, while others say he has earned the right. At the ‘nerkanal’ (interview session) with his father at the DMK headquarters in Chennai on Saturday, a process to screen prospective candidates, Stalin is said to have pointed out to Udhayanidhi that he would also have to campaign for 234 constituencies.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); “Thalaivar (Stalin) asked his son if he could manage to do that as well as take care of Chepauk,” said a DMK leader, privy to the meeting. Senior leaders present at the meeting, including DMK general secretary S Duraimurugan, party treasurer T R Baalu and principal secretary K N Nehru, besides A Raja and Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan, extended support for his candidature, assuring him that they would convince Stalin, said this leader. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami mocks the DMK as “a corporate firm where only family members can be made directors”. So, a section in DMK is keen to avoid “anything that may diminish, even if to a small extent, the goodwill gained by the party”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/why-stalin-wants-son-to-stay-out-of-poll-race/articleshow/81383875.cms||Jaya Menon
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Couple get divorce without even stepping into court||MUMBAI: A couple, both jetsetting professionals in their 40s, recently got a divorce via mutual consent without placing a foot in the family court in Bandra. They were not in India when they filed for divorce, and when it was granted, the man was stranded in Bali on a tourist visa and the wife in Dubai, where she works. The wedding had taken place under the Special Marriage Act in 2002 in the city. Three years ago, they began living separately, citing irreconcilable differences. During the lockdown, like many other couples, they decided to get moving on the dissolution of their marital ties. The husband had been abroad on a 2-month tourist visa, which was extended to over 10 months due to the unprecedented contingency. Family court waives 6-month cooling off period for coupleThe Indian consulate at first rejected the husband’s application to attest his documents, but later, after several escalations, it played a role in even aiding the virtual dissolution. The authorities in Bali made an exception and allowed him to attest his divorce petition and power of attorney documents to enable their lawyer, who is in the city, to file the petition last December. Last month, the couple underwent virtual counselling and appeared before the court via video-conferencing to confirm their consent. Their lawyer, Pipli Datta, even sought and got them a waiver of the six-month cooling off period after their joint petition was filed. She said they complied with the criteria laid down by the SC, which family court judge P L Palsingankar could apply to the facts of the case. The couple said since they have been separated for over two years and seven months, the waiting period of six months in cases of mutual consent divorce petitions would “only prolong their agony”. Datta said the consulate may not be able to attest the husband’s documents once again for the final hearing six months later and, citing the new strain of the virus now spreading, she had said that unless the cooling off period was waived the case would be left hanging with no prospects of reconciliation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/couple-get-divorce-without-even-stepping-into-court/articleshow/81383884.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 8, 2021||India||Ask your MLA to help topple Haryana govt: Sanyukta Kisan Morcha||NEW DELHI: In yet another political step after deciding to campaign against BJP candidates in poll-bound states, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the farmer unions’ umbrella body spearheading the agitation against the agri laws, appealed to people in Haryana to approach their MLAs to ensure that the BJP-led alliance government in the state is defeated in the no-confidence motion on March 10. The idea behind this move is to put the BJP’s central leadership under pressure even as the alliance in Haryana appears comfortable despite a few MLAs’ open support to the farmers’ agitation. “Let the MLAs of Haryana know that those who do not stand with farmers in this crucial juncture of the farmers’ movement will be taught a lesson by people in future,” the SKM said in a statement. The SKM’s move is in addition to its earlier decision to hold meetings/rallies against BJP candidates in poll-bound states, including West Bengal and Kerala. It had announced that farmers’ representatives would seek votes in favour of political parties contesting against BJP. The opposition Congress in Haryana had moved a noconfidence motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar government on first day of the budget session of the assembly last week. The BJP-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) alliance has a majority with 50 MLAs in the 90-member assembly. The current strength of House is, however, 88 with two vacancies. The INLD’s Abhay Chautala had resigned in January in solidarity with the farmers over their demands to repeal the central farm laws and legal guarantee to purchase at minimum support price (MSP) while Congress MLA Pradeep Chaudhary was disqualified after his conviction in a decade old riot and assault case. The BJP has 40 MLAs while JJP has 10 MLAs in the House. Among remaining 38, the Congress has 30 MLAs, Haryana Lokhit Party has one MLA while seven are independents. The Alliance has support of five of the seven independents and the Haryana Lokhit Party in the House where it needs a simple majority of 45 members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ask-your-mla-to-help-topple-haryana-govt-skm/articleshow/81383909.cms||Vishwa Mohan
March 8, 2021||India||Stitching of alliances reveals worn-out Congress||NEW DELHI: In virtually every state going to polls, Congress is either part of a ‘grand alliance’ or a minor ally of a dominant regional force, a feature that illustrates the weakened political muscle of the party nationally. The grand old party settling with DMK for 25 seats in Tamil Nadu marks a continuing diminution of Congress. Its failure to post a decent performance after securing 74 seats from RJD in the 2020 Bihar polls has had a debilitating effect on its perception among regional parties. The five election-bound states, representing a wide east south geographical arc, attest to the shrinking Congress appeal among voters and allies alike, as evidenced by the loss in bargaining power.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Assam was a Congress fief till the party was ousted in 2016 by a resurgent BJP riding on Narendra Modi’s ascension to power in Delhi. In the volatile state, Congress used to make rare alliances for sub-regional adjustments as with a Bodoland outfit. Read AlsoSonia Gandhi calls Stalin, settles for 25 assembly seatsIt took a call from Congress president Sonia Gandhi to DMK president M K Stalin on Saturday night to bring the meandering seat-sharing talks between the two sides to a logical end. DMK and Congress on Sunday signed a seat-sharing agreement for contesting the Tamil Nadu assembly election together.This time, however, Congress has formed a ‘Mahajot’ which not only comprises very minor outfits to aggregate votes but also a minority outfit to consolidate the sprawling Muslim base — a reason why it has not spelt out the tally it will contest. While Kerala has had a tradition of two contending alliances for far longer than any other state, it is the first time in decades that the opposition alliance (UDF led by Congress) is unsure of ousting the ruling combine (LDF led by the Left). Congress’s own position in UDF is shakier than before. Read AlsoRift in Assam Congress over seats to AIUDFDissatisfied with the Congress-led grand alliance’s seat-sharing policy, All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev on Saturday sent a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi expressing her desire to resign from her post and quit the party.West Bengal represents the ironical case where the party is set to contest a big tally of 92 seats in alliance with Left, but only because the coalition itself is a fringe player to what has become a direct contest between Trinamool Congress and challenger BJP. According to party strategists, Congress may become relevant only as a “filler” in case the TMC vs BJP clash results in a deadlock. Puducherry, where Congress had managed to retain its prime position in the alliance, appears to be slipping from the party’s grasp. After a spate of resignations by MLAs felled its government recently, Congress is looking at an uncertain future.  The party’s dwindling stock with allies is best explained by sources who said DMK was not just worried about the winnability of Congress (8/41 in the 2016 polls) but also its ability to keep its flock together. Concerns about Congress’s winnability first surfaced in the 2017 UP contest where the party, through negotiations led by now dissident Ghulam Nabi Azad, managed to secure 106 seats from Samajwadi Party but could win only seven. The falling graph was broken in Jharkhand in 2019 but Bihar seems to have revived and accelerated the slide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stitching-of-alliances-reveals-worn-out-congress/articleshow/81383914.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
March 8, 2021||India||BJP’s Suvendu drags Kashmir into Bengal debate, Omar fumes||KOLKATA: Former J&K CM and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Sunday slammed BJP recruit Suvendu Adhikari’s “stupid, tasteless comment” that if Trinamool Congress retained power in Bengal, the state would turn into another Kashmir. “But according to you BJP wallas, Kashmir has become paradise after August 2019; so what’s wrong with West Bengal becoming Kashmir? Anyway, Bengalis love Kashmir & visit us in large numbers — so we forgive you,” Omar tweeted. But according to you BJP wallas Kashmir has become paradise after August 2019 so what’s wrong with West Bengal beco… https://t.co/36EW2RlKkO— Omar Abdullah (@OmarAbdullah) 1615089872000 Trinamool Congress termed Adhikari’s remark a pre-election ploy to divert talk from development. The former TMC minister, whom BJP has fielded against CM Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, had spoken about Bengal becoming a part of Bangladesh at a rally in south Kolkata’s Behala on Saturday night and referenced Kashmir at PM Narendra Modi’s Brigade Parade Ground rally on Sunday.  “I do not know when Darjeeling will turn into Switzerland or Kolkata will become London (alluding to an old Mamata promise), but what I know for sure is if Trinamool Congress returns to power, your plight will be the same as Kashmiri Pandits,” he said on Sunday.  He also questioned Furfura Sharif clerics taking a political stance and accused TMC, the Left and Congress of “appeasement politics”. In Behala the night before, Adhikari had said, “If Syama Prasad Mukherjee weren’t here, this country would have been an Islamic country and we would be living in Bangladesh.”  Rajya Sabha MP and Trinamool’s national spokesperson Derek O’ Brien said, “BJP’s plan in the next two months is to distract people from the key issues and all the good work that has happened in Bengal — health, education, social schemes, jobs, infrastructure like roads, economic indices, the improvement in Kolkata and across Bengal. So, what will they do? Make bizarre statements in an attempt to be divisive and polarise. It’s an old Modi-Shah devious tactic which their minions are following. People will see through this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjps-suvendu-drags-kashmir-into-bengal-debate-omar-fumes/articleshow/81383934.cms||---
March 8, 2021||India||Major arrested in Army exam paper leak case||PUNE: An army major was arrested on Sunday a day after he was taken in custody from Wellington in Tamil Nadu and brought here in connection with the leaking of the question paper for the entrance exam for recruitment of soldiers (general duty). The exam had to be cancelled on February 28. A Pune Police crime branch inspector told TOI, “We shall produce him before the cantonment court on Monday to seek his custodial remand.” Another senior crime branch officer said, “On Sunday, we found involvement of two more army officers in the case and further details can be revealed after verifying their role as they are closely linked to the arrested officer.” With the major’s arrest, a total of nine persons have landed in police custody so far in the two paper leak cases. Police haven’t ruled out more arrests, including officer-rank personnel. Army sources told TOI that the officer was a special list commissioned major — someone rising from the rank of a junior or non-commissioned officer or other rank. He is suspected of having forwarded the leaked question paper to one of the suspects arrested in one of the cases. Top police officers preferred not to name the arrested major for now. “It won’t be appropriate to divulge any further information now as our probe is on,” Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/major-arrested-in-army-exam-paper-leak-case/articleshow/81383946.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Business||Junk old vehicle & get 5% off on new car: Govt||NEW DELHI: There is good news for consumers who are going to junk their old vehicles and buy a new one under the vehicle scrapping policy as automakers will give about 5% rebate on new purchase, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said. “There are four major components of the policy. Apart from rebate, there are provisions of green taxes and other levies on old polluting vehicles. These will be required to undergo mandatory fitness and pollution tests in automated facilities. For this automated fitness centres would be required through out in India and we are working in that direction,” he said. The policy is going to be a boon for the automobile sector, making it one of the most profitable sectors,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/junk-old-vehicle-get-5-off-on-new-car-govt/articleshow/81383969.cms||---
March 8, 2021||India||Amit Shah targets Vijayan on gold-smuggling case||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: BJP got into aggressive campaign mode on Sunday, with Union home minister Amit Shah directly targeting Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan and saying that if BJP was given an opportunity to rule the state for the next five years, it would turn Kerala into the number one state in India. Shah was addressing the concluding event of the party’s Vijay Yathra. In a contest where LDF and UDF are the primary players, BJP and NDA hopes to be a decisive disruptor in more than one-third of the 140 constituencies that go the polls on April 6. Shah rejected Vijayan’s claims that the Union government was using the central agencies against the LDF government.  “I want the CM Pinarayi Vijayan to answer a few questions. Whether the lady accused in the gold smuggling case was a frequent visitor to CM’s official residence? Did CM’s office try to influence customs officials when the gold smuggling was detected?” he asked. “The LDF and UDF governments have made Kerala a centre of corruption,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-targets-vijayan-on-gold-smuggling-case/articleshow/81383976.cms||---
March 8, 2021||India||Sex video case: Activist pulls case against Karnataka ex-minister||BENGALURU: Activist Dinesh Kallahalli, who last week petitioned police that the then water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi was allegedly sexually exploiting a woman in return for a government job, withdrew his complaint on Sunday. Jarkiholi had resigned on moral grounds. He said he was doing it because he was disappointed with developments that followed his complaint. Handing over a fivepage letter to Cubbon Park police through his legal counsel Kumar Patil, he said he was disappointed by statements of a few politicians and by state’s action of treating the woman and messenger like criminals. He had filed a complaint against Jarkiholi last week. “The videos were uploaded even before I handed over the complaint to police. My specific demand was that cops ascertain whether the woman was sexually exploited. But the society launched a ‘shoot the messenger’ campaign targeting me and her,” his letter read.  “She was portrayed wrongly on social media and some said I had built a house by blackmailing people. There were threats from people and a campaign to defame me was launched,” he said. Patil said, “Kallahalli is not someone who succumbs to political pressure. His purpose was to provide justice to the woman but what is going on social media has led him to withdraw the complaint.” Police sources said they might call him to record his statement||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sex-video-case-activist-pulls-case-against-karnataka-ex-minister/articleshow/81383985.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Patna||Beur jail inmate seeks extortion from priest||PATNA Close on the heels of recovery of objectionable items from Beur central jail during a raid, an inmate of the jail allegedly called up a priest of Fatuha from the jail and sought an extortion of Rs 5 lakh from him, police said on Sunday. The priest, Brajesh Muni, has lodged an FIR with Fatuha police station against three people, including jail inmate Tuntun Gop and ward number 17 councillor Santosh Kumar. SHO of Fatuha police station Manoj Kumar Singh said police have begun an investigation to find out whether the extortion call was made from the jail or any other place. “Brajesh is the head priest of Kabir Mutt at Raipura village under the Fatuha police station area,” he added. The SHO said two people, including ward councillor Santosh, had approached Brajesh at the mutt on Friday. “Santosh gave a cellphone to the priest and asked him to talk to someone. The caller identified himself as Tuntun Gop, who is presently lodged in Beur jail. The two left the mutt after the conversation. Tuntun is a notorious criminal of Fatuha. Several criminal cases are registered against him,” the SHO said. On Sunday, Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma asked Fatuha SHO to investigate the matter. It may be recalled that two cellphones and a sim card were recovered from former MP Vijay Krishna’s ward at Beur central jail during the raid. Two diaries containing details five bank account numbers and 20 cellphone numbers were also recovered from the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/beur-jail-inmate-seeks-extortion-from-priest/articleshow/81380804.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 8, 2021||Vijayawada||N Chandrababu Naidu let down Vijayawada, no right to seek votes, say ministers||AMARAVATI: Ministers Perni Venkatramaiah (Nani) and Vellampalli Srinivas on Sunday said TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu has no moral right to seek votes from the people of Vijayawada as he was chiefly responsible for the backwardness of the city. They criticised Naidu for not developing Amaravati as a world class capital during his tenure. Speaking to the media at the party office on Sunday, transport minister Perni Nani said Naidu failed to complete the construction of Kanaka Durga flyover in Vijayawada during his term in office. He asked Naidu what he had done for Vijayawada to make it a metro city. He said Naidu could not complete the flyover at Benz Cirlce and failed to initiate any bypass to reduce traffic in the city. Nani alleged that Naidu looted public money by showing images of Amaravati to divert ill-gotten monies into private firms owned by his family. He said the people of Vijayawada city and farmers of Amaravati are victims of Naidu’s policies as they lost huge monies by trusting the TDP leader. “People taught Naidu a fitting lesson in the general elections only after realising that they were duped. They are ready to teach him another lesson in the coming municipal elections,” said Nani. Meanwhile, endowments minister Vellamapalli Srinivas said the time for the former chief minister to close down the TDP office and quit politics is not far off. “TDP leaders Bonda Umamaheswara Rao, Budha Venkanna and Nagul Meera have exposed Naidu’s lies. Naidu is unfit to lead the party as he could not contain one MP,” said Vellampalli. He dared Naidu to answer to the queries raised by his party leaders before seeking votes in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-let-down-vijayawada-no-right-to-seek-votes-say-mins/articleshow/81380776.cms||Samdani MN
March 8, 2021||Patna||1 killed for demanding daily wages||MOTIHARI: One Nizamuddin, 25, was beaten to death by some villagers in East Champaran for demanding his daily wages for 10 days Saturday night. The incident took place at Raksha Rahim village under Dhaka police station area. The body was sent for postmortem to Motihari sadar hospital on Sunday. Dhaka police station SHO Abhay Kumar Singh said a case had been lodged by Kamaruddin, the elder brother of the deceased, in this regard. Kamaruddin, in his FIR, said his brother had been working as a labourer at the building construction site of Mohammad Shoaib for the last 10 days. But he was not paid his daily wages by Shoaib. Nizamuddin and Shoaib had heated arguments on the issue on Saturday. Shoaib had threatened to kill him if he demanded his wage again. Kamaruddin alleged that Shoaib had thrown the body of Nizamuddin after beating him to death Saturday night. The police were investigating the case and the accused was yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-killed-for-demanding-daily-wages/articleshow/81380753.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Vehicles inside Sunder Nursery: Plea in HC||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the Centre, the AAP government and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on a plea seeking to immediately stop entry and parking of vehicles inside Sunder Nursery in Nizamuddin. The plea, which wants vehicles to be restricted till Mughal Pavilion, argues that vehicular emission and pollution are endangering the fauna and damaging the natural environment. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notices and asked the Union environment ministry, Delhi government, Central Public Works Department, ASI, trustees of World Heritage Site, South Delhi Municipal Corporation and Aga Khan Development Network to respond to the petition filed by a lawyer. The plea has sought directions to the authorities to ensure immediate stop to activities threatening the natural habitat of the national bird, peacock, other avifauna and biodiversity in Sunder Nursery and preserve the ecological sanctity. Petitioner Binny Kalra said: “Sunder Nursery is a heritage park and an extension of Humayun’s Tomb in Nizamuddin, a Unesco world heritage site, and deserves equal importance as its parent site regarding preservation and protection of its elements and the sanctity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vehicles-inside-sunder-nursery-plea-in-hc/articleshow/81400721.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Patna||PPU invites applications for PhD test on April 11||PATNA: The Patliputra University (PPU) has invited online applications from candidates desirous to get enrolled for PhD test in arts, science and commerce stream subjects this year. The university portal will remain open till March 20 to apply and fill up registration forms online. The university will, however, accept online applications till March 25 with late fine of Rs500. The university has decided to conduct this test on April 11 at different centres in Patna and Nalanda districts, sources said. According to PPU media incharge B K Mangalam, the PhD registration fee is Rs1,500 for general category candidates and Rs1,000 for SC/ST, BC, EBC, physically challenged and women categories. The general category candidates with 55% marks in PG exams can only apply. The SC/ST, BC, EBC and physically challenged candidates will get relaxation of 5% this time, he said. Besides, the university has exempted those from PhD test who have already cleared NET and other equivalent examinations, including state level eligibility test. The PPU has also announced that those who had applied online last year in January 2020 need not apply afresh as the university could not conduct PhD test last year due to Covid-induced lockdown, Mangalam said, adding their applications submitted online last year will be valid this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-invites-applications-for-phd-test-on-april-11/articleshow/81380360.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||At 136 new infections, Covid cases continue to rise in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a sustained upward trend, Andhra Pradesh reported 136 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,90,692. This is the highest single-day case total in the last 40 days since the state reported 172 cases on January 26. The toll increased to 7,174 as one more patient succumbed to the disease in Chittoor district. Altogether 58 patients were declared cured on Sunday. There are currently 998 active cases with 8,82,520 cumulative recoveries and 7,174 deaths. Chittoor continued to top the daily chart by reporting 49 new cases on Sunday, followed by Guntur (15), Anantapur (14), Visakhapatnam (12), Kadapa (11) and Krishna (11). The remaining districts posted single-digit case numbers. Andhra Pradesh tested 45,702 Covid-19 samples on Sunday and detected 136 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.3%. The active case load in Chittoor district is 276, the highest among all districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-136-new-infections-covid-cases-continue-to-rise-in-ap/articleshow/81381269.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Patna||Now, women outnumber men in varsity education||PATNA: After decades of concern that women were not granted the same opportunities as their male counterparts, people’s attention has now shifted to the relatively poor performance of men in universities and colleges. More and more women are joining the institutions of higher education and, in some cases, they outnumber men. In the recently concluded centralized admission of students in Patna University colleges, more than 60% of the total seats were captured by girls. According to PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha, the number of girls applying for admission even in postgraduate courses far exceeded that of boys. Admission records of last session (2020-21) clearly indicate that the percentage of girls admitted to PG courses in all the faculties taken together was nearly 70. In departments like sociology, psychology, zoology and botany, one would find only a few boys. Women have not only made their presence felt in every institution of PU, but also created a niche for themselves by their remarkable performance. Almost all the top positions in university examinations are invariably grabbed by girls. More than two-thirds of scholars who topped the list of successful candidates in different honours subjects in the last final year bachelor honours examinations of PU happen to be girls. As many as 31 out of 40 toppers are girls, said PU examination controller R K Mandal. The number of women administrators and teachers has also grown considerably in recent years. Earlier, only a few women teachers were visible in postgraduate departments and colleges (except the ones labelled as girls’ colleges). But now they would be seen everywhere on the campus and they are also becoming principals of colleges and heads of PG departments in large numbers, said PU political science department head and PU Teachers’ Association vice-president Shefali Roy.  At present, the heads of more than a dozen departments of PU are women. Departments of Sanskrit, Bengali, Maithili, Ancient Indian history and archaeology, economics, geography, political science, physics, botany, biochemistry and home science and the director of the Institute of Psychological Research and Service are all women. Besides Patna Women’s College, Magadh Mahila College and Women’s Training College, other colleges of PU are also having a fairly large number of women teachers. More than 90 new faculty members have joined different colleges and postgraduate departments of PU as assistant professors following their selection by the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) during the last three years and, believe it or not, almost two-thirds of them are women. The number of women teachers in PU is likely to increase further after the appointment of assistant professors by the Bihar State University Service Commission this year as 35% of the vacant posts are reserved for them, said BPSC’s former member Shiv Jatan Thakur. Moreover, the number of women in educational institutions is increasing with the growing awareness and also the recent government incentives offered to them for pursuing higher education, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-women-outnumber-men-in-varsity-education/articleshow/81380321.cms||B K Mishra
March 8, 2021||Patna||Free entry for women to parks and zoo today||PATNA: Environment, forest and climate change department has offered the women free entry in all parks and Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, on the International Women’s Day on Monday. The notification in this regard was issued late Saturday evening. Principal secretary (environment, forest and climate change department) Dipak Kumar Singh told this newspaper on Sunday that women would not be charged entry fee at Patna zoo and in all parks managed by the state government. “For the last two years, women have not been charged entry fee at parks and zoo on the International Women’s Day,” he said. Patna zoo, which usually remains closed on Monday, would also open its gates on the occasion. Its director Satyajeet Kumar said the zoo premises would remain open for visitors on Monday and all the sanitization and cleaning works have been done by Sunday night. “We have made all the arrangements. All the Covid-19 protocols would be followed accordingly,” he said. The visitors, who wish to spend time at zoo, can also book tickets on its official site. Eco Park, Buddha Smriti Park, Veer Kunwar Singh Park, Shivaji Park, Shahid Kunal Park, Naveen Sinha Park, Punaichak Park and SK Puri Park among other prominent parks in the city draw a huge crowd. Meanwhile, the woman sanitation workers would be felicitated by the Patna Municipal Corporation on Monday. The civic body, in association with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA,) would organize an event on the importance of menstrual health and hygiene and distribute sanitary napkins among girls in slum areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/free-entry-for-women-to-parks-and-zoo-today/articleshow/81380332.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 8, 2021||Patna||30 more test Covid +ve in Bihar||PATNA: The state’s Covid tally rose to 2,62,758 on Sunday with 30 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With one more Covid fatality in the last 24 hours, the state’s virus toll has increased to 1,546. The fresh casualty was reported from Nawada. There were 313 active cases in the state on Sunday. So far, 2,60,899 people have recovered from the virus in the state, including 50 in the last 24 hours. The state’s Covid recovery rate has now touched 99.29%. Meanwhile, 24,542 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. Altogether 2,26,47,925 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Of the 30 new Covid cases recorded on Sunday, Patna accounted for 13. The district’s Covid tally has now increased to 52,895. With 52,318 recoveries and 444 deaths, the number of active cases in the district stood at 133 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/30-more-test-covid-ve-in-bihar/articleshow/81380349.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kochi||Students denied permission to write exam, allege parents||Kochi: The disagreements between parents and school managements over payment of fee for online classes are still an issue at many CBSE schools. The latest among these issues was reported from a school in Ernakulam where a group of parents raised allegations that the school management told them their children would not be allowed to write the annual examinations unless the fee dues are cleared. The parents of students studying in Al Hind Public School in Edathala, Aluva, alleged that the school has not permitted their children, studying in lower classes, to write the annual assessment examination as they have not paid the school fees. However, the school management refuted the allegations and said that no parents have approached them with such complaints. “The school has not reduced the fees despite several protests by parents. Now they are not permitting our children to write the exam as they did not pay the fees. Many students, studying in various classes between I and VIII could not write the exams that began last week. The school is adamant that they will not give hall ticket unless the fee dues are cleared. We plan to move legally over the issue,” said Hameed Irshad, a parent. However, the school management said they had already reduced 15% of the fees and parents had agreed to it. “The fees we charge are much lower compared to other CBSE schools and nearly 95% students have paid the fees. We have not denied any student the permission to write exams and have given several parents concession in paying fees after they approached us. The allegations are baseless,” said Abdul Hakeem, school manager. Many CBSE schools in the state had earlier faced similar issues as many parents stated that paying the normal tuition fee for online class was not optimal. Schools said parents were asking either not to charge tuition fees or reduce fee for online classes saying that the class duration lasts for two or three hours, which they felt was ‘insufficient’. President of Kerala CBSE schools management association T P M Ibrahim Khan said most schools have been operating under financial strain and tuition fees cannot be reduced. “Many schools have reduced annual fees and withdrawn fee hike this academic year. Tuition fees are used to pay the salaries of staff and teachers who are working more hours now. If students do not pay fees, respective schools may take actions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/students-denied-permission-to-write-exam-allege-parents/articleshow/81381482.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Allahabad||From today, Covid vaccination at all community health centers||Prayagraj: Officials of the health department have chalked out Covid-19 vaccination plan for all Primary and Community Health Centers (PHCs\CHCs) in rural pockets of the district to administer vaccine among beneficiaries above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age and having co-morbidities from Monday. All 21 Medical Officer-In-Charge (MOICs) have been asked to monitor the vaccination exercise strictly so that there will be no wastage of vaccine with the clear message that MOICs will be held responsible if the wastage per cent goes more than three per cent. From Monday, PHC and CHCs have been converted into CVCs ( Covid Vaccination Center) and there will be two to three sessions at CHCs and one to two sessions at PHCs. Officials entrusted with vaccination work have been directed to administer the vaccine to at least 400-500 beneficiaries of the target groups at their respective CHC\PHC. Deputy chief medical officer and Covid-19 vaccination in-charge, Dr Rahul Singh told TOI, "To achieve the target at CHCs and PHCs, ANMs and ASHAs are being roped in to mobilize the target groups and also to encourage them for pre-registration on the health department’s portal as well as to take them at community vaccination centre for vaccination”. He added, “officials assigned for vaccination duties have been asked to enrol all the entries and details on the Covid portal in any circumstances”. Dr Singh said that the Covid vaccination programme will be held at all CHCs and PHCs every Monday, Thursday and Friday. Dr Singh, meanwhile, said there will be open and walking slots at all vaccination sites. For the open slot, the name of the beneficiary will be displayed on the health department’s portal, and it will be conducted between 9 am and 11 am. Under walking slot, anyone who wants to get administered with Covid 19 vaccine will be carrying a proper ID with them and vaccination for a walking slot will be done after 11 am onward. In urban-based vaccination sites, there will be 60 per cent open and 40 per cent walking slots while there will be equal (50:50) open and walking slot at rural-based vaccination sites. The vaccination programme will also be conducted at all government hospitals in city areas including MLN Medical College, Beli\ TB Sapru hospital, MLN Divisional Hospital (Colvin), and District Women Hospital (Dufferin).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/from-today-covid-vaccination-at-all-community-health-centers/articleshow/81381502.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||New system for recruiting teachers||Ahmedabad: A task force appointed by the state education department has recommended a three-stage process for selecting candidates to be teachers in primary, secondary and higher secondary levels of government and grant-in-aid schools. Apart from a written examination, candidates seeking to be teachers in government and grant-in-aid schools will also be graded for interview and practical teaching abilities. In addition, all teachers will compulsorily have to go through a 50-hour training course every year, the state education department said on Sunday. The task force which was earlier appointed to recommend changes in the education system as part of implementation of the new education policy, has made these recommendation to the state government. Boarding schools under the banner of `Schools of Excellence’ will be opened in all the 33 districts of the state. One lakh students will be accommodated in these schools, an education department statement said on Sunday. Under the existing system of appointing teachers, the teachers eligibility test (TET) marks and the marks obtained by the candidate in graduate or postgraduate levels are considered. The new system for recruiting teachers will be implemented from the 2021-22 academic year. The new system is being implemented to ensure better quality of education that is imparted in government and grant-in-aid schools of the state. Among other important recommendations, the task force has suggested that instead of having two divisions - secondary (class IX and X) and higher secondary (class XI and XII), there ought to be one division from class IX to class XII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-system-for-recruiting-teachers/articleshow/81381716.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kanpur||17-year-old missing girlfound unconscious by kin||Kanpur: A 17-year-old girl who went missing from her house in Saurikh Police station area of Kannauj district on late Saturday night was found unconscious at an under-construction house by her family members in their village on Sunday morning. She was rushed to Tirwa Medical College in unconscious state and is undergoing treatment, police said. The girl’s family members alleged she was dumped after being raped by four youths. Police lodged a case against the four accused on the basis of the complaint and initiated an investigation. Police teams are looking for the accused who are on the run since. “We have recovered a handkerchief with blood stains, besides some medicines from the under-construction house where the girl was found lying unconscious by her family members. Among the four persons, who have been named as accused in the complaint, two hail from the victim’s village while two others are natives of neighbouring Mainpuri district,” said police outpost in-charge Arimardan Singh. “The girl is undergoing treatment at Tirwa medical college and has regained consciousness. She told her family that four persons kidnapped her on Saturday night when she had gone out and sedated her. Girl’s kin have accused four persons of kidnapping and gangraping her,” Singh added. “We are recording the girl’s statement and are also awaiting her medical report to proceed further with regard to action against the persons accused of kidnapping and gangraping her,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/17-year-old-missing-girlfound-unconscious-by-kin/articleshow/81381382.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Business||Warburg to invest Rs 800cr in Adani Ports||Mumbai: Four days after Warburg Pincus inked an agreement to sell its entire stake in a regional port to Adani Ports, the US-based PE fund has now decided to invest in the acquirer. On Sunday, Adani, India’s largest port operator, informed the stock exchanges that Warburg Pincus will invest Rs 800 crore for about 0.5% stake in the company. Adani Ports has called for a shareholders’ meet on April 6 to seek approval for the proposed preferential issue. Adani plans to issue shares to Warburg Pincus at Rs 800 apiece, which is a 7% premium to Adani Ports’ Friday closing price on the stock exchanges. Four days ago, Adani had said it will be buying Warburg Pincus’ 31.5% stake in Gangavaram port in Andhra Pradesh for Rs 1,954 crore. It also said that it is in talks to buy the promoter’s 58.1% stake in Gangavaram, which when concluded, will make the Ahmedabad-based player the controlling shareholder of the Andhra Pradesh port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/warburg-to-invest-rs-800cr-in-adani-ports/articleshow/81382436.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Business||Fraudulent loans cannot be sold to bad bank: RBI||MUMBAI: The RBI has said that loans classified as fraud should not be sold to the proposed national asset reconstruction company (NARC) to be set up by public sector banks. This would mean that a big chunk of sticky loans would continue to remain on the books of banks. Nearly Rs 1.9 lakh crore of bank loans had been classified as fraudulent as of March 2020, according to the RBI’s annual report. Although the sanctions pertained to earlier years, half of these loans were classified as frauds in FY20 itself. Public sector banks account for 80% of these fraudulent loans. Read AlsoCentral banks in no rush to raise rates, will back growth: Shaktikanta DasReserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das has said central banks across the globe did not appear to be in a hurry to tightenmonetary policy or withdraw support to growth, suggesting that interest rates may not go up for now despite some price pressure in the economy.The RBI directive will not have any implication for the asset quality of banks. That’s because once a loan is classified as a fraud, banks have to fully provide for it. The number of fraud accounts grew in FY21 too as the RBI cracked down on banks for not recognising early warning signals. Last year, the RBI said that banks have to decide on whether a ‘red flagged’ loan where the lender suspects illegality is fraudulent or not within six months. In FY20, fraud numbers rose because of the classification of certain large accounts like DHFL and Bhushan Power and Steel. In FY21, Cox and Kings was classified as fraudulent. Bank of Baroda and PNB had classified the account of Reliance Home Finance as fraud, but the same was stayed by the Delhi high court. Yes Bank has classified more accounts, including Omkar Developers, as fraud following action by regulatory authorities. Besides fraudulent loans, banks are also not allowed to sell loans of companies undergoing liquidation proceedings to asset reconstruction companies (ARCs). According to banks, the RBI will not allow a special dispensation for the NARC and will subject it to the same norms as private ARCs. However, the NARC will be on a better footing vis-a-vis private ARCs because of the government backing to the security receipts issued by the NARC. Security receipts entitle the holder to a share in the recovery proceeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fraudulent-loans-cannot-be-sold-to-bad-bank-rbi/articleshow/81382338.cms||Mayur Shetty
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat women power dairy sector growth||VADODARA/ANAND: In 2012, Mittal Patel of Borsad taluka’s Kavitha village ventured into dairy business with just one cow. She along with her husband and brother-in-law increased cattle holding by taking loans. Now, this 38-year-old is a proud owner of Sargam dairy farm, having nearly 200 cows including 75 calves. The farm alone supplies around 1,700 litres milk directly to Amul Dairy on a daily basis. Women dairy entrepreneurs like Mittal are the backbone of the dairy industry in Gujarat – the cradle of India’s White Revolution . A study carried out by research scholars of the Verghese Kurien Centre of Excellence (VKCoE) of the Institute of Rural Management Anand (IRMA) highlights women’s pivotal role in growth of Gujarat’s dairy sector. A 2018 report by the National Cooperative Union of India, 4.98 million women members contributed to 30% of the total membership in cooperative societies. In Gujarat alone, out of 34.94 lakh milk producer members, 36% (12.5 lakh) members are women. “Involvement of women in dairy business has enabled them to become financially independent and self-driven micro-entrepreneurs,” said VKCoE’s chairman Dr J B Prajapati, whose students — Shweta Krishnan, Ankit Sontakke and Pankaj Parmar — carried out the study. Mittal provides employment to 17 people while engaging three women full time on her farm. In Motipura DCS of Kapadvanj taluka, all the 400 dairy farmer members are females. This ‘mandali’ which had started with around 400 litres of milk daily in 2006 crossed the 10,000 litres mark in 2019 when its turnover touched Rs 24 crore per annum. “Every dairy household in our village has a minimum of 10 cattle. NABARD has provided subsidies worth Rs one crore to women farmers for purchasing cattle. This has improved milk pouring capacity.,” said Sharda Patel, who is also a member in the board of Kaira District Milk Union. Forty-year-old Gayatri Patel from Ajarpura village of Anand had just five calves in 2016. She and her husband are now owners of Vansh dairy farm with 75 cattle and a turnover of around Rs 34 lakh per annum. “Dairy farming has made me ‘atmanirbhar’,” said Gayatri, who sells 400 litres of milk daily to the Ajarpura dairy cooperative society (DCS) which has 30 female members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-women-power-dairy-sector-growth/articleshow/81382157.cms||Prashant Rupera
March 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Depleting groundwater: Farmers satisfied with yield from direct seeding of paddy||JALANDHAR: As water-guzzling paddy is getting mentioned in the debate around farm laws and the Punjab assembly has resolved to form a committee to address the issue of depleting groundwater of the state, the farmers who last year sew paddy without puddling in their fields appear to be offering a solution. They not only saved a lot of water and significantly lowered their transplanting costs but also got almost equal yield as from puddled fields. In Gurdaspur district, Dostpur village’s Kulwinder Singh said he used anaerobic sowing of rice (ASR) — also called ‘Phagwara technique’ as it was developed by Phagwara-based farmer Avtar Singh — for sowing in five acres and another five acres paddy was sown on puddled beds. “With ASR technique yield was around 26 quintals per acre, while on beds, though hard work was bit more, the yield was 28 quintals per acre. It was same as others got in the area who has used traditional method of puddling the fields. Apart from saving a lot of water I also saved on and labour cost and fertiliser consumption which led to increase in the profit margin,” he said. “This year I shall use ASR technique in all 10 acre. If government brings mass awareness about such techniques and stops puddling then water table would come up quickly as rainwater would quickly seep into the earth. Puddled fields block seepage of rain water into earth,” he said. Gurpreet Singh of Chandbaja village in Ferozepur district said he did direct seeding on beds and despite facing a few issues his yield was around 24-27 quintals depending upon quality of water. He would stick to it with further improvisation, he said, adding, “biggest satisfaction is that I saved a lot of water”. Malluwal village’s Sukhdev Singh said he used ASR technique in 28 acres and yield was around 30 quintals per acre which was comparable to what they got with puddled fields with low input cost. In Muktsar, Shaminder Singh of Burj Sidhwan village claimed his harvest was around 32 quintal per acre after using ASR technique in his 4.5 acres, while other got around 30 quintal in the area. “Several people came to see my crop. I also saved in input cost on labour as it required much less work as compared to puddled fields. Even the quality of my yield was better,” he said. Haryana farmers have also started using the direct seeding technique. Gurmeet of Balasar village in Sirsa district said he used the technique in four acres last year and his harvest was equal or more than others in the area and this year he planned to increase it to 15 acres. “My input cost also came to be around Rs 7,000 per acre,” he added. The risk-taker In Sirsa district of Haryana, Damdama village’s Sukhwinder Singh said he used ASR technique for basmati on his entire 70 acre land and his yield was around 30 quintals per acre, which was a little higher than others. “Moreover, My input cost was also lower by Rs 5,000 per acre, while water consumption was less than half,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/depleting-groundwater-farmers-satisfied-with-yield-from-direct-seeding-of-paddy/articleshow/81382315.cms||IP Singh
March 8, 2021||Patna||1 lakh women to get vax shots today||PATNA: The state health department has set the target to give Covid-19 vaccine shots to 1 lakh women at different selected sites on International Women’s Day on Monday. Special awareness campaigns have been conducted by different health facilities to meet the target. There will be special arrangements for women at all the vaccine centres on March 8. Dr Manish Mandal, superintendent of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, said 97-year-old Bhagyamani Mandal, wife of late Justice R P Mandal and mother of Justice K K Mandal, will take the first shot at the hospital on Monday. “She is so far the oldest registered beneficiary to be vaccinated in Bihar,” he said. “There will be one vaccine unit exclusively for women at the hospital. It will be adorned with balloons. All the health officers at the unit will be women. The women beneficiaries will get red roses on their arrival,” he said. Dr Binod Kumar Singh, superintendent of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, said women would be inoculated at two vaccine units at the hospital to be managed by all-woman staff. “We have hired four e-rickshaws for women beneficiaries so that they could be taken to the vaccine unit from the main entrance gate of the hospital. These women will be felicitated after their vaccination,” Dr Singh said, adding several awareness camps were organised in different areas to encourage elderly women and those in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities to get vaccine shots. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, said posters and banners have been put up at the hospital to motivate women to take vaccine jabs. “On International Women’s Day, we will vaccinate women beneficiaries on priority basis with minimum waiting time. Special sitting arrangements have been made for them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1l-women-to-get-vax-shots-today/articleshow/81380282.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag’s women break barriers to change||VISAKHAPATNAM: Braving numerous challenges, the women of Vizag have made their mark in society while helping others become self-reliant. On International Women’s Day, TOI looks at some of their contributions. After the demise of her husband in 2018, 60-year-old Annapurna Kottapalli from Chodavaram turned her passion for pickle-making into a business. She refused to take financial help from her children and started the initiative by herself. Within three years, she was providing employment in the mango season. Her pickles gained in popularity within and outside India through word of mouth. Heritage narrator Jayshree Hatangadi has been striving for conservation and raising awareness about the city’s heritage while doing her bit for tribal school children and facilitating skill training in the villages of Araku. The 63-year-old spends much of her time in residential schools where she teaches music, games and academics to children and arranges trainers to skill tribals in local handicrafts. She has ensured tribal girl children are sent to schools and grow up to be self-reliant. Single mother and advocate Rahimunnisa Begum, state co-convener of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, has been working towards women emancipation, free legal aid to needy women and is a visiting faculty at law colleges. She has given training to girls and single women in handicrafts and self-employment initiatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizags-women-break-barriers-to-change/articleshow/81381253.cms||Sulogna Mehta
March 8, 2021||Patna||Madhubani man’s severed body parts found buried, head missing||PATNA: In a shocking incident, the family members of a kidnapped man have been finding his severed body parts one by one on the basis of inputs passed on by suspected killers in Madhubani since Saturday. Saroj Yadav, 30, of Khairamatth under Jainagar police station area of Madhubani was kidnapped from his village on March 2 night. The police said the thoracic cavity along with abdominal area and dismembered right hand were dug out by the family members on Saturday, and his two legs and left hand from the same spot on the bank of river Dhauri near Harhi Tola under Ladaniya police station area on Sunday evening. His head was still to be found. Saroj’s wife Lalita Devi had lodged an FIR against six persons, including her neighbour Pradeep Yadav as the main accused. Ladaniya police station SHO Santosh Kumar Singh said the family members identified Saroj by the two rings on the dismembered right hand fingers on Saturday. Singh said the legs were chopped off from knees and arms from the elbows. “Even though the head is not found, his family members were confident that the body parts were of Saroj,” he added. Jainagar police subdivision assistant SP Shaurya Suman said police suspect it to be a case of kidnapping-cum-murder by Pradeep to take revenge. “Both Saroj and Pradeep were liquor smugglers. Pradeep’s younger brother Vikas Yadav died last year under mysterious circumstances. Pradeep suspected that Saroj had killed his brother,” he said. Suman said all body parts had been sent to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital for DNA profiling and postmortem after seeking court’s permission. “The head has yet not been recovered. Police are yet to hand over the body and its mutilated parts to Saroj’s family. All accused persons are evading arrest,” Suman said. Jainagar police station SHO said Saroj and Pradeep were neighbours and accused in liquor smuggling, bike theft and extortion cases. “Last year, Saroj, Pradeep and the latter’s younger brother Vikas were smuggling liquor from Nepal through the river route. Vikas drowned. His body was later recovered from the riverbank under Rudrapur police station area of Madhubani,” he said. SHO Kumar said the postmortem report confirmed that Vikas had died of drowning. “However, Pradeep thought it was Saroj who killed Vikas,” he said. Kumar said it was yet not known from where Saroj’s family members were getting information about the location of his body parts. “They have been reaching the spot with spades and digging out the human remains since Saturday. Afterwards, they inform the police about the recoveries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/madhubani-mans-severed-body-parts-found-buried-head-missing/articleshow/81380740.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 8, 2021||Patna||All-woman team to handle operations today||PATNA: Gulzarbagh station of the Danapur division under East Central Railway (ECR) will be completely manned and operated by women staff on Monday on the occasion of International Women’s Day. “All major works like traffic control, general booking counters, passenger reservation system counters, RPF post and railway cabins will be manned by women staff. The Gulzarbagh station has been decorated with festoons and flags,” Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said on Sunday. Kumar added Gulzarbagh is an important station of the division as several special passenger and goods trains pass through it daily. “Operating this busy station is not an easy task. Since women will take the command on Monday, all eyes will be on them,” the DRM said. Loco pilot Richa Kumari and guard Neha Kumari have been assigned the job to run the Patna-Pt Deen Dayal Upadhaya Junction MEMU special passenger train (63225) independently on Monday. A team of women loco pilots has been assigned the task to run Danapur-Secunderabad special passenger train (03203). The DRM said women staff will also take the centre stage at Patna Junction. “They will particularly handle carriage and wagon section, ticket checking, RPF post and route relay interlocking (RRI) system. At least 85 women staff of the division will be felicitated this time by the ECR GM at Hajipur on Monday,” he added. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the International Women’s Day would be observed with fanfare and enthusiasm on Monday. “The ECR GM will felicitate hundreds of women staff working in five divisions in recognition to their utmost devotion and exemplary courage shown during duty,” he said. Cash rewards will be given to 34 talented daughters of railway employees at a function to be held at Hajipur. Women officials of the railways will also interact with sanitary and health departments to make them realise the importance of women’s day, the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-woman-team-to-handle-operations-today/articleshow/81380380.cms||Kumod Verma
March 8, 2021||Vijayawada||In Machilipatnam, civic infra is key poll demand||Vijayawada: Improper stormwater drainage, poor quality of drinking water, severe mosquito menace and inundation of main roads during the monsoon are only some of the problems faced by the residents under Machilipatnam Municipal Corporation. The city which was a major trade hub and port during British rule is now struggling to pick up the pace of development works. Known as Masula by the British, Machilipatnam became a municipality in 1866 and was the headquarters of Krishna district. Development slowed down after Independence and with Vijayawada developing into a major city. The then TDP government converted Machilipatnam municipality into a municipal corporation in December 2015. “Machilipatnam is the most neglected city in our state. Local MLA will serve as ministers in every government. But no one developed the city. The city turns into a swimming pool during the rains in the absence of a drainage system. We will vote for the candidate who will focus on the drainage system,” said Koneru Pandarinath, a resident. Drinking water, too, is another concern. The drinking water supply chain designed by the British is still in use even as locals complain about contamination. Water is supplied thrice a week but locals said officials turn off power during water supply. “We often receive contaminated water with foul smell. Pipelines were installed during British rule and they got damaged. No official or party responded to our request. Municipal water is inadequate as we received water on alternate days, that too for one hour,” said Dasari Rambabu, a resident or Robertson Pet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-machilipatnam-civic-infra-is-key-poll-demand/articleshow/81380848.cms||Venu Lanka
March 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Radha Krishna takes part in Jana Sena campaign||Vijayawada: While TDP president N Chandra Babu Naidu held a roadshow on Sunday, the party’s key leader Vangaveeti Radha Krishna campaigned for Jana Sena candidates. Radha Krishna participated in a campaign at Division 15 in the city urging voters to back Jana Sena candidate Gadireddy Jhansi Rani. Many of the Jana Sena campaigns across the city had banners of Vangaveeti Mohana Ranga (VM Ranga) along with Pawan Kalyan. Jana Sena caders hoped that Radha Krishna will soon join the party. Radha Krishna said he was not with any political party for now and is focusing on service activities in memory of his father V M Ranga. Radha said he participated in the Jana Sena campaigns as per the requests of his followers. Chintamaneni Prabhakar, a TDP leader from West Godavari, campaigned for Jana Sena candidate in ward 25 in Eluru town on Sunday. Prabhakar said YSRC is common enemy of TDP and Jana Sena. He added that he will support Jana Sena in seats where TDP candidates had withdrawn nominations under pressure from the YSRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/radha-krishna-takes-part-in-jana-sena-campaign/articleshow/81380813.cms||Venu Lanka
March 8, 2021||Business||AB InBev to come up with domestic abuse policy||Mumbai: Policies to protect employees against domestic abuse are gaining momentum in India Inc. After Hindustan Unilever (HUL) pioneered such norms in the country, Anheuser-Busch InBev (AB InBev), the world’s largest brewer, is planning to introduce a domestic abuse policy for its employees in India. This would include 10-day paid leave for medical needs, counseling and other issues. Under the policy, which is gender-neutral, AB InBev employees would be offered support in the form of flexible work timings and access to employee-assistance programme as well. In an exclusive interaction with TOI, AB InBev people director (India & southeast Asia) Tanushree Mishra said: “The domestic violence support policy was rolled out across the world and is now being extended to India as well. It allows colleagues to take time off and take the support of the organisation if, God forbid, there is any such situation that needs to be addressed.” AB InBev’s 1,600 employees in India would be covered under the policy. AB InBev, which is the maker of beer brands like Budweiser and Stella Artois, is also launching an unlimited leave for wellness, which is on top of the 30-day annual and earned leaves. “As an organisation, we feel responsible to give our colleagues the right environment when it comes to health, safety, as well as, mental wellbeing. Employees can take this leave for physical and mental wellness, burnout or stress management, and come back rejuvenated,” said Mishra. AB InBev is also doubling paternity leave to four weeks and introducing an adoption leave for LGBTQ members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ab-inbev-to-come-up-with-domestic-abuse-policy/articleshow/81382316.cms||Namrata Singh
March 8, 2021||Kanpur||Body of assistant commander home guard found in jungles of Kanpur Dehat||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: Body of an assistant company commander (home guard) who had gone missing from Malasa area under Bhognipur Kotwali in Kanpur Dehat district was found in the jungles of Vijayipur in Musanagar area on Sunday. Police on being informed, rushed to the spot, and after conducting preliminary investigations, sent the body to mortuary. Police suspect it to be a case of murder. According to police, deceased Ram Chandra Verma (54), a native of Girdaun village, and an assistant company commander (home guard), had gone missing after he left home to his relative’s house on a bike on March 3. “As per his kin, on March 3, after coming back from duty, Verma left his home on a bike, telling his family members that he was going to attend a programme at their relatives’ place. Since he did not return home and when his family members found his mobile phone to be constantly switched off, they lodged a missing report with Bhognipur Kotwali police station”, said inspector Musanagar Deepak Singh. “During the preliminary round of investigations, we recovered the deceased’s bike from the house of his friend-Chetram, who lives in Deengh village of the district. His family members have accused Verma’s three friends of murdering him,” Singh said and added, “Though his forensic report is yet to come, our preliminary investigation indicates that Verma died of injuries. We are investigating on the basis of his call record history to find out whom he had last spoken to,” added the official. Verma is survived by his wife and a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/body-of-assistant-commander-home-guard-found-in-jungles-of-kanpur-dehat/articleshow/81381389.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||4 youth booked for assaulting fuel outlet worker||Hyderabad: Four youngsters were booked for attacking a petrol pump worker at Mancherial on Saturday night during an argument over money payment. CCTV footage of the assault went viral on social media. Around 11pm on Saturday, four youngsters from Reddy’s Colony in Mancherial town went to HP petrol pump. The youngsters wanted to fill fuel in one of the bikes. “One of the youngsters asked the petrol pump worker to fill fuel for Rs 50. However, by mistake, petrol pump worker Venkatesh, filled fuel for Rs 110 and an argument broke out between the worker and the youngsters,” Mancherial Town inspector ML Muthi Lingaiah said. The youngsters told the petrol pump worker that they only have Rs 50 cash on them and refused to pay the additional amount. When the petrol pump worker used offensive remark against the youngsters, they started assaulting him, the inspector said. In the video, it has been observed that one of the accused even tried to assault another motorist who tried to intervene. The petrol pump worker suffered minor injuries in the assault and, based on the complaint of the victim, an assault case was registered against the four accused, including two engineers and two students, under Section 323 of the IPC. The inspector said they have not made any arrests yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-youth-booked-for-assaulting-fuel-outlet-worker/articleshow/81382323.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Allahabad||Nazool land freed from encroachers at Lukerganj||Prayagraj: Amidst tight security arrangements, a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority(PDA), district administration and police on Sunday freed nazool land from encroachers at Lukerganj area under the limits of Khuldabad police station. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh told TOI that a joint team of police, administration and PDA launched the drive to free nazool land from the illegal occupants at Lukerganj area. The area spreads around eight beegha. Many illegal houses, allegedly,constructed and owned by encroachers, were razed to ground. Forces of about half a dozen police stations have been deployed to maintain law and order. A senior PDA official said that the joint team had earlier removed encroachments on nazool land spread around four beegha and took out another drive to free the encroached land on rest eight beegha. The nazool land was situated adjacent to the office of mafia turned politician Atiq Ahmad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/nazool-land-freed-from-encroachers-at-lukerganj/articleshow/81381538.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||Govt takes guard against SA Cov variant after flyer tests positive||Kolkata: The state health department will conduct several rounds of talks with the officials at Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport to tighten vigilance on international flyers arriving in the city. The move comes a day after samples of three flyers in Bengal were detected with the UK strain while another flyer was detected with the South African strain of Covid. On Sunday, another two flyers tested positive to the UK strain. All six were taken to the ID Hospital. “We will be talking to the airport authorities on Monday again to work out a more coordinated plan of action to step up vigilance on international flyers arriving in the state,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director health services. The health department has started contact tracing of passengers who sat close to the affected individuals on the flight. According to sources, samples of the six flyers were among 11 that were found positive on arrival from European countries and South Africa about 10 days ago. All samples were sent to National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for a genome analysis, where five tested positive to the UK strain while one tested positive to the South African strain. “While one of the flyers is from Kolkata, the rest are from different districts. We started taking measures after getting the reports of their genome sequencing,” said a health department official. Sources at Swasthya Bhawan said that all the other Covid-positive flyers were in home quarantine, dispelling the apprehension that they might have infected others. But officials are keeping a close watch on their family members for symptoms and they have been told to remain in home quarantine too. “A total of five flyers detected with the UK strain and one man was detected with the South African strain are currently admitted in the GB ward that was created for the treatment/observation of flyers detected with the new strains. All of them are stable,” said a source at ID Hospital. Their samples will be sent to NICED on Monday to check whether they are still positive. In December, a Behala resident had tested positive to the UK strain. He was discharged from Medical College and Hospital when his samples tested negative. But this is the first time a flyer has tested positive to the South African strain. “The government was initially keeping all flyers, especially those from the UK and other European countries, under institutional isolation if they tested positive on arrival. The government should go back to doing so till the genome analysis finds them negative for the new strains,” said a doctor attached with a government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-takes-guard-against-sa-cov-variant-after-flyer-tests-positive/articleshow/81381372.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 8, 2021||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Lost at 15, deaf-mute girl learns to write & finds family at 18||KANPUR: An 18-year-old hearing- and speech-impaired girl from Shivrajpur area of Kanpur, who went missing in July 2018, was reunited with her family on Saturday, three years later and her reunion became possible only after she learnt how to write and managed to convey details of her kin and home to her mentors from Mano Samarpan Manosamajik Sewa Samiti, Bareilly. At the age of 15, Moni went missing from her home at Malviyanagar in Shivrajpur area of the district on July 19, 2018. Her parents filed a missing report at the Shivrajpur police station after they failed to trace her. The girl had been found by local police in Dalmau area of Rae Bareli on July 24, 2018, but was unable to communicate her details. Police handed Moni to Child Welfare Committee which in turn entrusted her to Mansik Mandit Mamata Ashray Grah, Bareilly, where she was given medical aid and trained in sign language and writing skills. Recently, during a training session, she told her counsellor Bharti Kashyap and psychologist Shailesh Kumar Sharma through writing that she hails from Malviyanagar in Shivrajpur area of Kanpur. “After she provided us details of her parents and her address, we contacted Shivrajpur police, traced found her parents and informed them about Moni,” said Sharma, a psychologist and president of Manosamarpan and Manosamajik Sewa Samiti, Bareilly. Moni’s father Ishwar Dayal, a farmer, effusively thanked Mansik Mandit Mamata Ashray Grah and Manosamarpan and Manosamajik Sewa Samiti, Bareilly, for taking care of Moni, teaching her sign language and writing and making the reunion possible after three years. “She went missing on July 19, 2018. We searched everywhere in vain and then lodged a missing complaint at local police station. I got a call from Mansik Mandit Mamata Ashray Grah, Bareilly, on Saturday and rushed there to find our daughter. We are thankful to them for their help,” said Dayal. My family is complete again, he added. “I had lost all hope of meeting my sister. By the grace of God she is back with us,” said Moni’s brother Ram Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lost-at-15-deaf-dumb-girl-reunitedwith-kin-at-18-after-learning-to-write/articleshow/81381387.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 8, 2021||Patna||13 MEMU trains to run on different routes from today||PATNA: At least 13 pairs of MEMU special passenger trains will start running on different sections of the East Central Railway (ECR) from Monday. Railways intends to streamline further local passenger train services ahead of Holi rush. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways will run three pairs of MEMU special between Patna Junction and Gaya, one pair each on the Patna-Jasidih, Patna-Barauni, Patna–Islampur, Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Junction-Buxar, Rajgir-Fatuha-Danapur, Samastipur-Saharsa, Sonepur-Chhapra and Danapur-Raghunathpur routes, he said, adding railways has issued an advisory to the local commuters to follow Covid-19 protocol strictly. Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction (DDU)-Patna MEMU (03203/03204) will leave DDU at 8.15am and reach Patna at 4.50pm. It will leave Patna Junction daily at 12.35pm and reach DDU at 8.30pm the same day. The Buxar-DDU special (03207/03208) will leave Buxar at 4.30am and reach DDU at 7. 45am. Another MEMU special (03223/03224) will leave Rajgir at 6.30am and reach Fatuha at 9.40am. On its return journey, it will leave Fatuha at 5.20pm and reach Rajgir at 8.20pm. Besides, Rajgir-Danapur MEMU special (03231/03232) will leave Rajgir at 5.25am and reach Danapur at 9.45am. On its return, it will leave Danapur at 6.20pm and reach Rajgir at 10.35pm, Kumar said. One MEMU special (03263/03264) will leave Gaya at 5.45am and reach Patna at 8.35am. It will leave Patna at 10pm and reach Gaya at 12.45am. Similarly, Patna-Jasidih MEMU special (03265/03266) will leave Patna at 8.55am and reach Jasidih at 4.10pm. It will leave Jasidih at 4.25pm and reach Patna at 12.30am, the CPRO said. The one to Gaya (03275/03276) will leave Patna at 9.15am and reach Gaya at 12pm. It will leave Gaya at 12.45pm and reach Patna at 3.45pm. Patna-Barauni MEMU special (03283/03284) will leave Patna at 8.40am and reach Barauni at 1.25pm. On its return, it will leave Barauni at 2.55pm and reach Patna at 7.20pm. The 03271/03272 special will leave Islampur at 6.30am and reach Patna at 9.25am and it will leave Patna at 8.15pm reaching Islampur at 11.05pm. The Samastipur–Saharsa MEMU special (05243/05244), Sonepur-Chhapra MEMU special (05245/05246) and Danapur – Raghunathpur MEMU special (03277/03278) have been introduced on these routes to cater to the needs of local passengers, Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-memu-trains-to-run-on-different-routes-from-today/articleshow/81380795.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Varanasi||Tea vendor shot at by two in Nadesar||Times News Network Varanasi: A tea seller Ashok Gupta was shot at by his two companions, with whom he was consuming liquor in Nadesar area under the limits of Cantonment police station on Sunday afternoon. DIG Amit Pathak said that Gupta’s two companions including Shahid, who fled the scene after opening fire on him, had been identified and a named FIR has also been lodged against the duo. Gupta informed the police that Shahid and his accomplice consumed liquor with him near his tea kiosk and also showed him a pistol while they were sitting there. However, Gupta failed to give any reason as to why the duo opened fire on him, said the SSP adding that several police teams have been engaged for the early arrest of the assailants. Locals informed the police that the sound of firing led to a chaos at the Nadesar market, which was partially opened due to weekly closure of Sunday. On noticing two persons escaping from Gupta’s kiosk on a motorcycle local natives and traders ran towards the shop where they found Gupta lying in a pool of blood. He was rushed to the SPG Divisional Hospital but was later shifted to a private hospital. Police said that his condition was stated to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/tea-vendor-shot-at-by-two-in-nadesar/articleshow/81380396.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh government planning Metro rail for Vizag: Botcha Satyanarayana||VISAKHAPATNAM: Minister for municipal administration Botcha Satyanarayana blamed TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu for obstructing the development of Visakhapatnam. The minister said Naidu went to the high court and stalled the allotment of houses to the poor. The minister said the government is planning a Metro rail from Madhurawada to Gajuwaka and another section from Steel Plant to Bhogapuram. The minister said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had praised the Andhra Pradesh government for implementing housing scheme for the poor and the Union minister for urban affairs announced several awards for the state government for ease of doing business and municipal performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-planning-metro-rail-for-vizag-botcha/articleshow/81380798.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||ISC candidates to be informed of schedule 10 days before lab exam||Kolkata: ISC candidates will be informed of the dates of the practical examinations for each subject at least 10 days in advance. Due to the new normal rules and board examinations being conducted during the pandemic, the head of the examination centre, in consultation with the visiting examiner and the chief or the supervising examiner will decide the number of batches in which the candidates will appear for the practical examinations. The size of the batches in each subject will be drawn up keeping the size of the laboratory and social distancing norms in mind. Additionally, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has directed that each batch be assigned a number, which has to be recorded. “As the Bengal Assembly elections will be underway, it is important to heed the Council’s advice on deciding the dates for practicals for each batch according to the convenience of the visiting examiner and the centre. This is because several institutes may be taken over for poll purposes in April,” said a school principal. In the circular issued to the schools, the laboratory has to be set up in accordance with the Covid-19 safety guidelines provided by the Council and the SOP laid down by the state. “We have been instructed that the laboratory equipment used by one candidate must be properly sanitized before it is used by another. All fittings, apparatus, substances or reagents usually required in the laboratory will be provided to the candidates and the teacher will have to ensure the reagents, chemicals, materials and specimens available are freshly procured and are of high quality,” another principal said. In the general guidelines for the conveners, heads of examination centres and chief or supervising examiners, the Council has laid down the blueprint to be followed during the ISC practicals scheduled between April 1 and May 31. “We have decided that irrespective of the issues which may crop up during the elections, we shall finish the practicals before May 5 when the theory papers begin for both ICSE and ISC,” a school head said. This year, the Council has cut down the syllabus due to the pandemic. “We have been able to prepare the students for the practicals by conducting laboratory classes since we were given a go-ahead to bring in students from classes IX to XII on campus. The questions will also be based on the reduced syllabus, as instructed by the CISCE,” the school head said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/isc-candidates-to-be-informed-of-schedule-10-days-before-lab-exam/articleshow/81381388.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Youths take up cleaning at Ameenpur lake||Hyderabad: A group of wildlife enthusiasts from the city took up a cleaning drive at the Ameenpur Lake on Sunday. The group consisting of Chintan, Sai, Nikhil, Pradeep alongwith 28 others went around removing plastic wastage. "Our main motto for the cleanup drive is to remove micro plastic wastage because a lot of bird and other mammals are getting killed by it. Along with cleanup drive we planted around 10 fruit bearing trees surrounding the lake and distributed 25 Telangana native plants," said Chintan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youths-take-up-cleaning-at-ameenpur-lake/articleshow/81382330.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Patna||Silao shut to protest murder of 32-yr-old||BIHARSHARIF : Business establishments including the famous ‘khaja’ shops at Silao under the Silao police station area in Nalanda district downed their shutters on Sunday to protest the murder of one Chittranjan Singh. Chittaranjan (32) was gunned down by the miscreants near Kundalpur gate under the Deepnagar police station area late on Saturday evening. According to police sources, unidentified miscreants pumped at least six bullets in the body of the deceased, who was a resident of Silao and husband of ward member Baby Devi, near Kundalpur gate on NH-120 late Saturday evening when he was returning home from Biharsharif by his motorbike. They said police took the profusely bleeding victim to Biharsharif sadar hospital where he was declared brought dead. A police officer said the deceased had criminal antecedents as over a dozen criminal cases have been registered against him with different police stations in Nalanda and Gaya districts. While handing over the body to the kin of the deceased after autopsy, Deepnagar police station house officer Mushtaq Ahmed said that an FIR against unidentified assailants has been lodged and a probe is on. He said those behind the crime would soon be identified and arrested. Meanwhile, on Friday night, armed miscreants shot dead a farmer Parmeshwar Yadav at Barchhi Bigha village under the Giriak police station area. The incident occurred when the deceased was asleep alone at his house. Six of his family members are in jail for the murder of a co-villager. Some distant relatives of the deceased, accused one Sanjay Yadav for the crime .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/silao-shut-to-protest-murder-of-32-yr-old/articleshow/81380727.cms||Farrukh Nadim
March 8, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot cops trap female imposter||Rajkot: Rajkot crime branch arrested a woman on Saturday who had impersonated as a cop after she hit a pedestrian on Dhebar road on March 4. According to police, the imposter Vandna allies Meena Dhanani was earlier booked in several extortion cases too.According to the case details, Dhanani had allegedly was driving rashly and hit Parth Mehta near Bombay petrol pump. She was riding a vehicle that did not have any numberplate, but inscribed with simple initials PI. Dhanani identified herself as police person before Mehta, but could hardly stand on her feet. She tried to start her two wheeler, but lost control and fell down. People gathered around and called an 108 ambulance. She was taken to the civil hospital where she hid her real identity and said she was a cop. However, she escaped from the hospital before a team of Bhaktinagar police station reached there. Later, a message went viral on social media stating about a woman police officer driving rashly under the influence of alcohol. “Dhanani used to lure victims to have physical relations with her and then extort money by threatening them of framing them in false cases. Three such cases are registered against her and in one case the victim has died,” cops added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-cops-trap-female-imposter/articleshow/81380245.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Patna||8k to be vaccinated in Saran dist: Admn||CHHAPRA: Health officials in Saran said women would be given preference at Covid vaccination centres in the district on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday. Saran civil surgeon Dr Madheveshwar Jha said women doctors and employees would be deployed at the primary health centres, referral hospitals and sadar hospital in the district to give vaccine shots to women and others on Monday. “Elderly women and those in the age group of 45 to 59 years will mainly be vaccinated on Monday. We have targeted to vaccinate at least 8,000 people, especially women, on Monday. There will also be spot registration facility for women at the vaccine centres,” the civil surgeon added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8k-to-be-vaccinated-in-saran-dist-admn/articleshow/81380309.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Vijayawada||High-decibel campaign for municipal polls ends today||Amaravati: The high-decibel campaign for municipal elections will come to an end on Monday. Although the State Election Commission issued notification for polls in 12 corporation cities and 75 municipal towns and nagara panchayats, YSRC has already captured two cities and over 12 municipal towns. YSRC is set to win in another 15 municipal towns without much trouble as several wards in these towns received single nominations from YSRC candidates, thus paving the way for winning chairperson posts. A tough battle is on the cards in the remaining cities and towns as TDP has stepped up the campaign in the last few days. With municipal elections being held on the basis of party symbols, there would be little scope for parties to make tall claims about victories. Despite confident of making a clean sweep, ministers and ruling party legislators are not taking any chances and making rounds in the streets and narrow lanes in a bid to woo voters. The YSRC leadership has directed in-charge ministers and in-charge general secretaries to monitor the situation over the next few days and provide guidance to the leaders. “We have won over 98 per cent of the seats in the unanimously elected wards in the cities and towns and the same trends are going to reflect on the polling day,” said party general secretary Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy. He said that people have already made up their minds that TDP is a burden for the state. Meanwhile, infighting in certain constituencies is expected to spoil the fortunes of party nominees as rebels have refused to withdraw from the race. However, party leaders are confident that people would go by the party symbol and rebel candidates might not influence results. After a humiliating defeat in rural local body polls, the municipal elections have become a big challenge for TDP to prove its relevance. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu and his son Nara Lokesh are making whirlwind visits to various towns to garner support for the party’s candidates. The BJP-Jana Sena combine is expected to put up a tough fight to YSRC and TDP in a few wards, particularly in Kapu-dominant areas in the cities. However, it remains to be seen whether they would emerge victorious or spoil the fortunes of YSRC and TDP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-decibel-campaign-for-municipal-polls-ends-today/articleshow/81380788.cms||Samdani MN
March 8, 2021||Patna||‘BJP has promised 19L work opportunities, not govt jobs’||PATNA: BJP has promised 19 lakh work opportunities and not government jobs, deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi clarified on Sunday. Talking to the media after the conclusion of the two-day BJP state executive committee meeting, Prasad said, “We did say we will create 19 lakh jobs for the youths, but it did not mean government jobs. Rather, we meant to say that we will create 19 lakh work opportunities. The government is making efforts in this direction and we have also framed our policies.” He referred to the government’s policy to give Rs5 lakh loan and an equal amount as subsidy to the trained entrepreneurs, including women, from all sections and said, “This scheme is not tied with the banks. On the contrary, it will be funded by the government’s own resources. There is provision for interest payment, but the loans will be given at nominal 1% interest to the trained and skilled youths from the general category,” he said. Renu said the promise is to create work opportunities over the next five years. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said the party workers have been asked to actively involve themselves in the panchayati raj activities at the panchayat level, while they will support one Zila Parishad candidate in every constituency. Dr Jaiswal also said the BJP workers have been asked to hammer on the need for the restoration of family values in their areas, as the modern life and work compulsions have divided the families and made its members distant from each other. He also said the members of every family should get together at least once a year and the BJP workers will campaign for that. As to the framing of the party programmes for the near future, Dr Jaiswal said the BJP’s foundation day will be celebrated on April 6, followed by the birth anniversary celebration of B R Ambedkar. Implicitly, new programmes were not taken up in view of the coming panchayat elections. Both Prasad and Dr Jaiswal said the BJP workers should be actively involved in the panchayati raj activities, as both the state and central governments have allotted funds for the implementation of developmental activities at the panchayat level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-has-promised-19l-work-opportunities-not-govt-jobs/articleshow/81380782.cms||Abhay Singh
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Dog pee leads to fight between neighbours in Ahmedabad's Vasna||AHMEDABAD: Two families from the Guptanagar locality of Vasna exchanged blows over dog pee on Saturday. According to the Vasna police, Takhat Singh Rathore, 65, an autorickshaw driver, took his dog for walk in the open in his locality. When he was walking with the canine, it stopped in front of a grocery shop, owned by Rathore’s neighbour Ajay Prajapati, 28, where it peed. This did not go well with Prajapati who told Rathore to keep his dog in control and he should not allow it to pee here and there. Meanwhile, Prajapati’s wife rushed outside with a stick with which she tried to hit the dog. Rathore became aggressive and told her that it was not some stray or Indian dog, he had bought the dog of a foreign breed at a high price and he would not allow it to be beaten by anyone. Hearing such remarks, Prajapati and his wife allegedly began abusing Rathore. When Rathore was about to hit Prajapati, Rathore’s son intervened and stopped him to indulge in fight. But Prajapati’s wife hit him with a stick with which she was supposed to hit the dog. The hue and cry between them was heard by other family members of Rathore and Prajapati who rushed out and began fighting and abusing. In this brawl, four persons from the families of Rathore and Prajapati suffered injuries and were rushed to a hospital where two medico-legal complaints were filed. Later, Vasna police registered offences of assault, criminal intimidation and uttering of abusive words against Prajapati and Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dog-pee-leads-to-fight-between-neighbours-in-vasna/articleshow/81381483.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Patna||Man stabbed to death for resisting loot in Siwan||PATNA: A man was stabbed to death in Siwan while another one was shot at in Muzaffarpur for resisting loot bids on Sunday. Unidentified bike-borne criminals stabbed to death one Rishikesh Raj (30) of Harsiddhi at Motihari in East Champaran when he resisted his cellphone loot at Pachlakhi under Nautan police station area in Siwan around 2pm on Sunday. Raj worked with a private firm at Harsiddhi. Nautan SHO Abhimanyu Kumar said Raj was going to Siwan town from Harsiddhi on his bike for some work when the incident took place. “Eyewitnesses told the police that two criminals on a bike intercepted Raj and tried to loot his cellphone. When he resisted, one of them pulled out a dagger and stabbed him in the chest and fled after looting his cellphone,” Kumar said. He said Raj died within a few minutes of the stabbing. “His purse and other belongings were also not found on him. It’s not clear if the criminals looted his other belongings or any commuter or miscreant from nearby village took these things,” he said. In another incident, at least four car-borne criminals intercepted a coal tar-laden truck and shot at its owner Narendra Yadav (34) when he resisted the loot around 2am near Panapur under Baruraj police station area in Muzaffarpur on Sunday. Baruraj SHO Mukesh Kumar said Rs30,000 was looted from Yadav. Quoting Yadav’s statement, he said at least four criminals in a car intercepted the truck. “They forced Yadav and the driver to come out of the truck and started looting. When Yadav resisted, criminals shot at him in the thigh and looted the cash. He is undergoing treatment at SKMCH in Muzaffarpur,” the SHO said. In yet another incident, two bike-borne criminals shot at one Savindar Das (22) at Hussaina under Garaul police station area in Vaishali district Saturday night. SHO Sanjeev Kumar said the reason behind the incident was yet not clear. He said Das is a daily wager and none had been arrested in this connection. In yet another incident, egg seller Vijay Rai (21) was shot at in Khajamma village under Mahnar police station area in Vaishali on Saturday night. Mahnar SHO (incharge) Prem Kumar said Rai was shot at in the chest, but his condition was stable. The SHO said it was yet not clear if the criminals shot at Rai over petty dispute of payment or some old enmity. “He has not named anyone,” Kumar said, adding he was shifted to PMCH from Vaishali on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-stabbed-to-death-for-resisting-loot-in-siwan/articleshow/81380698.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||CBSE changes X, XII boards dates, schools plan to tell students today||KOLKATA: City schools have received alerts from the Central Board of Secondary Education about changes in the dates of the board exams. The changed dates have been announced and schools have been asked to alert students of classes X and XII accordingly. Since the changes came on Friday, schools have decided to alert students about them on Monday when the board-year students come in for their pre-boards or practice for laboratory practicals. While for Class XII, dates have changed for physics, mathematics, and geography, Class X has new dates for science, mathematics (standard and basic), and Sanskrit. In most cases, the dates have been brought forward while in some the dates have been pushed back, schools said, adding that no reason has been given for bringing in these changes. However, since it has been done in advance, students will probably face no issues. For Class XII, the physics exam has been pushed back from May 13 to June 8, mathematics has been brought forward by a day to June 1 and geography has been pushed back by a day to June 3. In the case of Class X, the science theory exam has been changed to May 21 from May 15, mathematics has changed from May 21 to June 2 and Sanskrit has been postponed by a day to June 3. “We have made the relevant changes on the timetable accordingly and will first announce them to the students on campus on Monday and then post it on the school app so that the new timetable features all the changes,” said Indrani Chattopadhyay, vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park. Incidentally, the biology examination of Class XII has clashed with the JEE Mains (fourth block) on May 24. Schools and students had hoped that the Board would change this date, but there has been no revision here. “This means that we will not have a choice beyond the third block. If the Board is changing so many dates, it should change the biology exam date too,” said Nirajana Nayak, a Class XII student. “Why have these changes been done? We hope there are no more revisions. Keeping track is a major task,” said Tirthankar Mitra, whose son will appear for his Class X boards this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbse-changes-x-xii-boards-dates-schools-plan-to-tell-students-today/articleshow/81385564.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Vax timings to be extended from today; hospitals’ forum proposes uniform hours||KOLKATA: As a couple of private hospitals are gearing up for round-the-clock vaccination from Monday, the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) has appealed to the state health department to fix uniform hours for inoculation across all hospitals. Rather than a 24x7 facility, this will help hospitals space out recipients and avoid crowding and long queues that have slowed down the process, the AHEI said. From Monday, vaccination is likely to commence at 9am instead of 10am. “We will propose a uniform window — like 9am to 6pm for all city hospitals. This will help us call recipients at different slots since they are not being able to book slots on the website. We are ready to extend the closing time beyond 6pm, but 24x7 vaccination may not help elderly recipients,” said AHEI president Rupak Barua. While Fortis Hospital has started 24x7 vaccination last week, Medica Superspecialty Hospital will start on Monday. “The idea is to let recipients know they can walk in any time. Since the Co-Win portal is slow, it’s taking a long time to register senior citizens who are not comfortable with the online process. Now, they can visiting at their own convenience, even if it’s late in the evening or in the middle of the night. They can now be accompanied by their kin who are busy during the normal working hours,” said Medica chairperson Alok Roy. Others, like Peerless Hospital, however, will not have 24x7 service. “We don’t have the resources for that. But we are ready to extend the vaccination hours,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. RTIICS, too, has ruled out round-the-clock vaccination. “We will be providing vaccination from 8am to 6pm from Monday and will optimally utilize our resources to provide seamless service. A 24x7 service right now is challenging as it entails heavy deployment of staff, nurses and medical officers, which would be very difficult to organize at a very busy hospital,” said R Venkatesh, regional head - east, Narayana Health. An overwhelming response from senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities has forced many hospitals to extend the vaccination timings. Till Saturday, the usual timing was 9am to 5pm. On Saturday, the health department officials indicated an extension in the schedule from 8am to 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vax-timings-to-be-extended-from-today-hospitals-forum-proposes-uniform-hours/articleshow/81381385.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
March 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation sets stage for polls, over 10,000 personnel roped in||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has prepared the ground for the upcoming Vizag municipal polls on March 10. The civic body has printed 19.39 lakh ballot papers, which is an additional 10 per cent than an electorate of nearly 17.53 lakh. The officials have already notified 1,712 polling stations for all 98 wards in GVMC limits, each with maximum voters of 1,200. A total of 10,600 polling personnel will be deployed for the polls. As per norms, polling teams would be formed on a random basis. One presiding officer, one assistant presiding officer and three other polling personnel would serve at each polling station, totalling to 8,560 personnel. Additional manpower would be in reserve to meet any contingency. Some more personnel would be involved in material procurement and distribution and other works. The polling personnel would have no idea of which station they will be allotted till March 9 (March 10 is the polling day). The State Election Commission has appointed 600 micro-observers to monitor election proceedings in the city. The GVMC conducted a training programme for these observers on Saturday, March 6. According to the GVMC officials, the nodal officers would take care of implementation of model code of conduct, polling personnel, training, material procurement, etc. The flying squads and static surveillance teams will make sure of strict enforcement of the model code of conduct. Arrangements are also being made for the counting process at Andhra University on March 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-sets-stage-for-polls-over-10k-personnel-roped-in/articleshow/81380864.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Fight for Amaravati, Naidu urges Vij voters||Vijayawada: Former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu held a roadshow in the city on Sunday as a part of TDP’s campaign for municipal elections. “People of Vijayawada have time to do slavery in Bengaluru and Chennai but are not bothered about developing their own regions as greenfield capital Amaravati. I didn’t develop Amravati for myself. People in this region are drinking Pattiseema water. But they remain quiet when the government proposes to shift the capital. I have every right to question you and this is the right time,” Naidu said. He also targeted endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas. “The three silver lions of Goddess Kanaka Durga went missing but the minister is busy with his own works. He is now campaigning and ready to purchase votes,” Naidu said. “People here are expressing solidarity with Amaravati protests but are confined to their homes. One should come forward to intensify agitation,” he said. Naidu asked Vijayawada residents to send one person from each family for the Amaravati agitation. Naidu said TDP’s victory is needed to protect Amaravati and urged people to support TDP and CPI candidates. Naidu expressed anger over infighting among leaders. He said that the leaders were taking advantage of internal freedom and crossing the party line. He said stringent action will be taken soon and special guidelines will be framed. TDP leaders Budda Venkanna and Nagul Meera who had expressed anger over MP Kesineni Nani on Saturday were seen sharing the stage in public meetings during Naidu’s roadshows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fight-for-amaravati-naidu-urges-vij-voters/articleshow/81380833.cms||Venu Lanka
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Another fire at Amrabad reserve, two tribals hurt||Hyderabad: For the last few days, the Amrabad tiger reserve in Nagarkurnool district struggled as several forest fires broke out in the area. On Sunday, seven Chenchu tribals were trapped in the forest fire, of which two suffered serious burn injuries. The forest fire that started near Mallapuram penta (hamlet) inside the tiger reserve. Speaking to TOI, Edla Kishore, a local resident said, “The injured tribals were collecting forest produce when the fire suddenly engulfed the entire area leaving very little time for them to escape to a safer place.” The Chenchus living in the forest and the forest staff who rushed to the spot to rescue the injured had to carry them towards the main entrance of the tiger reserve in makeshift cloth stretchers as there was no road for any vehicle to enter the dense forest area. “The forest department and revenue officials who were informed about the incident arranged for four ambulances in which the injured were shifted to a government hospital in Achampet,” said Kishore. Sources from the forest department informed that the two people who suffered serious burn injuries were shifted to Gandhi hospital in Hyderabad for treatment. The condition of one person is said to be critical. This is the second major wildfire that broke out in the tiger reserve in the past week Nagarkurnool district forest official, Kista Goud said earlier that these fires were man-made and the forest department has been taking all necessary precautions to create awareness among the tourists and pilgrims passing through the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-fire-at-amrabad-reserve-two-tribals-hurt/articleshow/81382334.cms||Moulika.KV
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Narco-analysis of 131 done in two years||Ahmedabad: The state government detailed the work done by Gandhinagar based Forensic Science Laboratory in investigation of crimes during the past two years. In reply to a series of questions by MLAs, the chief minister, who holds the home portfolio, provided figures of FSL contribution to solving cases in the past two years. Members asked questions regarding analysis done by FSL in cases related to cybercrime and the suspect detection system, apart from the number of narco-analysis and polygraph tests done during the past two years, i.e 2019 and 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/narco-analysis-of-131-done-in-two-years/articleshow/81381499.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||No other poet expressed separation in the same manner as Sahirsaab: Gulzar||Gulzar remembers Sahir Ludhianvi, the rebel who brought the poetry of protest to the screen and popular cultureSahirsaab made his presence felt as much in films as in literature. Anyone who read or listened to Urdu poetry or mushairas in those days would know who Sahir Ludhianvi was. He was a tall, fair, handsome man with small pock marks on his face and a distinct style of speaking. Always very humble, never boastful — because poets sometimes can be very boastful about what they’ve read and what they write — but he was a modest man. I remember that he was never allowed to leave the stage without reciting his famous poem on the Taj Mahal — ‘Meri mehboob kahi aur mila kar mujhse’ — it was very, very popular with the people. Progressive writers and poets would often argue that it wasn’t fair to look at the Taj Mahal from the lens of the rich against the poor. But Sahirsaab was a committed communist poet and part of the Progressive Writers’ Association (PWA) like Shailendra and (Ali) Sardar Jafri. It was a movement that I became involved with later, also. I hadn’t joined films then. I used to work in a motor garage, and attend PWA meetings. But I was lucky to be living in the outhouse of the bungalow where Sahirsaab lived on the first floor. It was called the Coover Lodge at Seven Bungalows, Andheri. On the ground floor lived the famous Urdu writer Krishan Chander, who too, was a legend in his own time. And in the outhouses of that bungalow, three or four strugglers like Ratan Bhattacharya and myself, lived. The compound still exists, although a building has come up now. When Sahirsaab joined films, he had his own style of using Urdu words that we had never heard of before. For example, the song ‘Yeh raat yeh chandni phir kahaan’ from the movie Jaal. The kind of imagery in phrases like ‘Aur thodi der mein thak ke laut jaayegi’ was very rare at the time. Or take ‘Chalo ek baar phir se ajnabi ban jayein hum dono’ from Gumrah. No other poet until then had expressed separation in a manner that continues to linger in you when you hear it today, just like it did when it was written back then. One could clearly see the individuality in his expressions. But this modest and humble man also had his own ego and arrogance. He would ask for the same price as the music director of a film. It’s not that he wanted to work with only big names. He’d say, ‘if you can’t afford it then give me a smaller music director, I don’t mind’. That’s how music directors like N.Dutta and Ravi went on to compose for him. Sahirsaab was very confident of his poetry. He is ‘the’ person who called for a strike by writers asking them to not give songs to Vividh Bharti unless they mentioned the name of the writer on their shows. Otherwise, traditionally Vividh Bharti would announce only the names of the singer and composer of a song. Sahirsaab was the man to protest against this and the strike eventually came to an end after Vividh Bharti agreed. Other than his writing, this was the hallmark of his contributions towards prestige and identity of writers and poets in the film industry. It has relevance till this date and a cause that Javedsaab (Akhtar) still pursues in his battle for copyright, something that Sahir Ludhianvi did in his time. Javedsaab is someone who he loved very much because his father Jan Nisar Akhtar was a very close friend of Sahir Ludhianvi’s and Javed almost grew up in his house. He was also the first lyricist I ever saw, who had a car. He was like a nawab! In fact, he was the son of a nawab. The only other persons who lived with him in that house were his mother (Sardar Begum) and Ram Prakash Ashq, a very close friend of his who came with him from Pakistan. His mother was a strict lady. Always dressed in white Lucknowi embroidered salwar-kurta she would love him and rebuke him like a child... Bahut daat-ti thi, poore bungaley mein unki awaaz sunai deti thi! (As told to Mohua Das)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-other-poet-expressed-separation-in-the-same-manner-as-sahirsaab/articleshow/81383606.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Raj Thackeray urges Maharashtra CM to revive Nanar project||Revive the Nanar oil refinery project in Konkan without disturbing nature, MNS chief Raj Thackeray urged CM Uddhav Thackeray. In his letter to the CM, Raj wrote that following the expenses incurred due to the pandemic and lockdown, the state cannot afford to lose “such a huge investment” that could create job opportunities. But Sena minister Uday Samant said though the “Nanar issue is over”, for the party, the CM will take an appropriate decision on Raj’s letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-raj-urges-uddhav-to-revive-nanar-project/articleshow/81382364.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||Cops plan ban on two-wheelers on Maa flyover to curb accidents||Kolkata: Traffic guards have come up with a proposal to stop all two-wheeler movements on the Maa flyover after several bike accidents have been reported. The proposal — discussed at Lalbazar in the presence of police commissioner Soumen Mitra — has now been vetted and forwarded to state administration for its nod. According to sources, officers believe that with lesser traffic flow on the Park Circus Bypass connector, it will be safer for bikers and scooterists to take the road below. However, the police decision has left two-wheeler riders disappointed. For the record, the ban on two wheelers from plying on Maa flyover has been there between 10 pm and 6 am for the past two years. Police officers from Tiljala, Beliaghata and East traffic guards are of the opinion that two-wheelers were an issue even during peak office hours. “We have found that they indulge in dangerous riding and are the biggest violators of traffic rules,” said an officer. But sergeants on duty said that with the latest technology at their disposal, it was unwise to waste resources trying to stop bikes on the flyover. “Stopping the bikes cannot be a solution, disciplining them is important,” claimed a sergeant from the east traffic guard. Several alternate arrangements are already in place to contain bikers on Maa flyover. The police said that they have also identified seven-point crossing as the place from where bikes get “unrestricted access to the flyover” without any “checks”. Lalbazar is also mulling writing to KMDA for specific sign boards indicating directions and warnings. A team of experts, who conducted a security audit of the flyover a few months back had asked cops to streamline traffic flow by putting up proper signage at key points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-plan-ban-on-two-wheelers-on-maa-flyover-to-curb-accidents/articleshow/81381493.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 8, 2021||Delhi||North corporation gives in to protests, waste plant to be shifted||NEW DELHI: After facing resistance from residents of Rani Khera for a long time against setting up of a waste-to-energy plant in their area, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has finalised a plan to build the plant next to the Bhalswa landfill. The civic agency had signed an MoU with Indian Oil Corporation for setting up the project in November 2020 and work is scheduled to start from the next financial year. “Since we have finalised the project, the plant will be set up at Bhalswa. We just need to demarcate enough space, the details of which will be specified in the project report,” said north corporation mayor Jai Prakash. “The WTE plant will come up in place of the composting plant. The residents of Rani Khera, where the plant was originally supposed to be set up, are not letting us implement the project. We can’t wait anymore as we need concrete solutions to process waste and reduce the burden on the landfill site,” added the mayor. Currently, north corporation areas generate 4,600 metric tonnes of waste daily. Of this, 2,300 MT is processed at the Narela-Bawana WTE plant, while the rest is dumped at the Bhalswa landfill. A north corporation official said, “While 2,300 tonnes of garbage generated from Keshavpuram, Civil Lines and Rohini zones is collected, segregated, processed and disposed of scientifically at the WTE plant, the remaining waste from Karol Bagh, City-Sadar Paharganj and Narela zones has no system for processing and goes directly to the landfill. Considering that waste generation is increasing at 5-7% yearly, arrangements need to be made for processing the remaining garbage.” “At Rani Khera, the corporation has around 70 acres of land, some of which was transferred by DDA recently. We have proposed to set up a construction & demolition waste plant and a gaushala there. If the WTE plant had been set up there, then the cost of transportation would have been saved and segregated C&D waste would have been shifted to neighbouring plants,” said Prakash. Councillors had argued that construction of the WTE plant in Rani Khera next to a residential area would have resulted in foul smell and chances of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-gives-in-to-protests-waste-plant-to-be-shifted/articleshow/81382336.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Badals’ protest on March 8 a political gimmick: Damanvir||Chandigarh: Damanvir Singh Phillaur, son of Punjab’s former jail minister Sarwan Singh Phillaur, described the March 8 protest by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), led by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal across the state as “political drama.” Addressing a press conference at Phillaur in Jalandhar district on Sunday, Damanvir said the Badals have no right to protest against issues faced by Punjab as they cropped up due to the actions of the Badal family. He accused the Badals of ‘looting’ Punjab during their 10-year tenure and creating the culture of monopoly in every business, including liquor, cable, transport and sand mining. Damanvir, whose father was a minister in the SAD-BJP government, alleged that public money which was meant to be used for welfare of the poor through shagun scheme, old age scheme and scholarship scheme, was used by the Badals to build hotels, transport, media companies, luxury cars, luxury homes, planes and set up businesses. He pointed out that Manpreet Singh Badal also had the same share of inherited property as Sukhbir but Sukhbir amassed much wealth. Damanvir said the Badals and Majithias should rise above “the hypocrisy of dharna” and hand over “looted wealth” to the Punjab government so that development of the state could be expedited and Punjab could get out of debt. He also urged Punjab chief minister to get a case of corruption, disproportionate assets and NDPS Act violation registered against Badals and Majithias and get their “ill-gotten properties should be attached and confiscated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/badals-protest-on-march-8-a-political-gimmick-damanvir/articleshow/81382343.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||Rally-bound BJP workers injured||Howrah: Ten BJP workers were injured when a bus in which they were travelling from Nandigram to attend the Brigade rally hit a roadside divider near Santragachi and those on the roof was tossed over on the road. One of them sustained head injury, while three others were also critically injured. Subal Patra who had a head injury said that they were coming from Nandigram and the accident happened around 1.30 pm. “The bus while taking a turn hit a divider and we were thrown off and got injured.” Police admitted Patra and six others to Howrah district hospital. The police later allowed the bus to take the other passengers to the Bridgade rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rally-bound-bjp-workers-injured/articleshow/81381545.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Street criminals in police line of fire||NEW DELHI: There’s some bad news for trigger-happy snatchers as it has been learnt that police now won’t hesitate in returning fire. Among the measures being devised by the police brass to curb street crime, snatchers with criminal records will be booked under Maharashtra Control of Organised Act (MCOCA), say sources. On Saturday night, Special Cell sleuths shot at a notorious snatcher in south Delhi’s Lado Sarai. Aakash (23), who had committed back-to-back crimes in south and southeast Delhi and had over two dozen cases lodged against him, received two gunshot injuries in both his legs during the brief exchange of fire. DCP (Special Cell) Pramod Kushwaha said, “Aakash was being tracked by a team led by inspector Shiv Kumar. The snatcher is a resident of Malviya Nagar and a history-sheeter and noted bad character of the area.” The criminal, known by the alias Chavanni in crime circles, started being tracked after his role came to the fore in at least eight recent snatchings in southern zone. Police laid a trap for him after receiving a tip-off that he would be coming to Lado Sarai to meet an associate. Around 11.20pm, an informer pointed towards Aakash coming on a motorcycle from MG Road. He was cornered on the link road connecting MB Road and Lado Sarai and asked to surrender, but he shot at the cops with his pistol. In retaliatory firing by police, the accused got injured in both his legs. He was then pinned down and disarmed by the policemen. He was taken to Safdarjung Hospital where his condition is stated to be stable. “Four rounds were fired from both sides. Aakash fired two rounds and police two. A semi-automatic pistol of .32 bore with three live cartridges was seized from him. An Apache motorcycle, which he used for committing snatchings, has been seized too. A case under appropriate sections of law has been registered by Special Cell,” said Kushwaha. The DCP added that Aakash was earlier arrested in more than a dozen criminal cases, including offences like robbery, snatching, theft, assault, intimidation and possession of illegal weapons. During interrogation, Aakash revealed that he used to dispose of snatched gold chains through two people in Badarpur. His brother Sagar is also a “bad character” of Malviya Nagar. Akash and his associates were wanted in more than 15 new and unsolved cases of snatchings committed during the last three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/street-criminals-in-police-line-of-fire/articleshow/81382359.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Woman molested by neighbour in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 42-year-old woman from the Nirnaynagar area of city on Saturday filed a complaint with Vadaj police alleging that her neighbour thrashed her and her daughter over kids’ dispute and when she resisted, he tore her top and molested her. The woman, whose husband runs a food joint in Tragad, said that accused Jitu Soni’s son and her daughter fought with each other while playing on March 3 night. When she raised this issue with Soni’s wife, she began abusing her and later all her family members including Soni and his parents threatened her. She alleged that Soni’s wife and her parents barged into her house and thrashed her and her two daughters aged around 15 and seven. Soni’s parents and his wife returned to their home after it and the complainant confined herself and her daughters inside their house. Later in the night, Soni again began abusing the complainant and her family members over the kids’ dispute. This time, the complainant told him that she would call police if he would try to harass her. But Soni barged into her house and began pushing and hitting her. He had torn off her top and molested her and again thrashed her badly. He even threatened her with dire consequences saying that he would not allow her and her family members to stay there. Hearing screams of the complainant, other neighbours rushed to her house and rescued her from Soni. She had then called up police control room and filed an application to lodge a complaint against Soni. On Saturday, Vadaj police registered a complaint of molestation, causing hurt, house trespass, abetment, uttering of abusive words, criminal intimidation and abetment against Soni, his wife and his parents. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-molested-by-neighbour/articleshow/81381542.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Pune||Pune: Police bust fake vehicle certificates racket, arrest four; 2 at large||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Saturday claimed to have busted a fake vehicle certificate racket with the arrest of four men. Two others involved in the racket are at large. One suspect — Tukaram Magar — when cornered on Friday morning, tried to run over two constables in a bid to evade arrest. He was nabbed after a brief chase. The constables suffered injuries in the incident. Police said the suspects prepared and issued 700 bogus RTO fitness, insurance documents and tax receipts in the past two years. Police commissioner Krishna Prakash said he received information that the suspects were operating the racket from a cybercafé at Kalewadi in Wakad. “On Thursday night, we raided the cybercafé and took one suspect, Rahul Gaund (23), into custody,” senior inspector Vithhal Kubade of the social security team said. The police examined Gaund’s cellphone and computer and discovered that the other suspects of the racket would send him the information required to prepare the bogus documents. Police said the suspects would pose as touts near the RTO. The recipients of these fake certificates included those who wilfully sought such documents, as well as those who believed they were getting genuine papers. “Gaund would prepare certificates with fake stamps and and send them photographs to his accomplices,” Kubade explained. Gaund would receive money through an e-wallet and delete all the information. During the questioning, Gaund revealed the names of Balaji Babar (23) of Thergaon, Magar, and Pravin Dalve (25) of Chakan, who were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bust-fake-vehicle-certs-racket-arrest-four-2-at-large/articleshow/81382341.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Pune||Helpline to assist kids leaving care homes||Pune: The Women and Child Development department (WCD) has come out with a helpline that will guide children who leave observation and childcare homes after the age of 18 to help them get an education, acquire skills and make career choices. These children after completing their time in these places do not know how to go forward in their lives, the educational opportunities available to them and where to stay in case they have no family. Commissioner Hrishikesh Yashod said there are two broad categories of homes, one for children who are in need of care and protection who can be orphans, children in dangerous situations and the second is an observation home for children in conflict with the law. They can stay in these homes only till the age of 18. Once they come out of the homes, they are practically alone, especially children who are orphans or have single parents with no resources to give them shelter, and need a single-window facility which will give them solutions. where to stay in case they have no family. Commissioner Hrishikesh Yashod said there are two broad categories of homes, one for children who are in need of care and protection who can be orphans, c “We have a Maharashtra State Probation and After Care Association and they were interested in establishing a contact centre for students leaving these institutions. The number of children who are in conflict with the law is very less as compared to the number of children who are in need of care and protection. The latter is the larger group and they feel left out because they don’t have proper linkage with society and they face adjustment issues. We are trying to help all of them through this help centre,” Yashod said. Mahendra Sambhus, a member of MSPAC, said, after children leave at the age of 18, they can find a home at any of the six government hostels and one run by voluntary organisation in the state till the age of 21 years. But not many know about it. “They need guidance about education, employment and many other things and that is what this helpline will do,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/helpline-to-assist-kids-leaving-care-homes/articleshow/81382348.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 8, 2021||Goa||Left out of proceedings, nearly 500 anxious protesters gather outside KA||PANAJI: High voltage drama unfolded outside Kala Academy in Panaji on Sunday, the venue for the public hearing to finalise the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP), after nearly 500 people who had not registered online protested and demanded that the public hearing be stopped as they were denied entry to the venue due to Covid-19 restrictions. The heavy police force deployed at the venue permitted only those who had registered for the public hearing inside the premises. Those who were denied entry were seen shouting slogans —“Stop the meeting, we don’t want this CZMP”. The protesters who were denied entry included members of the general public, various NGOs and socials activists, among others. People outside the venue expressed their concern over their houses, bundhs, etc, which they alleged were not shown in the plan. After exiting the Dinanath Mangueshkar auditorium where the public hearing was held, social activist Rama Kankonkar told those present outside that they have demanded that a fresh public hearing be held after giving a 30-day notice to the public. AAP’s state convener Rahul Mahambre said they will not allow the draft plan to be passed in its present condition. Social activist Prajal Sakhardande said, “This is a public hearing, but the public is not allowed inside the venue. This is not democracy.” While alleging that the state goveernment “wants to sell Goa’s beaches to Delhites”, Sakhardande said that the CZMP should be prepared by the villagers and not by the Centre. “I appeal to every citizen to stand united and fight against the plan,” he said. The public stated that the government cannot hold the public hearing as it violates the model code of conduct which is in force. “When communidade meetings have been cancelled on account of the model code of conduct, why is this public hearing not cancelled?” a woman said. People also said that only 150 cannot represent North Goa. A woman said they have registered online but they are not allowed inside. “Is this a public meeting or a private one? We should be allowed inside to hear what is happening. We will not allow Goa to be sold,” another woman said. Upset over the police force present outside the venue, agitated citizens said, “We have not come here to fight. This is the government’s dadigiri. This plan is prepared to facilitate the sale of prime land to the people of Delhi.” “The BJP government should be thrown out of power for such anti-people attitude,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/left-out-of-proceedings-nearly-500-anxious-protesters-gather-outside-ka/articleshow/81383607.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Plaint filed as daily wager, daughter go missing||Hyderabad: A 34-year-old daily wage worker, A Raja Laxmi and her six-year-old daughter, Jaishnavi went missing after leaving their house at Domalguda on Friday. Laxmi’s husband, Prakash, lodged a complaint with Chikkadpally police on Sunday stating that his wife and their daughter left home at 6pm on Friday to go to Laxmi’s brother’s house in Bhoopalapally. On Friday night, Prakash tried to contact his wife but her phone was switched off. Prakash immediately called his brother-in-law and found out that Laxmi did not reach Bhoopalapally. After failing to locate the whereabouts of his missing family members, Prakash lodged a complaint with police. A missing case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plaint-filed-as-daily-wager-daughter-go-missing/articleshow/81382376.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Pune||This week to be warmer than usual in Pune: IMD forecast||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department on Sunday stated that the city’s day and night temperatures were expected to remain above normal by one or two degrees Celsius over the next week. Since February 24, the day temperatures of Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories have remained over 35°C, the IMD officials said. For the first week of March, both observatories have recorded over 36°C day temperature and 15°C to 16°C night temperature, said the met official. “At present, the Northerly wind is not penetrating into the state. Also, upper air cyclonic circulation is at the lower-level, which is resulting in high temperature at present. As a result, the day and night temperatures are above normal by one or two degrees Celsius nowadays,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecast division of the IMD Pune, said. Condition of the skies in the city would mainly remain clear over the week. Towards evening, people may experience a little windy condition. On Sunday, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded day temperatures as 36.1°C and 36.5°C, respectively, and both were above normal by 1.5 degree Celsius. Barring Mahabaleshwar in the Madhya Maharashtra region, all other stations recorded over 34°C day temperature. In the Vidarbha region, three stations Akola, Chandrapur and Bramhapuri crossed the 40°C-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/this-week-to-be-warmer-than-usual-imd-forecast/articleshow/81382371.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||‘Feel privileged to have sung his beautiful lyrics’||Playback singer Sudha Malhotra was in her twenties when she became an unwitting muse for poet-lyricist Sahir Ludhianvi. He recommended her name to filmmakers and composers, sparking a career that led to songs like ‘Yeh ishq ishq hai’, ‘Na main dhan chahoon’ and ‘Kashti ka khamosh safar hai’. Sudha’s personal favourite is ‘Tum mujhe bhool bhi jao’ which she also composed at his instance, she said in a tete-a-tete with Bella Jaisinghani. Excerpts... All artists, poets, painters need someone to inspire them. If I became an inspiration for somebody, what could I do. I was so young. People can say anything. M F Husain was inspired by Madhuri Dixit. What can anybody do? Our worlds were entirely different. I feel I was very fortunate and privileged to have sung Sahir’s beautiful lyrics. All the songs that he wrote and I sang became such hits. I sang in films for a short time, but got so many hits. Sahir Ludhianvi was undoubtedly the greatest poet in my life. Do you know, it was Geeta Dutt and I who originally sang ‘Kabhi Kabhi mere dil mein’ for a Chetan Anand film in 1959-60. It got shelved and I don’t even have a recording. Khayyamji’s tune was nearly the same as the one that was released later. The last song I sang by Sahir was ‘Tum mujhe bhool bhi jao toh yeh haq hai tumko’ (Didi). He, in fact, requested me to craft the tune for it as well, and I did. It helped prove that I was also capable of composition. I often get asked why I gave up such a promising career at the peak. Well, I did. I was getting married at the time. I come from a family of senior government officials. Ab kya kar sakte hain. I say don’t look back. As I said, God has been very kind to me that I got a chance to sing Sahir’s songs. He was the best, best, best.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/feel-privileged-to-have-sung-his-beautiful-lyrics/articleshow/81383624.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Govt keeps people out of public meet on coastal plan, claims successful hearing||PANAJI: The public hearings on Sunday for the coastal zone management plan (CZMP) was shunned by people, terming it as a farce, as the state government restricted the number of registrations citing Covid protocols and each speaker was allotted just 5 minutes. Amid angry protests inside and outside the venues, with a huge posse of policemen guarding it, the government claimed to have successfully concluded the hearings. There was utter chaos as hundreds of people came out against the CZMP demanding wider consultation, even as the coastal zone management authority carried out the exercise at Panaji and Margao through the district collectors. Even those who had registered, refused to speak and called for hearing to be postponed for accommodating all those who wanted to give their suggestions, while some wanted it to be prepared in consultation with the panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-keeps-people-out-of-public-meet-on-coastal-plan-claims-successful-hearing/articleshow/81382472.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Varanasi||Scars of twin blasts at Sankat Mochan,Cantt station still afresh 15 years later||Varanasi: March 7, 2006, exactly 15 years ago, it was the first time when terror struck Varanasi, killing 28 and injuring or maiming over 100 in the twin blasts at Sankat Mochan temple and Cantonment railway station. One more IED was found at Dashashwamedh, but was defused in time. Those at the blast sites still recount the horror vividly.The serial blasts made police realize that the blast at Dashashwamedh Ghat on February 23, 2005, which was till termed LPG cylinder blast, was also a terror attack. TOI spoke to auto driver Mahendra Prasad, food outlet owner Manoj and others near Cantt railway station and found the horrific memories were still etched somewhere deep even 15 years later. There was a deafening sound in the main lobby of the railway station. The explosion was so powerful that flesh of many killed had splattered all around and was even stuck on the ceiling, they recalled. It was only after the blast at Kutchehri on November 23, 2008, that the Anti-Terror Squad was set up in the state with a field unit in Varanasi. Standard operating procedures were formulated for ghats, BHU, Sarnath, railway stations, bus stands and malls, but terror modules still carried out another blast at old Dashaswamedh Ghat in December 2010. Talking to TOI, DIG Amit Pathak said on Sunday, “Things have changed from then. Now, several agencies, including ATS, maintain vigil, security arrangements at vital points are reviewed periodically and mock drill are conducted at sensitive sites.” Police records show that improvised explosive device (IED) blast at Dashswamedh Ghat on February 23, 2005 had killed Manoj Kumar Gupta of Naibasti Manduadih, Surjit Kumar Bind of Shivpurva, Ajay Kumar Yadav, Monu of Bhelupur, Bihari Patel of Mirzapur, Shivnath Majhi and Rohit Majhi, while Rajkumar and two French tourists were among the nine injured. However, after the blast the local police continued to claim that it was LPG cylinder explosion though the forensic report had established ammonium nitrate was used in the blast. After March 7, 2006 serial blasts, police added Sections 302, 307, 324, 326, 120 B of IPC and sections of Explosives Act in Dashashwamedh blast case and in December 2008, the case was transferred to ATS. The probe in March 7, 2006 serial blasts led to the arrest of Harkat-ul-Jehad-e-Islami mastermind Waliullah by STF on April 5, 2006 from Gosainganj, Lucknow and a foreign made pistol and RDX was seized from him. The court sentenced Waliullah to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 1.05 lakh on him. Further trial against Waliullah continued in Ghaziabad court while he was lodged in the Dasna jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/scars-of-twin-blasts-at-sankat-mochancantt-station-still-afresh-15-years-later/articleshow/81380460.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Pune||Residents of Hinjewadi kick off Sunday with a session of yoga||Pune: Residents at the Blue Ridge Township in Hinjewadi had a stress-free start to their Sunday as senior citizens and young couples participated in the “Yoga At Your Doorstep” campaign organized by The Times of India in partnership with Yoga Institute, Mumbai.A resident Anand Sonsale, who attended the event with his wife, said he went back with a lot of knowledge and some valuable tips on yoga after the session. “We have been doing yoga on our own, but we wanted to get some tips and additional knowledge and we definitely gained it from Sunday’s event. The weather was also so good, we found it extremely refreshing,” he said.Doctors have recommended daily yoga practice to help individuals deal with stress and anxiety. There has been a renewed interest in yoga across all age groups, who have been making practising it a daily habit.Another participant from the society, Shinza Srivastava, said it was a good initiative and it would surely benefit all citizens. “The session was extremely helpful for me. I felt yoga could be good for the mental wellbeing of individuals apart from keeping a healthy and fit body. I will surely try out all the asanas at home when I am free,” Srivastava said.Many doctors have recommended 30 minutes of yoga everyday for Covid-19 patients to help with their recovery. Another participant Captain V Kesari (retd) was elated to be part of the sessions conducted by an expert instructor. “I am a retired defence personnel and this session was something that rejuvenated me completely. I would like to continue practising the asanas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-of-hinjewadi-kick-off-sunday-with-a-session-of-yoga/articleshow/81382392.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Anantapur contractor booked in SWR tender scam||Hyderabad: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked Anantapur-based contractor P Ashwartha Narayana for conspiring with railway officials in bagging a tender though he was ineligible for the contract. Fictitious payments were made without execution of work, the CBI has alleged. The agency also booked Neeraj Bapna, senior divisional engineer of Hubli in the South Western Railways (SWR). SWR contractor Ashwartha Narayana is a resident of Penukonda in Anantapur. “While execution of railway track, civil works deliberately made fictitious payments to selected contractors and obtained undue pecuniary advantage in return. Neeraj Bapna while awarding the tender for multiple works, especially track works having similar type of items in the same section, made payments for same works in multiple agreements,” alleged CBI. It also alleged that the accused public servant awarded contracts to ineligible contractors, who were not eligible as per credentials required for the tender. The approximate value of tender was Rs 59 lakh with a completion period of six months. The tender was opened in October 2018. “The tender of Ll tenderer was discharged on the grounds that the Ll tenderer had neither submitted the work experience certificate nor contractual receipts as stipulated in the tender documents. The L-2 tenderer was P Aswartha Narayana, Anantapur, who became the revised L-1 tenderer. The experience claimed by P Aswartha Narayana was ‘Ancillary works for BCM working including de-stressing etc., in connection with work on Bangalore-Dharmavaram section-TBR (through ballast recouping) for a length of 53 kms’. CBI is probing the suspicious transactions between Ashwartha Narayana and Neeraj Bapna subsequent to these fake and fictitious payments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anantapur-contractor-booked-in-swr-tender-scam/articleshow/81382394.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three shops gutted in fire in Thane||Three shops were gutted in a fire that sparked off in a shopping arena in Thane’s Lokpuram on Sunday morning. Santosh Kadam of Thane regional disaster management cell said the fire broke out in shopping complex in Nupur building in Pawar Nagar area at 5 am. Officials hinted short-circuit to be possible cause. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-three-shops-gutted-in-fire-in-thane/articleshow/81382482.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Allahabad||UP: Man fakes his kidnapping, demands Rs 30 lakh ransom from family||PRAYAGRAJ: Steeped in debt, a 30-year-old Pratapgarh resident scripted his own abduction and demanded Rs 30lakh ransom from his family. He hatched a conspiracy to coerce his father to sell land and cough up ransom, which he would pocket and go underground. However, his father went to the cops, who blew the lid off the abduction plot. The accused, Hem Bahadur, resident of Newada Gaura Daad, hid from his family that he took money from more than 12 people on the pretext of giving them jobs in Railways. He was nabbed by the crime branch and Lalganj police while he travelling in a roadways bus near Naya Purva canal bridge. On March 4, he sent anonymous text messages to his wife and another relative, threatening them to pay up Rs 30 lakh, if they wanted him alive. The SMS also cautioned them against going to police. The message read — Hem Bahadur is in our custody, and if you want to see him alive, then arrange Rs 30 lakh. If you contact police or politicians, you won’t even get his body.” SP (West) Dinesh Kumar Dwivedi said, “The accused’s father, Ramjiyan Verma, approached Lalganj police on March 4 and alleged that his son Hem Bahadur had gone missing. Verma also suspected his son had been kidnapped over a monetary dispute. Following the complaint, a case under Section 364 IPC was registered at Lalganj police station. After activating the surveillance mechanism, police found Hem Bahadur moving towards Rae Bareli from Lucknow on March 5 and a joint team of crime branch and Lalganj police was dispatched to Rae Bareli-Lucknow highway, where they tracked him down in a roadways bus. During interrogation, Bahadur confessed he had taken money worth lakhs from 12 people on the pretext of arranging jobs in the Railways. When these men began knocking on his door, asking for their money and jobs, he faked his own kidnapping. Bahadur also confessed he planned to move to Lucknow on March 4 and send messages to his wife and relative from an unknown number, demanding ransom. He also told police he thought his father would sell land to arrange Rs 30 lakh after getting news of his abduction. He would then go underground with the money after framing those who had loaned him money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-fakes-his-kidnapping-demand-rs-30l-ransom-from-family/articleshow/81381573.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Women’s day: Delhi cops to host special guests||NEW DELHI: In 2020, Delhi Police PCR vans shifted 997 pregnant women to hospitals after receiving SOS calls from people. A majority of these patients were moved during the lockdown. In nine of these cases, women successfully delivered a baby inside the van. These women will be Delhi Police's special guests on the occasion of International Women's Day and will be felicitated. “During lockdown, when all modes of transports were suspended and ambulance services were also not available due to a strike, PCR MPV’s staff provided prompt assistance to the hapless women,” DCP Esha Pandey said. Officials narrated some of these incidents. On March 4, for example, the cops received a call at 7.48pm that a woman, Pooja, was in labour pain and needed immediate medical assistance at Panchvati in Palam area. The PCR staff immediately rushed to the spot and located the woman. “Displaying presence of mind and professionalism, the MPV staff called one woman who ran tea stall nearby for assistance. She checked upon the pregnant woman and informed the staff that the delivery was imminent. Necessary arrangements were and a girlchild, kater named Sonia, was born. Now, the baby is nearly a year old and is hale and hearty,” Pandey said. Similarly, on May 16, cops received a call around 8.30pm from a person requesting assistance at Nithari village in Prem Nagar. “The PCR staff met the caller and immediately shifted the pregnant woman, Kiran, along with her husband who was a mason by profession. While on way to hospital, the woman suffered extreme labour pain. The PCR staff stopped the vehicle and provided necessary assistance and she gave birth to a girl, later named Shanvi, inside the van.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/womens-day-cops-to-host-special-guests/articleshow/81382434.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Student alleges assault by seniors||HYDERABAD: A student of a private college in Banjara Hills alleged that he was assaulted by a few students of his college, who claimed to have links with an influential minister. However, both Punjagutta police and Banjara Hills police claimed that they did not receive any complaint about this issue. In a video, the student claims that when he was at the college, about 15 students assaulted him, their junior, by claiming that they have links with a minister. When contacted, Punjagutta police said that they did not get any complaint. “As of now, no one has approached us for lodging complaint about his issue. Since persons from media contacted us about the issue, we tried to reach out to the college authorities. We could not reach out to them since it is Sunday,” assistant commissioner of police (Punjagutta Division) PV Ganesh told TOI. Banjara Hills police too said that they had not received any complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-alleges-assault-by-seniors/articleshow/81382409.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Sunday respite: New cases down, recoveries up in Vid||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported 3,421 new cases and 3,077 recoveries on Sunday. While new cases reported in a day were 500 less than Saturday, recoveries surpassed the 3,000 mark for the first time in March. This could be considered as some respite in the alarming surge in cases since the last three weeks. Another important point was the number of tests on Sunday. Total 31,391 tests were conducted in 11 districts of Vidarbha, which means, more than 30,000 tests for the third day in a row. As tests have gone up significantly in Amravati and Akola, the number of new patients has started going down. Amravati reported 446 new cases, lowest in March despite conducting up to 5,000 tests in a day. Akola reported 340 cases out of about 4,000 tests conducted in a day. Declining case positivity is a strong indicator that the situation is gradually coming under control in these two worst-hit districts. The region reported 25 deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday. Once again, Amravati reported 7 deaths, followed by Nagpur city (3), Nagpur rural (1), Akola (2), Wardha (3), Yavatmal (3), Buldhana (2), Washim (1) and 3 deaths of patients coming from other states/districts to Nagpur. This took the total toll of Vidarbha to 7,562. The case fatality rate, however, is going down as the number of new cases is high compared to deaths. On Sunday, it was 2.20%, which is less than the state’s 2.40%. The number of under-treatment patients is now 30,866. All districts in Amravati revenue division have more than 1,000 patients under treatment. But a majority of these patients are recovering under home isolation. As the hospitalization rate is still low, health services in Vidarbha are less burdened despite a surge in new cases. Buldhana: Out of 1947 tests done in the last 24 hours, 379 tested positive in Buldhana. This means, nearly 20% samples were positive on Sunday. Buldhana’s total caseload reached 21,304 on Sunday. With 338 patients recovering from Covid-19, total 18,435 of them have recovered. Two deaths — a 72-year-old woman and a 65-year-old woman — were reported. Now, the Covid-19 toll is at 200. Total 2,669 patients are still under treatment. Akola: The district reported 340 new cases out of the 3,990 tests conducted in the last 24 hours. For the first time in March, Akola’s positivity rate was less than 10% on Sunday. A 30-year-old man and a 64-year-old woman — both admitted between March 3 and 5, died while undergoing treatment. Now, there are 19,120 cases in Akola, including 13,956 recoveries and 385 deaths. Total 4,779 patients are under treatment. Washim: With 242 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, Washim’s total caseload surged to 10,220. On the other hand, 146 patients recovered, taking their total to 8,559. A 50-year-old patient died of Covid-19 in Washim on Sunday, taking the total toll to 163. Now, 1,497 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: Out of 1,461 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, Bhandara reported 38 positive which took the total caseload to 13,929. With 20 patients recovering from the infection, total 13,241 have recovered till date. No death was reported for the 7th day in a row on Sunday. Bhandara’s death toll is 328. Total 360 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district conducted 1,239 tests of Covid-19 and 15 of them tested positive on Sunday. Now, Gondia has 14,545 cases of Covid-19. With 24 recoveries on Sunday, 14,199 of them have recovered. No death was reported. Total toll is 186. Now, 160 patients are under treatment in the district. Gadchiroli: On Sunday, 29 new patients were reported in Gadchiroli district while 23 recovered from Covid-19. No death was reported. The death toll is 108. Now, out of total 9,692 cases, 9,408 have recovered from the disease. Total 176 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur: 86 new cases were detected and 42 people were discharged, leaving 632 active cases on Sunday. There was no death during the day and the toll was unchanged at 400. The Covid caseload has climbed to 24,202, while total recoveries now amount to 23,170. Yavatmal: The district recorded three deaths — a 61-year-old man from the city, a 62-year-old man from Mahagaon and a 62-year-old woman from Pusad — which takes the death toll to 481. The district administration received 1,516 test reports, of which 301 (186 men and 115 women) were positive. Currently there are 1,937 active cases in the district. Out of 19,274 total Covid patients, 16,859, including 236 on Sunday, have recovered. Amravati: The number of cases dropped remarkably but deaths again shot up on Sunday. The district reported 446 new cases and seven deaths that took the caseload to 39,524 and toll to 562, respectively. 744 people staged recovery, taking the total to 32,299. This left 6,663 under treatment. Wardha: The district recorded five deaths due to coronavirus and 199 new patients on Sunday. The caseload increased to 13,515 and after 198 discharges, recoveries reached 12,029. Now, 1,122 patients are undergoing treatment in the district. The new cases were reported from Wardha (118), Deoli (26), Hinganghat (22), Arvi (9), Ashti (8), Selu (6), Samudrapur and Karanja (5 each). Two men (70 and 76 years old) from Wardha, two men (58 and 85 year old) from Deoli and a 68-year-old man from Arvi died due to coronavirus, taking the toll to 363.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sunday-respite-new-cases-down-recoveries-up-in-vid/articleshow/81381608.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 8, 2021||Goa||Most participants walk out of ‘farce hearing’ at Panaji||PANAJI: Participants at the public hearing of the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) held at Kala Academy (KA), Panaji, staged a walkout on Sunday deeming the hearing “an illegal meeting in violation of the code of conduct” imposed for the upcoming municipal elections and demanded that another one be held where the citizens get an opportunity to express their views. The large number of police personnel who were stationed behind the entry gate inside the KA complex restricted a crowd of over 500 people from entering the premises for the public hearing. Nearly 80% of the Dinanath Mangeshkar auditorium where the hearing was held was empty. The district magistrates had declared that not more than 150 persons would be allowed to participate in the public hearing. Around 100 citizens who had registered themselves were present. The panelists included director of environment and Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority’s (GCZMA) member secretary Dashrat Redkar, GCZMA members Sujit Kumar Dongre and Mahesh Patil, and translator Damodar Ghanekar. North Goa collector Ajit Roy was the moderator. The opening presentation by Ghanekar was stopped by the speakers for being “too slow”. The collector then resolved to present it at the end of the day or said it could be collected from the GCZMA office. Just then the electricity failed, leading to boos from the attendees who alleged “that these were tactics meant to delay the hearing”. Soon after, the crowd inside started arguing with the organisers and demanded that the public hearing be held outside the auditorium, so that all the people could attend. The police then formed a human chain between the stage and the audience seating area, even as GCZMA officials on the stage tried their best to calm the audience and to start the stipulated five-minute presentations by the speakers. The ruckus went on for nearly 30 minutes, after which the public hearing commenced with activist Kashinath Shetye lashing out at the authorities for the last-minute change of venue from the Taleigao community hall to Kala Academy. He also hit out at the police force deployed to stop the public from entering. “We are not terrorists here. Let the others in,” he said. Heritage and social activist Prajal Sakhardande stated that returning officer Gurudas Desai told him that no permission was granted for the public hearing to be held. However, the collector said the state election commission had granted permission. Goa Foundation director Claude Alvares stepped forward and said that a proper notice of 60 days should have been given instead of calling a meeting that was in total violation of the code. He revealed that the venue was changed owing to a wedding being organised there. “We have got a lot to say and are yet to go through hundreds of plans that are in grid format. Everyone needs to be heard and the law says that you ought to hear,” he said, while demanding that the meeting be adjourned. He then staged a walkout. Taking a cue, several participants took to the microphone one by one, lodged their protest and then walked out without sharing their inputs. Activists Cecille Rodrigues and Roshan Mathias, AAP convener Rahul Mhambre, former NIO scientist Antonio Mascarenhas, architect Tahir Noronha were among the ones that left in protest. Only a handful of people who stayed back after the walkout gave their inputs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/most-participants-walk-out-of-farce-hearing-at-panaji/articleshow/81383633.cms||Nida Sayed
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police seize 24 hukkas, join ‘Pawri (nahi) ho rahi hai’ fest||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Sunday seized 24 hukkas from a restaurant-cum-bar and then joined the “pawri ho rahi hai” meme fest on social media, saying “Yehe Hum hain..Yehe Hooke Hain... Aur ab Pawri nahi ho rahi hai.” The meme set the social media on fire after it surfaced online with Dananeer Mobeen, a Pakistan-based Instagram influencer, speaking in a heavily-accented tone as she stood partying with some friends with their car parked on a road. “Ye humari car hai, ye hum hain aur ye humari pawri (party) ho rahi hai,” she says in the social media post. From his official handle on Twitter, additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Gautam said, “Yehe Hum hain..Yehe Hooke Hain.. Aur ab Pawri nahi ho rahi hai. PS - Some Pawris are not only injurious to health they are illegal too. Seized 24 Hooka from Rajouri Garden area.” He also tagged photos of the seized hukkas. A senior police officer said that during patrolling duty sub-inspector Prakash Kashyap, along with head constable Suresh, raided the restaurant-cum-bar in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden after receiving information that hukkas were being served to customers. “The police team found that Covid-19 protocols were also not being followed. There were no screening machines or sanitisers at the restaurant. The customers were found to be smoking hukkas,” the officer said. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-seize-24-hukkas-join-pawri-nahi-ho-rahi-hai-fest/articleshow/81382490.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR to grads: Vote TRS to end problems||Hyderabad: Seeking to counter the opposition parties’ slogan that graduate voters should elect their party candidates to question the government in the Legislative Council, TRS working president and industries minister KT Rama Rao said that people need to elect those who can solve their problems. He was indirectly hinting that only ruling party candidates can solve the problems and issues of the graduates. “Why is BJP sitting MLC N Ramchander Rao not raising his voice even though the centre is doing injustice to Telangana,” KTR asked. The opposition parties have taken the campaign to such a low level that they are abusing chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to be in the news, he said. Earlier, KTR addressed a meeting organized by Brahmins Associations, which extended their support to Vani Devi, daughter of former PM late PV Narasimha Rao. Stating that CM KCR is committed for development of Brahmin community, he said KCR had established a Brahmin Sadan when he was MLA from Siddipet constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-to-grads-vote-trs-to-end-problems/articleshow/81382478.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Commandos braved Naxal fire silently to save injured colleague||Nagpur: The elite C-60 commandos of Gadchiroli police during the latest operation to bust a Naxal arms factory at Abhujmadh in Chhattisgarh silently allowed the armed guerrillas to rain bullets on them just to save their injured colleague who is now recuperating in a city hospital. Later, the commandos started pushing the Naxals back after a reinforcing assault group arrived to help the trapped force from another side. After the successful operation of destroying a Naxal camp and arms factory on March 4, the cops were hastily scaling down the slopes into the reds’ bastion when they were surrounded and ambushed. The situation aggravated when one of the jawans suffered a bullet injury in the heavy counterfire by the Naxals. It’s learnt that the C-60 commandos, with their injured colleague, had got trapped in the forested hillock while returning with Naxals surrounding them. The commandos held their ground with grit for more than one-and-half hours till the reinforcement assault group attacked the Naxals from another side. “If the Commandos would have fired then the Naxals would have come to know their position as well as their numbers. The Naxals would have immediately changed tactics and attacked and we would have found it difficult to move around with an injured jawan whose life would have been jeopardized,’ said an officer. “The commandos remained motionless behind some trees or shrubs to avoid getting hit by bullets,” he said. It’s learnt that the C-60 commandos were surrounded by Naxals’ heavily-armed and trained companies number four and 10, which operated in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli and Gondia and Company number 5 which is from Chhattisgarh. Several dalams from the south too were present. “We have found out that the Naxals had assembled for their Tactical counter offensive campaign (TCOC) meeting when C-60 commandos stormed their bastion,” said DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil. “The visit of the DGP (Hemant Nagrale) last week had boosted the morale of the forces which had resulted in this action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/commandos-braved-naxal-fire-silently-to-save-injured-colleague/articleshow/81381624.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad film financier booked for ‘raping’ maid||HYDERABAD: A rape case was booked against a 52-year-old film financier for alleged sexual exploitation of his domestic help at his flat in Film Nagar. The victim alleged that the accused had confined her to the flat for two weeks. Thevicitm is 38-year-old victim. On February 18, she came to the city to work at the flat of 52-year-old movie financier, Udaya Bhanu, in Film Nagar. On Friday, the victim called her daughter and informed that Bhanu had confined her to a room in the flat and was not letting her go out. The victim’s daughter initially alerted Golconda police, thinking that the location of her mother fell under Golconda police station limits. Golconda police verified the details and alerted their Banjara Hills counterparts. “We immediately rushed to the flat and got the victim out,” ACP, Banjara Hills, M Sudarshan said. The victim alleged that Bhanu had been sexually exploiting her and even confined her to a room at the flat. Based on the complaint of the victim, police registered a rape case against the accused. The victim was sent for medical examination. “The accused is on the run and we have launched a manhunt to nab him,” the ACP said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-film-financier-booked-for-raping-maid/articleshow/81382540.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kanpur||Rape accused thrashed by villagers dies||Kanpur: A rape accused, who was brutally thrashed after being allegedly caught by the villagers in Sachendi area of the district on Saturday, died at a temporary jail in Chaubeypur on Sunday. On Friday night, one Subodh Bajpayee had allegedly raped a woman when she had gone to nearby fields. Based on the information provided by the survivor, the villagers allegedly caught hold of the accused on Saturday morning from near Sachendi’s Kukraha railway crossing and assaulted him brutally. The police reached the spot, and took Subodh into custody. After lodging an FIR, he was sent to the temporary jail in Chaubeypur, where his condition deteriorated and he died on Sunday. The body was sent for postmortem examination. “The autopsy will establish whether the accused died of internal injuries due to severe beating,” said SP rural Brijesh Kumar Srivastava. The SP said, both the woman and the accused were residents of the same village. “On Friday night, the woman had gone to the nearby fields, when Subodh allegedly waylaid her and raped her. The woman returned home and narrated the ordeal to her family members after which an FIR was lodged at Sachendi police station. Meanwhile, the villagers continued their hunt for the accused. On Saturday morning, they caught hold of him and handed him to the local police after beating him black and blue.” “We have launched an investigation to ascertain the actual cause of Subodh’s death,” the SP said. Family of the accused has demanded a fair probe into the incident and stringent actions against the guilty villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rape-accused-thrashed-by-villagers-dies/articleshow/81381397.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Bareilly||Minor boy abducted, bobbitised and left to die by unidentified men in UP||Bareilly: Two men on a bike allegedly abducted an eight-year-old boy, who was playing outside his house, chopped off his private part and later left him in a cane field to die. The boy, who studies in a government primary school, was admitted to a district hospital and is said to be in a critical condition. The accused are yet to be identified and police are still investigating the case. The gruesome attack on the minor took place in Arjunpur village of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday night. The village is under Mailani police station limits. The boy's father works as a marginal farmer. Police have registered an FIR under IPC section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by means of an instrument) against the unidentified accused. He was taken to a community health centre in Gola town and then referred to a higher medical facility due to his critical condition. When contacted, SHO Vidhyashankar Shukla said, “The boy’s uncle was working in a cane field near the crime scene when the accused men took the minor forcibly with them. We are investigating the case from all angles." Bloodstains were found in the cane field. "The boy is receiving medical treatment and so we need to wait for some time to record his statement," the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-boy-abducted-bobbitised-and-left-to-die-by-unidentified-men-in-up/articleshow/81380011.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No cement footpaths in SoBo’s heritage precinct please: Residents to BMC chief||Mumbai: Resident groups in south Mumbai have slammed BMC’s move to replace the grey square paver blocks on footpaths with concrete pavements in parts of the Unesco-designated world heritage precinct in A ward which covers Colaba, Churchgate, Cuffe Parade, Nariman Point and Fort. The Federation of Residents’ Trusts (FORT) wrote to BMC chief Iqbal Chahal requesting him to immediately stop the “poor quality of pavement repair work” in the Unesco-designated World Heritage Site—Victorian Gothic and Art Deco Ensembles of Mumbai. “It is important for all footpaths in this designated precinct to be uniform in nature and reflect its heritage value. As we are currently installing signages on all buildings and public areas within this world heritage site, which have been approved by both the BMC and Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee, it is all the more important that the footpaths be well done,” the letter stated. When contacted, Chahal told TOI that he would look into the matter. The roads that fall under the heritage precinct are Maharshi Karve Road from Madame Cama Road to Eros Cinema, Veer Nariman Road from Marine Drive to K B Patil Marg, Marine Drive promenade and N S Marg from Madame Cama Road to Marine Drive flyover, K B Patil Marg from Madame Cama Road to Veer Nariman Road, MG Road from S P Mukherjee Chowk to Hutatma Chowk, Jamshedji Tata Road from Dinshaw Vachha Road to Veer Nariman Road, D Vachha Road and Sipahimalani Road. The residents’ groups, including Kala Ghoda Association, Nariman Point Churchgate Citizens’ Association and Oval Cooperage Residents’ Association that are part of FORT, complained that cement is being poured on footpaths giving the area “an unseemly look”. “The grey pavers have worked well—th- ey are non-skid robust, easily replaceable and importantly permeable. The Marine Drive promenade is a fine example of this,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-cement-footpaths-in-sobos-heritage-precinct-please-residents-to-bmc-chief/articleshow/81382575.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi cops start new drive, detain 100 to curb street crime||NEW DELHI: On March 6, the central Delhi police carried out a cordon and search operation (CASO) between 7pm and midnight and detained around 100 people, in a bid to curb street crime. According to deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh, four criminals with previous involvements in snatching and robbery were arrested under preventive sections, four people drinking in the open were held and 82 people roaming suspiciously were detained. Basic policing tools were used and “stranger rolls” for 46 persons were also filled up/recorded. Beside, 543 vehicles were checked using e-beatbook, officials said. According to sources, the plan to have a CASO in Delhi was the brainchild of police commissioner S N Shrivastava, who was previously posted as a special director general in CRPF, Kashmir. A few months ago, the operation was tried as a pilot project in crime-prone areas of north district and was later taken up in areas bordering Noida and Ghaziabad with their local police. A senior cop said that this was now going to be a regular exercise and replicated in all districts. In central district on Saturday, around 200 police personnel, accompanied by paramilitary forces, patrolled the streets on a pre-determined route, apprehending suspicious elements who came in their way. A little after sunset, the cops set out for foot patrolling in the area on the basis of a crime mapping exercise, which comprised analysis of the number of PCR calls coming from each area. The focus areas were three police stations of sub-division Patel Nagar, Ranjeet Nagar and Anand Parbat, officials said. “The idea was to cordon off and make a search of an area for checking suspects who previously indulged in crime, especially street crime. The whole exercise lasted around five hours,” the DCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-start-new-drive-detain-100-to-curb-street-crime/articleshow/81382508.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Officials gear up for postal ballots||Hyderabad: With biennial elections to the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates’ constituency polls on March 14, officials have made arrangements for electors to exercise their franchise through postal ballot. Postal ballot facility will be available for the specially-abled (person with disabilities), electors above 80 and Covid-19 patients. Citizens enrolled as people with disability (PWD) would cast their vote on March 9, senior citizens above 80 will exercise their franchise on March 10 and people with Covid-19 would vote on March 11 and March 12. Officials deployed on election duty along with police personnel would visit the eligible electors to execute the postal ballot procedure. The ballot box would also be taken to the elector’s house and the complete process would be videographed. As on date, 459 electors have enrolled to exercise their vote through postal ballot in the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates’ constituency polls . “List of Covid-19 patients will be sent to us on March 8 (Monday), we are expecting around 100 electors infected with Covid-19 will avail postal ballot option,” a GHMC official, who has been appointed as nodal officer for graduates’ polls, said. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) deputy commissioners have been instructed by the district election authority to cross-check arrangements for postal ballot, make arrangements to videograph the proceedings (at the address of the electors ) duly securing police personnel from police station of the respective area while visiting the electors eligible for postal ballot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-gear-up-for-postal-ballots/articleshow/81382507.cms||Nabinder Bommala
March 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Partial lockdown in Aurangabad till April 4||AURANGABAD: The district will witness partial lockdown from March 11 to April 4 and there will be complete lockdown on the weekends — Saturdays and Sundays — due to the rise in Covid cases. Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan said the curbs were necessary to contain the spread of Covid-19. “The fresh Covid cases are on the rise since the second half of February. The mix of partial lockdown from Monday to Friday and complete lockdown over the weekends is expected to contain the infection.Public cooperation is a must to battle the second wave of Covid, failing which, the complete lockdown on weekdays is unavoidable,” he said while addressing the media on Sunday. Elaborating on partial lockdown, Chavan said places such as malls, weekly bazaars, schools, colleges, sports grounds and swimming pools will be closed. Events like weddings in function halls, religious and social gatherings have been banned. “Barring weekends, the private and commercial establishments can work during normal permitted hours but the staff has to undergo Covid test after every 15 days. The daily health screening of the workforce using thermal guns and pulse oximeter is mandatory,” he said. The district administration has warned of action as per the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act 2005 against those violating the restrictions Earlier, Chavan held a review meeting of the situation with revenue authorities and health authorities from municipal limits and rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/partial-lockdown-in-aurangabad-till-april-4/articleshow/81380026.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||Alaknanda, once blue, still muddy till Devprayag||GAIRSAIN: It has been more than a month since the Raini and Tapovan areas of the Chamoli district were struck by flash floods — which left 204 people either missing or dead — and yet the waters of Alaknanda river continue to remain muddy till Devprayag, around 150-km from the location where the calamity was reported. At Karnaprayag, which is the confluence of Alaknanda and Pindar, the difference of colour between the two rivers can be spotted easily. While the water of Pindar appears bottle green, Alaknanda looks muddy. The river water remains muddy till Devprayag, which is the confluence of Alaknanda and Bhagirathi and is also regarded as the starting point of the Ganga. Mahendra Singh, a resident of Kaleshwar area, said, “Prior to the calamity, the colour of Alaknanda water was a shade of green but in the last one month, it has become muddy. It appears that the slurry brought by the flash flood in Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers is still making the waters of the Alaknanda muddy.” Social activist Anoop Nautiyal expressed his concern over the issue. On Sunday morning, he tweeted, “Sadly in the midst of all that is happening in Uttarakhand, it appears that the disaster of Chamoli on Feb 7 lies forgotten. There was a need for consistent work on the environmental front with so much to strive for and achieve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/a-month-after-disaster-waters-of-alaknanda-once-clear-blue-continue-to-be-muddy-till-devprayag/articleshow/81380547.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Jyotirlinga temples in M’wada to remain closed on Shivratri||Aurangabad: In the wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases, three major Shiva temples in Marathwada — Grishneshwar in Aurangabad, Aundha-Nagnath in Hingoli, and Parli-Vaijnath in Beed — will remain closed for devotees on Mahashivratri, that will be celebrated on March 11.Also considered three Jyotirlinga temples among a total of 12 such shrines across the country, these temples attract a large number of visitors on Mahashivratri every year.As per the official orders from the respective districts, the Grishneshwar temple will remain closed for devotees from March 10 to March 13 while entry of visitors is banned in Parli-Vaijnathwill temple from March 8 to March 16. Aundha-Nagnath temple will also not allow devotees on Mahashivratri. Anticipating crowding, Beed district administration has ordered the closure of all Shiva temples on Mahashivratri.Shashank Topare, one of the trustees of Grishneshwar temple, said the puja and other rituals will be performed at the shrine in presence of a limited number of priests.“Besides banning entry of devotees, annual fair and setting up of stalls around the temple have been also prohibited as per the directive from the government. We appeal to people to cooperate during the current time of crisis,” he said.Meanwhile, the civic administration has imposed a fine worth Rs 25,000 on one of the leading hotels is Aurangabad, which was serving as a venue for a wedding, for vilationg Covid norms. The number of attendees at the wedding was more than 50, social distancing norm and other norms were violated, as per an official release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jyotirlinga-temples-in-mwada-to-remain-closed-on-shivratri/articleshow/81380005.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolhapur||30 fresh cases in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 30 fresh Covid cases, including 17 from Kolhapur city, on Sunday, taking the total number of patients to 50,664. Of the total cases, the district has 361 active cases, 48,557 recoveries and 1,746 deaths Sangli adds 44 cases On Sunday, 44 Covid cases were reported in Sangli district. The total number of patients in the district has reached 48,703, of them, 263 patients are being treated, 46,678 have recovered and 1,762 have died. Satara reports 65 cases Satara district reported 65 cases and two deaths on Sunday. The district has 59,730 cases, including 1,838 active cases and 1,863 deaths 63 cases in Solapur rural Solapur rural reported 63 cases and two deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 40,976. This includes 1,191 deaths and 580 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/30-fresh-cases-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/81380040.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Cabral: Oppn blocked people from giving views||Panaji: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral, reacting to the protests outside the CZMP hearing venues, said on Sunday that political leaders have blocked people from giving their genuine objections and suggestions for the coastal plan. He said he has requested that written representations from the people should be accepted for a few more days. Speaking to TOI, Cabral alleged that political elements who do not want Goa to have a CZMP were seen stopping people from entering the venue. “This is all political drama,” he alleged. “They should have handheld the people and pointed out each and every thing they wanted to say was wrong with the plan.” Cabral also appealed to the people in send in their objections to the collector’s office. “We have given them so many opportunities, but they are bringing politics into real problems of the Goan people,” he said. When asked if a public hearing would be held again, Cabral said that he is not the authority anymore. “I have requested the authorities to accept written suggestions and objections from the public for four to five days more, and I request the people of Goa to inward their representations, so that their genuine concerns pertaining to CZMP should be addressed.” Cabral said that had the people given their suggestions today, the authorities would have been incorporated or they (people) would have been told why they can’t be incorporated. “The law does not permit public hearings village-wise,” he said, adding that it is not technically sound to demand a postponement of the hearing or to have village-wise hearings. Cabral also alleged that those who were at the forefront were political leaders or aspiring candidates of different political parties. “BJP is here to give in to the genuine demands of the people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabral-oppn-blocked-people-from-giving-views/articleshow/81382530.cms||Murari Shetye
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Dard Aryans, girls from near LAC in Delhi to sell Ladakh craft||NEW DELHI: Diksit Angmo, a 26-year-old postgraduate in MBA, is in elements as she euphorically shares her sale figures from Pashmina shawls at Dilli Haat’s Ladakh stall, leaving behind a trail of bitter-sweet memories she saw between India and China during last year near her home in eastern Ladakh’s Changthang, some hundred kilometres from Line of Actual Control (LAC). “It’s a proud moment to be here in Delhi as a trader from newly carved UT of Ladakh. People have started knowing us differently from what they would earlier. It’s time we call for boycott of Chinese products and buy warm woollens and craft of Ladakh such as this Pashmina, which has dominated Bollywood too. The de-hairing is done by hands . It takes months. I am glad I sold five to six shawls, each costing Rs 35,000 in just three days,” Angmo said. In a first, female artistes, some of whom hold postgraduate degrees in economics, statistics, science and literature, from villages close to LAC, treacherous regions of LoC Kargil and members of Dard Aryan tribe — who sport flower bouqet on their head and have set up kiosks to bring their trade at a time when India and China are seeing a gradual thaw following the frosty ties last year. The ministry of textiles in India has allotted 40 stalls each to UT administrations of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in the national capital as Centre seeks to boost trade in the twin regions after 2019 historic reorganisation. “The initiative is also helping us let people know what Aryan Dard tribe of Ladakh is, and what it means to wear a bouquet of flowers on our head. This is the first big physical opportunity for young women like us to showcase our talent and craft. We would come to study in Delhi as outsiders, today we are building assets in Delhi. There is a feeling of oneness,” said Tsering Dolker, who has brought ornaments known as Choto ( worn along with braids), Kabhu (necklace and Gangsiram (chest jewellery). Several villages in Ladakh including Garkon,Dha, Hanu, Seeri,Darchik are host to around 4,000 members of Dard Aryan tribe. The Ladakh administration separately has also announced to take along a NIFT team to help fine tune Pashmina research in Leh. “Our efforts are to help fortify trade and commerce activity in Ladakh including Leh and Kargil and understand the culture beyond tourism to the cold desert. We hope people can understand more about hospitality and vibrance of Ladakh,”said Ladakh divisional commissioner Saugat Biswas. There are also like Kharga and Shahar Banoo who have come from remote areas of Batalik and Kargil. Officials in textile ministry said that purpose of this two-week event dedicated to Ladakh is to also ensure reach of their produce to metropolitans. “We will frequently hold such events for Ladakh in future. For every stall, we are spending about Rs 15,000 or so to promote the artistes and craftsmen of Ladakh,” said Shantmanu, divisional commissioner, Handicrafts, Textiles ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dard-aryans-girls-from-near-lac-in-the-capital-to-sell-ladakh-craft/articleshow/81382560.cms||Rohan Dua
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Mind the gap in 1st physical trade fair after lockdown||NEW DELHI: When an estimated 1,100 foreign and Indian delegates from 50 countries touchdown in Greater Noida for Indus Foods, among the first physical international trade fairs post-Covid lockdown, the standard operating procedure will not be limited to quarantining and wearing masks. They are being advised to avoiding shaking hands with other delegates and also refrain from exchanging business cards, to avoid the prospect of passing on the highly-infectious virus at a time when cases are once again on the rise in the country. Similarly, contactless transactions will be the preferred mode of operation instead of using cash or cheques. “Do not touch the microphone. Speak loudly, not closer than 12cm from the microphone,” said a brochure listing out the Dos and Don’t inside the halls providing interface to businesses. Organisers TPCI have promised to sanitise these halls after every B2B event while asking participants to strictly follow norms related to the permitted capacity for each gathering. When it comes to food, participants have been advised against helping themselves and wait for the staff to serve them. And, while having the buffet lunch guest are required to maintain a two-meter distance. Those attending the annual show later this month include around 400 Indian food and beverage exporters and around 700 “pre-screened” buyers from countries such as the US, the UK, European Union, UAE, Russia and Bangladesh, among others, the event’s organiser TPCI said on Sunday. Buyers representing retailers such as Carrefour, Germany’s Lidl and LuLu that operates in the Persian Gulf. “This is a defining moment, when Indian exports will get a platform in first physical format F&B show post Covid wave to trade with the world and get market connectivity sitting in India,” said TPCI chairman Mohit Singla. The quarantine and isolation protocol set by the government for visitors from various countries will be followed. In addition, the organisers have set up isolation rooms for suspected cases, which will be managed in coordination with health authorities, with trained doctors and paramedics available on the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mind-the-gap-in-1st-physical-trade-fair-after-lockdown/articleshow/81382660.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Remove Bandi from state chief post, Goud urges BJP||Hyderabad: A day after TRS working president and IT Minister KT Rama Rao sought to warn the opposition leaders from using derogatory language against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, tourism and excise minister V Srinivas Goud on Sunday appealed to the BJP central leadership to remove Bandi Sanjay from the post of Telangana state president as he has crossed all limits of decency by passing comments on KCR.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/remove-bandi-from-state-chief-post-goud-urges-bjp/articleshow/81382546.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Glaucoma cases could be 10 times more in Telangana: Experts||HYDERABAD: With nearly 1 lakh known cases of glaucoma in the state and an estimated 10 lakh which are yet to be identified, experts stress on the need for having a mass screening programme in the state on lines of the Kanti Velugu programme taken up to identify cataract and refractive errors. While increased awareness about the disease has led to more cases being identified in recent years, glaucoma is on the rise in the state as well. “The fact that this is a silent disease and there are around 10 lakh people who might be suffering from it in the state, we need to have a mass screening programme with specialist doctors. The screening will require special equipment as well as specially trained staff to detect glaucoma but it is essential to find these patients early and begin treatment as damage from glaucoma is irreversible,” said Dr Ravinder Goud, professor of ophthalmology, Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital. The increase, meanwhile, is largely due to drug abuse and increase in trauma to the eyes. “This is largely due to drug abuse, especially overuse of steroids and antibiotics. In rural areas, registered medical practitioners (RMP) and private medical practitioners (PMP) are increasingly prescribing steroids for various reasons like arthritis and for asthma patients. Also, post-operative patients are given steroid injections with other antibiotics,” he added. “It is important to remember that while corticosteroids can be lifesaving and can aid in treatment of many ailments when used by qualified doctors, they can cause very serious side effects like cataract and glaucoma among others. Corticosteroids have been abused by quacks over the decades,” added Dr Ravi Sankar Erukulapati, senior endocrinologist. Apart from drug abuse which is the key reason for increase in the incidence, increase in trauma (accidents), particularly to the eye, is another reason. Glaucoma has two types — open angle glaucoma and angle closure glaucoma. “Telangana has high incidence of angle closure glaucoma, which impacts eyesight more severely. Therefore, there is a need for screening the population regularly. It is the responsibility of every individual above the age of 35 to get their eyes checked regularly, only then we can defeat this invisible disease called glaucoma,” said Dr Vanita Pathak-Ray, senior glaucoma specialist, Centre for Sight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/glaucoma-cases-could-be-10-times-more-in-t-experts/articleshow/81382572.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||‘Forest healing centre’ for relieving stress through forest-oriented activities, opens in Ranikhet||Nainital: A forest healing centre which offers stress-relieving activities like tree hugging, forest meditation, forest walking and sky gazing opened in Kalika at Ranikhet on Sunday. According to the forest department, it is the country’s first such facility. Spread across an area of 13 acres, it has been developed by the research wing of Uttarakhand forest department and was inaugurated on Sunday by environmentalist Joginder Bisht. Entry to the centre has been kept free for all. “No bookings are required to visit the centre; only an on-spot registration is needed to be done,” said chief conservator of forests (research) Sanjiv Chaturvedi. The centre has drawn inspiration from Japanese technique of forest bathing (shinrin - yoku) as well as ancient Indian traditions, said Chaturvedi. Once inside, visitors will find forest trails, ‘tree platforms’ (small wooden structures to sit on and meditate) and tree houses for sky gazing. Forest department officials said that the centre has been developed based on research on the healing properties of forests and trees and the activities were planned in a way to help people escape the stress of city life. Use of mobile phones is not allowed inside the centre. Officials said that activities like tree hugging have a beneficial impact on the body by increasing the level of feel-good hormones like oxytocin, serotonin and dopamine, creating pleasant effects. Further, they added that the centre has been set up in a pine-dominated forest as research shows that pines emit oils that help multiply natural killer cells in blood and decrease stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-healing-centre-for-relieving-stress-through-forest-oriented-activities-opens-in-ranikhet/articleshow/81380578.cms||Prashant Jha
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Bhatti undertakes cycle yatra protesting fuel price rise||Hyderabad: After offering prayers at Sitarama Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam, Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka on Sunday embarked upon a 213-km long bicycle yatra protesting against the skyrocketing prices of petrol, diesel and LPG gas. The cycle yatra is also in support of Congress candidate S Ramulu Naik contesting from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam Graduates MLC constituency. Bhatti said the hike in fuel prices and other policy decisions taken by the BJP government have pushed the country back by 50 years. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhatti-undertakes-cycle-yatra-protesting-fuel-price-rise/articleshow/81382570.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Revanth writes to KTR, asks for response on fast for ITIR||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajagiri MP A Revanth Reddy in a letter to TRS working president and municipal minister KT Rama Rao asked him to respond to his challenge of joining him in an indefinite hunger strike at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi against the Modi-government. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-writes-to-ktr-asks-for-response-on-fast-for-itir/articleshow/81382581.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Nashik||Rural cops start taking 2nd vax dose||Nashik: The personnel of the Nashik rural police have begun taking the second dose of the Covid vaccine with Police superintendent Sachin Patil taking his second dose on Friday. Patil said almost 95% of the force comprising over 3,200 personnel of Nashik rural police have taken the first dose of the vaccine. The remaining personnel will also be taking their dose soon. The SP said though no one from the rural police has contracted the infection so far amid the recent spike in the Covid cases, the police personnel have been instructed to take all the necessary precautions. A large number of police personnel from across the district had contracted Covid since its outbreak. Most of them had contracted Covid while carrying out their duties in Malegaon, where the rate of infection was at its peak. Police personnel, being the frontline warriors, had a higher chance of catching the infection as they had to deal with a large number of people daily. Patil said all the police personnel in the rural police have eagerly taken their first dose and are going for the second dose as per their turn. A meagre 5% of the police personnel have not taken the first dose as per the conditions set by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-cops-start-taking-2nd-vax-dose/articleshow/81380044.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Court sets aside jail term of cashier for embezzlement||New Delhi: A Delhi sessions court has set aside a two-year jail term awarded to a man for allegedly misappropriating Rs 5.93 lakh during his stint as a cashier at Bihar Bhavan in Delhi, after the court said that the trial court had erroneously arrived at a conclusion that he had embezzled the amount merely because he was responsible for collecting the cash from Bihar Bhavan and depositing it in Reserve Bank of India (RBI). “In the absence of sound foundation laid down by clinching evidence, it cannot be presumed that the rent was actually collected by the receptionist and the same was entrusted to the appellant,” held additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana. In December, 2018, a magistrate court convicted Chiranjiv Jha under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC and sentenced him to two years rigorous imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 10,000. The court noted that Jha faced charges of breach of trust on the ground that during the period between July 5, 1997 and July 24, 2000, when he was working as a cashier at Bihar Bhavan, he failed to deposit the rent received by him in the treasury. It came on record through a witness testimony that the money generated from rent was primarily received by the receptionist at the counter from the guests/customers and subsequently entrusted to the cashier for depositing it with the RBI. The court, however, opined that the trial court had ignored some material discrepancies in the testimony of the prosecution witnesses and the conviction of the appellant couldn’t be sustained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-sets-aside-jail-term-of-cashier-for-embezzlement/articleshow/81382606.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur SECR to run trains at 130 kmph||Nagpur: In a major move that will provide relief to passengers, the Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR) has upgraded its tracks to operate passenger trains at 130 kmph between Nagpur and Durg section. Presently, trains in this 262km section run at 110 kmphccix:command value="252,1"/>Senior SECR officials said, “Only trains with LHB coaches will run at 130 kmph. We were at work to upgrade the tracks last year. We converted the lockdown owing to Covid-19 restrictions into opportunity and completed various works.” These works included strengthening of tracks, realignment of curves, gradients, rail panels, adjustment of overhead electric lines (OHEs), maintenance, removal of all unmanned railway crossings etc “In October-November, trial runs at 130 kmph were held by the Indian Railways Research Design and Standard Organization (RDSO), Lucknow, by way of the oscillation monitoring system (OMS). During this check, in addition to track parameters, other areas like the signalling aspect, traction distribution equipment, locomotive and coach fitness were also checked and recorded,” they said. “Defects rectified by the OMS were removed and another trial run was done on February 17 after which a fresh report was submitted to the commissioner of railway safety (CRS), who has given the green signal to run trains at 130 kmph,” the SECR officials said. Trains will start operating at 130 kmph from next week. Though the journey time will certainly be reduced, it will reflect in the new railway timetable as the present schedules cannot be disturbed. The SECR has identified 19 pairs of trains with LHB coaches to run them at 130 kmph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-secr-to-run-trains-at-130-kmph/articleshow/81381685.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 8, 2021||Nashik||Stringent measures if cases continue to rise: Mandhare||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare, following the constant surge in Covid-19 cases, has reiterated that the district administration would be compelled to impose a lockdown if the situation does not improve.The collector has expressed concern over the rise in the number of cases and said that people would compel the district administration to take unfavourable decisions and that will not be in the interest of the common man. “Last year, we had a lockdown when there were 100 active cases. This year, we already have 3,709 active cases and it calls for harsher steps. But since strict action is not in the interest of common man, we are avoiding it. We will wait for a week before reviewing our decision and then announce harsher measures,” Mandhare said. Nashik district had witnessed surge in cases from 1,163 active cases on February 6 to 3,709 on March 6. While the number of active cases declined by 43% in January, when compared to December, and 35% in February compared to January, the trend changed in March as the cases went up to 220% in just one month time till March 6. The lockdown will result in major problem for people who have to earn for their daily living. Last year, when the lockdown was announced, people used their resources to help the needy. However, this time the society would think twice considering the fact that there are many people who are not taking safety precautions and causing problems for the entire society. “When government orders a lockdown, there are many repercussions on the financial health of the citizens as well as the government. Penalising people is not the solution as the pandemic is a social problem and society should deal with it with the help of administration,” Mandhare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/stringent-measures-if-cases-continue-to-rise-mandhare/articleshow/81380049.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Advanced treatment available in state||Hyderabad: While there are advanced treatment options for glaucoma now available in the state, experts stress on the need for early identification and treatment to stop irreversible loss of vision. In India, about 92.9% of cases of blindness amongst people over the age of 50 years can be avoided, according to the National Blindness & Visual Impairment Survey 2015-2019. This stresses the need for regular check-ups and early detection of vision impairing conditions, especially amongst the vulnerable like young school-going children, women, the elderly, those with diabetes and people with family history of glaucoma. Glaucoma is a name given to dozens of blinding eye conditions with one common feature – damage to the optic nerve in the eye. “Usually, the first line of treatment for glaucoma patients is drugs or drops in the eye and if a person is not responding to drugs, surgery is the option. The advanced treatment option of endoscopic laser cyclophotocoagulation surgery can immensely benefit the patients of glaucoma now. Worldwide studies have indicated that the laser surgery is highly efficacious,” said Dr Mahipal Sachdev, Centre for Sight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/advanced-treatment-available-in-state/articleshow/81382605.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||As kids grow, women find courage to leave abusive marriages||PANAJI: The state women’s commission has seen a number of cases of women opting out of abusive relationships after many years of marriage, when their children have grown up and can lend them support. In one such case, a woman who had been living a miserable life knocked on the doors of the commission stating she had been tortured mentally, physically and economically for three decades. She wasn’t permitted outside her home, not allowed to interact with her family or friends, and was also subject to physical abuse. She mustered the courage to complain only after her children got married and assured her their support. “She was probably waiting for someone to support her,” said SCW chairperson Vidhya Gaude. “Her children who are now grown up gave her the confidence. Women often think of their children first and suffer silently. They also think about where they will go if they complain, and what will happen to their little children.” “Now we are seeing women whose children have grown up and can support them, come forward and ask for help to get out,” she added. The woman in distress spent three hours sharing the suffering meted out to her, and requested the commission to help her with partition of the house where she could live separately from her husband. The commission registers around 40 complaints a month, a large chunk of which are domestic violence cases, some fuelled by alcohol and others by husbands who suspect their wives are having an affair, and still others who are trying to get their wives to leave the house. A recent case of a man trying to get his wife and their minor daughter to leave the house was reported to Bailancho Saad. Convenor Sabina Martins said that the man wanted to keep their son and get rid of the mother and daughter, and was trying to get them to leave the house. “The mother and child have been reduced to poverty and depend on charity for food,” Martins said. “The father is also violent towards the girl child and burned her with an iron recently. The police didn’t register an FIR until Bailancho Saad intervened and called up the SP. The police didn’t arrest him when he was called to the police station, and later said he was not available and allowed him to apply for bail.” “The last year has been terrible for women,” Martins said. There were two reason. “One was the lockdown, and two, systems failed miserably. They were either inefficient or dismantled. The state police complaints authority has been defunct. The human rights commission was non-functional for around six months, the women’s commission was also non-operational, as no chairperson was appointed for many months.” The women’s commission has been intervening in several cases where police shy away from registering FIRs in domestic violence cases. Former chairperson of the state women’s commission, Dr Pramod Salgaonkar, said that police receive training on the Domestic Violence Act but don’t consider it important enough to register FIRs. “They don’t consider domestic violence a crime despite knowing the law,” she said. “This a personal issue with them. One has to insist on registration, and it is here that the commission’s role is powerful, it can issue directions to register the complaint and ask the police officer why it isn’t being registered. The commission is very powerful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-kids-grow-women-find-courage-to-leave-abusive-marriages/articleshow/81382597.cms||Lisa Monteiro
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Month after flash floods, kin wait for news of missing 130||DEHRADUN: Sapna Thapliyal, 35, has hardly spoken to anyone since a month. She spends most of the time in her room, looking longingly at the front door of her small house in Kandai Khola village. Since the fateful day on February 7 when the flash floods struck, her husband Anoop Thapliyal --- a supervisor at the NTPC hydropower project in Tapovan – has been missing. Even though a month has passed since the tragedy, Sapna, who is seven months pregnant, is hopeful that her husband will return. “I feel God cannot do this to me, especially since we were expecting our second child after an almost 12- year wait,” she said. Her sister-in-law Malti, wife of Rajesh, Anoop’s cousin, is also seeking to come to grips with the aftermath of the disaster. Rajesh who used to work at the NTPC hydropower project has been missing, too, since the disaster. “I asked him not to go for duty on Sunday morning and instead take the evening shift but he said he will be home by afternoon. That never happened,” said an emotional Malti. It’s a similar story in many other households. Sisaram Ghildiyal of Pali village in Tehri is still waiting for news of his only son, Arun. The 25-year-old, an engineer on the NTPC hydropower project, was on the site when the flash floods happened. The sixty-year-old father told TOI that he hasn’t lost hope yet. “I believe that my son will return in the near future,” he said stoically. At Panjiya village in Jaunsar Bawar, a family is slowly coming to terms with the tragedy although still clinging on to hope. The death rituals of two brothers – Sandeep Chauhan (24) and Jeevan Chauhan (21) who worked at the NTPC project site were conducted by their family using effigies as per local tradition since their bodies were not found. However, the body of one of the brothers – Jeevan – was subsequently recovered. The family members are now hopeful that they would be able to get a trace of the other brother, Sandeep as well. The families of two other youths of the area who have been missing since the deluge are also similarly living in hope.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/a-month-after-flash-floods-families-of-over-130-persons-who-had-gone-missing-still-await-news-of-loved-ones/articleshow/81380591.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||After slight relief, city’s max temp 35.6 in Mumbai||Mumbai: After some relief on Saturday, the city’s maximum temperature once again saw an increase. India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Santacruz observatory recorded maximum temperatures of 35.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday, up from 32.8 on Saturday. The Santacruz temperature was 3.5 degree Celsius above normal. Colaba’s maximum temperature of 32.2 degree Celsius remained the same as Saturday and 1.3 degree Celsius above normal. The humidity levels were relatively lower at 31% and 50% at Santacruz and Colaba respectively. The minimum temperatures, however, saw a dip as compared to Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-slight-relief-citys-max-temp-35-6-in-mumbai/articleshow/81382650.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Attendees limited, all 80 speakers shun South meet||Margao: Faced with angry protests by people both inside and outside the venue of the public hearing on the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) on Sunday, authorities went through the motions and concluded the hearing, even as the 80-odd participants, who had pre-registered for the event and allowed entry into the venue refused to take to the podium when their names were called out, terming the public hearing, “a farce”. Trouble began right at the outset of the meeting when protesters questioned why only 150 people were allowed into the venue while a large number of people were prevented from coming in by a strong posse of policemen. “This amounts to a private hearing and not a public consultation as set out in the notification issued in that regard,” a registered participant said. South Goa collector Surendra Naik, who chaired the meeting, tried to calm frayed nerves, exercising restraint, even as the irate protesters, at times, resorted to provocative words. “We have to make a beginning somewhere. Let’s begin with 150 registered participants,” Naik said. However, the protesters were in no mood to relent. “The beginning is from the panchayats. It is where the knowledge lies,” said Avinash Tavares who accused authorities of “turning a simple scientific exercise into a political one”. The protesters questioned the chair why the draft plans prepared by various village panchayats weren’t incorporated. Nevertheless, as repeated requests by Naik to allow commencement of the public hearing went unheeded, the authorities began calling out the names of the registered speakers. However, none of them responded, preferring instead to participate in the protest and pandemonium that reigned off-stage. However, Naik announced that the public hearing will be kept functional to allow the registered speakers to voice their objections until 5pm – a decision that was met with further protests. The proceedings were finally concluded—with not a single speaker having registered his objections— after the minutes of the event were read out to the audience only at 5pm. Significantly, the minutes duly recorded the allegations of the protesters, including those of the opposition MLAs that the meeting was “a farce” as it had turned out to be a “private hearing”. Additional collectors Agnelo Fernandes and Gaurish Kuttikar, deputy collector (revenue) Snehal Prabhu, expert members of Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA) Savio Corriea, Flaviano Miranda and Shrirang Jambhale, National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management, scientist Manik Mahapatra were among those who conducted the meeting. Earlier, Mahapatra, too, came in the line of fire of the activists as he tried to convince them that all their objections would be duly recorded once the hearing was allowed to commence. If chaos marred the public hearing inside Ravindra Bhavan, outside the venue, hundreds protested denial of permission to attend the hearing. Naik told TOI, “We gave them all opportunities to present their views on the merits of the draft CZMP. We called out the names of the registered participants twice, but none came forward. Their sole demand throughout the day was that the hearing be held at the taluka-level, and that the hearing be kept open to the public without any restrictions on numbers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/attendees-limited-all-80-speakers-shun-south-meet/articleshow/81383698.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
March 8, 2021||Pune||96 PHCs to join drive in rural areas||PUNE: Some 96 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) will join the Covid vaccine drive in the rural areas to boost pace of inoculations, officials have said. Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle, said focus is on PHCs with good internet link. He said, “Some PHCs, mostly in semi-urban areas, are administering the vaccine. But we have to reach out to all. Selected centres will conduct drives on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays so that general care at the sites is not interrupted.” Deshmukh said daily vaccine sessions are not feasible as the PHCs are critical to healthcare in rural areas. Officials said remote areas of Velhe and Junnar, in Pune district, and Tapola in Satara can expect dedicated sites.  Deshmukh said rural areas have a major manpower hurdle. “Staff have to treat Covid and general patients. And now they’ll have to handle the vaccination drive. That remains a concern.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/96-phcs-to-join-drive-in-rural-areas/articleshow/81382623.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand record 59 new Covid-19 cases, one death||Dehradun: With 59 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported on Sunday, the coronavirus tally reached 97,422 in Uttarakhand. Also, one more coronavirus-related fatality took the toll of the virus to 1,695 in the state. Among the new infections, the maximum of 23 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 12 in Haridwar, 11 in Nainital, nine in Udham Singh Nagar, three in Pauri, and one in Almora district. “No infections were found in the other seven districts,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat and his wife took the Covid-19 vaccine jab on Sunday. Also, several seers, which are to participate in the upcoming Kumbh Mela, were administered the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-record-59-new-covid-19-cases-one-death/articleshow/81380599.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 8, 2021||Agra||Int’l Women’s Day: Women to get priority for Covid jab||Agra: On the occasion of the International Women’s Day on Monday, the health department is planning to prioritise women for its vaccination drive against Covid-19, even reserving three facilities in the district exclusively for them.On the day, women over 60 years and those above 45 with comorbidities would be given first preference while administering Covid-19 vaccine. Those who haven’t registered for the drive, too, would be allowed to get the shots at any government centre.In Agra, the drive would be a women-only affair at three facilities — district hospital, Lady Lyall hospital and Etmadpur community health centre. Men would be given the jab at other centres.Agra chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “On Women’s Day, we have made arrangements to give them priority for vaccination. At three centres, only women staffers will be administering the vaccine and that too only to women. Men won’t be allowed at those facilities.” Meanwhile, three Covid cases were reported from the district on Sunday. Out of the 10,548 cases reported so far, 98.17% (10,355) have been cured of infection, bringing down the sample positivity rate to 1.83%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/intl-womens-day-women-to-get-priority-for-covid-jab/articleshow/81380597.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||Woman mayor who leads from the front||Jaipur: At a time when work-and-life balance of women is the most talked-about thing in the world, JMC-Greater mayor Somya Gurjar is leading by example.Already pregnant when she became a mayor in November, Somya delivered a baby boy on February 11, while working continuously till a night before. Raising a family with two children – a nine-year-old girl and a 20-day-old boy — isn’t that easy. But Somya said with time management and family support, anything is possible.“When I got pregnant the second time, everyone said that for the next two years, I won’t be able to do anything. I was worried, but I didn’t let that affect me. With the support of my husband, I contested the elections and became the mayor. Handling two children, family and working full-time as a mayor is challenging, but possible,” said Somya.She has to breastfeed the baby every two hours due to which her work schedule is designed in a way that she comes back home on time. After five days of giving birth, she started dealing with office work, clearing files from home. Work of a woman, however, never finishes after office hours. “I have to be on my toes in office with back-to-back meetings and listening to public. At home, I have to be with my daughter Omesha who only eats with me. I have to listen all her stories from school and spend time with my husband. For a woman, guilt of not spending enough time with your children will be there, although this can set a good example for your children after seeing the kind of work ethics their mother has,” said Somya. Talking about professional hazards, Somya referred to the direct target her family is facing from the state government with her husband still in jail. She said since woman are more emotional in family matters, rivals know how to pull down a woman.“If a woman dares to aim for a top-most position, there will always be some to pull her down by targeting her family. Things would have been different with a man. Though I am strong enough to deal with all this,” she said.She said her next plan was to open a creche for children of women sanitation workers so that their mothers can work peacefully while being assured that their kids are safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-mayor-who-leads-from-the-front/articleshow/81381710.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||This winter was Goa’s wettest in 3 decades||PANAJI: While January this year was the warmest in 30 years, the two-month winter season culminated recently as the wettest in three decades. In the continuing chain of anomalous weather events, it rained during January and a little more heavily (by dry season parameters) in February, bringing tears to farmers and others. The unseasonal rain inflicted significant damage to the flowering of cashew, mango and other crops. At the end of winter, on February 28, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, recorded a total state average rainfall of 29.7mm for both months. The previous highest was 28.3mm during the 2010 winter season. Rainfall in winter is not uncommon either. Since 1990, records show that it had rained during 13 winter seasons out of the last 31 years. “For most years, apart from 2021, 2013 and 2010, the cumulative winter rainfall is not significant, as compared to the four-month monsoon total, which is more than 2,500mm, on an average,” Rahul M, scientist, IMD, Panaji said. Unheard of events in winter, hail, thunderstorms and vertical cloud formation occurred during the four to five-day rainy spell from February 19, surprising scientists and weather watchers. “Usually, the winter months are driest and cloud-free, especially over Goa. But this year, we had even hailstones, which form only in vertically developing clouds up to 10km in height from mean sea level in several parts of Goa,” meteorologist and chief scientist (retired), National Institute of Oceanography, M R Ramesh Kumar, said. The warmest January in 30 years witnessed light rain for a few days and the mercury mostly hovered above 21 degrees Celsius. Its lowest dip was 20.2 degrees C on January 22. In the end, IMD recorded a mean minimum temperature of 22.6 degrees C, the previous highest being 21.5 degrees C in January 2010 and 21.4 degrees C in January 1996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-winter-was-goas-wettest-in-3-decades/articleshow/81382624.cms||Paul Fernandes
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Tendu contractors warned against setting forests on fire||Nagpur: With the onset of forest fires ahead of tendu leaves plucking season, the state forest department has warned contractors and traders that their approved tender of tendu units will be cancelled if incidents of fires and illicit tree felling are reported. Actual collection of tendu leaves will start in the last week of April. According to data released by the Forest Survey of India on Sunday, there have been 1,048 fire incidents in the state so far, including 501 in Gadchiroli district, which is known to have the most in-demand tendu leaves. “There is a tendency among contractors to burn forest areas having tendu trees to have a better flush of leaves. In order to check such activity, stringent and penal provisions are there in the terms and conditions of tendu notice,” said TK Choubey, APCCF (non-timber forest produce). Over 3 lakh standard bags from 278 tendu units were kept for sale through the e-tendering process in Maharashtra. Out of these, 202 units were sold in three rounds fetching a royalty of Rs49 crore. This is a big jump compared to last year (2020) when Covid-19 had hit the revenue, generating Rs26.50 crore from sale of 144 units through eight rounds. Choubey said the remaining 76 units will be sold in the next three additional rounds of e-tender. The committee meeting to approve the 4th round will be held on March 9, in which some more units are likely to be sold. This season has brightened the prospects of many tribals who are dependent on wages from tendu collection, in addition to the bonus amount. “If there is a fire in the tendu unit and deputy conservator (DyCF) or DFO concerned finds that there was laxity in implementation of preventive measures then penalty between Rs15,000-Rs50,000 will be imposed depending on the area burned,” said Choubey. “Besides fires, all CCFs have been told that illicit felling of tendu trees in any unit by licensee shall be treated as a breach of contract. The DyCF can impose a penalty between Rs1,000-5,000 depending on the girth of felled trees,” Choubey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tendu-contractors-warned-against-setting-forests-on-fire/articleshow/81381714.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 27-year-old man hangs self in Uppal||HYDERABAD: A 27-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling at his residence in Uppal due to health reasons. Uppal police said that 27-year-old V Sairam was found hanging in his room by his sister on Sunday morning. She immediately alerted her mother. After knowing about it, police reached the spot. Police said that Sairam’s family recovered a suicide note left by him in his room. He cited health reasons for taking extreme step. He works in a private company. Police registered a case under section 174 (suspicious death) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/27-year-old-man-hangs-self-in-uppal/articleshow/81382621.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||BJP to hold rallies against state govt||Jaipur: The BJP will organise a statewide dharna at the block-level against the ruling government from March 9 to 14. BJP state president Satish Poonia on Sunday asked leaders to hold rallies and protests abiding Covid protocol. “The state government has lost the moral right to govern the state. They have failed on all fronts and as a responsible opposition it is our duty to raise the failures of Gehlot government,” said Poonia. The protest is planned by the state and central leaders and is eying the bypolls in Sahara, Rajsamand, Sujangarh and Vallabhnagar. The polls are expected to be held in the last week of March. Of the 4 seats, three fall in the tribal region. On Sunday, Pooniawas was in Pratapgarh to inaugurate the local body board formed by his party. “Congress has always betrayed the tribal population by making false promises. The welfare of all caste and communities is with BJP which believes in ‘Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas,” said Poonia. Meanwhile, parallel to the religious yatra of former CM Vasundhara Raje in Bhilwara, Poonia paid a visit to Tripura Sundar temple in Banswara on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-to-hold-rallies-against-state-govt/articleshow/81381711.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Bengaluru||Twist in sex CD case: Activist drops complaint against Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi||BENGALURU: In a dramatic turn of events, activist Dinesh Kallahalli, who last week petitioned police that then water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, was allegedly sexually exploiting a woman in return for a government job, withdrew his complaint on Sunday. Jarkiholi resigned on moral grounds a day after the allegation was made. Handing over a five-page letter to Cubbon Park police through legal counsel Kumar Patil, Kallahalli said he was disappointed by statements of a few politicians and by the state’s action of allegedly treating the victim and the messenger “like criminals”. Last week, Kallahalli met Bengaluru City police commissioner Kamal Pant and filed a complaint that Ramesh Jarkiholi had allegedly sexually exploited a woman by promising her a job in Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation. Kallahalli had said he had received a CD about the incident from an unknown person seeking justice and was taking it up as he was a social activist. Kallahalli says he had to face threats, smear campaign“he videos were also T uploaded even before I handed over the complaint to police. My specific demand was that cops ascertain whether the woman was sexually exploited. But society launched a ‘shoot the messenger’ campaign targeting me and the victim. Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, without proof, said there was blackmail involving Rs 5 crore. BJP MLA Renukacharya stated this kind of women are a ‘danger’ to the country,” Kallahalli’s letter read. “The woman was portrayed wrongly on social media and some said I had built a house by blackmailing people... These judgements were passed without any investigation. There were threats from various people and a campaign to defame me was launched,” he said. Police sources said they have approached the legal team. “This is a one-of-its-kind incident we have come across in recent years. Kallahalli came to file a complaint and appeared for questioning to co-operate in the probe. On Sunday, he sent his letter withdrawing the case. It has become complex as he was not present physically. We might call him to record his statement. There was no FIR registered but only an investigation to ascertain whether the allegations were true,” police sources said. Kalahalli’s lawyer Kumar Patil said, “I submitted a plea to withdraw the complaint. The police inspector may ask Kallahalli to appear before them to close the case. If required, he’ll come to the station.” Watch Twist in sex CD case: Activist drops plaint against Ramesh Jarkiholi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/twist-in-sex-cd-case-activist-drops-plaint-against-jarkiholi/articleshow/81384104.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Agra||International women’s day: Hope no innocent man suffers in jail, says advocate||AGRA: If Vishnu Tiwari, 43, who spent 20 years in jail for a crime he had not committed, is a free man today, it is due to his advocate, Shweta Singh Rana. This feisty Allahabad-based advocate was tasked by the state legal service authority to take up Vishnu’s case. Rana burnt the midnight oil in developing a strong defence, prompting judges to hear the case on a daily basis. “I always wanted to work for the vulnerable section of society. That is why I take very few cases of private parties. My family has been very supportive towards my professional life. Vishnu’s case was very close to my heart. It is great pleasure to see him finally out of jail. I feel motivated to work harder,” Rana told TOI. Rana secured a law degree from Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapith in Varanasi. She got married in 2012 to a businessman and after some years, started practicing at the Allahabad High Court. In 2018, she was inducted as a panel lawyer in the state legal service authority. When Vishnu’s case was referred to her, Rana had to relentlessly pursue it just to get a copy of the orders of the sessions court convicting Vishnu of raping a Dalit woman. On getting the copy, her next task was to get the defects removed from Vishnu’s appeal. In 2005, he had appealed against the sessions court’s judgment in the high court but somehow the case remained ‘defective’ for 16 years and could not be heard. In December 2020, the case was finally listed for hearing in the high court. The hearing started in the first week of January, this year. And within a month, the court absolved Vishnu of all the charges. He was finally released from Agra central jail on March 3. Rana proved in court that the police investigation was flawed and the decision of the sessions court was not based on factual evidence. This mother of two said, “I hope no other innocent man suffers in jail like Vishnu. Authorities must ensure that they at least get a fair trial in a time-bound manner. I request the state government to provide a suitable compensation to Vishnu and extend benefits to him under the government schemes”. Vishnu said, “Vakeel sahiba has given me a new life. I had no hope of getting out of jail. I have no words to thank her. She is a goddess to me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/international-womens-day-hope-no-innocent-man-suffers-in-jail-says-advocate/articleshow/81380605.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 8 BJP MPs, 20 MLAs take part in Vasundhara Raje’s ‘religious yatra’||JAIPUR: In what can be termed as a massive show of strength, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje had one-third of the state BJP MLAs and MPs rallying behind her during her ‘religious yatra’, which senior party leaders have been downplaying in the name of ‘her personal events.’ The undercurrent brewing within the party with Raje’s supporters joining hands was out in the open in Bharatpur where undeterred by senior party leaders’ statements, the former chief minister managed to pull huge crowds of public and strong support of party’s MPs and MLAs in an attempt to establish her popularity. BJP in-charge of state Arun Singh had downplayed the yatra by calling it a personal matter on March 1. Following the party line, several close aides of Raje too distanced themselves from the yatra but the party failed to stop eight MPs, 28 MLAs and a battery of former MLAs from taking part in the grand show. She chose Bharatpur division (Karauli, Dholpur and Sawai Madhopur) where BJP suffered a humiliating defeat after it managed to win one seat out of 19. During her address at Pochri Ki Lota, she asserted, “My mother lit the lamp and the ‘lotus’ blossomed. She did not let the light diminish nor allowed the lotus to wither. Rajmata had BJP and nationalism in her every vein. I am her daughter," she said. She thanked PM Narendra Modi for clearing all obstacles in the way of the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Sources said more MPs and MLAs are expected to visit Raje on her second day of yatra which is coinciding with her birthday. Upbeat with the presence of party leaders and people, she said pilgrimage is completed only when you visit with your family and near ones. “I am thankful to everyone who joined me on my birthday celebrations,” said Raje.  Most of the MPs and MLAs were present for a brief period and some just exchanged greetings and returned to Jaipur to attend the assembly. The elected representatives from Udaipur division missed the celebrations. Sources said since BJP state president Satish Poonia is visiting the tribal region, the party leaders chose not to be caught on the wrong foot. The yatra was meticulously planned by her aide Yunus Khan, former state president Ashok Parnami and Malaviya Nagar MLA Kalicharan, MLA Chhabra Pratap Singh Singhvi and former MLA Rajpal Singh Shekhawat.  Sources said for the past one week, the Raje camp had been calling MPs, MLAs and party leaders to attend the programme. Ramcharan Bohra (Jaipur), Ranjeeta Koli (Bharatpur), Manoj Rajoria (Dholpur), Sukhbir Singh Jaunapuria(Tonk-Sawai Madhopur), Dushyant Singh (Jhalawar), Baba Balaknath (Alwar), Ram Kumar Verma (Rajya Sabha member) were present during the day in Bharatpur. Raje, who had announced the two-day yatra in February, had become the centre of political discussion. She planned it from Panchudi Ka Lota in Bharatpur, Giriraj, Daangati Mandir in Jaitpur (Uttar Pradesh) and ended the day with Badri Nath temple in Bharatpur. She will conclude the yatra by visiting Mangla Aarti and Kedarnath Temple in Bharatpur on March 8. Raje’s display of strength amid the internal rift with BJP state president Satish Poonia is seen as an aggressive step to be seen as an active leader in the state. Both the leaders addressed the differences with central leaders while Raje complains of ignorance in the party, Poonia raised the issue of Raje projecting herself as the CM candidate through her loyalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/8-bjp-mps-28-mlas-join-rajes-yatra/articleshow/81381717.cms||Shoeb Khan
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand miss chance to enter semi-finals of Vijay Hazare Trophy, lose to Delhi by 4 wickets||Dehradun: Uttarakhand missed out on a chance of creating a first in its cricketing history by a whisker as the team lost to Delhi by 4 wickets in the quarter-finals of the ongoing Vijay Hazare Trophy. Despite posting a formidable score of 287 in their 50-overs and dismissing Delhi's top-order batsmen cheaply, the hill state missed out on playing their first semi-final match ever in a BCCI domestic tournament. In a nail-biting thriller, Delhi clinched the game, thanks to team's skipper Pradeep Sangwan’s unbeaten 58 runs knock and wicket-keeper Anuj Rawat’s match-winning innings of 95 runs. Asked to bat first at the Arun Jaitley Stadium, Uttarakhand once again had a great first-wicket partnership, this time of 88 runs. Young Kamal Singh scored 88 runs while skipper Kunal Chandela, who batted at the first drop, made 62 runs. Some late hitting by wicket-keeper Saurabh Rawat helped Uttarakhand post a formidable score of 287/8 in their allotted 50 overs. Uttarakhand’s new ball pair of Samad Fallah and Akash Madhwal hunted in pairs and gave their side early breakthroughs. But despite restricting Delhi to 84/5, Uttarakhand lost the match in the second last over thanks to the other Rawat, who also happens to be a wicket-keeper, out on the field. Delhi’s Anuj Rawat along with skipper Pradeep Sangwan stitched out an unbeaten partnership of 143 runs with Rawat being adjudged the MoM for his finisher innings of 95 runs from 85 deliveries. Sangwan managed an unbeaten 58 while middle-order batsman Nitish Rana scored 81 runs from 88 deliveries. The win in this game would have ensured the Himalayan state reaching the semi-final stage for the first time in their cricketing history. The team will have to look forward to the next season as this loss marks the end of the current domestic cricket season for the senior men’s team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-miss-chance-to-enter-semi-finals-of-vijay-hazare-trophy-lose-to-delhi-by-4-wickets/articleshow/81380604.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 8, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 8 BJP MPs, 20 MLAs take part in Vasundhara Raje’s ‘religious yatra’||JAIPUR: In what can be termed as a massive show of strength, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje had one-third of the state BJP MLAs and MPs rallying behind her during her ‘religious yatra’, which senior party leaders have been downplaying in the name of ‘her personal events.’ The undercurrent brewing within the party with Raje’s supporters joining hands was out in the open in Bharatpur where undeterred by senior party leaders’ statements, the former chief minister managed to pull huge crowds of public and strong support of party’s MPs and MLAs in an attempt to establish her popularity. BJP in-charge of state Arun Singh had downplayed the yatra by calling it a personal matter on March 1. Following the party line, several close aides of Raje too distanced themselves from the yatra but the party failed to stop eight MPs, 28 MLAs and a battery of former MLAs from taking part in the grand show. She chose Bharatpur division (Karauli, Dholpur and Sawai Madhopur) where BJP suffered a humiliating defeat after it managed to win one seat out of 19. During her address at Pochri Ki Lota, she asserted, “My mother lit the lamp and the ‘lotus’ blossomed. She did not let the light diminish nor allowed the lotus to wither. Rajmata had BJP and nationalism in her every vein. I am her daughter," she said. She thanked PM Narendra Modi for clearing all obstacles in the way of the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Sources said more MPs and MLAs are expected to visit Raje on her second day of yatra which is coinciding with her birthday. Upbeat with the presence of party leaders and people, she said pilgrimage is completed only when you visit with your family and near ones. “I am thankful to everyone who joined me on my birthday celebrations,” said Raje.  Most of the MPs and MLAs were present for a brief period and some just exchanged greetings and returned to Jaipur to attend the assembly. The elected representatives from Udaipur division missed the celebrations. Sources said since BJP state president Satish Poonia is visiting the tribal region, the party leaders chose not to be caught on the wrong foot. The yatra was meticulously planned by her aide Yunus Khan, former state president Ashok Parnami and Malaviya Nagar MLA Kalicharan, MLA Chhabra Pratap Singh Singhvi and former MLA Rajpal Singh Shekhawat.  Sources said for the past one week, the Raje camp had been calling MPs, MLAs and party leaders to attend the programme. Ramcharan Bohra (Jaipur), Ranjeeta Koli (Bharatpur), Manoj Rajoria (Dholpur), Sukhbir Singh Jaunapuria(Tonk-Sawai Madhopur), Dushyant Singh (Jhalawar), Baba Balaknath (Alwar), Ram Kumar Verma (Rajya Sabha member) were present during the day in Bharatpur. Raje, who had announced the two-day yatra in February, had become the centre of political discussion. She planned it from Panchudi Ka Lota in Bharatpur, Giriraj, Daangati Mandir in Jaitpur (Uttar Pradesh) and ended the day with Badri Nath temple in Bharatpur. She will conclude the yatra by visiting Mangla Aarti and Kedarnath Temple in Bharatpur on March 8. Raje’s display of strength amid the internal rift with BJP state president Satish Poonia is seen as an aggressive step to be seen as an active leader in the state. Both the leaders addressed the differences with central leaders while Raje complains of ignorance in the party, Poonia raised the issue of Raje projecting herself as the CM candidate through her loyalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/8-bjp-mps-28-mlas-join-rajes-yatra/articleshow/81385392.cms||Shoeb Khan
March 8, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Man killed, stuffed in barrel sealed with concrete; five held||CHENNAI: Police recovered the skeletal remains of a man from an abandoned farm well near Sriperumbudur on Saturday, nearly 18 months after he was reported missing. The body of the man, identified as Konji Adaikkan, was stuffed in an iron barrel and sealed with concrete mixture. Police soon arrested Chitra, 47, the deceased’s girlfriend, Ezhumalai, 35, Ranjith Kumar, 30, Tarzan, 33, and Vivekanandan, 30, before a court sent them to jail. A hunt is on for a few more suspects in this connection. Based on the statements of the arrested, a police officer said the slain man, Konji Adaikkan of Ponnaiyampatti village in Pudukottai district, had been working at an automobile firm in Sriperumbudur since 1999. In 2009, he brought his cousin, also cSalled Konji Adaikkan, and his wife Chitra and accommodated them in his newly built house. The first Konji Adaikkan and Chitra developed a relationship after which her husband deserted her. Konji Adaikkan’s parents got him married to Pazhaniammal in 2015. Chitra opposed this and asked him to continue his relationship with her. He refused. On August 3, 2019, Pazhaniammal lodged a complaint with the Kancheepuram Taluk police saying her husband was missing. When there was no action, she filed a habeas corpus petition in the Madras high court, but police informed the court that it was a family dispute. Pazhaniammal then discovered that Rs 3.5 lakh had been transferred from her husband’s bank account to Chitra’s advocate through a cheque on February 19 this year. On February 24, Pazhaniammal lodged a complaint with inspector general (north zone) K Shankar. Based on his order, police interrogated Chitra and a few others and found out that she had got Konji Adaikkan killed. Police said Chitra’s men strangulated her boyfriend in a car near Padappai. Later, they packed his body in an iron barrel, sealed it with a concrete mixture and threw it in the abandoned farm well in Malaipattu village near Sriperumbudur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-killed-stuffed-in-barrel-sealed-with-concrete-5-held/articleshow/81382717.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||‘Took first leave on Sunday in one year’||Dr Shalini Rathore, nodal officer (Covid-19), Mahila ChikitsalayaAfter one year, 42-year-old Dr Shalini Rathore took a leave from work on Sunday. Since Covid-19 has conspicuously altered the lives of doctors and patients, Rathore, who is Covid-19 nodal officer at Mahila Chikitsalaya, a dedicated Covid-19 hospital for pregnant women, has taken measures to keep a strong bond with the patients.“Initially, pregnant women were reluctant to visit hospital due to fear of infection. However, through technology, I could still connect to them and help them as much as possible. People, who received such care, had a newly discovered reverence for doctors. Personally, I have been thanked for my service by patients,” she said.She recalled, “As the pandemic struck, patients had flooded hospital. I and other staff had to work day and night to ensure we did not let Covid-19 has the upper hand. I never took working hours into account.”As a doctor, Rathore had been trained well for this. “In a nutshell, Covid-19 was challenging, but we were tough too,” she said.Covid-19 had played a role in drastically, if not completely, erasing the line between work and home for Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/took-first-leave-on-sunday-in-one-year/articleshow/81381735.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||NCB raids three locations in Goa, intercepts two||PANAJI: In a joint operation, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Mumbai and Goa, conducted raids at three locations in the state — Panaji, Anjuna and Miramar, and intercepted two persons with large quantity of drugs. The raids, which started on Sunday morning, continued till midnight. Sources said that they have intercepted a foreign national and another drug dealer who is wanted in a case. The raids were conducted based on information collected by NCB Mumbai. Sources said that NCB Goa was collecting information on an Anjuna case over the past couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncb-raids-three-locations-in-goa-intercepts-two/articleshow/81382670.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||Pandemic pressure on women||Times News NetworkJaipur: It required an extra effort by women — both working and homemakers — to survive the pandemic year. From waking up early to sleeping late in the night, from maintaining a balance between office and home, from handling work pressure under the new work from home rules in addition to cases of domestic violence. The life of several women has gone through a sea change from 2020 International Women’s Day to the same occasion a year later. The pandemic has made Hanumangarh SP Preeti Jain stronger than ever before. Jain, then posted in Jaipur as SP community policing, has less than a day to re-set her responsibilities for the pandemic. She could foresee the scale of the problem and started preparing her and districts teams for tougher days ahead.“It was completely uncharted territory. Coordinating with all districts almost every day, passing them government instructions and providing them solutions to problems kept me on the toes for 18-20 hours a day,” said Jain.The additional responsibility hardly gave time to her to spend with her family. For the next 3-4 months, she hardly had dinner with her husband Rahul Jain who was posted as DCP (North) Jaipur Police Commissoonerate. “Sometimes for days, we could not see each other due to erratic working hours of both,” said Jain. “The pandemic has pushed me to my limits and I am ready to take on any challenge in my life,” said Jain. Irum PariharHousewifeLike any other Indian family, the gravity of the pandemic was realised only after the lockdown was announced in March 2020. Parihar, a mother of two daughters — Humera Fatima and Zainab Fatima — expected the lockdown to last for a week and never thought how stressful the days ahead would be. “Initially, I took an extended holiday at home for the family. Later, I realised that fear of Covid was real and uncertainty that hung over the future,” said Parihar. Household chores almost doubled with snacks in the evening, midnight meals along with children’s education. Later, she enrolled for an online course during the pandemic as recommended by a friend. “The idea was to destress and to engage with the outside world has landed me working for a business idea,” said Parihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pandemic-pressure-on-women/articleshow/81381719.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 8 BJP MPs, 20 MLAs take part in Vasundhara Raje’s ‘religious yatra’||JAIPUR: In what can be termed as a massive show of strength, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje had one-third of the state BJP MLAs and MPs rallying behind her during her ‘religious yatra’, which senior party leaders have been downplaying in the name of ‘her personal events.’ The undercurrent brewing within the party with Raje’s supporters joining hands was out in the open in Bharatpur where undeterred by senior party leaders’ statements, the former chief minister managed to pull huge crowds of public and strong support of party’s MPs and MLAs in an attempt to establish her popularity. BJP in-charge of state Arun Singh had downplayed the yatra by calling it a personal matter on March 1. Following the party line, several close aides of Raje too distanced themselves from the yatra but the party failed to stop eight MPs, 28 MLAs and a battery of former MLAs from taking part in the grand show. She chose Bharatpur division (Karauli, Dholpur and Sawai Madhopur) where BJP suffered a humiliating defeat after it managed to win one seat out of 19. During her address at Pochri Ki Lota, she asserted, “My mother lit the lamp and the ‘lotus’ blossomed. She did not let the light diminish nor allowed the lotus to wither. Rajmata had BJP and nationalism in her every vein. I am her daughter," she said. She thanked PM Narendra Modi for clearing all obstacles in the way of the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Sources said more MPs and MLAs are expected to visit Raje on her second day of yatra which is coinciding with her birthday. Upbeat with the presence of party leaders and people, she said pilgrimage is completed only when you visit with your family and near ones. “I am thankful to everyone who joined me on my birthday celebrations,” said Raje.  Most of the MPs and MLAs were present for a brief period and some just exchanged greetings and returned to Jaipur to attend the assembly. The elected representatives from Udaipur division missed the celebrations. Sources said since BJP state president Satish Poonia is visiting the tribal region, the party leaders chose not to be caught on the wrong foot. The yatra was meticulously planned by her aide Yunus Khan, former state president Ashok Parnami and Malaviya Nagar MLA Kalicharan, MLA Chhabra Pratap Singh Singhvi and former MLA Rajpal Singh Shekhawat.  Sources said for the past one week, the Raje camp had been calling MPs, MLAs and party leaders to attend the programme. Ramcharan Bohra (Jaipur), Ranjeeta Koli (Bharatpur), Manoj Rajoria (Dholpur), Sukhbir Singh Jaunapuria(Tonk-Sawai Madhopur), Dushyant Singh (Jhalawar), Baba Balaknath (Alwar), Ram Kumar Verma (Rajya Sabha member) were present during the day in Bharatpur. Raje, who had announced the two-day yatra in February, had become the centre of political discussion. She planned it from Panchudi Ka Lota in Bharatpur, Giriraj, Daangati Mandir in Jaitpur (Uttar Pradesh) and ended the day with Badri Nath temple in Bharatpur. She will conclude the yatra by visiting Mangla Aarti and Kedarnath Temple in Bharatpur on March 8. Raje’s display of strength amid the internal rift with BJP state president Satish Poonia is seen as an aggressive step to be seen as an active leader in the state. Both the leaders addressed the differences with central leaders while Raje complains of ignorance in the party, Poonia raised the issue of Raje projecting herself as the CM candidate through her loyalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/8-bjp-mps-28-mlas-join-rajes-yatra/articleshow/81385393.cms||Shoeb Khan
March 8, 2021||Udaipur||Lakki Jhamku: The snake catcher of Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: When people get panicked after seeing a snake at their homes or fields, the name that immediately comes to their mind is Lakki Jhamku. Jhamku, who is working in the Indira Gandhi Canal Forest department in Jaisalmer, is credited with catching a dozen snakes in the last three months and releasing them safely in the forest. She has a lot of influence in rural areas and people see her with respect. Whenever she gets information about snakes in offices or fields, she immediately reaches on a motorcycle and catches the snake and releases it in the jungle. She is the only woman in the district catching snakes. Jhamku is playing an important role in conservation of jungles and wildlife. A resident of Baytu area in Barmer, she said that generally in her area girls are married during childhood. “I was married when I was a child. When I grew up, I wanted to be self-dependent and study further. I did my MA and even went to my in-law’s place but my husband was not compatible, so he divorced me.” She said her in-laws were quite good. “I joined the forest department in 2011 and worked for the conservation of the environment and forest. I was inspired to protect snakes and catch them from my friend Anju Chauhan who was deployed in Sirohi that time. In 2016, I met Chauhan for the first time and got inspired by seeing her catching snakes and later I took training.” She said she is not scared of these work and catches deadliest and poisonous snakes in few minutes. Besides catching snakes, she also plants saplings in the field. Till now, she has planted 80,000 saplings. Her father is a farmer. Her family lives in Baytoo and her sister is also in the forest department. DFO of Indira Gandhi Canal Forest area Narpat Singh Charan said that Jhamku is playing an important role in rescue of snakes for which she has taken special training and catches poisonous snakes without any fear. He said that around 350 different types of snakes are found in Rajasthan of which four are poisonous including Cobra, Krait, Russel Viper, Saw Caled Viper. Snakes come out of their holes in summers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/lakki-jhamku-the-snake-catcher-of-jaisalmer/articleshow/81384927.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||Lakki Jhamku: The snake catcher of Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: When people get panicked after seeing a snake at their homes or fields, the name that immediately comes to their mind is Lakki Jhamku. Jhamku, who is working in the Indira Gandhi Canal Forest department in Jaisalmer, is credited with catching a dozen snakes in the last three months and releasing them safely in the forest. She has a lot of influence in rural areas and people see her with respect. Whenever she gets information about snakes in offices or fields, she immediately reaches on a motorcycle and catches the snake and releases it in the jungle. She is the only woman in the district catching snakes. Jhamku is playing an important role in conservation of jungles and wildlife. A resident of Baytu area in Barmer, she said that generally in her area girls are married during childhood. “I was married when I was a child. When I grew up, I wanted to be self-dependent and study further. I did my MA and even went to my in-law’s place but my husband was not compatible, so he divorced me.” She said her in-laws were quite good. “I joined the forest department in 2011 and worked for the conservation of the environment and forest. I was inspired to protect snakes and catch them from my friend Anju Chauhan who was deployed in Sirohi that time. In 2016, I met Chauhan for the first time and got inspired by seeing her catching snakes and later I took training.” She said she is not scared of these work and catches deadliest and poisonous snakes in few minutes. Besides catching snakes, she also plants saplings in the field. Till now, she has planted 80,000 saplings. Her father is a farmer. Her family lives in Baytoo and her sister is also in the forest department. DFO of Indira Gandhi Canal Forest area Narpat Singh Charan said that Jhamku is playing an important role in rescue of snakes for which she has taken special training and catches poisonous snakes without any fear. He said that around 350 different types of snakes are found in Rajasthan of which four are poisonous including Cobra, Krait, Russel Viper, Saw Caled Viper. Snakes come out of their holes in summers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lakki-jhamku-the-snake-catcher-of-jaisalmer/articleshow/81381738.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||Fair power along the border||Jaisalmer: BSF women jawans are leading from the front in protecting the nation from external threats. In the Rajasthan Frontier, 400 women are on guarding duty and also in the battalion. In every battalion of Rajasthan Frontier, 20-30 women security personnel are present and a few of them are deployed along the international border adjoining Jaisalmer, Barmer, Bikaner and Ganganagar. They are primarily tasked to protect the women farmers who cultivate near the border.At the age of 20-21 years, these strong daughters of the country carrying Insas rifles on their shoulders are keeping the country safe from any sort of foreign aggression. The BSF Women brigade comprise members from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal. These brave girls from various parts of the country have become the country’s security shield at the border. BSF Rajasthan Frontier IG Pankaj Ghoomar said in every battalion, 20-25 constable women are deployed in every battalion. “These women are doing a perfect job along the border. They are experts in patrolling, weapon firing and can deal with any situation. They are also ready to take on terrorists and smugglers,” Ghoomar said.He said separate barracks has been provided to these women along the border. “We are providing them all the facilities and in the coming days, more women constables will join the force,” he added. Rajasthan Frontier DIG Arun Kumar Singh said women jawans also carry out foot patrolling, gate management, checking women going for farm activities near the fencing, assisting and inquiring women caught along the border, among others.He said there was a time when women were not considered for recruitment in army or central armed police forces, but women who joined the force have proved themselves in all fields of work. Woman constable Neelam Ghosh said they were given 44-week strict commando training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fair-power-along-the-border/articleshow/81381737.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jodhpur||Lakki Jhamku: The snake catcher of Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: When people get panicked after seeing a snake at their homes or fields, the name that immediately comes to their mind is Lakki Jhamku. Jhamku, who is working in the Indira Gandhi Canal Forest department in Jaisalmer, is credited with catching a dozen snakes in the last three months and releasing them safely in the forest. She has a lot of influence in rural areas and people see her with respect. Whenever she gets information about snakes in offices or fields, she immediately reaches on a motorcycle and catches the snake and releases it in the jungle. She is the only woman in the district catching snakes. Jhamku is playing an important role in conservation of jungles and wildlife. A resident of Baytu area in Barmer, she said that generally in her area girls are married during childhood. “I was married when I was a child. When I grew up, I wanted to be self-dependent and study further. I did my MA and even went to my in-law’s place but my husband was not compatible, so he divorced me.” She said her in-laws were quite good. “I joined the forest department in 2011 and worked for the conservation of the environment and forest. I was inspired to protect snakes and catch them from my friend Anju Chauhan who was deployed in Sirohi that time. In 2016, I met Chauhan for the first time and got inspired by seeing her catching snakes and later I took training.” She said she is not scared of these work and catches deadliest and poisonous snakes in few minutes. Besides catching snakes, she also plants saplings in the field. Till now, she has planted 80,000 saplings. Her father is a farmer. Her family lives in Baytoo and her sister is also in the forest department. DFO of Indira Gandhi Canal Forest area Narpat Singh Charan said that Jhamku is playing an important role in rescue of snakes for which she has taken special training and catches poisonous snakes without any fear. He said that around 350 different types of snakes are found in Rajasthan of which four are poisonous including Cobra, Krait, Russel Viper, Saw Caled Viper. Snakes come out of their holes in summers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/lakki-jhamku-the-snake-catcher-of-jaisalmer/articleshow/81384925.cms||---
March 8, 2021||World||How ‘Big Ag’ ate up America’s small farms||40 years ago, the US threw open farming to the corporate sector, something India now wants to do. How has this played out there? Los Angeles-based IITian Bedabrata Pain, an ex-Nasa scientist and national award-winning filmmaker, set out on a 10,000-km road trip across rural America to document the story of their farmers. This is what he saw The roads were icy and the wind biting cold as we started our 10,000-km journey through the heart of America one January morning. Sristy Agrawal, Rajashik Tarafder — young physicists pursuing their PhDs — Rumela Gangopadhyay, a theatre artiste, and I wanted to witness the state of farming in rural America, the quintessential “Trump country”. Read the full story on TOI+: How corporatisation ate up America's small farms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/how-big-ag-ate-up-americas-small-farms/articleshow/81384027.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ajmer||In local-body polls, women outshine men in key posts||JAIPUR: Data collated by the state election commission (SEC) shows that there has been a significant rise in women’s representation as heads of panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies since the beginning of elections to these bodies in November, 2019. The number of women sarpanches, urban local body chairpersons, zila pramukhs, pradhans elected in these polls is more than that of men. Women representation surpassed men’s representation also when it came to the number of panchayat samiti members and zila parishad members elected. Of the 11,310 sarpanches elected in the last elections, 6,205 were women and 5,105 men. Of the 196 urban local body chairpersons elected, 106 were female heads against 90 males. Of the 21 zila pramukhs elected, 15 were women and six men and of the 222 pradhans,133 were women against 89 men. Also, of the total 4,371 panchayat samiti members elected in the last polls, 2445 were female members and 1926 were male members. Of the 636 Zila Parisahd members elected in the polls, 350 were females and 286 were males. However, the number of males was more when it came to the number of ULB ward members, panches, ULB deputy chairpersons, up-pradhans and up-zila pramukhs elected. In all, of the 1,32,997 representatives elected in the past elections, 76,449 were males and 56,548 were females, which accounts for 42.5% representation for women. Women rule Election type Female Male Total Sarpanches 6,205 5,105 11,310 Urban local body chairpersons 106 90 196 Panchayat samiti members 2445 1926 4371 Pradhans 133 89 222 Zila Parishad members 350 286 636 Zila Pramukhs 15 6 21 Total 9,254 7,502 16,756||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/in-local-body-polls-women-outshine-men-in-key-posts/articleshow/81384864.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jodhpur||In local-body polls, women outshine men in key posts||JAIPUR: Data collated by the state election commission (SEC) shows that there has been a significant rise in women’s representation as heads of panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies since the beginning of elections to these bodies in November, 2019. The number of women sarpanches, urban local body chairpersons, zila pramukhs, pradhans elected in these polls is more than that of men. Women representation surpassed men’s representation also when it came to the number of panchayat samiti members and zila parishad members elected. Of the 11,310 sarpanches elected in the last elections, 6,205 were women and 5,105 men. Of the 196 urban local body chairpersons elected, 106 were female heads against 90 males. Of the 21 zila pramukhs elected, 15 were women and six men and of the 222 pradhans,133 were women against 89 men. Also, of the total 4,371 panchayat samiti members elected in the last polls, 2445 were female members and 1926 were male members. Of the 636 Zila Parisahd members elected in the polls, 350 were females and 286 were males. However, the number of males was more when it came to the number of ULB ward members, panches, ULB deputy chairpersons, up-pradhans and up-zila pramukhs elected. In all, of the 1,32,997 representatives elected in the past elections, 76,449 were males and 56,548 were females, which accounts for 42.5% representation for women. Women rule Election type Female Male Total Sarpanches 6,205 5,105 11,310 Urban local body chairpersons 106 90 196 Panchayat samiti members 2445 1926 4371 Pradhans 133 89 222 Zila Parishad members 350 286 636 Zila Pramukhs 15 6 21 Total 9,254 7,502 16,756||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/in-local-body-polls-women-outshine-men-in-key-posts/articleshow/81384862.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nashik||3 health projects at New Bytco hospital to be put on fast track||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will speed up the pace of implementing three health-related projects at the New Bytco hospital. The civic body had undertaken these projects sometime ago, but it got delayed owing to various reasons. The proposed RT-PCR lab for conducting tests of all viral diseases, jumbo oxygen tank and medical college and hospital are expected to be operational within the next few months.This is part of municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav’s blueprint of upgrading the New Bytco hospital of the civic body to provide better health services to the city residents.“We are already in the process of setting up the RT-PCR Lab at the new Bytco hospital. This lab will not only conduct swabs of Covid suspects, but all the viral diseases like swine flu, dengue, among others,” Avesh Palod, city Covid officer of the NMC, said.“A total of Rs 3.92 crore under the District Planning Committee has been transferred to the civic body. This will be a permanent lab for all the viral diseases and we are in the process of preparing a proposal for procurement of all the equipment required for the lab,” Palod said, adding that the proposed RT-PCR lab is expected to be operational by mid-April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-health-projects-at-new-bytco-hospital-to-be-put-on-fast-track/articleshow/81380094.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||In local-body polls, women outshine men in key posts||JAIPUR: Data collated by the state election commission (SEC) shows that there has been a significant rise in women’s representation as heads of panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies since the beginning of elections to these bodies in November, 2019. The number of women sarpanches, urban local body chairpersons, zila pramukhs, pradhans elected in these polls is more than that of men. Women representation surpassed men’s representation also when it came to the number of panchayat samiti members and zila parishad members elected. Of the 11,310 sarpanches elected in the last elections, 6,205 were women and 5,105 men. Of the 196 urban local body chairpersons elected, 106 were female heads against 90 males. Of the 21 zila pramukhs elected, 15 were women and six men and of the 222 pradhans,133 were women against 89 men. Also, of the total 4,371 panchayat samiti members elected in the last polls, 2445 were female members and 1926 were male members. Of the 636 Zila Parisahd members elected in the polls, 350 were females and 286 were males. However, the number of males was more when it came to the number of ULB ward members, panches, ULB deputy chairpersons, up-pradhans and up-zila pramukhs elected. In all, of the 1,32,997 representatives elected in the past elections, 76,449 were males and 56,548 were females, which accounts for 42.5% representation for women. Women rule Election type Female Male Total Sarpanches 6,205 5,105 11,310 Urban local body chairpersons 106 90 196 Panchayat samiti members 2445 1926 4371 Pradhans 133 89 222 Zila Parishad members 350 286 636 Zila Pramukhs 15 6 21 Total 9,254 7,502 16,756||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-local-body-polls-women-outshine-men-in-key-posts/articleshow/81381757.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Udaipur||In local-body polls, women outshine men in key posts||JAIPUR: Data collated by the state election commission (SEC) shows that there has been a significant rise in women’s representation as heads of panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies since the beginning of elections to these bodies in November, 2019. The number of women sarpanches, urban local body chairpersons, zila pramukhs, pradhans elected in these polls is more than that of men. Women representation surpassed men’s representation also when it came to the number of panchayat samiti members and zila parishad members elected. Of the 11,310 sarpanches elected in the last elections, 6,205 were women and 5,105 men. Of the 196 urban local body chairpersons elected, 106 were female heads against 90 males. Of the 21 zila pramukhs elected, 15 were women and six men and of the 222 pradhans,133 were women against 89 men. Also, of the total 4,371 panchayat samiti members elected in the last polls, 2445 were female members and 1926 were male members. Of the 636 Zila Parisahd members elected in the polls, 350 were females and 286 were males. However, the number of males was more when it came to the number of ULB ward members, panches, ULB deputy chairpersons, up-pradhans and up-zila pramukhs elected. In all, of the 1,32,997 representatives elected in the past elections, 76,449 were males and 56,548 were females, which accounts for 42.5% representation for women. Women rule Election type Female Male Total Sarpanches 6,205 5,105 11,310 Urban local body chairpersons 106 90 196 Panchayat samiti members 2445 1926 4371 Pradhans 133 89 222 Zila Parishad members 350 286 636 Zila Pramukhs 15 6 21 Total 9,254 7,502 16,756||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/in-local-body-polls-women-outshine-men-in-key-posts/articleshow/81384863.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Bareilly||Woman, youth commit suicide in separate incidents in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 23-year-old woman and a 20-year-old youth allegedly committed suicide in separate incidents under two police station circles in Pilibhit on Saturday night. Police said the woman had consumed poison, while the youth was found hanging at his home. The bodies were sent for autopsy. Jaggu Lal, a resident of Narayanpur village under Barkhera police station, told police that his 23-year-old daughter Damyanti Devi got married to one Lucky Kumar of Jar Kallia village under the same police station in 2018. “Damyanti was depressed over her husband’s illicit affair with another woman. Lucky would thrash and abuse her whenever she protested,” alleged the father. “Depressed over her husband’s illicit affair, Damyanti consumed poison on Saturday night. She was shifted to the district government hospital in Pilibhit around 10.30 pm but doctors proclaimed her dead upon arrival,” said the father. In another incident, 20-year-old Neeraj Kumar, a labourer, was found hanging at his home in Khamaria Patti village under Jahanabad police station. His mother Sheela Devi first spotted the hanging body on Sunday morning. Barkhera SHO Viresh Kumar and his counterpart at Jahanabad Harish Vardhan Singh said in both the cases, police had received request letters for sending the bodies for the autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-youth-commit-suicide-in-separate-incidents-in-pilibhit/articleshow/81379203.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Budget session: BJP decides on aggressive stance||New Delhi: The BJP Legislature Party, which met under the leadership of leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Sunday, decided to adopt an aggressive strategy to take up issues during the Budget session that begins on Monday, the party said in a statement. Bidhuri said it was unfortunate that the AAP government was overlooking all constitutional and legislative norms during the Budget session. He said it would be the first time in the history of this House that question hour will not be held, which indicated that the government was running away from queries. The BJP functionary alleged that the Kejriwal government’s promises of free Wi-Fi at several spots and a network of CCTV cameras have not been fulfilled. He also claimed that a budget of Rs 30 crores were earmarked to tackle pollution, but there is no word on what happened to that budget and where it was spent instead Delhi has been labelled as one of the most polluted cities was a blot on its face. Reacting to Bidhuri’s allegations, AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak said that in the recently held municipal bypoll, the citizens of Delhi have shown they are with Kejriwal. TNNHe said citizens of Delhi are tired and fed up with BJP-led municipal corporations, while the Kejriwal government has fulfilled all its promises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/budget-session-bjp-decides-on-aggressive-stance/articleshow/81382718.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Nashik||Ladoo distribution restarts in Shirdi||Nashik: Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust (SSST), Shirdi, has restarted the distribution of free ladoo (prasad) among the devotees. This move comes in the wake of the growing requests from people who visit the temple. Although the temple reopened for devotees from November 16 last year after being closed for seven months due to the Covid outbreak, the trust authorities had refrained from distribution of the prasad as a precautionary measure. “But now the distribution of free ladoo has again begun. Each devotee visiting the temple for darshan is provided with a packet of ladoos weighing 50 gram,” as per the statement issued by SSST authorities. The trust has started making ladoos maintaining all the Covid safety protocols. It is prepared in hygienic condition. “We are providing the ladoo packets to the devotees in a queue for darshan of Sai,” said the trust authorities. The trust management is adhering to strict management of Covid safety protocols. Devotees without masks are not allowed for darshan. The trust is ensuring social distancing norm within the temple premises is followed. Moreover elderly, children under the age of 10 years and pregnant women are not allowed. At present, the trust has put a cap on the daily entry of about 15,000 people for darshan. “The feedback from devotees is that they are extremely happy the trust has taken a note of their request and have started free distribution of ladoo ,” said the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ladoo-distribution-restarts-in-shirdi/articleshow/81380097.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Rajkot||Four MP men arrested for Rs 9L robbery||Rajkot: Four people who had thrashed and robbed a farm owner near Jamnagar on February 21 night have been caught by the local crime branch (LCB) on Sunday.The four had thrashed farm owner Ram Odedara, his father Vikram and Ram’s two sisters and robbed valuables worth Rs 8.62 including Rs 3 lakh in cash, besides three gold chains, gold pendants, mangal sutras before escaping in Odedara's car. Those arrested were Gyan Singh Devka, Keram Singh alias Bajdo, Bhilu Singh alias Bilu and Dinesh Minava, all natives of Madhya Pradesh, said cops.“Gyan Singh used to working as a labourer in Odedara’s farm and knew about cash and jewellery kept inside the house,” said cops. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-mp-men-arrested-for-rs-9l-robbery/articleshow/81380340.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Bareilly||5 booked for rape bid, robbery||Pilibhit: Based on the orders of the chief judicial magistrate, police in Pilibhit have registered a case against five persons, including a father-son duo, for allegedly trying to rape two women and stealing cash and other valuables from them recently. The 38-year-old complainant said that she had to approach the court as police refused to file an FIR. In her complaint, she alleged that two of her neighbours — Ram Chandra (32) and his father Om Prakash (53) — barged into their house late on December 6 when her husband and son had gone out to attend a wedding. She said that the accused entered the house in an inebriated state and tried to rape her and her daughter-in-law apart from stealing Rs 3,000 and a gold chain from them. Pilibhit Kotwali station house officer Atar Singh said that a case was registered against five persons under section 452 (house trespass), 354 (applying force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 392 (robbery), 323 (causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-booked-for-rape-bid-robbery/articleshow/81379206.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Lady Hardinge gets notice for not being ‘disabled-friendly’||New Delhi: The court of chief commissioner for persons with disabilities has sent a notice to Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC) on a complaint by Satendra Singh, professor of physiology at University College of Medical Sciences, alleging that the institution is inaccessible for the disabled. Singh claimed that by not making the infrastructure accessible, the college was violating the direction of National Medical Commission and sections 45 and 46 of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Invoking Section 75 of the Act, the chief commissioner sent the notice to the institute. “It is the sole medical college for women in the city and it is still not disabled-friendly. The examination hall, academic section and department of physiology are on the first floor without an elevator. Similarly, a lot of areas in LHMC and associated campuses of Sucheta Kriplani and Kalawati Saran Children’s hospitals are not barrier-free,” Singh told TOI. However LHMC director professor NN Mathur dismissed the complaint saying the new academic block was fully accessible. “The person who filed the complaint doesn’t seem to have visited the premises. We have made the country’s best academic block, which is completely accessible and will soon be inaugurated. This building is over 100 years old. As it is a heritage building, no changes can be made to it,” he said. Calling the complaint “malicious”, Mathur said he would be taking the complainant to court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lady-hardinge-gets-notice-for-not-being-disabled-friendly/articleshow/81382723.cms||Shradha Chettri
March 8, 2021||Aurangabad||All-India Marathi literary meet postponed over Covid case surge||Aurangabad: Aurangabad: The three-day 94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, which was to be held in Nashik from March 26, has been postponed on account of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases.The Akhil Bharatiya Sahitya Mahamandal (ABSM), an apex literary body, announced this on Sunday but said Jayant Naralikar as president-elect and Nashik as the venue would remain unchanged for the event in future.ABSM president Kautik Thale-Patil said the decision to postpone the prestigious literary event was taken after discussions. “While we were not keen on holding the meet because of the Covid-19 outbreak last year, there were many supporting the event after the drop in cases by November. However, in the wake of the latest surge, it will be prudent to postpone the event,” he said. The organisers were in a hurry to arrange the event before March 31 in order to avoid the lapse of government funds of Rs 50 lakh. However, Dr Milind Joshi, working president of the Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad, Pune, said the necessary funds can be rearranged with help from the government. “The current crisis is exceptional and we are hopeful that the state government would reallocate the Rs 50 lakh,” he said. “Since the venue has not been changed, there is no point in stopping the process,” said Jaiprakash Jategaonkar, organiser of the event.Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare has also welcomed the decision. “The current situation is not conducive for a mega-event to be hosted in Nashik,” he said.When the Mahamandal office-bearers asked the administration about the situation, the collector said that he had told them the facts even as the decision was to be reached by the Mahamandal.Speaking to the media in Nashik, Hemant Takle, executive president of the Sammelan, said preparations will continue so that the event can be conducted whenever a new date is announced. “We expect the sammelan to be held in May, though the dates will be announced after considering the situation. But we are at ready so that the event can be held at even a short notice of 20 days,” he said. The organisers said the tender process for all preparations had started and bidders are being informed. Bids will be accepted only if the bidders are ready to provide services at very short notice.“Since the venue has not been changed, there is no point in stopping the process,” said Jaiprakash Jategaonkar, organiser of the event.Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare has also welcomed the decision. “The current situation is not conducive for a mega-event to be hosted in Nashik,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/all-india-marathi-literary-meet-postponed-over-covid-case-surge/articleshow/81380116.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Man stabbed in Telangana over money dispute||HYDERABAD: A road accident in Vikarabad on Sunday led to a man attempting to kill his neighbour. Vikarabad police said when Naveen was taking out his car on Sunday, it accidentally hit his neighbour Pandu’s car parked outside. As a result, Pandu’s car got damaged. Officials said that despite Naveen assuring to get Pandu’s vehicle repaired, there was a dispute between them over the total money to be paid for repair. This led to an argument, which allegedly made Pandu stab Naveen with a knife. Following the incident, locals rushed the victim to a local hospital. According to Vikarabad police, Pandu is at large and a case was registered against him under section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-stabbed-over-money-dispute/articleshow/81382729.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Let public in, without them this is private hearing: Goa leader of opposition Digambar Kamat||MARGAO: The arrival of opposition MLAs, led by leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, midway through the public hearing on the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) at Ravindra Bhavan Margao, pumped up the adrenaline of the protesters. Kamat told the district administration officials, led by officiating collector Surendra Naik, to either stop or postpone the hearing and start the process “all over again”. “For the first time I am seeing a public hearing where the public is outside and a few selected people are inside. And you call this a public hearing? Public hearing is where the views of each and every person wishing to speak are duly recorded. This appears to be a private hearing,” Kamat told the collector. “Send your officers to each and every village and prepare a plan in consultation with the panchayats, as it deals with the future of our state.” GFP president Vijai Sardesai, however, sounded acerbic. “Is this a democracy or a match-fixing?” Sardesai asked the officials. “I can also be in the government tomorrow and take action against you all. BJP will be here for only eight more months, after that its shelf life will be over.” Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao asked the officials to heed what he called “people’s one-point demand – go to the villages and do the plan.” Curtorim MLA Aleixio Reginaldo Lourenco criticised the district administration for using police force to silence people’s voices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/let-public-in-without-them-this-is-private-hearing-kamat/articleshow/81383716.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Man shot by two bikers in southwest Delhi||NEW DELHI: A property dealer was shot dead by two men on a motorcycle in southwest Delhi's Najafgarh on Sunday evening. The shooters are at large, police said. The deceased was identified as Sushil Kumar. The incident happened around 4.30pm. Kumar had an office in Sewak Park and had come to visit a friend near Najafgarh police station. The bikers, it is suspected, were trailing him from his office. Kumar was in a car and accompanied by two friends. After reaching the destination, the two friends got off the vehicle and went to a nearby salon. Kumar parked the car and had stepped out of the vehicle when shooters approached him and shot him three times. Kumar was rushed to a nearby hospital, but was declared brought dead. The body will be handed over to the family after the autopsy, the cops said. Police have filed an FIR. The cops are questioning his friends, family and colleagues to ascertain if he had received any threats or had an enmity with someone. Police suspect a dispute over property could be a reason behind the murder, but said they were probing all angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-shot-by-two-bikers-in-sw-delhi/articleshow/81382787.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Stalker sets girl’s house on fire as mom warns him||CHENNAI: A 19-year-old youth used kerosene and set the house of a schoolgirl on fire on Sunday after her mother warned him against stalking, eve-teasing the minor. Since the family did not lodge a complaint, police have detained him for another petty crime — quarreling with a tea shop owner — and he was remanded him in judicial custody. Police said the accused, a married man doing odd jobs, had been stalking the 13-year-old and harassed her multiple times. The girl informed her mother about the nuisance and the woman had confronted the accused and warned him. Infuriated by this, the accused went to the girl’s house on Friday, poured kerosene though a window and threw in a lit match. None was injured and the fire was put out after the victims called the police control room and the fire and rescue services personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalker-sets-girls-house-on-fire-as-mom-warns-him/articleshow/81382793.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: With business ventures, they became lockdown heroines||LUCKNOW: Women have been known to be multi-taskers, donning several hats. Be it household chores, raising kids, or tackling varied roles, they raise the bar every time. On International Women’s Day, TOI celebrates the achievements of women entrepreneurs who took the road less travelled and began their entrepreneurship journey during lockdown. From sharing their secret recipes, to curating and opening their own e-commerce platforms, there are several women who have written and rewritten stories of entrepreneurship through their businesses. The idea of bringing local talent of Lucknow on one platform was conceived by fashion stylist Savnit Gurnani in 2016 itself but it only came into existence during Covid-19 lockdown when some local brands which were dependent on exhibition for sale couldn’t manage to clear their summer stocks. “The idea struck me when I started collaborating with these brands during pandemic. Officially, my business planning started in June last year and we launched the company in November. I believe you are never too old to set another goal,” says the 28-year-old entrepreneur. “My aim is to promote craft and creators. It is an exclusive chikankari platform selling an array of work designed by 12 different designers,” she adds. Venuka Sehgal (24), who proudly dons the hat of being the first woman entrepreneur in her family, chased her passion of cooking when she started baking different breads in her free time during lockdown. After several experiments, Sehgal ditched the idea of pursuing post-graduation and opened her cloud kitchen delivering freshly baked goods within 24 hours across the city. “I always wanted to work in food industry but destiny had other plans for me. Lockdown gave me time to explore and experiment with food and recipes and brought out the chef in me,” she says. “I recently delivered my 100th order, within 90 days of starting business. From branding to packaging, designing the logo and menu, including croissants, pretzels and artisanal breads, I did it all by myself,” adds the Jankipuram resident. Coming from a family which is in garment and export business, 24-year-old Vaishnavi Kapoor learnt the skills of running a business ever since she was young. However, the Mahanagar resident always wanted to branch out from her family business and start something new. With the export market shut, not able to deliver products to clientele abroad, and watching her staff suffer, Kapoor thought of working towards achieving her dream with the help of manufacturing staff of her family business and start her own fashion line. “The idea is to eliminate fast fashion culture and bring sustainable exclusive designs and pure fabric in Indian closet. All raw material is sourced, produced and designed at local level with sustainable packaging and minimal waste,” says Kapoor, the founder of e-commerce platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-biz-ventures-they-became-lockdown-heroines/articleshow/81382759.cms||Aditi Singh
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC orders forensic audit into breach in e-tendering system||MUMBAI: The BMC has ordered a digital forensic investigation into allegations of rigging of tenders by breaching the e-tendering system. A committee of senior officials and independent experts has been formed to study the forensic audit report and then make changes to the online bidding system. According to senior civic officials, the BMC’s IT department has appointed forensic audit firm BDO India for the job. A detailed report is expected shortly. Last month, there were complaints about hacking of bids by a cartel of contractors who allegedly manage to breach the online tendering system, check the bids and then quote lower bids to bag contracts worth hundreds of crores. It is alleged that a section of contractors gets access to the ‘wallet balance’ and rates quoted by other contractors at the time of submission of online bids. “These contractors have been bagging contracts with a very short margin by submitting bids just minutes before bids close. Their bids are only marginally lower than the lowest bidders,” the complaint had said. All civic contractors have to maintain a wallet balance with the BMC to pay deposits and charges for participating in online bidding. According to the complaint, the cartel of contractors in collusion with some BMC officials procures the list before 4 pm when the bid submission ends. They also get the wallet balance of the bidders. The lower the bid amount, higher the deposit amount, so contractors find out the exact bid amount after checking the wallet balance. Once all the bidders have submitted the bids, they make a lower bid just minutes before bids close at 4 pm. “The issues with the security deposit and wallet balance have already been cleared. The audit report will be studied by the committee and changes will be made accordingly. We will also compare our online system with the National Informatics Centre (NIC). In fact some big tenders of the BMC have been floated on the NIC,” said a senior civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-orders-forensic-audit-into-breach-in-e-tendering-system/articleshow/81382842.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 8, 2021||Chennai||Man who forced 4 kids to watch porn content and abused them lands in jail||Chennai: An elderly man who showed pornographic and child sex abuse content to minor children and sexually abused them at Ennore was arrested on Sunday. His history as an abuser came to light after the mother of a 12-year-old lodged a complaint recently. The complainant worked as a caretaker for Pushparaj, 68. The child told the mother that the man had offered chocolates, offered his mobile phone to play games and then forced the survivor to watch some content she disliked and sexually abused her later. The mother had then confronted the man and found porn and abusive content on his mobile, police said. Inquiry revealed he had abused three other children aged 8, 10 and 11 years similarly. Based on the complaint, Ennore AWPS police registered a case under the IT Act and relevant provisions of the Pocso Act. He was remanded in judicial custody.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-forced-4-kids-to-watch-porn-content-and-abused-them-lands-in-jail/articleshow/81382811.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Grocer dies as truck hits 2-wheeler near Sherpur||Ludhiana: A 35-year-old man died after a speeding truck hit his two-wheeler near Sherpur on Saturday afternoon.Munna Kumar, a resident of Rajiv Gandhi Colony who ran a grocery store, was going to pick up his children from their school when the accident took place.Kumar’s brother Hare Ram said in his police complaint, “My brother has three children —two daughters aged 14 and 8 and an 11-year-old son. They study at a government school near Sherpur. On Saturday afternoon, he was going to their school on his two-wheeler to pick them up. When he reached near a steel factory, a speeding truck hit him. After the accident, the truck driver escaped from the spot. Passersby took my brother to a hospital, where he was declared dead.” Moti Nagar ASI Gurjit Singh said a case has been registered under sections 279 (reckless driving), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the IPC. “We are checking the footage of CCTVs to trace the accused,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/grocer-dies-as-truck-hits-2-wheeler-near-sherpur/articleshow/81380650.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Rs 45cr collected from M’wada, 3 more dists||Aurangabad: The official fund collection drive for Ram temple in Ayodhya has so far reached out to 33,66,603 families in ‘Deogiri Prant’, that covers the eight districts of Marathwada, along with Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar. Sanjay Bargaje, regional head of the drive, said Rs 45 crore has been collected between January 15 to February 15. “We have been receiving an overwhelming response with people from all walks of lives donating money generously as per their capacities,” he said. Around 1,60,683 volunteers participated in the fund collection drive which covered 11,232 villages in 11 districts. “The fund collectiondrive is over and the money generated has been forwarded to the central authorities,” said Janardan Mete, another organiser in the region. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rs-45cr-collected-from-mwada-3-more-dists/articleshow/81381776.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ludhiana||108 test positive, case count mounts to 27,832||Ludhiana: As many as 108 residents tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Sunday. They included four teachers and as many students.A patient from Moga succumbed to the virus at a hospital here, according to the local media bulletin.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said with no death from Ludhiana, the district toll tally stood at 1,036 and that of outsiders has climbed to 516.To date, 6,92,827 persons have been tested.Of the 108 news cases, 38 were from flu corner, 30 from OPD, 13 contacts of positive patients, 16 through tracing process, two health-care workers, one auxiliary nurse midwife. Besides, four teachers (two of a government school in Koom Kalan and one each from government schools in Mullanpur and Sahnewal) and four students (three of a government school in Sahnewal and one of a Saleem Tabri school) have caught the virus. Also, 31 patients from outside Ludhiana tested positive here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 27,832 and that of outsiders 4,368.So far, 26,065 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.65% of the total cases.There are 731 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,720.On Sunday, 251 persons were quarantined and 4,195 samples collected.Seven patients, including four of Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/108-test-positive-case-count-mounts-to-27832/articleshow/81380703.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Ahead of budget, city bizmen forward their wish list to FM||Ludhiana: Ahead of the state budget to be announced by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Monday, city businessmen have sent their demands and suggestions to him for consideration. Businessmen say the state government needs to take measures for Punjab’s industry that is passing through a very tough time, besides Centre’s budget announced last month had failed to address their concerns. Expediting GST refunds, establishing new focal points, technology upgrade schemes and introducing one-time settlement policies in all departments related to industry are the major demands of the businessmen. For some, industry modernisation is key to development. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO), says, “We have sent several suggestions to the finance minister to help industry bounce back. The Centre has failed to give us relief. Bicycle and hosiery are the mother industries in Punjab that give employment to lakhs of people, and many of these function from tiny and small units located in the streets and narrow lanes of Ludhiana. Even after decades of starting business, most of the units are still working on old technologies and unable to compete at national and international levels. To manufacture world-class products, the Punjab government must bring in a technology upgrade fund scheme to give subsidies and incentives to the local factories.”GST refund is also a major cause of concern. Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, general secretary of United Cycle and Parts’ Manufacturers’ Association, says, “The state portion of GST refunds are pending, blocking our working capital, besides we are incurring heavy bank interests on over-usage of our business loans. The tax department must understand that the blocked GST is not a subsidy or an incentive, but our hard-earned money. Therefore, we urge the finance minister to bring a law to ensure processing of refund of our portion of state GST within a week of application.”KK Seth, a city-based businessman and exporter, says, “The government should earmark a budget to promote the use of electric vehicles. This will not only reduce pollution, but also give a big push to the electric vehicle manufacturers of Ludhiana, who have invested a huge amount of money in plants and machineries, but their sales have not picked up. The government should introduce an interest subsidy on purchase of electric vehicles or give incentive in the shape of GST refund and exempting registration charges.”FICO general secretary Rajeev Jain wants focus on infrastructure. “Though Ludhiana is declared a Smart City, our industrial areas and focal points’ infrastructure remains poor. The state government must establish new focal points in the district and also earmark money for the repair and maintenance of the existing ones. Besides, the state government should also bring in a one-time settlement policy in all the departments so that old, pending cases and litigations can be resolved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ahead-of-budget-city-bizmen-forward-their-wish-list-to-fm/articleshow/81380685.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow zoo’s female hippo’s condition worsens||Lucknow: A 24-year-old female hippo Aashi in Lucknow zoo is in acute pain as she has not been able to give birth for over a month. It’s turned disturbing even for keepers and doctors of the zoo who are unable to do anything to alleviate her pain. For a few days, Aashi has started showing signs of appetite loss. Unless someone comes up with a solution, she seems to be heading towards an unhappy end. Zoos from India and across the world seem to have no solution to Aashi’s problem. The Lucknow zoo administration has consulted IVRI, Bareilly, Mathura Veterinary College, Kumarganj, Ayodhya Veterinary College and animal husbandry department of the state and several vets have examined her and prescribed treatment, but nothing has proved to be of any help to the hippo. “It is the first of its kind case. Nobody has any experience of handling such situations,” said director, Lucknow zoo, RK Singh. Aashi has been under treatment since February 5. On February 4, she was ready to deliver when she passed amniotic fluid. She gave up food briefly, but that is a normal behaviour with animals when they are about to deliver. But she could not give birth. In between, zoo administration wrote to Kanpur zoo, Delhi zoo, Nandan Kanan zoo, Bannerghatta zoo and Kolkata zoo, seeking their advice, but to no avail. “I consulted experts in zoos abroad through emails,” said the director. Serengeti research centre, Mahale/Gombe research centre, Smithsonian zoo and institutions, Njiro research centre and Kingupira research centre have been consulted along with World Association of Zoos and Aquaria. “On the basis of the recommendations we have separated her from the male and kept her in another enclosure. She is being administered medicines and is being constantly watched,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-zoos-female-hippos-condition-worsens/articleshow/81382817.cms||Neha Shukla
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Belapur tops in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai||With a rise in Covid cases in Navi Mumbai, Belapur reported the highest (18.63%) of all eight wards. On the other hand, Nerul has the most recoveries at 96.62% with lowest case fatality rate at 1.73% against the highest of 2.43% in Turbhe. National average of case fatality rate is 1.42% while that of Navi Mumbai is 2.03%.  —B B Nayak||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/belapur-tops-in-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai/articleshow/81383753.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat women power dairy sector growth||Vadodara/Anand: In 2012, Mittal Patel of Borsad taluka’s Kavitha village ventured into dairy business with just one cow. She along with her husband and brother-in-law increased cattle holding by taking loans. Now, this 38-year-old is a proud owner of Sargam dairy farm, having nearly 200 cows including 75 calves. The farm alone supplies around 1,700 litres milk directly to Amul Dairy on a daily basis. Women dairy entrepreneurs like Mittal are the backbone of the dairy industry in Gujarat – the cradle of India’s White Revolution . A study carried out by research scholars of the Verghese Kurien Centre of Excellence (VKCoE) of the Institute of Rural Management Anand (IRMA) highlights women’s pivotal role in growth of Gujarat’s dairy sector. A 2018 report by the National Cooperative Union of India, 4.98 million women members contributed to 30% of the total membership in cooperative societies. In Gujarat alone, out of 34.94 lakh milk producer members, 36% (12.5 lakh) members are women. “Involvement of women in dairy business has enabled them to become financially independent and self-driven micro-entrepreneurs,” said VKCoE’s chairman Dr J B Prajapati, whose students — Shweta Krishnan, Ankit Sontakke and Pankaj Parmar — carried out the study. Mittal provides employment to 17 people while engaging three women full time on her farm. In Motipura DCS of Kapadvanj taluka, all the 400 dairy farmer members are females. This ‘mandali’ which had started with around 400 litres of milk daily in 2006 crossed the 10,000 litres mark in 2019 when its turnover touched Rs 24 crore per annum. “Every dairy household in our village has a minimum of 10 cattle. NABARD has provided subsidies worth Rs one crore to women farmers for purchasing cattle. This has improved milk pouring capacity.,” said Sharda Patel, who is also a member in the board of Kaira District Milk Union. Forty-year-old Gayatri Patel from Ajarpura village of Anand had just five calves in 2016. She and her husband are now owners of Vansh dairy farm with 75 cattle and a turnover of around Rs 34 lakh per annum. “Dairy farming has made me ‘atmanirbhar’,” said Gayatri, who sells 400 litres of milk daily to the Ajarpura dairy cooperative society (DCS) which has 30 female members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-women-power-dairy-sector-growth/articleshow/81381848.cms||Prashant Rupera
March 8, 2021||Nashik||Demand grows for starting unreserved train||Nashik: With the Railways deciding to run ‘unreserved special’ trains from Bhusaval to Nandurbar and Surat, citizens in Nashik have started demanding that the ‘unreserved’ train from Nashik to Bhusaval also be started with immediate effect. According to the Bhusaval division of the Central Railways, the Bhusaval-Nandurbar-Bhusaval and Surat-Bhusaval-Surat trains, that were being run as ‘special fully-reserved’ trains, will now run as ‘special unreserved’ trains with a few coaches that will be kept aside for prior reservation. The fare of the train will be equivalent to the mail/express fares “The Deolali-Bhusawal passenger train has been stopped since the nationwide lockdown was imposed about a year ago. While special trains began everywhere, this service was never started. Since the Railways has now started running ‘special unreserved’ trains to Nandurbar and Surat, a similar service should be started between Nashik and Bhusawal” said Sachin Barhate, a commuter. Vivek Gupta, divisional railway manager from Bhusawal, said, “Firstly, the train (to Surat) has been started by the Western Railways after the Gujarat government allowed running of ‘unreserved trains’.Secondly, Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Maharashtra hence, the state government has still not decided on running the Nashik-Bhusawal train.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/demand-grows-for-starting-unreserved-train/articleshow/81381830.cms||Abhilash Botekar
March 8, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Cost of veggies likely to drop this week||CHENNAI: The wholesale cost of most veggies are likely to drop this week, bringing down costs in neighbourhood retail shops along. The retail cost of veggies in the city is usually 20%-25% more than what they fetch in the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC). The cost of few vegetables such as carrots and shallots, being sold for twice as much as their wholesale cost, are currently burning a hole in consumers’ pockets. According to market sources, the cost of tomatoes, potatoes and shallots are expected to drop by Rs 10 to Rs 20 a kilogram, while drumstick rates could plunge by Rs 50/kg as arrivals to the city is increasing. The cost of curry leaves has been in the Rs 50 to Rs 70 price range for a while and a bunch of coriander is available for Rs 1 to Rs 3. S S Muthukumar, president of Koyambedu Semi-Wholesale Vegetable Traders Association, said carrot and drumstick prices have plunged as it is the harvest season of the vegetables. "Carrot is largely procured from The Nilgiris district and the city receives drumstick from Ariyalur, Cuddalore and Villupuram districts," he said. The prices of potato and tomato are expected to fall further, he added. The KWMC has been receiving around 500 trucks of vegetables, a 100 more than November-December last year. On Sunday, 1kg of carrot was sold at Rs 46 in retail shops in Adyar and Rs 64 in Royapettah. While shallots cost Rs 140 in Adyar, it was Rs 120 at Royapettah. Tomatoes and onions were sold at Rs 28 to Rs 30 per kilogram in both the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cost-of-veggies-likely-to-drop-this-week/articleshow/81382840.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Meerut||Meerut: Man shoots dead father & opens fire at cops||MEERUT: Three months after coming out of a de-addiction centre, a 38-year-old man allegedly shot dead his father, a prominent jeweller, and locked himself in a room leading to an hour-long stand-off with police which used drone camera and some force to overpower him in an upscale colony of Meerut. The accused, Krishan Verma, also a father of three children, had lost a large amount of his father’s money to gambling recently and was demanding more “pocket money” when things turned ugly in the house in Brahmapuri area on Saturday night, police said. Krishan opened fire with a licenced pistol at his wife and mother, who escaped narrowly. “When Krishan’s father, Vinod Verma, 60, tried to intervene, he was shot,” said Amit Kumar Rai, circle officer of Brahmapuri. Hearing the commotion and gunshots, neighbours called police. But Krishan didn’t spare the cops too. He opened indiscriminate fire at them. Caught off the guard, local police called additional force to the house and launched a rescue operation which lasted over an hour. Police used a selfie stick mounted mobile camera and drone mounted camera to observe the accused’s movement in the room. All efforts to break inside the room had failed as police could not find space to lob a tear gas shell inside. Later, through the video feed, police saw him collapsing on the floor, most likely due to exhaustion, around midnight when teams broke inside and caught the accused. In custody, the accused tried to reach out for the service pistol of a policeman, but was overpowered. “He had spent a few months in a de-addiction centre and came out in November last year. He showed some signs of improvement but continued with drugs occasionally. He had stopped working and was completely dependent on his father for personal and family expenses which led to frequent disputes,” the Brahmapuri CO said. Police have registered two FIRs against Krishan. The first one is filed for the murder, on the basis of complaint filed by the accused’s bother. And the other one is filed for the attack on police team, in which the accused has been booked under attempt to murder charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/high-drama-in-meerut-as-man-38-shoots-dead-father-opens-fire-at-cops-caught-after-prolonged-standoff/articleshow/81380125.cms||Piyush Rai
March 8, 2021||Goa||The need & importance of coastal management plan||What is Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP)?With a view to protect coastal stretches, to promote development through a sustainable manner and to ensure livelihood security to the fishing and other local communities, the Union ministry of environment, forest (MoEF) came out with a notification in January 2011, declaring coastal stretches as coastal regulation zones. After discussions, all states were asked by the Centre to draw coastal zone management plans to fulfil the objectives of the 2011 notification. Accordingly, the Goa government asked National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai. CZMP depicts the high and low tide lines, no development zone along the coast, CRZ 1 areas (ecologically sensitive areas such as mangroves, khazans, sand dunes, turtle nesting areas), CRZ 2 (developed areas such as Panaji, Vasco), CRZ 3 (undeveloped rural areas) and CRZ 4 (water areas, hazard lines). A draft was prepared two years ago but because of errors, it was asked to be revised. The new draft was circulated to the panchayats in 2021. Why is CZMP important for Goa?A CZMP is crucial for issuing CRZ permissions for various activities along the coast. Goa has been functioning without such a plan since 2011. Goa and a few other states would have continued their lethargy in readying the CZMP if not for a case filed before the NGT in 2017. The case alleged that permissions were being issued without the plan being finalised. As Goa is a geographically small area, even its coast is densely inhabited. The saline water ingress is seen deeper inland here than in most other parts of the country. Over the years, locals have come up with ingenious methods that have made living around such saline inland areas possible. But successive governments have failed to convince the MoEF about these unique living conditions. Applying the same CRZ norms for coastal regions in Goa as in force for other parts of the country is set to threaten people’s homes and fields. Why are public hearings being held?Public hearings are held to seek objections and suggestions to the draft plan by which errors in the map can be corrected. Why are people opposed to the plan?People are protesting because their houses, bundhs and other structures are not shown in the draft plan. The contention of the people is that the plan should have been discussed at the panchayat level. The other reason is that the suggestions made by the panchayats do not reflect in the draft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/the-need-importance-of-coastal-management-plan/articleshow/81383771.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ludhiana||5 months after accident, Delhi siblings say case not registered||Ludhiana: Delhi-based siblings, who suffered serious injuries in a road accident in Ludhiana, are struggling to get an FIR lodged even after five months. According to the victims, the police are asking them to change the statement to get the case registered.The victims, Vijay Kumar Sachdeva, 49, a realtor from Krishna Nagar, New Delhi, and his sister, Sujata Bajaj, 52, have filed a fresh complaint with the commissioner of police, after which an inquiry has been marked.The accident occurred on October 11, 2020, and Vijay suffered a pelvic bone injury and Sujata fractured a leg. Vijay said his maternal uncle, who lived in Ferozepur, had passed away and he was going there with his sister. They took a bus from Delhi and reached Ludhiana. From Sherpur Chowk they hired an auto to reach Ludhiana bus stand from where they were to take another bus to Ferozepur. He said when they were sitting in the auto, a white Swift Dzire car hit it near Sherpur Chowk. The auto overturned and the passersby rushed them to a hospital. He said the hospital sent information to the police after which a cop visited them and recorded their statements. The cop said a copy of the FIR would be sent to them on their Delhi address, but they never received it. Since they were on bed rest, they could not follow up the case, he added.In February, Vijay sent an online complaint to the Ludhiana police. The inquiry was marked to ACP, Industrial Area-B, Sandeep Vadhera, after which he visited the city and also met him.Vijay said, “The ACP ordered Sherpur police post in-charge ASI Kapil Kumar to lodge the FIR, but the latter asked me to change the statement. He asked me to give the statement that I could identify the accused and we were trying to strike a compromise, but could not succeed, so now we are getting the case registered. But this is wrong. I haven’t seen the accused and we were never for a compromise.”ASI Kapil Kumar said the auto and car drivers had struck a compromise a day after the accident and the police got information about Delhi siblings’ injuries a day later. “Moreover, there was nobody from the side of the victims to follow up the case, so police could not proceed further. Now we have called them for recording statements. We have not asked them to change statements, but a particular language is needed to register the case, which we will.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-months-after-accident-delhi-siblings-say-case-not-registered/articleshow/81380728.cms||Payal Dhawan
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Most cases in cities; steep rise in districts||Ahmedabad: In terms of numbers, four major cities of the state — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot — accounted for two-thirds or more daily Covid-19 positive cases. But weekly analysis reveals that several of the districts have recorded steeper rise in weekly cases. For example, Ahmedabad district cases rose by 29%, Surat 45% and Vadodara 16% from the last week of February to first week of March. In comparison, Banaskantha recorded a 300% rise, Aravalli 180%and Dahod 170%. On the other hand, Chhota Udepur recorded a 63% drop, followed by drops in Tapi (57%) and Morbi (41%). Compared to 2,785 weekly cases in the last week of February, the first week of March recorded 3,497 cases — a rise by 712 cases. Analysis of the cases reveal that 72% of the rise is from the four cities alone. All five deaths recorded in both weeks were recorded from Ahmedabad city. “Intra-state movement could be one of the reasons for the rise in cases. If one analyses the testing statistics, the number would be much higher for cities compared to a district such as Chhota Udepur or Porbandar. The less number of cases could be attributed to relatively lesser tests,” said a city-based infectious diseases expert. Out of 37,418 tests conducted in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday, Ahmedabad accounted for 5,142, Surat 10,942, Vadodara 3,167 and Rajkot 2,459. In comparison, Patan recorded 129 tests, Narmada 130 and Devbhoomi Dwarka 96. “Thus, the test positivity rate (TPR) for Ahmedabad and Surat districts is 2.5% and 1.3% respectively. On the other hand, the TPR for Patan and Narmada was 2.3% and 0.8%,” said the expert. Officials also pointed out that the scare of the new variant of the virus in other parts of the country has prompted a rise in daily testing, which has resulted in quicker spotting of positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/most-cases-in-cities-steep-rise-in-districts/articleshow/81381864.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Marathi lit meet put off yet again as Covid rises in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: The three-day 94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, which was to be held in Nashik from March 26, has been postponed on account of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases. The Akhil Bharatiya Sahitya Mahamandal (ABSM) announced this on Sunday and said Jayant Naralikar as president-elect and Nashik as the venue would remain unchanged for the event in future. ABSM president Kautik Thale-Patil said the decision to postpone the prestigious literary event was taken after talks. “While we were not keen on holding the meet because of the Covid-19 outbreak last year, there were many supporting the event after the drop in cases by November. However, in the wake of the latest surge, it will be prudent to postpone the event,” he said. The organisers were in a hurry to hold the event before March 31 to avoid lapse of government funds of Rs 50 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/marathi-lit-meet-put-off-yet-again-as-covid-rises-in-maharashtra/articleshow/81382946.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||US teenager stuns top seed Myneni to lift UP Open title||Lucknow: Unseeded American teenager Zane Khan shattered the double crown hopes of top seed Saketh Myneni when he knocked out the former Davis cup winner in straight sets to win the singles title of the UP Open World Tennis Tour (WTT) ITF Men’s $15,000 event at Vijayantkhand stadium here on Sunday. The 19-year-old American player came back from 3-5 deficit in the first set to register a 7-6(3), 6-3 win over Myneni (33) in the match spanning 1 hour and 56 minutes. The Indian top seed raced to a 5-3 lead breaking Khan in the 8th game but Myneni who was serving well till then was broken by Khan in the 9th game. Khan held on to the 10th game to level scores 5-5. In the tiebreaker at 6 games all, Khan proved smarter and took the tiebreak at 7-3 to win the set. In the second set, Saketh was broken in the 8th game of the set to go up 5-3. Khan held on to the 9th game to win the set and the match. This is Khan’s first career professional singles title. The winner received 10 points $2160 (Rs 1,58,000) while the runners-up received 6 points $1272 (Rs 93000) in prize money. The prizes were given away by principal secretary, transport RK Singh and tournament director Punit Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/us-teenager-stuns-top-seed-myneni-to-lift-up-open-title/articleshow/81382865.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Infodemic’ over the pandemic!||Ahmedabad: In the beginning of the pandemic, Covid-19 patients were literally ostracized as it was not clear how the infection could spread. The early phase of pandemic also saw specific groups targeted as potential ‘super spreaders.’ A slew of medicines – both conventional and non-conventional – flooded the market and psyche of the society without any scientific basis. Why does a pandemic – present or past – result in panic? A recent paper tried to answer these questions, arguing that the lack of information is filled by such narratives, primarily in the form of social media posts and their forwards. The experts term it ‘infodemic.’ A paper titled ‘Combating the Covid-19 infodemic: A three-level approach for low and middle-income countries’ published in BMJ Global Health journal suggested steps like education of the members of public, assuring quality and periodic information, digital fact-checking, leveraging community-level networks and developing fake information surveillance could help counter the phenomenon. Dr Apurva Kumar Pandya, scientist D with IIPH Gandhinagar (IIPH-G), one of the authors of the paper, said that the phenomenon was not limited to India. “Across the globe, we find such examples. But timely countering it can reduce major damage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/infodemic-over-the-pandemic/articleshow/81381869.cms||Parth Shastri
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Chennai pip Delhi 5-0 to win hockey tourney||Lucknow: Ending their campaign in style, Chennai blanked Delhi 5-0 to win the All-India SBI Inter-Circle hockey tournament at Mohd Shahid Stadium on Sunday. Vasudevan gave the initial boost to Chennai by hitting the first goal in the second minute of the match. Cedric D’Cruz hit two goals in the 23rd and 43rd minutes of the game while Suresh (35th minute) and Kamala Kannan (38th minute) scored one goal each. Chennai captain Cedric D'Cruz was named the man of the tournament while Neeraj Thapa of Lucknow was adjudged the best goalkeeper. Mansoor Ali and Munna Lal Rajak (both from Bhopal) emerged as the best defender and best forward, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chennai-pip-delhi-5-0-to-win-hockey-tourney/articleshow/81382914.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Dog lover hit & hospitalised, locked strays starve for days||KOLKATA: A 53-year-old technician of a telecom company was allegedly beaten up by his neighbours last month for feeding and giving shelter to two dozen stray dogs at his Sonarpur home. With the technician, Rajat Mondal, being hospitalised for three weeks, the animals, kept in the locked house, were left to starve till an animal lover in New Alipore learnt about the matter and rushed to feed them. Mondal has been living at Arapanch in Sonarpur, around 10km from Kamalgazi, for the last one-and-half-a-year. He had been threatened by his neighbours for long over the issue of feeding and sheltering the strays. Mondal reportedly suffered a fracture on his right hand after being allegedly hit by the neighbours with sticks. After spending three weeks in the hospital, he returned home and lodged a complaint with Sonarpur police station on Sunday. As Mondal was hospitalised, the dogs, remaining without food for some days, had been crying inside the locked house. Some local animal lovers informed the New Alipore-based, Meenakshi Pandeya, who volunteered to feed the dogs by herself. “Mondal told me that he had left the keys of the house with a local boy who was hot feeding the dogs. To my shock, I saw the dogs eating their poops out of hunger. I cooked and fed these dogs for some days,” said Pandeya. “I was cooking for the dogs at home when the neighbours came inside and claimed that the animals had been creating a disturbance in the area. I tried to calm them down but they assaulted me severely. This was, however, not the first time I was beaten up by them. After some days the pain on my right hand aggravated and the X-ray report showed that I had a severe fracture. I was admitted to a Baruipur clinic,” said Mondal. Mondal, who has no one else in his family, used to stay in Patuli earlier, but he was forced to leave that place after some locals had objected to his feeding and sheltering some sick dogs at home. “I shifted to Sonarpur from Patuli along with the dogs, hoping that the animals would live peacefully. But the trouble started here too and some neighbours have been threatening me regularly,” said Mondal. TOI spoke to one of the neighbours who had allegedly attacked Mondal but he denied the allegation. “Mondal was hospitalised because he had fallen ill. We never hit him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dog-lover-hit-hospitalised-locked-strays-starve-for-days/articleshow/81381872.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 8, 2021||Delhi||#NoMore50 seeks backing to amend Act on animal cruelty||New Delhi: Many people along with their pets came together for #NoMore50 campaign on Sunday to demand lawmakers amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The protesters demanded increasing the penalty for cruelty against animals, which is just Rs 50 at present. The campaign has been organised by Humane Society International/India and People For Animals. Member of Parliament and animal rights’ advocate Maneka Gandhi said, “I request our central government to urgently amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, to provide an effective deterrent and ensure stricter penalties and punishments are imposed.” An online petition on Change.org demanding amendment to the act has garnered over 7.76 lakh signatures so far. Nida Hasan, country director, Change.org India, “Every other day we come across videos on social media of brutal attacks on animals and people who care for them.With every viral video of animal cruelty, I see a wave of public outrage. This tells me that common citizens are not speaking about just one dog, or just one elephant. They are speaking up for every voiceless animal. This event is an attempt to bring civilians, influencers and elected representatives together to elevate the cause of animal welfare.” Gauri Maulekhi trustee, PFA and consultant, HSI/India said, “The #NoMore50 campaign has become a public movement. We are certain that government of India is listening to us and will amend the law and protect all animals.” Member of Parliament Anubhav Mohanty said, “To be the voice for the non-voters is most important, and that’s what politicians and all youngsters must understand. We must fight for this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nomore50-seeks-backing-to-amend-act-on-animal-cruelty/articleshow/81382888.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ludhiana||At 671, district’s weekly Covid case count is highest since early Dec||Ludhiana: In an indication of growing severity of the pandemic in Ludhiana, the Covid-19 cases in the past week were the highest since the first week of December last and 53.2% more as compared with the preceding week. Also, the previous week’s active cases were the highest since December 10, 2020.The latest health department data shows that between February 28 and March 6, as many as 671 cases were reported in Ludhiana. The figure is the highest after the district registered 696 cases from November 29 to December 5, 2020. After that, the weekly count had been less than 400 for most of the weeks in January and February but started climbing in February-end.An analysis of weekly case data since July 6 last shows that after reaching the highest value of 2,802 between September 13 and 19, the figure fell to 523 between October 11 and 17 and 325 between October 25 to 31 last. It then increased to 439 between November 1 and 7 and 610 from November 8 to 14 before reaching 696 between November 22 and 28 last. Thereafter, the cases were on a decline. Between January 10 and 16, there were 196 cases. The number rose to 287 during January 31 to February 6; 332 from February 14 to 20 and then to the current value.On the state’s weekly count chart, Jalandhar was at number one spot with 821 cases, Ludhiana second and SBS Nagar (641) third. At 13, Barnala had the lowest number of new cases in seven days. In active cases in Punjab till Saturday evening, SAS Nagar (928) was at the top, Jalandhar (926) second, SBS Nagar (910) third and Ludhiana (807) fourth. Barnala, Muktsar and Fazilka had the lowest number of active cases (29).An officer of the health department said, “Daily cases are increasing, but the situation is not very severe. Things are being monitored and strict measures may be taken to check the spike.” “Cases are rising, which is scary. People must take precautions. It is too early to say that there is a second wave even as it may be round the corner. It will be clear in a week whether the second wave will come. We should increase the speed of vaccination and the authorities should act tough to contain cases. People can carry on with their routine work while following the guidelines,” said Dr Saroj Aggarwal, Ludhiana president of IMA.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar could not be contacted despite repeated calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/at-671-districts-weekly-covid-case-count-is-highest-since-early-dec/articleshow/81380732.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 8, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur Sena chief banned from entering Belagavi today||KOLHAPUR: The Belagavi district administration has banned Shiv Sena’s Kolhapur district president Vijay Devane and his supporters from entering the district on March 8 (Monday) when the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) has planned a massive rally. MES, which is fighting for Marathi-speaking border areas, was irked by the Kannada flag raised outside the new building of the Belagavi City Corporation by pro-Kannada groups in December 2020. MES claims that the flag causes social disharmony as the region is dominated by Marathi-speaking population and the flag’s removal is the only solution. The district administration has held a few rounds of talks, however, the MES is firm on its plan of having the rally pass by the new building. There will be heavy police deployment in the city, which has been claimed by both Maharashtra and Karanataka as their own over the past several decades. Recently, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray suggested making the contentious border area as a Union Territory till a solution is not worked out by Supreme Court and Parliament. Devane said: “I have received the copy of the notice asking me to stay away from the protest site and also from entering the Belagavi district. However, I will start my march from Kagal around 8 am on Monday . The administration has stated that my speech will cause a law-and-order issue and, therefore, I should not be present in the protest rally.” Dipak Dalvi, an MES functionary, said: “We have not finalised the starting point of the rally yet. The Karanataka government has always suppressed our rights. Despite police bandobast, we will hold the rally and remove the flag, hoisting which is illegal as per a Karanataka high court order. The administration is supporting pro-Kannada groups despite knowing that raising the flag will cause tension between groups.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-sena-chief-banned-from-entering-belagavi-today/articleshow/81381870.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Bareilly||Yr after death, decorated IAF employee gets ‘breach of peace’ notice||Bareilly: A decorated Indian Air Force employee, who had served the country for over 20 years and was even part of UN peacekeeping operations, has now been issued a ‘breach of peace’ notice by police in Bareilly over a year after his death. The move comes ahead of panchayat polls in the state slated to be held later this year. The notice was issued by Bareilly police in the name of Nepal Singh and his son Pradeep Singh under section 107/116 (magistrate order against any person who is likely to commit breach of peace) of CrPC. Nepal Singh was a non-combatant (enrolled) in the Air Force and part of the Kargil war and UN peacekeeping operations in Jaffna (Sri Lanka) and Sudan. He had retired from the force after sustaining a backbone injury in 2012. He was on a wheelchair ever since and never recovered. He passed away on December 10, 2019 and is survived by his wife and three sons. TURN Confirming the receipt of the notice, his son Pradeep Singh, who runs a CCTV business, said, “Police asked me to sign the papers which asked me and my father to appear before the magistrate as we are likely to disrupt peace. They said that it was issued ahead of the panchayat polls. This is despite the fact that nobody in the family has ever been booked in a criminal case.” “My father dedicated his life to the nation and was even awarded a UN medal for his peacekeeping work. We never expected such treatment towards a person for whom the country was above anything else,” he added. Echoing similar sentiments, retired IAF group captain PK Gupta said, “How can the police and district administration treat such an outstanding defence employee so shabbily? He went beyond his duties and excelled as a mountaineer too, playing a key role in the rescue works during the MI17 helicopter crash at the Advance Landing Ground (ALG) in Kargil during the war in 1999. He was later rewarded for it. We are really shocked and will bring the issue to the notice of those concerned.” Nepal Singh’s wife Chanda Devi said, “We don’t know whether it is a deliberate attempt to defame him or a mistake. We are all worried.” Admitting that the notice was a "mistake", Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said that the sub-inspector who recommended Singh’s name for the notorious ‘list of goons’ has been shunted to the reserve police lines pending a departmental inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/yr-after-death-decorated-iaf-employee-gets-breach-of-peace-notice/articleshow/81380153.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 8, 2021||Nashik||2 detained, stolen items worth Rs 89,000 recovered||Nashik: The crime branch personnel of the city police detained two juveniles who were involved in house break-ins and thefts in different parts of the city. The police have also recovered stolen articles worth Rs 89,000 from them. Police constable Sampat Sanap of the crime branch had got the information about the whereabouts of two juveniles who were involved in thefts in different parts of the Ambad area. Sanap passed on the information to his senior officer PI Ajay Shinde. With the guidance of DCP (crime) Pournima Chaugule-Sringi, ACP Mohan Thakur and PI Ajay Shinde, a team of the crime branch personnel laid a trap in the Ambad area and detained the two juveniles. The police recovered nine cellphones, two laptops, six home theatres and a Bluetooth speaker — collectively worth Rs 89,000. On being questioned, the juveniles told the police that they had broken into four electronics shops in the Ambad area. The crime branch personnel have handed over the juveniles to the Ambad police for further legal action. Over the past few years, a rising number of juveniles have been found involved in various crimes including murder, attempt to murder, rioting, theft, burglary, robbery etc. Such juveniles often idolise notorious criminals and the lifestyle they (the criminals) have without knowing the repercussions of illegal means on their lives later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-detained-stolen-items-worth-rs-89000-recovered/articleshow/81381875.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||Plea to defer practicals as schools to host central forces||Kolkata: Schools in the city, which traditionally host paramilitary forces and provide spaces for strong rooms to keep EVMs, have requested the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) to postpone the dates of computer science and home science practical examinations. The Council has fixed the date of practical examinations for these two subjects on April 8 and 9. This year, the Council has not fixed the dates of the other lab practicals and allowed schools to fix the dates in consultation with the local examiners and convenors. St Thomas Kidderpore that houses a boys’ and a girls’ school and St Thomas Howrah are among the schools that are traditionally taken up early for elections by the paramilitary forces. The school authorities said there would be no change this year, too. “So, we will not be able to hold the practical examinations. We have asked the principals of the two schools to flag the issue with the Council immediately and fix an alternative date,” said John Ghosh, secretary of the two schools. St Thomas Howrah will serve as a strong room and counting centre for the elections. “Given this situation, we cannot hold the practical exams. We are writing to the Council. We are also asking the district magistrate to seal up all our laboratories that will be ready for practicals after the elections,” said Raghab Naik, a spokesperson for the school. There are some other schools like St Augustine that will serve as polling centres. They will complete their practicals before the fourth week of April. However, schools are free to hold their lab practicals for science any time till May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plea-to-defer-practicals-as-schools-to-host-central-forces/articleshow/81381876.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 8, 2021||Vadodara||‘Aged couple powerless, left in dark’||Vadodara: Government-owned Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (MGVCL) allegedly went back on its word and plunged an elderly couple into darkness by snapping their power connection on Tuesday evening. Facing litigation in Vadodara District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, MGVCL’s lawyer had assured Saroj Agrawal, a resident of Akota, last month that until the next hearing on Wednesday their electricity will not be disconnected. Agrawal had filed a complaint in the consumer court on February 10 as MGVCL had sent her a notice in January stating that they have an outstanding electricity bill of over Rs 1.65 lakh from 2011. In 2011, MGVCL had sent a bill of Rs 1.8 lakh with allegations of electricity theft. When Agrawal had taken up the issue with higher-ups of MGVCL, the dispute was settled when she paid Rs 30,460. Despite the settlement MGVCL on January 28, threatened Agrawal to make the payment or face disconnection. When Agrawal’s representations failed, she approached the consumer court. “During the previous hearing, MGVCL’s lawyer had given an oral undertaking that connection will not be cut until their reply is filed. But on Tuesday, their electricity was disconnected,” said Agrawal’s lawyer Akhil Dave. He added that Agrawal and her husband Dinesh live alone and due to a recent surgery, he has been advised rest. “Being a state-run company, it should have been empathetic to the senior citizen couple. Instead, it went back on its word and left them in a lurch,” Dave alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/aged-couple-powerless-left-in-dark/articleshow/81380778.cms||Jay Pachchigar
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Hoteliers limit chicken items, some turn to changing vendors||AHMEDABAD: On Sunday morning, a slew of customers looking for chicken and eggs, left empty-handed from a Prahladnagar-based gourmet store which also sells fresh and frozen meat. In the wake of the bird flu cases recently reported in Sola area of the city, the store has temporarily stopped selling poultry, according to the managing staff. “We were told the store has stopped stocking up on poultry – chicken and eggs. There was a mad rush for purchasing other meat as well but most was off shelves by the time I went in to buy,” said Tony D’Souza, a city-based professional. When contacted, the manager of a prominent gourmet store which sells chicken and other frozen foods, said, “We have taken chicken off the shelves for the past 15 days or so after the avian flu outbreak. However, we continue to sell branded frozen chicken.” As a precautionary measure, several hotels too have taken chicken and eggs off their buffet. “We have removed all partially cooked egg and chicken preparations such as half-boiled eggs, soft-boiled chicken and even half-fried eggs from the buffet in the interest of safety of our guests. Having said this, we do have chicken and egg preparations on our menu but we are ensuring they’re cooked completely at high temperatures and served,” said Vivek Sharma, general manager, Renaissance Ahmedabad Hotel. Sharma said that as a protocol conducting quality-check at vendors from where meat is procured is a routine process at the hotel. “However, recently we have become extra vigilant so that the safety of our guests is not compromised.” Similar is the case with Novotel Ahmedabad, wherein grills have been discontinued at all the restaurants. “Chicken and egg preparations are part of the menu and any clarification guests required on our sourcing norms are available. As part of a precautionary measure, we’ve discontinued the grill for the time being. In the non-veg buffet, instead of three, we have only one chicken preparation and we’ve also offered meat and fish so that guests have an alternative.” Some restaurateurs have also changed their vendors. “As a precautionary measure, I’ve changed my vendor for all the poultry supplies. Even though it comes at an added 25% cost of procurement, safety of customers is always a priority. We have been serving non-vegetarian items since a long time and at present, we inform all the customers who order chicken and egg dishes that we’ve changed our vendor, in the wake of the bird flu warning,” said Samir Patel, a city-based restaurateur. However, chicken and eggs continued to be available at other areas. Chicken sellers in Vejalpur, Juhapura, Maninagar and Bapunagar said chicken is available, but prices have dropped marginally over the past fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hoteliers-limit-chicken-items-some-turn-to-changing-vendors/articleshow/81381889.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||KGMU doc’s mother dies of reinfection after six months||LUCKNOW: In a grim reminder of the fact that coronavirus pandemic is down but not out, 70-year-old mother of a leading doctor at KGMU – died on Saturday night of Covid-19 reinfection that occured after a gap of six months. It was the first Covid death in 20 days and second casualty due to reinfection in the state capital so far. The woman had contracted infection earlier in August 2020 and had recovered. She was doing fine since then but unfortunately got infected again last week and could not be saved despite best efforts by doctors. She was admitted to ICU on March 1 with severe infection in lungs and had to be put on ventilator on March 5. She died due to respiratory failure after battling for life for six days. The first coronavirus reinfection death was reported on October 17 last year when a 51-year-old journalist died due to sepsis triggered by Covid-19 pneumonia. He was under treatment at Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital. He was first diagnosed with the infection in August 2020 and tested negative after recovery on September 2. However, he caught infection again after a month. In the first case, treating doctors were confident that it was a case of reinfection. Since there was only a month’s gap between first and second infections, some doctors had expressed doubt over possibility of reinfection saying that the patient might have tested negative in September because of low viral load, which surged in due course and he tested positive again in October. Some said the negative test report might have been false. However, in the second case, reinfection occured after six months, leaving little scope for any doubt. “Our whole family had tested positive in August last year and recovered successfully. She was doing fine thereafter and had no comorbidities. I don’t know how she got infected again despite all precautions. Other family members have tested negative. She developed fever on February 27, her report came positive on February 28 after which she was hospitalised,” said the woman’s doctor son. “The patient came with bilateral pneumonia with severely damaged lungs. Acute respiratory failure triggered septic shock that resulted in cardiac arrest,” said KGMU spokesman Dr Sudhir Singh. CMO Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “KGMU death audit will confirm if it was a case of reinfection. Chances of reinfection cannot be ruled out because antibodies formed after last for only 4-5 months, which means a survivor is vulnerable to virus again.” ‘No data of Covid reinfection cases’: The district health department has no data of reinfection cases. CMO Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said: “As of now, we are not maintaining any such data but after Saturday’s case, I will talk to higher authorities to include reinfection in data collection format.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-docs-mother-dies-of-reinfection-after-six-months/articleshow/81382967.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||BJP vs Sena over ‘eviction’ of farmers from weekly mkts in Mumbai||Mumbai: A fresh political row has broken out between Shiv Sena and BJP over the weekly farmers markets launched by former CM Devendra Fadnavis. BJP legislators Prasad Lad and Nitesh Raneprotested on Sunday against BMC’s action to allegedly evict farmers from the market at Lalbaug. BJP alleged BMC was acting under pressure from ruling Sena as it was a BJP initiative. “This is hurting poor farmers and the middle-class citizens...” Lad tweeted. BMC officials said some action was taken due to crowding. BJP MLA Nitesh Rane said, “We’ve been told that farmers are being targeted since they don’t pay hafta to Sena office-bearers.” Mayor Kishori Pednekar, from Shiv Sena, said: “... BJP is politicising this to help traders, not farmers.” —Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-vs-sena-over-eviction-of-farmers-from-weekly-mkts-in-mumbai/articleshow/81383009.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Bengaluru FC to play AFC Cup games in Goa, fans likely to be allowed||Panaji: Bengaluru FC are mulling over the possibility of allowing fans to attend their AFC Cup playoff matches in Goa next month. The former Indian Super League champions and AFC Cup finalists will play their qualifying matches at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim. Bengaluru are playing at home since they are the higher-ranked team. The preliminary stage 2 clash will be played between Bengaluru and the winners of Tribhuvan Army FC (Nepal) and SL Police SC (Sri Lanka) on April 14. Should Bengaluru cross that hurdle, they are drawn to play the winner of the second preliminary stage 2 match between Abahani Dhaka (Bangladesh) and the winner of Club Eagles (Maldives) and Thimphu City FC (Bhutan) on April 21. “We have just got the permission letter from the Sports Authority of Goa (SAG) and the AFC has also approved Bambolim as the venue,” Bengaluru CEO Mandar Tamhane told TOI on Monday. The AFC Cup does not have as strict Covid-19 protocols as ISL with a negative RTPCR test no more than 72 hours prior to arrival the only major requirement. Goa has also opened its doors to the world. While the ISL, I-League, Goa Pro League and even the second division I-League are all played behind closed doors, the AFC Cup playoffs could become the first major football competition to be thrown open to fans. “We will write to the state government to see whether there is a possibility. From our end, we will be more than happy to welcome fans,” said Tamhane. Bengaluru endured a difficult time in the ISL this season, failing to make it to the playoffs for the first time. The former champions finished a poor eighth, 18 points behind league champions Mumbai City FC. For a club that won a trophy – alternating between I-League, Federation Cup and Super Cup –in each of their first six seasons, a second successive year without a trophy will hurt. Club owner Parth Jindal has termed this a “season to forget, a season where we have learnt a lot,” and promised to rebuild. The AFC Cup will be the first assignment for new head coach Marco Pezzaiuoli, who replaces Carles Cuadrat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bengaluru-fc-to-play-afc-cup-games-in-goa-fans-likely-to-be-allowed/articleshow/81401484.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 8, 2021||Vadodara||Behind these doctor sisters, stands her determined mother||Vadodara: She may be her family’s pride. But for Dr Tehsim Memon, the first doctor from a conservative Muslim family, her biggest strength came from her mother Shamim. If Tehsim stood rock solid while handling Covid-19 duties at SVP Hospital all through March pandemic, Shamim was the proverbial Gibraltar behind her girls. The semi-literate woman fought her own battles while ensuring that her two daughters turn doctors – one a doctorate in academics and the other in the field of medicine. Notwithstanding changing houses 10 times, fighting poverty and social dogmas with the same grit, the determined mother ensured the girls walked all the way to the podium she envisaged — one of dignity and empowerment.“My journey of being a doctor started in childhood,” said Tehsim, recalling the family’s collective tryst with financial and social constraints while realizing this coveted dream. “My mother never wanted us to live a blinkered existence. She always sought to make us feel liberated, independent and get exposed to a cosmopolitan atmosphere, She inspired us to think beyond the box, literally,” said the MBBS from Baroda Medical College who is currently pursuing MD in Ahmedabad. Shamim was the youngest of eight siblings and could not study owing to conservative restrictions and societal ills like early marriage. Even Tehsim’s father couldn’t fulfil his dream of becoming a doctor as his father died early. But, both parents were sure, they would live their desires through their children. “My parents decided to make one of us a doctor. Somehow, I imbibed that dream as mine too,” said Tehsim.We had to sell off our house and keep moving from house to house — sometimes for money, other times for jibes — recollects the Fatehgunj-resident, and why? Because Shamim did not want her elder daughter, Tosifa, who got enrolled in a little-known homeopathy college after Class XII, ended up facing a fate like hers.Shamim decided to send 17-year-old Tosifa to the United States to study. “It was difficult for all of us. Also, none in the family had foreign exposure and the society also did not accept the decision of sending a young girl to study abroad alone,” said Tehsim.“My father Aziz Memon ran a small shop in Mandvi then. It is only now that we are financially stable,” said the proud daughter, adding that her father owns a men’s garment showroom in Raopura today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/behind-these-doctor-sisters-stands-her-determined-mother/articleshow/81380809.cms||Prashant Rupera
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||To mark International Women’s Day residents organise #AaoRispanaSaafkre movement to clean river Rispana to show respect to ‘Mother Nature’||Dehradun: Ahead of the International Women’s Day, several Dehradun locals came together to show respect to Mother Nature by organising a Rispana river cleaning drive. The group of locals — including doctors, scientists, professors, priests, residents of Sahastradhara and college-going students — cleared over 20 kilogram waste from Rispana, which is a tributary of the Song river, on Sunday. The waste also comprised biomedical garbage. “We were shocked to see tablet wrappers to syrup bottles and even face masks being dumped in the river. People have turned the river into a garbage dumping spot. This kind of laxity is only polluting our ecosystem, primarily the water and soil. Through this drive, we want to convey on Women’s Day that there is an urgent need to protect Mother Nature,” said Aanchal Sharma, a city-based dentist who led the drive. The locals had collaborated for the novel initiative via social media. “In my childhood #Rispana was a perennial & wide welcoming stream.. but today (a weeping smiley),” noted environmentalist Manoj Misra wrote in a tweet. After participating in a drive, Harsh Vastsa, geologist and PhD research scholar at IIRS-ISRO, posted a tweet saying, “Did my bit today to conserve.... and clean Rispana river, which continues to be a dumping zone for plastics and other wastes. The waste eventually goes on to pollute the Ganga too. Long way to go!” Incidentally, the forest department of Uttarakhand also conducted a similar drive to clear the Rispana river at Rajpur Shikhar falls on Sunday. The drive was conducted under the Rispana Rejuvenation project which aims at clearing the river from its starting point (at the base of Landhour) to Dehradun. Speaking to TOI, Rajiv Bhartari, head of forest force (HoFF), Uttarakhand forest department, said, “The government wants to come up with more city forests and biodiversity rich spots in and around Dehradun. The clearing of rivers from solid waste is the very first step towards transforming the biodiversity hotspots into public-friendly spaces. We have to make our rivers litter-free as their catchment areas are a rich source of biodiversity. Also, flora and fauna depends on the river water largely.” The forest department drive was joined by the former Wildlife Institute of India scientist Dr GS Rawat, DFO Mussoorie Kahkashan Naseem, and Mussoorie municipal council chairman Anuj Gupta, among others. Gupta appreciated the steps being taken by the forest department officials in Mussoorie to make the hill town litter-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/to-mark-international-womens-day-residents-organise-aaorispanasaafkre-movement-to-clean-river-rispana-to-show-respect-to-mother-nature/articleshow/81380792.cms||Shivani Azad
March 8, 2021||Nashik||Two arrested for cheating youth of debit card in Maharashtra||NASHIK: Two men, who had cheated a youth from Igatpuri of his debit card at an ATM kiosk, were nabbed by the victim’s friend and handed over to Igatpuri police. The suspects have been identified as Shamshad Khan (30) and Isharad AhmedShabbir Shaikh (32), both residents of Nizamabad in Uttar Pradesh. The duo was booked on the charges of cheating, rash driving and common intention.  On Saturday, a court in Igatpuri remanded the duo in police custody for four days. On Friday, the suspects entered an ATM kiosk of a nationalised bank, where Sudhakar Nikam (26) was doing some bank transaction. The suspects engaged him in a conversation and tricked him into giving his debit card to them. In return, they handed over some other debit card and left the ATM. Once the conmen left the ATM kiosk, Nikam realized that he has been tricked. Though he tried to chase them, the suspects had already escaped in their car. Nikam then called up his friend and informed him about the make of the car. His friend started chasing the suspects. Meanwhile, the suspects rammed their car into a pole at Datta Nagar in Girnare area of Igatpuri. They were soon caught by Nikam’s friend who then handed them over to Igatpuri police. One more person, who was with the suspects in the car, managed to escape from the scene. Igatpuri police are investigating the case and have launched a manhunt for the third suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-arrested-for-cheating-youth-of-debit-card/articleshow/81381910.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow civic body to give 5% off to women home owners||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) on Sunday decided to give 5% concession in the fees charged for a new water connection to women applicants as well as registration for property tax if the house is in her name. It has also decided to provide free service to women in all the 86 pink toilets being constructed by LMC. These decisions were taken in the historic all-women House meeting on Sunday on the eve of International Women’s Day. It was attended by 35 women corporators and chaired by mayor Sanyukta Bhatia, who is also the first woman to be elected to this office. The meeting also decided to name a city park after Chhatrapati Maharaj Shivaji’s mother Jijabai. Similarly, three prominent intersections in the state capital will be renamed after women freedom fighters or queens. Unlike the traditional house meeting of the civic body, which is often marked by pandemonium, the special all-women session went smoothly. Corporators also placed some proposals for the welfare of women. The mayor said, “The proposals given by corporators will be put up in the upcoming executive committee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-to-give-5-off-to-women-home-owners/articleshow/81383023.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||11 held for gambling in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A team of state monitoring cell of Gujarat police on Saturday raided a gambling den in the Devjipura locality behind city police commissioner’s office in Shahibaug and held 11 gamblers. Three succeeded to flee from there. According to an FIR filed with Madhavpura police, the state monitoring cell got an input that some people have been running a gambling den in an open ground in Devjipura. The police team organized a raid and rushed to spot on Saturday afternoon. Police found some people sitting in a circle. The cops tried to cordon them, but three men fled from the spot by jumping over a wall, said the FIR. The FIR mentioned that they managed to catch others. One of the accused told cops that the gambling den was being run there for around six months by a man named Dawood Miyana, a resident of Devjipura. Cops have booked 11 persons under the gambling act besides charges of negligence causing spread of infectious diseases along with the epidemic act as they did not maintain social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-held-for-gambling/articleshow/81381928.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||Yog is our ancient culture, it energises us: Governor Baby Rani Maurya||Haridwar: The week-long International Yog Festival, organized by the tourism department and the Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVN), concluded on Sunday. Speaking at the conclusion ceremony, governor Baby Rani Maurya said, “Just the way mother Ganga is guiding us all towards peace, those who have learnt yoga in the country’s Yoga Capital will now spread their knowledge around the world. Yoga is our ancient culture, which gives us energy. I congratulate the tourism department and the KMVN on a successful event.” “Prime minister Narendra Modi has spread the message of yoga to the entire world. Following in those footsteps, the Uttarakhand government also requested its legislators to practice yoga daily: ‘karo yog raho nirog’ (practice yoga, stay healthy),” said legislative assembly speaker Premchand Aggarwal. “Yog can make our country powerful. We can be physically healthy by focusing on mental health. Yoga is practiced around the world for its effectiveness,” said tourism minister Satpal Maharaj. Forest and Ayush minister Harak Singh Rawat said, “A tree planted at the International Yog Festival 30 years ago has now bloomed. It makes me proud.” The Yog Festival had started in Rishikesh on March 1 and over 450 Yoga trainers participated in it. Rishikesh mayor Anita Mamgain was also present at the conclusion ceremony on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yog-is-our-ancient-culture-it-energises-us-governor-baby-rani-maurya/articleshow/81380801.cms||MS Nawaz
March 8, 2021||Goa||Recruitment process made more transparent with reforms: GPSC chief||As he completes five years in Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC), chairman Jose Manuel Noronha speaks to TOI about the reforms brought in by him, recruitments carried out and the introduction of the Computer-Based Recruitment Test (CBRT) for transparency in hiring TOI: What are the changes brought about by you in the last five years at GPSC? Noronha: First, the working environment was made more professional through a well-designed corporate like office space, second, the computer-based recruitment test, which is a very transparent process, was made compulsory for almost all appointments to Group A and Group B positions and, third, the commission has totally done away with adhoc promotions. The last has resulted in the regularisation of more than 2,000 government officials during this period. TOI: Why are only few candidates able to clear the GPSC exams? Is it because the standards adopted are beyond the ability of our youth? Noronha: The computer-based examination is designed to capture various intellectual capabilities of the candidate and these include core subject knowledge besides reasoning ability, English language skills and general knowledge. The very fact that many are able to clear our exams means that the examination meets with the intellectual capability of our youth, but what is required is thorough preparation for the exam. TOI: In the recent recruitment for junior scale officer (JSO) it was seen that candidates with technical qualifications were successful. How do you explain this situation? Noronha: Yes, six of the seven candidates selected were engineers and this may be because generally candidates who perform better academically at Classe XII prefer to enrol either for medicine or for engineering. Second, as they prepare for the engineering program they learn a lot of mathematics and therefore their reasoning abilities are generally better honed. In the earlier batches, however, there was a mix of different qualifications at the graduation level amongst those selected for JSO. TOI: Is the syllabus for the CBRT designed by academicians? Why does logical reasoning and analytical ability comprise a large component? Noronha: The syllabus has been designed looking at the examinations conducted by various bodies for public services throughout the country. A committee comprising renowned academicians appointed by the commission has gone through our examination processes and have been appreciative of it. In so far as reasoning and analytical ability is concerned, government officials have to take decisions on various matters and this facet needs to be assessed. TOI: Is the commission planning on conducting programs for the job aspirants? Noronha: The commission conducts examinations to shortlist and thereafter select candidates for government service and it would therefore be inappropriate for the commission to conduct any training program for these candidates. However, I am informed that the department of higher education is in the process of providing training for various competitive exams. TOI: Knowledge of Konkani is essential for government jobs. How does the commission evaluate this? Noronha: Yes, knowledge of Konkani is an essential qualification and the commission ensures that this requirement is met. All candidates who appear for the interview are tested for their ability to write, speak and read Konkani and have to meet the minimum benchmark in order to be declared successful. In the last five years the commission, on rare occasions, sought exemption for candidates who did not possess knowledge of Konkani since their services were essential for a particular department and adequately qualified and experienced local candidates were not available. TOI: While the CBRT is adopted to shortlist the candidates for the position, the interview process finally decides on who gets selected. Do the shortlisted candidates meet with the expectations of the commission? Noronha: The shortlisted candidates generally meet expectations of the commission at the interview stage, but sometimes it so happens that none of the candidates shortlisted are found to be suitable for the job. In such cases, no candidates are recommended, and the positions are re-advertised. TOI: What is the general composition of an interview panel? Noronha: The panel comprises at least two subject experts, one retired high court judge or principal district judge and another expert in administrative matters, a Konkani language expert and a nominee of the government of the concerned department, and is chaired by me. TOI: How many positions have been filled during the last five years? Have some positions remained vacant for want of suitable candidates? Noronha: The commission has so far filled around 500 positions during the last five years and at times we were unable to select candidates either because they did not qualify at the CBRT or were not found suitable by the selection panel at the interview. The commission has however, not resorted to lowering its standards in such cases and preferred to make further attempts through re-advertising these positions. TOI: What is your advice to the youth who aspire to join public service? Noronha: Read all available materials connected to the examination and study sincerely and dedicatedly. There is no other way of getting selected except being well prepared for both the examination and the interview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recruitment-process-made-more-transparent-with-reforms-gpsc-chief/articleshow/81383799.cms||Murari Shetye
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Yogi to launch Ph-2 of Mission Shakti||LUCKNOW: To strengthen the safety mechanism for women and girls, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will launch the second phase of ‘Mission Shakti’ on International Women's Day on March 8. The event will be held at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan here. Senior officials in home department said in the second phase of the ‘Mission Shakti’ impetus has been given to technological advancements in preventing crime against women and also to reducing reaction time for enforcement agencies to reach and help women in an emergency. A budget of Rs 309 crore has been sanctioned for five metros, including Varanasi, Gorakhpur Noida, Agra and Prayagraj, giving a major boost to security installations and surveillance along with setting up of dedicated control rooms. In seven other districts — Aligarh, Bareilly, Jhansi, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Kanpur and Meerut — divisional commissioners have been asked to prepare a women safety plan. Highlighting elements of a ‘Safe City’, officials said pink booths, pink two-wheeler patrols and 10 four-wheeler pink patrols have been given to women policemen. Pink patrols will constantly move around girls’ schools and colleges and markets. Pink toilets will be constructed and proper lighting arrangement will be made in dark stretches. In Lucknow, under the ‘Safe City’ project, pink toilets for women are being constructed at 74 places of which 18 are ready. So far, 3,625 dark spots have been identified and electric poles have been installed at 660 places, 2,965 other spots will be taken up by the month-end. Women Power Line 1090 has been upgraded and work is underway on increasing the capacity of women power lines. Integration of women power line with UP 112 cyber forensics facility and data analytics centres has been done through technology enhancement.Hot spots are being monitored through CCTV cameras, drones and control rooms. Panic buttons, CCTV cameras and GPL will be installed in city buses by December 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-to-launch-ph-2-of-mission-shakti/articleshow/81383069.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Lockdown rumours in states make agri-labourers leave Telangana in droves||HYDERABAD: Worried about fresh lockdown rumours after a recent spike in Covid-19 numbers, thousands of panic-stricken farm labourers in Telangana have left for their hometowns, despite assurances of safety from farm bodies. The trend of agriculture labourers’ flight is more visible in the tribal areas of Bhadradri district, and on both sides of Godavari, where lots of farmers sow the hybrid variety of red chilli crop, which has huge demand in the international market. While each acre gives a bumper yield of about 40-45 quintals, farmers invest Rs 75,000 to Rs 1 lakh per acre and depend on cheap labour available from Odisha, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh to till their lands. “With news of virus spreading, they are worried and some 15,000-30,000, according to our estimates, have left. And when we tried to stop them, they said they are not willing to walk home again like last year,” K Rama Rao, one of the top chilli farmers in Venkatapurm, told TOI over telephone. Area such as Manuguru, Aswapuram, Vajedu, Venkatapuram, Pinapaka, Bhadrachalam, Kunavaram, Dummugudem and other areas have seen flight of agriculture labourers, which the labour department is investigating now. “Since this is the harvesting reason, these people are paid Rs 250 per day or exchange of produce for work depending on the understanding between farmers and them. In the current season at least 60,000 migrant labour are working in those areas,” said a top labour department official, who added there is no mechanism to track their movements. “Interstate migration laws can be followed if these people come with the help of a registered agency or persons with the labour department. But we will track them,” the official said. According to Kiran Vissa, state committee member, Rythu Swarjaya Vedika, farmers are very worried about the recent spike of Covid-19 virus in neighbouring states and are constantly enquiring about the possibility of serious restrictions or even lockdown. “Some districts are facing a crisis, not all in Telangana. But fear is there and we are allaying those fears that no restrictions will be in place,” Vissa added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-rumours-in-states-make-agri-labourers-leave-t-in-droves/articleshow/81383094.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 8, 2021||Bareilly||26-year-old woman who ‘honey-trapped’ many Rajasthan businessmen held in UP||BAREILLY: On the run for the last five years, a 26-year-old woman who had allegedly “honey-trapped” several businessmen in Jaipur and extorted large amounts of money from them, was on Sunday arrested from Shahjahanpur in a joint operation of Rajasthan and UP police. Police said that the woman used to introduce herself with false names like Naina and Priyanka to befriend businessmen. Later, she used to take photos with them in compromising positions only to threaten them with rape case. The ringleader of the gang, Akhilesh Kumar, a lawyer, used to act as a mediator to close the matter outside the police station in lieu of a hefty amount. “The woman worked with an organised gang. They used to honey-trap people in Rajasthan. One of her victims had registered an FIR at a police station in Jaipur in 2016. The woman was booked under sections 193 (false evidence), 195 (fabricating false evidence with intent to procure conviction of offence punishable with life imprisonment), 384 (extortion), 388 (extortion by threat), 389 (extortion by putting a person in fear of an accusation), 34 (acts done by several persons) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC,” said Sanjay Singh, station house officer of RC Mission police station in Shahjahanpur. The other members of the gang were arrested in the last few years. “But this woman was absconding,” the SHO said. “Recently, ASP (narcotics) from Jaipur, Ram Gopal Sharma, along with his team contacted us and shared the woman’s details. She is a resident of Bisapur area of Pilibhit, but was living in Reiti area in Shahjahanpur city. We collected her details and arrested her in a joint operation with a police team from Jaipur,” SHO Singh said. Shahjahanpur’s additional SP (city) Sanjay Kumar said, “The woman has been handed over to Jaipur police. They will produce her in the court within 24 hours. We are finding if she has committed any such crime here in Shahjahanpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-who-honey-trapped-several-rajasthan-businessmen-held-from-ups-shahjahanpur-after-5-years/articleshow/81380166.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||NFSC held back 200 students on campus even after NMC curbs||Nagpur: The National Fire Service College (NFSC) allegedly held back over 200 students despite the local administration imposing restrictions on educational institutions and ordering them to suspend all physical activities from February 25 onwards. Some students told TOI that the order to suspend academic activities came on March 5. They said this happened only after someone informed the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) which initially served a notice imposing a fine of Rs50,000 for violating Covid norms. On March 3, the nuisance detection squad (NDS) visited the campus and found violation of the restrictions imposed by the NMC in view of rising Covid cases. The notice was served on the mess contractor as the staff was found without masks beside assembly of more than 5 persons in the dining hall. The contractor refuted all the charges and also denied that NDS ever inspected the mess. Later, the notice was withdrawn as the NMC's Mangalwari zone claimed no violations were found. Assistant municipal commissioner Harish Raut said he was not aware about any such action against the institute. NDRF commandant Ramesh Kumar, who is holding the NFSC director’s charge, too denied any NDS action on the campus. A faculty member said students couldn't go as they were in quarantine till March 8. Why were students asked to vacate the hostel just two days after the NDS inspection through a college order dated on March 5 is a question that remains unanswered. “Students were called last month as Covid cases had declined drastically. But as they started increasing we switched to online classes and sent some of them back. Some preferred to stay back in the hostel. I didn’t receive any complaint from any student. The institute took decisions as per the university’s guidelines,” said Kumar. “We are a 100% residential institute and students were not allowed to go out. Since students had come back, we had decided to continue but had to suspend classes as cases began to rise,” added Kumar. Students told TOI that more than 300 students were called at the same time. A circular was issued stating that body temperature and oxygen levels of every student will be checked and recorded on a daily basis. Also, only one student would be allowed to stay in a single hostel room. “The college forced two students to stay in a single room. As per the UGC guidelines, colleges were asked to reopen with 50% strength. However, all the 300 students were asked to report before the given time. The mess was always occupied and no social distancing norms were followed,” said students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nfsc-held-back-200-students-on-campus-even-after-nmc-curbs/articleshow/81380841.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||‘Pvt players to help set up Sriram univ’||AYODHYA: Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma during his day-long visit to Ayodhya on Sunday, said the state government has given a proposal to private players in education to establish Sriram University in Ayodhya, which will teach Ramayana and Ramcharitmanas and establish a chair of research on Ramayana written in Indian and foreign languages. Before meeting officials of higher education department, he offered prayers at Ramjanmabhoomi and went to Hanumangarhi and Kanak Bhawan. “Ayodhya can offer a platform for research on Hindu scriptures and the government is ensuring that the temple town remains in perpetual state of celebration like the Deepotsav to welcome Lord Ram from exile. We will revamp the town with wide roads, over bridges and world-class facilities. We are also working to establish a grand statue of Lord Ram, renovate dilapidated temples, and beautify the banks of Saryu,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pvt-players-to-help-set-up-sriram-univ/articleshow/81383091.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
March 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Eyes set on results of Streets for People Challenge||Aurangabad: A total of 12 finalists have made their presentation as part of the design competition organised under the Streets for People Challenge. The results will be announced soonFour streets, Kranti Chowk to Gopal Cultura Hall, Paithan Gate to Gulmandi Chowk, Connaught Circle and MGM-Priyadarshini Garden Road, are being covered under competition, which aims to transform identified routes under the Centre’s smart cities mission of the Centre. “The Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL), earlier in December, had invited the designs from architects, art students and urban designers for the transformation of four selected streets. A total of 12 finalists were picked,” said Sneha Nair, the nodal officer for the ‘Streets for People’ challenge. She said ASCDCL will soon announce the results for each street and the winning designs will be implemented to transform the respective streets.“We received some highly innovative and novel ideas for improving the streets during the competition. The efforts put in by each of the participants in the design were highly praiseworthy,” she said. As per the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), the ‘Streets for People Challenge’ aims to create flagship walking initiatives in cities with a focus on place-making and liveability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-eyes-set-on-results-of-streets-for-people-challenge/articleshow/81381936.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Govt Law College finally gets principal after 12 years in Mumbai||Mumbai: The Government Law College finally got a permanent principal after almost 12 years. Asmita Vaidya from NBT Law College in Nashik took charge on Friday. Though she was appointed in 2019, the assembly elections in the state and then the Covid-19 pandemic delayed her approval process by over a year and a half.  Usually, two months are given to fresh appointees to take charge. The higher and technical education department released an appointment order this week. An official said that there were technical problems in the approval process. “Her pay scale had to be upgraded. And when a person is moving from an aided college to a government college, the pay scale revision requires certain approvals. The assembly election dates were announced and things got delayed. Once the new government was formed, the pandemic set in delaying the process further," said the official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-law-college-finally-gets-principal-after-12-years-in-mumbai/articleshow/81383097.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Vadodara||In Vadodara, Covid-19 crosses 25,000 mark||Vadodara: Covid-19 positive patients in Vadodara crossed the 25,000 mark on Sunday with 47 fresh cases reported.  Of the total 25,031 positive cases that the city and the district have registered so far, 7,682 are from Vadodara rural, 36 are outside Vadodara while the rest are from east, west, north and south zones of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC).  The addition of 47 fresh cases was result of 2,251 samples that were tested since Saturday evening. The official death toll however has remained at 241 with VMC not declaring any death due to Covid-19.  Going by the bulletin of VMC, there are 578 active patients in Vadodara city and rural. Of these, condition of 458 patients is said to be stable. While 82 patients are being treated with oxygen support, 38 patients are under ventilator or are being treated with the help of BI-PAP machine. Sunday also witnessed 55 discharges taking the total number of discharges till date to 24,212. The 55 discharged include two from government hospital, eight form private hospitals while 45 others who were in home isolation.  VMC’s bullet states that there are 724 individuals who are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-vadodara-covid-19-crosses-25000-mark/articleshow/81380828.cms||---
March 8, 2021||India||No other poet expressed separation in the same manner as Sahirsaab: Gulzar||In a conversation with TOI, writer Gulzar remembers Sahir Ludhianvi, the rebel who brought the poetry of protest to the screen and popular culture, on his 100th birth anniversary.Sahirsaab made his presence felt as much in films as in literature. Anyone who read or listened to Urdu poetry or mushairas in those days would know who Sahir Ludhianvi was. He was a tall, fair, handsome man with small pock marks on his face and a distinct style of speaking. Today is the birth centenary of one India's best poets #SahirLudhianvi Which among these is your favourite Sahir song:— The Times Of India (@timesofindia) 1615189924000Always very humble, never boastful — because poets sometimes can be very boastful about what they’ve read and what they write — but he was a modest man. Sahir Ludhianvi flanked by filmmaker BR Chopra and actor Dilip KumarI remember that he was never allowed to leave the stage without reciting his famous poem on the Taj Mahal — ‘Meri mehboob kahi aur mila kar mujhse’ — it was very, very popular with the people. Progressive writers and poets would often argue that it wasn’t fair to look at the Taj Mahal from the lens of the rich against the poor. But Sahirsaab was a committed communist poet and part of the Progressive Writers’ Association (PWA) like Shailendra and (Ali) Sardar Jafri. Blog: Remembering Sahir LudhianviIt was a movement that I became involved with later, also. I hadn’t joined films then. I used to work in a motor garage, and attend PWA meetings. But I was lucky to be living in the outhouse of the bungalow where Sahirsaab lived on the first floor. It was called the Coover Lodge at Seven Bungalows, Andheri. On the ground floor lived the famous Urdu writer Krishan Chander, who too, was a legend in his own time. And in the outhouses of that bungalow, three or four strugglers like Ratan Bhattacharya and myself, lived. The compound still exists, although a building has come up now. Read AlsoRemembering Sahir Ludhianvi: Privileged to have sung his lyrics, says musePlayback singer Sudha Malhotra was in her twenties when she became an unwitting muse for poet lyricist Sahir Ludhianvi. He recommended her name to film makers and composers, sparking a career that led to songs like ‘Yeh ishq ishq hai’, ‘Na main dhan chahoon’ and ‘Kashti ka khamosh safar hai’.When Sahirsaab joined films, he had his own style of using Urdu words that we had never heard of before. For example, the song ‘Yeh raat yeh chandni phir kahaan’ from the movie Jaal. The kind of imagery in phrases like ‘Aur thodi der mein thak ke laut jaayegi’ was very rare at the time. Or take ‘Chalo ek baar phir se ajnabi ban jayein hum dono’ from Gumrah. No other poet until then had expressed separation in a manner that continues to linger in you when you hear it today, just like it did when it was written back then. One could clearly see the individuality in his expressions. But this modest and humble man also had his own ego and arrogance. He would ask for the same price as the music director of a film. It’s not that he wanted to work with only big names. He’d say, ‘if you can’t afford it then give me a smaller music director, I don’t mind’. That’s how music directors like N Dutta and Ravi went on to compose for him. Sahirsaab was very confident of his poetry. He is ‘the’ person who called for a strike by writers asking them to not give songs to Vividh Bharti unless they mentioned the name of the writer on their shows. Otherwise, traditionally Vividh Bharti would announce only the names of the singer and composer of a song. Sahirsaab was the man to protest against this and the strike eventually came to an end after Vividh Bharti agreed. Other than his writing, this was the hallmark of his contributions towards the prestige and identity of writers and poets in the film industry. It has relevance till this date and a cause that Javedsaab (Akhtar) still pursues in his battle for copyright, something that Sahir Ludhianvi did in his time. Javedsaab is someone who he loved very much because his father Jan Nisar Akhtar was a very close friend of Sahir Ludhianvi’s and Javed almost grew up in his house. He was also the first lyricist I ever saw, who had a car. He was like a nawab! In fact, he was the son of a nawab. The only other persons who lived with him in that house were his mother (Sardar Begum) and Ram Prakash Ashq, a very close friend of his who came with him from Pakistan. His mother was a strict lady. Always dressed in white Lucknowi embroidered salwar-kurta she would love him and rebuke him like a child... Bahut daat-ti thi, poore bungaley mein unki awaaz sunai deti thi! (As told to Mohua Das)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-other-poet-expressed-separation-in-the-same-manner-as-sahirsaab/articleshow/81389903.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||Sanitary vending machine, incinerator now at Suddhowala jail||Dehradun: Nearly 70 female inmates of Dehradun's Suddhowala jail will now be able to maintain female hygiene, thanks to the high walls of the prison, a sanitary vending machine and an incinerator. The vending machine and incinerator have been installed by the jail administration in collaboration with the Dehradun district administration on the occasion of International Women's Day celebrated on March 8. Shweta Choubey, senior superintendent of the jail, said, "Besides the installation of a vending machine and incinerator, a medical camp was also organized at the women inmates' barrack where gynaecologists and other doctors carried out medical examinations of them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sanitary-vending-machine-incinerator-now-at-suddhowala-jail/articleshow/81380845.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 8, 2021||Vadodara||Street animals find shelter in Barodians’ home and heart||Vadodara: They were out on the streets and needed a loving family. And Barodians obliged by turning up in large numbers to adopt stray puppies and kittens in the city on Sunday. The first-ever camp for adoption of stray cats and dogs witnessed a huge rush at Sayajibaug.“Over 500 persons walked in at the park to adopt the street dogs and cat. We got an overwhelming response, something that we had not expected,” said Shikha Patel, one of the organizers of the camp. Within hours, over 32 puppies and five kittens got adopted at the park.The organizers said that many more are keen to adopt street dogs and kittens in the city. “We will visit the homes of some of the citizens who have adopted the strays to ensure that they are looking well after the pets,” Patel added. The camp was organized by Anulok, an NGO joint with People for Animals.———————————-Photoquotes (with PP)I have been caring for the street dogs in my area for a long time. When I heard about this adoption camp, I immediately decided to adopt one as a pet. Their love is unconditional.Uday Shah, (marketing professional, Waghodia)Stray dogs as pets may not be a symbol of status but they give the same affection as any other canine. I adopted a street pup and it is very lovable. I am glad I could give it a home.Shreya Shukla, CA studentWe have had cats as pets in the past. I always wanted a pet dog. When I learnt about this camp, I decided to adopt a street puppy and give it a home. We are all very excited.Aaryan Awasthi, studentI am fond of cats and wanted to have one at home. What better idea than to give a stray cat a family and hence we decided to visit the camp and adopt one. We now have a new family member.Vamakshi Pujari, studentUsually people adopt foreign breed cats as a status symbol. By adopting a stray kitten, I am glad that I gave it a home. Also, why should there be a reason for adopting a street animal?Sufiya Khan, employee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/street-animals-find-shelter-in-barodians-home-and-heart/articleshow/81380858.cms||Tushar Tere
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Toilet: Ek Art Katha!||AHMEDABAD: Passing from near Gujarat University BRTS bus stand, the heads turn when they see an expansive wallart. It takes a couple of seconds for the person to realize that it’s in fact the façade of a public toilet! But it’s not just one instance – the toilets maintained by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) at places such as Gota crossroads, Thaltej crossroads, Mansi crossroads, under Shivranjani flyover, Anandnagar crossroads and near Jivraj Park among others are also painted in myriad hues. The work is by Priyanka Thaker, an architect by training and a wallartist by passion. “The project took shape in my mind about a year ago. Why can’t we have more art in public place to deck up the city’s look? After brainstorming, I chose public toilets due to multiple reasons – the first and foremost was to improve the perception of a toilet,” she said, adding that she presented the idea to AMC and it was accepted for 15 sites across the city. “After the initial success, we are planning to paint more public toilets soon. My team has also expanded from one to 14.” Does it improve perception of users? Priyanka answered in affirmative. “Peeing on the outside stops as people think at least once due to the décor. It becomes eye-catching and more people are motivated to visit it. We have so far got good feedback. But more importantly, people now realize that toilets can also be beautified,” she said, adding that she’s not in the know of any major project in India for public toilets. She uses abstract geometry inspired by cubism as the central theme along with hands. “The work started in pandemic, and we were acutely aware of that human touch. Moreover, hands can convey so much meaning without any cultural or language barriers,” said Priyanka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/toilet-ek-art-katha/articleshow/81381969.cms||Parth Shastri
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Bloom after the gloom: How rising temp has brought imported tulips back to life||NEW DELHI: The uneven temperatures in the past couple of months have proved a mixed blessing for New Delhi Municipal Council. While the cold of January inhibited the growth of some flowering plants in Lutyens’ Delhi’s several parks and roundabouts, the warmth of February helped the replanted tulips to attain full bloom before time. It was in mid-December that 55,000 tulip bulbs from Holland were planted by NDMC. But they were almost all destroyed in January by the extreme cold and unseasonal rain. Fresh bulbs were imported, and 35,000 of them planted anew. The civic body was expecting these to flower in March. But with the rise in temperature, they have started blooming early on the roadside lawns at Shanti path, Akbar Road, Janpath, Vijay Chowk, AIIMS roundabout and Talkatora Garden. In addition to the regular places where tulip was planted every year, NDMC had this time expanded their areas, planting bulbs of single shades. “New sites such as the roundabout opposite the Thailand and Canadian embassies in Chanakyapuri and Nyaya Marg now have tulips flowering. The regular locations included the big parks under NDMC such as Lodhi Garden, Nehru Park, Talkatora Garden, Palika Kendra, Children’s Park and Sanjay Jheel,” said a civic official. “The rows of single-coloured heads look more beautiful in gardens and green lawns in comparison with multi-hued flowers.” Other flowers too are catching the people’s attention. They include the regular carnations in purple and pink and verbena, Dahlia, linum (flax), marigold, hybrid pansy, antirrhinum, ice plant, dianthus and coreopsis. However, some species of flowering plants such as petunia and salvia are yet to come to full glory because of poor growth due to sudden fall and rise in temperature, officials said. “January is an important season that determines the conditions in the upcoming spring. The appropriate temperature of 5-13 degree Celsius at that time helps in proper growth and budding of plants,” explained S Chellaiah, horticulture director, NDMC. “But this time, there was rain in January and our plants were damaged fully or partially. Now, there is a rise in temperature and not all plants are adapting to these changes. We expect it will take another 15 days to fill the gaps and get full growth of many flowers on the roadsides.” Erratic supply of water due to closure of tubewells on the orders of the National Green Tribunal also added to the problems when the mercury started soaring. However, with other species — hyacinth, iris, oriental lily, Asiatic lily and calla lily, among them — likely to burst into colour in a week’s time, Delhi can look forward to a heart-warming and colour time till March-April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bloom-after-the-gloom-how-rising-temp-has-brought-imported-tulips-back-to-life/articleshow/81383143.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 8, 2021||Vadodara||23 caught in liquor raid||Vadodara: Twenty three youngsters including 12 girls were caught in a raid on liquor party in Neptune Greenwood in Gotri area late on Saturday night.Police took blood samples and they were booked them under the Prohibition Act. All those caught were students and are residents of the city. Two liquor bottles, 10 mobile phones and four cars were seized from the spot. Investigating officials said that the girls will be booked only after their blood sample reports come in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/23-caught-in-liquor-raid/articleshow/81380839.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 2 boys, 14 & 9, held for rape of 6-year-old||WARANGAL: Two boys, aged 9 and 14, from a village in Warangal were booked under the POCSO Act for sexually assaulting a six-year-old girl. On Saturday evening, family members of the victim lodged a complaint with cops alleging that she was sexually assaulted by two boys on February 24 at the village. “The two boys are relatives of the victim. On February 24, the girl and the boys went to pick jujube fruits in the village and at an isolated spot the two boys sexually assaulted her,” Mamnoor ACP A Naresh Kumar said. The girl is in LKG and the accused are in class IX and class VI, police said. The child’s father is a farmer and her mother is a daily-wage worker. After the incident, the girl complained to her family members about pain in her private parts and they took her to a doctor. Subsequently, the girl told her family members about the assault and they approached us with a complaint, the ACP said. Police sent the girl for medical examination on Sunday and after confirmation of sexual assault, registered a case against the boys under section 5 r/w 6 of the POCSO Act. “We will produce the two boys before the juvenile justice board,” the ACP added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-boys-14-9-held-for-rape-of-6-year-old/articleshow/81383155.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
March 8, 2021||Chennai||When parks are death traps for kids||CHENNAI: Nine-year-old Saket was running around in a playground when his grandfather came looking for him. He reprimanded the boy for going back to the ground despite several warnings. “He injured his arm a few days ago and again fell down on a gate two days back while trying to catch a ball. It has very sharp edges. I cannot let him play here, it’s too risky,” said V Subramani, a 67-year-old resident of Welcome Colony in Anna Nagar West Extension. Jyoti Kumari, another resident of the area, said many children have got injured while playing in the ground due to which parents are hesitant to let them out. A few days ago, an 11-year-old died after he stepped on a live wire at a park in Peerkankaranai. A visit to children’s parks and playgrounds around the city showed that many parks are not child-friendly. It seemed like they were designed for aesthetic appeal and not keeping in mind the requirements and safety of users. A few had exposed cables, broken play equipment that have developed sharp edges, rickety gates, poor lighting and damaged walkways. A corporation playground on the Sixth Avenue in Ashok Nagar has been lying unkempt for months. It is frequented by many children, especially in the evening. “The next nearest park is 2km away so children play here. While the teenagers are more careful, it’s the younger ones who we are scared for,” said Keerthi T, a homemaker. The park was dug up last year for renovation. In December, local officials had told TOI that they would complete the work in January. However, no progress has been made so far. The Tamil Nadu Parks, Play-Fields and Open Spaces (Preservation and Regulation) Act, 1959, mandates maintaining the parks or playfield in a clean and proper condition, and carrying out necessary repair work within a stipulated time period. M G Devasahayam, a retired IAS officer, said all park equipment must be designed by qualified architects keeping in mind the safety of children. “But most are made of steel and start rusting. The ground on which children fall is hard and can lead to serious injuries,” he said. Joy Peter, a resident of Demellows Road in Choolai, said he has to supervise his son every time he goes to the corporation ground in KP Park, Basin Bridge. “The equipment is damaged and needs to be replaced. Though I ensure that he doesn’t use them, many children continue to play with it,” he said. Meghanatha Reddy, deputy commissioner (works), Greater Chennai Corporation, said maintenance of parks is outsourced and that the corporation has a standard operating procedure to ensure that the facilities are well-maintained. “I will write to all the zonal heads to inspect every park in the city and carry out the necessary repair,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-parks-are-death-traps-for-kids/articleshow/81381964.cms||Aditi R
March 8, 2021||Meerut||3 held, slapped with Gangster Act for assaulting power dept team in Nagina||Bijnor: Bijnor police has arrested three people who had allegedly thrashed a power department team on February 27 for trying to snap electricity connections of those who had not paid their bills in Nagina town. The accused have been booked under SC/ST Act and Gangster Act. According to officials, a group of power department staff was allegedly assaulted and abused by Samajwadi corporator Ehtesham Ali alias Raza, his brother and a neighbour for trying to disconnect their electric supply for not clearing their dues. The matter escalated when SP legislator Manoj Paras and his supporters reached the spot. The team was allegedly held hostage and assaulted by the MLA’s supporters. In his complaint, sub divisional officer, power corporation, Ankit Kumar had alleged, “I along with junior engineer DK Maurya went to snap power connections in Kalalan mohalla of Nagina town as many consumers had not paid their electricity dues. We went to Ehtesham’s house and asked him to deposit his dues totaling Rs 15,510. He had expressed his inability to do so. When my team tried to snap his connection, Ehtesham and his brother attacked and abused the team. Later, the brothers tried to strangle us. We somehow escaped and called police.” By that time, MLA Manoj Paras also reached the spot and backed Ehtesham. “After the MLA left, the mob took us hostage and made us sit on the ground. Police set us free,” claimed Kumar. A case was registered against Ehtesham and another person under various sections of the IPC, including section 307 (attempt to murder) and 332 (whoever voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty). Three people have been arrested in this connection and they have been booked under SC/ST Act and Gangster Act, said Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-held-slapped-with-gangster-act-for-assaulting-power-dept-team-in-nagina/articleshow/81380186.cms||Harveer Dabas
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: State-owned thermal power stns generate record load of 8,104 MW||Mumbai: State-owned thermal power stations collectively generated 8,104 MW power for Maharashtra on Sunday. Energy minister Nitin Raut announced that this was the highest ever achieved. It will help meet the rising demand during summer as electricity consumption has now increased 53% as compared to initial Covid-19 lockdown months. His tweet on Sunday morning read, “Today’s Thermal Load 8104 MW at 8:15 a.m.on 7th Mar.-2021 highest ever achieved in history! Earlier Thermal Load record was 7611 MW on 20/05/2019. Hearty Congratulations to MahaGenco & its O&M.” A senior official said that Mahagenco, which was the state-owned electricity generator, had a total capacity of 13,186 MW. “The thermal generation total capacity was 74% or 9750 MW. Today, seven thermal power stations collectively generated 8,104 MW to meet the demand from consumers, especially when the temperature is rising,” he said. — Somit Sen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-state-owned-thermal-power-stns-generate-record-load-of-8104-mw/articleshow/81383157.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Chennai||Alumni, students want Pachaiyappa’s College to reopen ground for walkers||Chennai: Pachaiyappa’s College alumni and students protested on Saturday asking the college management to reopen the college’s playground for morning walk and sports activities. While most other grounds in the city, which were closed due to Covid-19 since last March, have reopened for such activities, Pachaiyappa’s College has still kept its doors shut. College principal P Murugakoothan said he has brought the issue to the notice college trust board and it has to take the final call. Besides local residents, the ground was used by hundreds of others residing in adjoining areas such as Kilpauk, Nungambakkam and Egmore on a daily basis. As private stadiums started collecting more fees of late, footfalls at the college ground went up. S Yuvaraj, who heads the college’s alumni confederation, said the state government has allowed reopening of all sporting grounds. By continuing to keep the doors shut, the college is forcing people to travel to Nungambakkam and Kilpauk in search of other grounds. “But there is a shortage for public playgrounds in this part of the city as government buildings have come up on open spaces in the past 10 to 15 years,” he said. A Greater Chennai Corporation official said there are 36 parks in Anna Nagar zone, where Chetpet area falls, and most of them are open to morning walkers. But residents said the eco-park, there are only four parks in the area and only two among them can accommodate a crowd. “On one hand, they don’t let us use college grounds, which are at least 2 to 3 acres in size. On the other hand, they want us to take a risk by walking in crowded small parks which are poorly maintained,” said A Anand, a resident of Aminjikarai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/alumni-students-want-pachaiyappas-college-to-reopen-ground-for-walkers/articleshow/81381973.cms||Ram Sundaram
March 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||TTD to take energy efficient path||Visakhapatnam: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) will be soon in a position to significantly save on its electricity bills, besides reducing its carbon footprint. In a preliminary energy audit conducted by the Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM), it has been observed that the TTD has a vast scope to save close to 8.68 million units (MU). This could be achieved by replacing the existing ceiling fans and air conditioners with energy efficient appliances. Moreover, it has been found that around 25% of energy can be saved in water supply management, hot water management, steam generation. Consuming around 68 MU of electricity per annum, the TTD pays around Rs 40 crore as electricity bill every year. The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has agreed to provide financial support as grant-in–aid to take up the energy audit in all premises of the TTD, both in Tirumala and Tirupati. In its communication, the BEE has informed that the APSECM may carry out ‘investment grade energy audit’ and asked the SECM to submit a detailed project report along with audit recommendations. TTD executive officer KS Jawahar Reddy said that opting for eco-friendly energy efficiency measures would lead to a sustainable tomorrow. “We hope TTD’s initiative to embrace energy efficiency measures will encourage others to look at sustainable solutions that will help our society and nature as well,” he said. Of TTD’s total energy consumption of 68 MU per annum, around 36% is being met through solar and wind power while the remaining 64% is supplied by APSPDCL Tirupati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ttd-to-take-energy-efficient-path/articleshow/81380422.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Non-woven fabric makers reel from high raw material costs||Ahmedabad: Just like plastic processors, non-woven fabric manufacturers across the state are also reeling from high raw material cost. Spiralling raw material prices and subsequent decline in demand of non-woven fabric have resulted into a 30-50% reduction in capacity utilisation of non-woven fabric plants in the state. The non-woven fabric goes into making of masks, gowns, coveralls, non-woven bags, mattresses as well as for wider application in automotive and other industrial usages. The main raw material used for producing non-woven fabric is a homopolymer, the price of which has firmed up 65% from Rs 82 per kg in September-October to Rs 135/kg. The prices may go up further to Rs 150 per kg, fear industry players.“The unexpected surge in homopolymer prices has put non-woven fabric makers under financial stress. The rise in raw material costs has increased the requirement of funds. Unable to afford required quantity at such a high price, manufacturers have scaled down production and their plants are running at 50-70% capacity currently,” said Suresh Patel, president, Non-woven Federation of India (NFWI).“The situation is bad as bigger units are operating at lower production capacity and smaller ones are even staring at temporary closure,” he added. Out of 125 units in India, 42 non-woven fabric units with a cumulative capacity of 12,000 metric tonnes (MT) per month are located in Gujarat.The increase in raw material cost has further pushed up the prices of the fabric by 46% to Rs 175 per kg from Rs 120 per kg in past four months. “Our buyers are not able to fully pass the hike on to their customers. Hence, the demand for non-woven fabric has started going down,” said a unit owner, who did not wish to be quoted.According to industry estimates, the demand for non-woven fabric has declined by 30-40% due to higher prices of the fabric. It may be mentioned here that recently plastic processors voiced their concerns over a steep hike (40-155%) in the prices of their raw materials, which are mainly polymers. They even demanded a ban on exports of raw materials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/non-woven-fabric-makers-reel-from-high-raw-material-costs/articleshow/81381736.cms||Kalpesh Damor
March 8, 2021||Rajkot||Wife, three others caught for Morbi man’s murder||Rajkot: Four persons, including the wife were arrested in the murder case of 29-year-old Shailesh Agechariya, a resident of Morbi town, on Saturday night. According to Morbi police, stray dogs exhumed the skeleton of Agechariya which was buried in Kantinagar area of Morbi town on March 3 and the local people informed the police about it. After postmortem reports confirmed the death was a murder, kin of the deceased named a few suspects to the police. “We arrested Shailesh's wife Aarti alias Yasmin, her paramour Juma Sajan Majothi, Shahrukh and Shohel Majothi on charges of murder. Preliminary probe revealed that Shailesh married Yashmin a few years ago, but of late she was living with Juma in Morbi after quarrelling with her husband and was seeking divorce. However, Shailesh was reluctant to give her divorce. So, Yashmin along with her paramour and accomplices conspired to kill him,” said the police. Yashmin called Shailesh on February 27 to a godown near Kantinagar where the assailants tied him with a rope and thrashed him and left him overnight on the spot. Upon return, they found him dead. Due to panchayat polls, they could not dispose of the body and therefore, dug a pit and buried him near the godown,” police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wife-three-others-caught-for-morbi-mans-murder/articleshow/81380645.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||West Godavari: Two killed, 18 hurt in road accident in Jangareddigudem||ELURU: Collision between a lorry and a parked tractor resulted in the deaths of two persons and injuries to 18 others in West Godavari’s Jangareddigudem in the early hours of Sunday. Of the injured, the condition of two is said to be critical.  According to Jangareddigumdem SI Kutumba Rao, the persons in the tractor were on their way to offer prayers at Gubbala Mangamma temple. The tractor was part of a convoy of three and had parked by the road, waiting for the other two to catch up. At 4am, a lorry heading towards Hyderabad from Rajahmundry rammed into the tractor, overturning it and injuring 20 of whom two succumbed. The two who are critical were shifted to Vijayawada for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2-killed-18-hurt-in-road-accident/articleshow/81380507.cms||Samson Raj
March 8, 2021||Goa||Heartbreak for FC Goa as Mumbai City win 6-5 on penalties to enter ISL final for first time||Panaji: Ahead of the second leg semifinal on Monday, FC Goa and Mumbai City had scored 70 goals between them this season. But for 120 minutes at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim, they drew a blank. Then the goalkeepers took over. Both teams sprang surprises. While Mumbai chose Phurba Lachenpa, who had not played a single minute this season -- not even in the second leg – for the tiebreaker, Goa opted for Naveen Kumar, their penalty specialist. Lachenpa saved the first two penalties from Edu Bedia and Brandon Fernandes, and even though Ahmed Jahouh failed to score the winning goal in the tiebreaker, Rowllin Borges kept his cool to hammer home his team’s ninth penalty and drive Mumbai into the Indian Super League (ISL) final for the first time with a 6-5 sudden death win. Bartholomew Ogbeche, Raynier Fernandes, Amey Ranawade, Mourtada Fall and Mandar Rao Desai were the other penalty scorers for Mumbai with Hernan Santana, Hugo Boumous and Jahouh’s attempts being saved by Naveen. For Goa, Igor Angulo, Ivan Gonzalez, Ishan Pandita, Jorge Ortiz and Adil Khan were on target. Besides Edu and Brandon, James Donachie and Glan Martins couldn’t convert from the spot. Goa were left to wonder what may have been, despite introducing Angulo – top scorer in the league with 14 goals – after 101 minutes were played. For most part, they had the upper hand, better chances and forced Amrinder Singh into at least six saves throughout the game. Every time Goa came close, Amrinder kept them out. In the first half, he denied Alberto Noguera. In the second, he got even better when Pandita’s arrival changed the complexion of the game and fashioned more chances. Alexander Romario forced a finger-tip save, then Pandita came up with a diving header, again tipped away. Saviour Gama tested the keeper from distance and Amrinder proved equal to the task. Mumbai had the quality to last the distance. With a blend of quality domestic players and experienced foreigners, they were never out of the game, but Sergio Lobera’s side surprisingly didn’t have a shot on target with rival goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh having a relaxed time. Boumous, Adam Le Fondre and substitute Ogbeche all had half-chances, but were dispossessed just before they could take aim at goal. Goa’s best chance came with the last kick in regulation time. Edu floated a free-kick right inside the heart of the Mumbai defence. But while Donachie got himself in a good position, he failed to get a touch from handshaking distance. Goa couldn’t believe their luck. At the same venue, a month ago, Pandita had scored in stoppage time from Edu’s cross to tie the game 3-3. This time there was no fairy tale ending for Goa. Instead, it all ended in heartbreak as Mumbai remained on course to do the double.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heartbreak-for-fc-goa-as-mumbai-city-win-6-5-on-penalties-to-enter-isl-final-for-first-time/articleshow/81401668.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Fighting women issues and the pandemic with élan||Ahmedabad: Sonal Myatra, a counsellor for 181 Abhayam helpline in Vastrapur area of Ahmedabad, was eight-month pregnant when the lockdown was announced in March last year. “I was asked by my family to take a leave as it was a very valid reason. But the spike in calls during the pandemic made me realize that the women in distress also need me,” recounts Sonal. “Thus, my child also accompanied me as I counselled teenage girls, intervened in domestic feuds and sought police help when teary-eyed women refused to go back home.” While the suicide by Aisha Makrani, 23, after a heart-wrenching video brought the rampant issue of domestic violence and dowry harassment to fore, the figures of Abhayam 181 helpline reveal that during the pandemic month they received, on an average, one call for domestic violence every 10 minutes, recording 21% rise compared to the previous year. “In such a scenario, the counsellors ensured safety of their loved ones, while never flinching from going out to help women,” said Jashvant Prajapati, COO of EMRI Gujarat, adding that many had their family members infected by virus, had co-morbidities or other personal issues, but they put themselves work before their personal lives.” For example, Arti Thakor, a counsellor with Abhayam in Patan district, remained away from her two-year-old son Atharva for two months. “My husband worked as driver for 108 ambulance. Thus, we had to maintain safe distance from him even when we wanted to hug him, play with him,” she said. Painful Pandemic for Women 16.5% rise in domestic violence issues in a year for Ahmedabad district. The figure was 34% for Rajkot, 4.4% for Vadodara and 4% for Surat 12% rise in extramarital affairs in a year in Ahmedabad district. The figure was 38% for Rajkot, 12% for Surat and 11.5% for Vadodara 600% rise in dowry related harassment in Panchmahals, followed by 500% in Bharuch, 400% in Botad. Districts recorded higher increase compared to major cities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fighting-women-issues-and-the-pandemic-with-lan/articleshow/81381975.cms||Parth Shastri
March 8, 2021||Vijayawada||TDP aspirants move court over forged nomination withdrawals||Vijayawada: As many as 18 petitions have been moved before the Andhra Pradesh high court alleging false withdrawal of nominations with forged signatures. Aspirants from TDP for Chittoor Municipal Corporation filed a house motion petition on Sunday seeking urgent hearing. The court directed the state election commission (SEC) to submit details regarding the allegations and posted the hearing for Monday. The petitioners alleged that their nominations were withdrawn without their knowledge. They claimed that returning officers committed fraud in collusion with ruling party contestants in a bid to declare the poll unanimous. Arguing for petitioners, senior counsel Dammalapati Srinivas told the court that SEC had directed recording video of nomination withdrawal process and sought directions to SEC to submit the recordings before the court. Arguing on behalf of the state government, special government pleader C Sumon said the petition was not maintainable. “Any dispute in the election process has to be settled before the election tribunal with an election petition,” he said, adding that SEC cannot act as a super tribunal on matters of fact which it does not have any jurisdiction to adjudicate the same. The petitioners’ counsel countered Sumon’s argument citing Supreme Court judgements in similar matters and said the high court can intervene when fraudulent methods are used in the election process. Standing counsel for SEC, N Ashwani Kumar told the court that they have received complaints on withdrawal of nominations with forged signatures. He said the commission has directed district election officials to conduct enquiry and submit a report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-aspirants-move-court-over-forged-nomination-withdrawals/articleshow/81380466.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||24-hr monitoring of glaciers must to avoid Chamoli rerun: Experts||Dehradun: Pointing out that the many reasons offered for the flash floods in Chamoli are not “convincing enough”, experts who took part in a symposium here on Sunday to mark one month of the disaster said that round-the-clock monitoring of glaciers can help avert a rerun of such incidents.The event was attended by experts from all walks of life including environmentalists, geologists and lawyers. Eminent geologist SP Sati, who has conducted a detailed study on all riverbeds in Uttarakhand, said, “Almost all reports maintained that the massive flash floods were caused due to breaking of rocks and glaciers. It remains a mystery as to how a glacier broke in the peak of winter. Also, how did nobody spot such massive water accumulation even in satellite pictures?” Stating that certain laxities were later identified to be “criminal”, she said that the alarm system at the power project was non-functional which could have otherwise saved many lives. She also called for a blanket ban on hydropower projects at a height of over 2000 metres in the hills noting that loose sediments in the upper reaches aggravate disaster risk in such regions. Terming the Chamoli disaster a failure on the part of the government in monitoring mountains and glaciers, BP Nautiyal, an advocate practising in the Uttarakhand high court, urged the public to file PILs to bring such issues to the notice of the courts. “I’ll fight all such cases for free. The matter should be highlighted to such an extent that the government feels compelled to listen to scientists and regularly monitor rivers, hills and glaciers,” he said. Meanwhile, the participants of the symposium also formed a 15-member committee — Himalaya Bachao Jan Samiti — to fight for issues related to the forest, water and land resources of Uttarakhand. Convenor of the panel, Mukesh Semval, said, “The government must review the number of hydropower projects in the state and shut hazardous ones immediately. They should also implement the suggestions put forth by the Ravi Chopra committee, appointed to study the damage caused by dams in the Kedarnath disaster of 2013, as well as other scientists from time to time.” The committee members also said that they would visit the Chamoli disaster site soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/24-hr-monitoring-of-glaciers-must-to-avoid-chamoli-rerun-experts/articleshow/81380878.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 8, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu assembly election: M K Stalin promises 10 lakh jobs a year, wages for homemakers||DMK president M K Stalin on Sunday unveiled an ambitious vision document that offered a seven-point promise to the people of Tamil Nadu to enable the state to grow in seven different spheres over the next decade. In a bid to impress the sizeable women constituency, Stalin promised a monthly wage of Rs 1000 for home makers. Addressing a conference organized by the party on the outskirts of Trichy on Sunday evening, Stalin promised economic and agriculture growth, drinking water, quality education and healthcare for all, social justice to the needy and downtrodden, beautiful cities and stronger rural infrastructure to improve quality of life. “We worked together with experts from various fields to create this vision document. This is Stalin’s Seven Point promise to the people of Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said. “I am not making this promise only for the next five years, when DMK will win the election and govern the state. I am making this promise for the next 10 years,” Stalin said, to loud cheers of the party cadre, who had converged in Trichy from across the state. On the economic front, the DMK vision document has promised to ensure a consistent double-digit growth for the state’s economy to make it a Rs 35 lakh crore economy, while increasing the per capita income of the people to Rs four lakh per annum. Promising to create 10 lakh jobs every year to abolish unemployment, the DMK government will work towards eradicating poverty by lifting over one crore people from below the poverty line. On the agriculture front, the vision is to bring an additional 11.75 lakh hectares under regular farming activities, thereby increasing the farm areas to 75% from the present 50%. It also promises to double two-crop farmland per annum to 20 lakh hectares from the present 10 lakh hectares. Special focus will be on production of foodgrain and cereals, besides getting Tamil Nadu to the top three spots for cash crops like coconut, sugarcane, cotton, sunflower by improving farm efficiency. Increasing the per capita water source from nine lakh litres per annum to 10 lakh litres; reducing the daily wastage of water to 15% from the present 50%, to increase the recycled water usage to 20% from the present five per cent and extending the green cover of the state from 20.27% to 25% by bringing an additional 7.5 lakh hectare land under green cover. On education and healthcare, DMK has promised to triple allocations, as a percentage of GSDP to these two sectors by increasing allocation to education to 6% from the present 1.9% and for healthcare to 2% from the present 0.75%. The vision promises to improve the state to get into the top 10 rank on the education front from the present 17 among all states and reduce the rate of school dropouts to 5% from the present 16%. While model school and hospital will be built in every village panchayat, the DMK plans to achieve this by doubling the number of health workers, including doctors and nurses, as well as technical graduates. As part of its promise to deliver social justice to all, DMK promised Rs 1,000 per month to all the housewives, doubling the aid for education for scheduled castes, tribes and the backward classes, besides abolishing human intervention in sanitary works. Under the promise to improve urban infrastructure, DMK promises to provide tapped drinking water to 36 lakh more homes, effective solid waste management system for all towns and cities and reducing slum dwellers from 16.6% to 5% by building 9.75 lakh concrete houses and to enable 15 municipal corporations to figure among top 50 Indian cities. As part of the rural focus, the vision is to improve percentage of concrete houses to 85% from the present 57% by building 20 lakh new concrete houses, ensuring tapped drinking water to all houses in rural areas and to provide roads and sewage systems to handle vagaries of all seasons. It also promises broadband connectivity to all villages and at least 50% of villages to have solid waste management systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-promises-10-lakh-jobs-a-year-wages-for-homemakers/articleshow/81383225.cms||Gokul Rajendran
March 8, 2021||Goa||‘Coastal draft plan has several discrepancies’||PANAJI: Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte and St Andre MLA Francisco Silveira at the public hearing at Kala Academy expressed their solidarity with the villagers unhappy with the draft CZMP. Khaunte said there are several discrepancies in the draft CZMP as compared to that of the 2019 plan. “For instance, some salt pans have been marked as CRZ. He also pointed out that fishing communities and villages have not been highlighted in the plan. Also, areas along the Mandovi have been marked port limits which overlooks environment protection,” he said, adding, “This raises serious concerns on the legality of the draft shared with the public. It is misleading and incorrect.” He also demanded that the hearing be rescheduled at panchayat level with pre-noticed dates. “If a public hearing is being conducted, the public should be allowed to voice their opinions and they should be heard,” Khaunte said, referring to the 500-odd people that were denied entry into the premises by the police. MLA Silveira said that the port area limit marked for his constituency’s villages must be deleted in the plan. “The port limit area that is marked is almost 100m more which will affect local fishermen of the jurisdiction. What if private builders take advantage of this port limit? ” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coastal-draft-plan-has-several-discrepancies/articleshow/81383824.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Want to see a lady DGP in Telugu states’||The first lady director of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA), Aruna Bahuguna, wants to see more women don the khaki uniform. The 1979 batch IPS officer is also the first lady IPS officer of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh cadre. “I was the only lady officer in my batch at NPA. In fact, I was the only woman on campus as there were no women staff at that time. It was a different experience as I studied only in girls and women’s education institutions prior to that,” Bahuguna recounts. In her UPSC interview, she was grilled over her choice to opt for IPS. “I was asked to explain why I chose it instead of other services that are more suitable for women,” says the cop who’s held many top postings since then -- SP of Women Protection Cell in CID, Joint Commissioner of Hyderabad, DG of Fire Safety and Special Director General of CRPF. “While I was in CRPF, I deployed women battalion in combing operations in Jharkhand, Bihar. Similarly, at NPA I have included women support staff in outdoor training activities of trainee officers,” Bahuguna says. But while she gathered a lot of praise and support, through the way, there were bitter experiences too. “When I went to my boss to ask for second maternity leave, he said: again? There was another senior officer who said how women needed to take care of children, instead of joining police service,” the NPA director recalls. Her wish now? To see a lady officer holding the DGP or Commissioner of Police’s post in Telangana and AP. “So far only Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand have had women DGPs. Hope more occupy these posts in the future. Though the number of women IPS officers has increased, I appeal to women to opt for IPS as it’s one of the best ways to serve people,” Bahuguna adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/want-to-see-a-lady-dgp-in-telugu-states/articleshow/81383227.cms||Mahesh Buddi
March 8, 2021||Trichy||Endangered Indian pangolin rescued near Manapparai||Trichy: The forest department on Saturday rescued an Indian pangolin near Manapparai and released it into a reserve forest in the area. A team led by forest range officer, Manapparai, A Maheswaran carried out the rescue operation of the endangered animal at Pudukottai north village in Manapparai. People sighted the pangolin, while it was crossing the road at the village on Saturday morning. On the information, the forest department officials visited the spot and rescued the animal, which is commonly called anteater. “Most of the people would have sighted it for the first time in the area. Being a nocturnal animal, it is rare to spot it,” Maheswaran told ToI on Sunday. The forest department carefully handled the species as it was ferocious. “Indian pangolin is a shy animal. So, we have taken a lot of safety measures not to disturb it,” he said. The range officer also said that their team has released the species into a deep forest having water in the reserve forest area. The habitation of the anteater is under the bushes. Maheswaran said that the species will be prone to be hunted by dogs. People also hunt the species for its thick layer of scales, which have huge value in the international market. The scales are used for making ornaments. The range officer said that the sighting of the pangolin has given them an idea about the existence of the species in the forest areas of Trichy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/endangered-indian-pangolin-rescued-near-manapparai/articleshow/81383231.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Vadodara||Bhavin Soni’s sudden death leaves cops, kin shocked||Vadodara: One more member of the Soni family that attempted suicide four days ago died on Sunday morning. Bhavin Soni was put on a ventilator on Saturday after he developed some health complications. He breathed his last at the SSG hospital. On Saturday’s Bhavin’s mother Dipti had died during the treatment. Out of six family members, the only surviving person is Bhavin’s wife, Urvi Soni. Bhavin’s death came as a shock for his relatives and the investigating officials and he had shown good recovery in his health over the last three days. In fact, Bhavin had narrated the entire incident to the cops and explained the financial problems they were facing.Bhavin even registered FIR of murder against his father Narendra for giving insecticide to his three-year-old son, Parth. The Soni family staying in Sama area had consumed cold drinks laced with pesticide to end their lives. The family was under huge financial debts but had no steady source of income. Their attempts to sell off their home to repay the debt too failed.Bhavin had in his statement accused astrologers of duping his father of lakhs of rupees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bhavin-sonis-sudden-death-leaves-cops-kin-shocked/articleshow/81380903.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||Alert sounded in CTR after increase in poaching in nearby areas||Dehradun: A poaching alert has been sounded in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) after its Special Observation Group (SOG) deployed in Kalagarh area (close to the Uttar Pradesh border) informed authorities about poachers being active in the area. Speaking with TOI, park warden RK Tiwari said, “The alert has been sounded as the movement of people in this area has increased, presumably due to reopening of the Nepal route, villagers having free time at their disposal with a fortnight to go for the harvesting of wheat. The recent nabbing of poachers from Lakhimpur Kheri and Pithoragarh are also alarming.” On March 3, five poachers were seized with 20 tiger bones in Lakhimpur Kheri. On February 14th in Takiyapurva village near Dudhwa Tiger Reserve’s Bailrayan Forest Range, two persons were caught with the hide of an adult tiger, which officials said appeared to have been killed barely a few days ago. At more than 240, CTR has the world's largest bengal tiger population. “The south boundary of Corbett is particularly concerning. There is no buffer zone after Kalagarh core zone from Jhirna (a 15-km stretch). The villages of Uttar Pradesh start right at the boundary and poachers find the patch easy to breach,” said a senior IFS officer on the condition of anonymity. As the forest fire season (Feb 15-June 15 in Uttarakhand) has already started, wild animals are more susceptible to poaching as they try to escape blazes. Meanwhile, senior officers of the forest department and the Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change (MoEF) are currently at CTR, although the reason for their visit is unknown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/alert-sounded-in-ctr-after-increase-in-poaching-in-nearby-areas/articleshow/81380890.cms||Shivani Azad
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Mercury soars to fresh high for season at 34°C in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded its warmest day of the year so far on Sunday, with the mercury reaching 34 degrees Celsius. The reading is five notches above normal, and was taken at Safdarjung — city's base station. However, locals will get a slight respite as India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted very light rain for Sunday night or early hours of Monday. Before this, the warmest day of the year was Thursday, when the maximum temperature settled at 33.9 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, some stations crossed the 34-mark as mercury rose to 35.7 degrees Celsius at Najafgarh, 34.6 degrees Celsius at Jafarpur and 34.4 degrees Celsius at Ayanagar and Pitampura. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature reported on Sunday at Safdarjung was 14.4 degrees Celsius. According to IMD’s data, the maximum temperature recorded in March in 2020 was 33.3 degrees Celsius on March 26. In 2019, the maximum temperature touched 34 degrees Celsius in the third week of March. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “There has been a rising trend in mercury level since February due to lesser number of western disturbances affecting the region. Only one western disturbance impacted the region in February this year, while six impacted the city in February and March last year.” Met department has predicted very light rain along with thunderstorm in several parts of Delhi on Sunday night or early on Monday, under the influence of a fresh western disturbance. Gusty winds at a speed of 30-40 kmph are also predicted, along with very light rain. Met officials said the day temperature may decrease marginally due to rain and gusty winds. An official said due to strong or gusty winds, the maximum temperature does not rise while minimum temperature does not dip. IMD forecast says the maximum temperature may drop to 31 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature may rise to 16 degrees Celsius on Monday. The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 31-32 degrees Celsius till March 11. “Another western disturbance is expected to influence the plains on March 9. It is predicted that day temperature may rise to 34 degrees Celsius on March 12, when the influence of a western disturbance is over,” said Srivastava. The city recorded strong winds on Sunday at an average speed of 16 to 18 kmph. Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index was 256 in ‘poor’ category on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-soars-to-fresh-high-for-season-at-34c/articleshow/81383232.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Meerut||Check quality of school uniforms before distribution, UP edu dept tells dists||Meerut: Uttar Pradesh education department has instructed all the 75 districts to check the quality of uniforms before distribution among government school students. They have also been directed to ensure that the schools provide data about the number of teachers available at each institution so that recruitments are made accordingly. The instructions were given at a meeting of all the district authorities. “All the 75 district education authorities have been instructed to ensure that the quality of the uniform is checked before distribution. This has to be done to ensure that the students get good quality uniforms and there is no negligence in providing students with it in time,” said Savita Tiwari, UP additional education director (basic). Tiwari further instructed that a list of staff working at all the private self-financed primary and upper primary schools should be uploaded on the human resources portal. “The authentication of the students should also be conducted by taking their details and providing it to the authorities concerned. Also, all the facilities being provided under Mission Prerna should be extended to private self-financed junior high schools,” said Tiwari. Instructions have been given to initiate these activities within a month or else it will invite action against those responsible for the lapse, the official warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/check-quality-of-school-uniforms-before-distribution-up-edu-dept-tells-dists/articleshow/81380224.cms||Ishita Bhatia
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Now, 500 govt schools to be made ‘models’ in Mumbai||Mumbai: The education department will transform 500 schools as ‘model’ schools instead of 300 as planned in phase one. The schools will be upgraded for infrastructure, teaching and learning outcomes. Last October, the state education department shortlisted 300 zilla parishad institutions as ‘model schools’ as part of its plan to transform 1,500 schools in four years. While the initial list consisted of 300 rural schools, following recommendations from local officials, people’s representatives, it was extended to include 500 schools.“The list will now include the 81 schools which were part of Maharashtra International Education Board, Kasturba Gandhi Girls Schools, Shasakiya Vidyaniketan and city government schools too,” said a GR issued on Saturday. The focus will be to improve quality of education. —Vinamrata Borwankar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-500-govt-schools-to-be-made-models-in-mumbai/articleshow/81383254.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Trichy||Dengue cases rise with water woes in Trichy city, Madurai||Trichy/Madurai: Water conservation measures by locals to manage during the summer has turned into a threat as dengue cases continue to rise in Madurai and Trichy. If 189 cases were reported so far this year in Madurai, 47 were reported in Tricy city alone. Although Trichy city witnessed no rainfall in recent months, people storing potable water in uncovered vessels for days has paved the way for mosquitoes to breed. The city has recorded 47 dengue cases this year alone, but no deaths. Trichy Corporation sources said that dengue cases are being reported in all the four zones. They added that the number of cases surfacing is not alarming. After the lockdown, as the fogging of mosquito repellent was skipped by the civic body even during the monsoon, residents have been reeling under mosquito menace. However, to their surprise, sanitary workers have been extensively fogging mosquito repellents in selective localities in the last few weeks. Officials said the fogging drive is being carried out in the corporation wards that report dengue cases. As a major reason for the surge in dengue cases, which until September had remained in single digits, the local body said the careless attitude of residents in collecting and storing water for future use as the cause for dengue fever to surface. “People fearing a fall in water supply during the summer are storing water in open vessels. Since some of them are going outstation with the water left open, aedes mosquitoes start breeding on the freshwater,” a health official with the civic body added. The open water tanks and containers storing water overflowing from overhead tanks are becoming potential sources for dengue mosquitoes to breed. “We have taken up fogging drive through our workers. Source reduction drive is also underway to prevent fresh dengue cases,” city health officer M Yazhini said. The civic body also added that households and commercial establishments that accommodate potential breeding source objects of mosquitoes will be penalised heavily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dengue-cases-rise-with-water-woes-in-trichy-city-madurai/articleshow/81383241.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||Cardiologist held for fetal sex determination test||Roorkee: A 65-year-old cardiologist was held from his private clinic in Roorkee by a team of health officials from Bhiwani district in Haryana. The doctor, Dr ND Arora, is accused of fetal sex determination test. It has been learnt that Dr Arora, who retired after serving in Uttar Pradesh, was caught red-handed while conducting a fetal sex determination test in 2017 as well but couldn’t be sent to jail due to some “technical issues”. The 12-member Haryana team, which arrested the doctor, was led by nodal officer Dr Anita and included five policemen from the state. According to officials, pre-natal sex determination was going on in Roorkee with the help of Haryana-based touts. Thus, a trap was laid to nab Dr Arora; Yashpal, a tout; and Manglaur-resident Sanjiv Walia, Yashpal's aide. “We are taking Dr Arora, Yashpal, and Sanjiv to Bhiwani police station where a case is registered against all three under relevant sections of Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act and the appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code,” Dr Rajesh Kumar, a deputy civil surgeon of the Bhiwani civil hospital, told TOI. He was also a member of the team which conducted the raid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cardiologist-held-for-fetal-sex-determination-test/articleshow/81380934.cms||Tapan Susheel
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Focused Covid-19 sampling campaign in run-up to Holi||LUCKNOW: Amid the vaccination campaign against novel coronavirus, the UP government on Sunday announced a focused sampling drive between March 13 and March 27 in the run-up to Holi, when there would be significant movement of people. The government also announced setting up of three dedicated vaccination booths for women on International Women’s Day on Monday. Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad, said, the decision to conduct the 15-day drive was taken in the wake of the forthcoming festival of Holi, which will witness largescale movement of people to their home towns or villages to celebrate the festival. Many would be coming from states, which have reported a Covid surge,” he said. Also, people selling colours and water guns, those running dhabas and restaurants and those employed in liquor and ‘bhaang’ shops would also be covered under the focused testing drive. Prasad said, the state government has already managed to inoculate more than 20 lakh people against coronavirus pandemic. Of this, 14,85,893 people received their first shot, while 5,29,251 people have been given the second dose. Talking about vaccination of women on Women’s Day, Prasad said, those above 60 and 45 years of age with comorbidities will be covered. He said, the entire health staff team would comprise women. This will be apart normal statewide vaccination drive. The ACS said, there was no room for leniency given the Covid surge in some Indian states and abroad. “The virus has not been completely eradicated. If we do not follow protocols, cases may rise again,” he cautioned. Prasad said, preventive measures need to be taken even if a person has been vaccinated. Meanwhile, UP recorded 117 new cases of Corona infection. At the same time, 191 people were discharged from hospital. According to the health bulletin, the state clocked 1,647 active infection cases and of this, 707 patients are in home isolation while 82 patients are in private hospitals. The rest were being treated in government hospitals. Since, the state recorded its first Covid case on March 3 last year, 5,93,895 have been treated, while 8,737 people have lost their lives. In the last 24 hours 1,08,486 samples were tested. With this, a total of 3,20,86,306 samples have been tested which is largest in the country. Under surveillance, the state government managed to reach 3,14, 96,780 households, comprising a population of 15,29,0,526.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/focused-covid-19-samplingcampaign-in-run-up-to-holi/articleshow/81383237.cms||Pankaj Shah
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Entrepreneurs beat Covid-19 blues to make it big||Dr TehsimAhmedabad: Several women labourers employed at the garment manufacturing unit of a company known as Meemansa, went out of work as the pandemic struck. The company, which supplied its apparels to several departmental stores and conglomerates like the Aditya Birla Group, suffered like all others amidst the pandemic. This led the founder of the company, Priyanka Bapna to start manufacturing simple cloth masks to provide a basic source of work and income for their employees. The idea was to help them beyond bare minimum survival and create regular wage earning in the corona-created economic crisis. “Our labourers were out of work and that was a primary concern. We decided to manufacture masks and later went on to partner with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) for their patented Durapot technology on making 100% biodegradable N98 masks made of treated cotton fabric. This not just gave enough livelihood to our workforce, but also opened a new channel of business,” said Priyanka, whose firm will now export these masks. Dr TosifaAt present, several rural women, who lost their livelihood during the pandemic are employed with the company. Similar was the case of Hetika Shah, who was into the business of setting up a cooling plant, but turned to manufacturing face shields since the lockdown. “I was working on prototyping of a product in heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, and worked on Industrial Chiller System venture known as Thermcool Industries. As businesses were shut, the industry got impacted and as a consequence, we had to find an alternative to keep employees engaged. That is when I launched Sanctuary Innovative Safety Equipment early April,” said Hetika. The startup currently manufactures nanofiber-based masks, 4S SHIELD, and covers for eyes, nose, ears and mouth. These products provide 95% protection and its three variants are currently delivered across three states. “In less than a year, we will clock a revenue of Rs 1 crore,” said Hetika.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/entrepreneurs-beat-covid-19-blues-to-make-it-big/articleshow/81381995.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Chennai||MTC to pay Rs 21L to kin of woman run over 7 yrs ago||Chennai: A city motor accident claims tribunal has directed MTC to pay Rs 21.9 lakh to the family of a young woman who was killed after a rashly driven government bus knocked down the two-wheeler she was riding near Maraimalai Adigalar Bridge in Saidapet seven years ago. The deceased, R Silvia, a resident of Pammal was a BPO employee and was 23 years old at the time of the accident. According to the petition moved by the victim’s parents, the MTC bus trailing the two-wheeler hit Silvia’s scooter. The parents sought a compensation of Rs 40 lakh. In response, the transport corporation contended that the bus was operated at a moderate speed and the accident was a result of rash driving by the two-wheeler rider. The counsel for MTC submitted that the two-wheeler rider had attempted to overtake the bus and while doing so, another two-wheeler hit it. Tribunal judge N Venkatavaradhan took note of the submissions from an eyewitness and the FIR copy and held that the accident happened due to the negligence of the MTC driver and the transport corporation is liable to pay compensation. Considering her young age and loss of income and loss of love and affection to the family and other factors, the tribunal arrived at an amount of Rs 21.9 lakh as compensation and directed MTC to deposit the compensation amount in the bank account of the petitioners within a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mtc-to-pay-rs-21l-to-kin-of-woman-run-over-7-yrs-ago/articleshow/81381985.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Trichy||Indian Gaur killed in road accident||Trichy: An Indian Gaur was killed after being hit by an unidentified vehicle near Vaiyampatti on Trichy - Dindigul four-way lanes, Trichy, Saturday. The forest department officers said the male animal about four years of age was found dead on the road at Vaiyampatti on Saturday morning. The forest range officer of Manapparai A Maheswaran said the accident could have happened in the night or in the early hours of the day. The animal was hit when it was crossing the road. The officer said the identity of the vehicle could not be ascertained. The animal was buried after conducting the postmortem . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/indian-gaur-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/81383233.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Meerut||We’ll fight even if it takes 100 weeks or 100 months, says Priyanka at Meerut kisan panchayat||Meerut: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi addressed a ‘kisan panchayat’ at Kaili Dadari village in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut district on Sunday. This is her fourth such event in the state after she kick-started her UP campaign from Saharanpur last month. Addressing the panchayat, she reiterated her resolve to “support the farmers through thick and thin” and said that she would fight for the cause of farmers for her entire life. “Don't lose hope. Only 100 days have passed. We will fight even if it takes 100 weeks or 100 months,” she said. Categorically targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his anti-farm policies and the controversial laws, Priyanka said, “These three laws…are they made to benefit farmers or benefit PM Modi’s trillionaire friends? Today, the protest has completed 100 days and lakhs of farmers are sitting at the Delhi borders. If this law is made for the farmers, why are millions of farmers sitting at the border?” she asked. In her crisp 16-minute speech to a gathering of over 5,000, she also urged farmers to start Delhi-like agitation in villages in a bid to strengthen the protests. “It's now time to wake up and the way you have been protesting at the Delhi borders, similar agitations should happen in villages and you should stand up for your rights. Don't beg for your rights, strongly seek for it,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/well-fight-even-if-it-takes-100-weeks-or-100-months-says-priyanka-at-meerut-kisan-panchayat/articleshow/81380229.cms||Piyush Rai
March 8, 2021||Vadodara||Whatmore set to return as Baroda coach||Vadodara: Former Aussie cricketer Dav Whatmore is set to return as coach for the Baroda team. Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) president, Pranav Amin, said that Whatmore will join the association as coach of the Ranji team in the upcoming cricketing season. “We had roped him in last season but he couldn’t fly down to India due to some visa issues. Whatmore contacted us and informed us about his decision about joining Nepal’s cricket team as coach,” Amin told TOI. “But Whatmore had said he will join us whenever it is possible. He will join Baroda in the upcoming season,” he added.The Baroda team was left in the lurch last season when Whatmore expressed his inability to join them just three weeks ahead of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Tournament. He had informed the top BCA management in December last year that he won’t take up the assignment due to visa/immigration embargo on travelling to India on business visa due to Covid restrictions on travel.The BCA had hired 66-year-old Whatmore in April last year and he had also taken an online session with the BCA coaches in June 2020. Whatmore has served as coach for national teams of Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan in the past, apart from coaching an IPL team. His last assignment was with Kerala Ranji squad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/whatmore-set-to-return-as-baroda-coach/articleshow/81380946.cms||Tushar Tere
March 8, 2021||World||Unions call to shut Myanmar economy, NLD official dies||Myanmar’s major trade unions called on members to shut down the economy from Monday to support a campaign against last month’s coup, turning up the pressure on the junta as security forces cracked down on demonstrators staging widespread protests. “To continue economic and business activities as usual...will only benefit the military as they repress the energy of the Myanmar people,” an alliance of nine unions said. “The time to take action in defence of our democracy is now. We call for...the full extended shutdown of the Myanmar economy,” they said in a joint statement. A spokesman for the military did not answer calls seeking comment. The call by the unions came as an official from the party of deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi died overnight in police custody. The cause of death of National League for Democracy official Khin Maung Latt was not known. Ba Myo Thein, a member of the upper house of parliament which was dissolved after the coup, said reports of bruising to Khin Maung Latt’s head and body raised suspicions that he had been abused. “It seems that he was arrested at night and tortured severely,” he said. “This is totally unacceptable.” Police in Pabedan, the Yangon district where Khin Maung Latt was arrested, declined to comment. Some of the biggest protests in recent weeks were staged on Sunday. Police fired stun grenades and tear gas to break up a sit-in by tens of thousands of people in Mandalay, the Myanmar Now media group said. At least 70 people were arrested. Police also launched tear gas and stun grenades in the direction of protesters in Yangon and in the town of Lashio in the northern Shan region, videos posted on Facebook showed. A witness said police opened fire to break up a protest in the historic temple town of Bagan, and several residents said in social media posts that live bullets were used. Video posted by Myanmar Now showed soldiers beating up men in Yangon, where at least three protests were held despite overnight raids by security forces on campaign leaders and opposition activists. The UN says security forces have killed more than 50 people to stamp out daily demonstrations in the country since the military took over power on February 1. “They are killing people just like killing birds and chickens,” one protest leader said to the crowd in Dawei, a town in Myanmar’s south. “What will we do if we don’t revolt against them? We must revolt.” Reuters was unable to reach police for comment. The state-run Global New Light Of Myanmar newspaper quoted a police statement as saying security forces were dealing with the protests in accordance with law. It said the forces were using tear gas and stun grenades to break up rioting that were blocking roads. Over 1,700 people had been detained under the military junta by Saturday, according to figures from the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners advocacy group. It did not give a figure for overnight detentions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/unions-call-to-shut-myanmar-economy-nld-official-dies/articleshow/81384187.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||Another scam? Social welfare dept paid over Rs 57 lakh as assistance to 286 ineligible Non-BPL beneficiaries under National Family Benefit Scheme, reveals CAG report||Dehradun: The CAG report, which was tabled in the assembly on Saturday, has revealed that the social welfare department paid Rs 57.2 lakh as one-time assistance under National Family Benefit Scheme (NFBS) to 286 ineligible ‘Non-Below Poverty Line’ beneficiaries in contravention of the scheme guidelines. The scheme was introduced by the Union government in 1995 with the objective of providing a basic level of financial support to those below the poverty line. Scrutiny of records (from January 2018 to August 2018) of the district social welfare offices of Nainital and Dehradun revealed that out of Rs 95.6 lakh paid to the 478 beneficiaries, Rs 57.2 lakh was paid to 286 ineligible non-BPL beneficiaries, according to the CAG (comptroller and auditor general) report. The report also stated the money was disbursed on the basis of the income certificate given by tehsildars. The money was given as assistance during 2016-17 and 2017-18 under the NFBS scheme. It is worth mentioning that the assistance under the scheme is applicable only for persons belonging to the BPL category. Notably, BPL identification of a family in the state is based on the survey conducted in 2002 by the rural development department, the CAG report has claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/another-scam-social-welfare-dept-paid-over-rs-57-lakh-as-assistance-to-286-ineligible-non-bpl-beneficiaries-under-national-family-benefit-scheme-reveals-cag-report/articleshow/81380960.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Trichy||DMK’s tryst with Trichy continues||Trichy: Though the DMK converted the state conference in Trichy into a poll rally on Sunday, party cadres and functionaries said that they considered it only as a state conference before the assembly poll. The DMK has conducted its state conferences five times in Trichy, the highest in history, rallying on the geographical advantage and traditional vote bank of the party in the delta districts. It was in Trichy, the DMK decided to enter the electoral politics in the second state conference held between May 17 and May 20 in 1956, which was attended by DMK stalwarts C N Annadurai, E V K Sampath, Navalar Nedunchezhian and M Karunanidhi. Trichy was also a front runner in conducting anti-Hindi agitations, which gave the Dravidian party a gaining ground in politics. The city witnessed several milestones in the history of the DMK, which include the public meeting held a year after the demise of C N Annadurai where Karunanidhi and former CM MGR shared the stage. Since then DMK has convened their state conferences at Trichy in 1990, 1996, 2006 and 2014. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmks-tryst-with-trichy-continues/articleshow/81383278.cms||Deepak Karthik
March 8, 2021||Trichy||Poochorithal festival attracts thousands to Samayapuram||Trichy: The Poochorithal festival at Arulmigu Samayapuram Mariamman temple near Trichy commenced with religious fervour on Sunday. After months, the temple premises were thronged by thousands of devotees on the auspicious occasion despite the pandemic. Temple management and senior priests carried the first batch of flowers to adorn the chief deity Mariamman in the sanctum sanctorum on Sunday morning. As the temple elephant is undergoing treatments, a private elephant was used in the procession to carry the flowers through the temple car streets. Subsequently, thousands of devotees from neighbouring hamlets entered the temple with flowers for the deity. Poochorithal (showering of flowers) festival is one of the most significant festivals in Samayapuram temple. HR&CE sources managing the temple said the 28 days-long fasting termed as ‘Pachai Patni’ is believed to be pursued by the presiding deity Mariamman for the welfare of the public. The period of fasting is celebrated for centuries as Poochorithal during the last Sunday of Tamil month Masi, annually. During the period, only liquids such as buttermilk and tender coconut are offered to the deity. “For about a year, the livelihood of shops around the temple were devastated. We are hoping for a fresh start during this Poochorithal,” P Kaliappan, a shopkeeper on temple car street said. For the next month, people from adjoining villages will carry loads of flowers to adorn the deity each Sunday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/poochorithal-festival-attracts-thousands-to-samayapuram/articleshow/81383262.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Panchayat polls: SP chief to hold camps, cover 40 dists||LUCKNOW: Taking a leaf out of socialist icon and Samajwadi Party’s ideologue Ram Manohar Lohia, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav is holding brainstorming sessions for party cadres before the crucial 2022 assembly elections. In the words of Akhilesh Yadav, he would be touring over 40 districts and covering half of the total 403 assembly constituencies before he concludes the first phase of the ‘Karyakarta prashikshan shivir’ (workers’ training camps) before the code of conduct for panchayat elections is enforced in the state around March 22. Local workers and cadre are invited to attend the three-day training camps which would be held indoors where media won't be allowed. The concluding session of these camps would be addressed by Akhilesh. The party is inviting non-political personalities such as waterman Rajendra Singh and others to address the workers to sensitize them to public and political issues. Talking to TOI, party MLC Udaiveer Singh, who has been organising the camps, said that over a dozen districts, including Kanpur City, Kannauj, Jhansi, Mirzapur, have already organised these camps which have proved beneficial to the SP workers in the run-up to the assembly elections. During the indoor sessions, the party workers would freely interact with Akhilesh, said Udaiveer, considered to be a trusted man of the national president. At every training camp, workers of nearly 15 constituencies are invited, he added. Meanwhile, veteran socialist Rajnath Sharma, who had been in jail during the emergency, recalled that similar camps, named as socialist study classes, were organised by Lohia. Those camps were addressed by experts of the socialist ideology for introspection and planning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/panchayat-polls-sp-chief-to-hold-camps-cover-40-dists/articleshow/81383279.cms||Subhash Mishra
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Nursing society with dose of service, positive attitude||Nagpur: Deepa Thawre was born in Kolkata as Deepa Roy, but knows only one line of Bangla — “Ami Bangla jani na” (I don’t know Bangla). This is because she was brought up in Nagpur’s Jattarodi slums by her stepmother, a Marathi woman. She interacts in typical East Nagpur dialect while sharing story of her life, which is no less than any Bollywood movie plot. Migration from Kolkata to Nagpur in childhood; growing-up under strict discipline of stepmother; fight against extreme poverty, bullies and criminals in slums; still completing education to become a nurse; a love-marriage by revolting against family; losing everything after NMC removed her husband’s roadside tapri in anti-encroachment drive; rising back from zero to build her own house; making elder son an engineer and younger a doctor; and now living for a dream to start an old-age home where needy elderly people will get all care they need without paying a penny — Deepa’s life story, no doubt, could be an inspiration for many. “I don’t want to publish what I have suffered through. Instead, I wish you to write about what I want to do,” she said while speaking to TOI. According to her, there are thousands of women deprived of education and professional opportunities not only in slums, but also in middle-class and even well-to-do families. “Education and chance to work and earn must be available to every woman. Professional education like nursing must be promoted,” said Deepa, who is fondly known as ‘Deepa Bua’ (auntie) to hundreds of young girls in Valmiki Nagar and Jattarodi. She has brought many of them into the mainstream of education. Many youths, who otherwise would have started petty thefts and pickpocketing, are now doing decent jobs due to her guidance. “I had lost family support when I got married to Vikas Thawre. I was working as staff nurse in Dr YS Deshpande’s hospital then, and my husband used to run a roadside tea-stall. One day, NMC’s anti-encroachment team removed his stall to clear road. We lost our bread and butter,” she recalled. To help out her husband, Deepa started working as house-help, making chapatis, delivering milk and eggs to families, and many more petty works. During this phase, she realized that elderly patients are most helpless and they hardly get compassionate care that they deserve. “Serving elderly patients has been my passion. Dr Deshpande’s help, guidance and tips to manage finances helped me a lot. I am sure my dream of starting an old-age home will come true, one day,” she said. Dr Deshpande said Deepa has been working with him for the last 25 years. “She is not only sincere in work, but also inspiring many others for good work. I hope, her dream comes true,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nursing-society-with-dose-of-service-positive-attitude/articleshow/81380972.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 8, 2021||Dehradun||Matri Sadan seer alleges malpractice in lifting of mining ban||Dehradun: Haridwar-based Matri Sadan seer Aatmabodhanand, who is on a fast since February 23 for the protection of Ganga, has now written a scathing letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging malpractices to help restart mining in the state. The seer, who is planning to give up water too for the cause of Ganga on Monday, stated that he was dismayed by the government’s move to lift the ban on mining from even restricted areas barely two days after he started his fast. He also pointed to discrepancies in the report submitted to the higher authorities to get mining started again. In his letter, he wrote, “A letter from NMCG to MoEF on mining in Ganga from Raiwala to Bhogpur refers to an IIT Kanpur report. The letter is dated 2nd September 2020 while the report it refers to was published in October 2020. How can a letter quote a report which is not yet published? Such manipulation is disheartening and reflects the intent of the officials and government.” He also claimed possible threat to the life of Matri Sadan founder Shivanand Saraswati by pointing out that his security was removed without any valid reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/matri-sadan-seer-alleges-malpractice-in-lifting-of-mining-ban/articleshow/81380962.cms||Shivani Azad
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rs 616 in bank, divorced beautician turns life around||Ahmedabad: When her kids were all of five and two, Mittal Bhavsar had to undergo a bitter divorce 17 years ago. All she could cling on to was a one-room flat that her father-in-law gave her. “I was a commerce graduate from HLCC and also worked as an accountant with a tobacco firm. But even there, I used to get the co-workers’ eyebrows done due to my interest in beauty care. An admonition from a superior put me in the trajectory of venturing out on my own from that one-room flat,” remembers Bhavsar, 46, who now owns a two-storey beauty salon on Anandnagar Road and her clientele includes several prominent women of the city. She not only carved a niche and got her daughter into architecture course at CEPT University and her son into a medical college recently, but also played a mother figure to her staff of 20. “All my staff come from the lower socio-economic strata of the society. I intentionally pick those for my course who can’t afford to pay – if they are interested in art work, I get them enrolled in nail art. If they are imaginative, they go for the new hairstyle courses,” she says. But behind the glitz is the naked truth of society. “Majority of my staff face some issue or other, and thus, their earnings not only give them economic but also social security. I share my experience with them, and ask them to look forward, and not get bogged down by the present,” says Bhavsar. “One might not imagine me going to slums of the city for work, but I have seen and done it all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-616-in-bank-divorced-beautician-turns-life-around/articleshow/81382013.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Trichy||EC installs banners in Srirangam to educate voters||Trichy: The election officials in Srirangam assembly constituency have established life-size banners in public places imitating marriage invitations urging the electorate to exercise their democratic right in the ensuing assembly election. The officials said that such customised invitations will persuade the youths and first-time voters to cast their votes on April 6. The banners were placed at Thiruvanaikoil, Srirangam Rajagopuram and near the Trichy-Chennai NH junction. Similar to the wedding invitation, the election officials have mentioned the date and time (7 am to 5 pm on April 6) of polling as ‘Election Celebration (Vaakalikkum Vaibogam)’ organised by the Election Commission of India. The invitation urges people to vote without fail at their respective polling station. “The banners were placed as a part of the SVEEP (systematic voters’ education and electoral participation) programme. People will discuss among themselves about such unique banners to create a conducive environment to achieve high voter turnout,” said K Mahendran, Srirangam tahsildar and assistant returning officer of Srirangam assembly segment. The banners also have the name of Srirangam sub-collector, the returning officer of the constituency as the invitee. The banners instruct people not to accept or provide gifts to voters for indulging in the democratic process. For further details, contact the toll-free helpline 1950, the banners had a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ec-installs-banners-in-srirangam-to-educate-voters/articleshow/81383298.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||BJP MP Zafar Islam lauds Yogi for UP growth graph||LUCKNOW: The most challenging state of Uttar Pradesh has registered an impressive economic growth under leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said BJP Rajya Sabha MP Zafar Islam. Talking to TOI after meeting the Chief Minister at his official residence here on Sunday, the BJP MP said that he has been assigned by the party the job of reviving traditional brassware industry in Moradabad as well as the ODOP programme. “I called on the CM to brief him about the work being done in this connection,” he added. “I congratulated the CM for enabling the state to achieve the number two position in the country on ‘ease of doing business’ index. Uttar Pradesh’s GSDP is next only to Maharashtra and it has doubled the per capita income in the last four years,” stated the BJP leader. Being an economist himself, the RS MP said he has been visiting the state frequently and is fully aware of its socio-economic challenges. “But the Chief Minister deserves a special mention for working hard to get the state rid of the ‘Bimaru’ tag,” the BJP MP said.  He added that in the last four years neither the CM nor his government has faced any controversy for which the state was infamous in the past. “The CM’s ‘One District, One Product (ODOP) programme has resulted in rise in exports and solved the problem of unemployment as jobs avenues in MSME sector have risen tremendously,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mp-zafar-islam-lauds-yogi-for-up-growth-graph/articleshow/81383310.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Cops rescue boy abducted by grandpa||TRICHY: The anti-child trafficking unit police rescued a 1.5-year-old boy, taken away from his mother, after a complaint was received on Saturday. Due to a family dispute, the child’s grandfather had forcibly taken him to their village against the mother’s will. Police said the mother, V Shobana, a resident of Perambalur approached the anti-trafficking unit police wing claiming that her father-in-law Annadurai had forcibly taken away her son Suprith. The complainant Shobana and her husband Velladurai were not on good terms for a few years. Following the complaint, inspector Azeem and her team visited the Odhiyam village to retrieve the boy from his paternal grandfather. “The villagers were in support of the abducted boy’s grandfather. We conducted counselling and warned the grandfather not to indulge in such offence as the boy continues to consume breastmilk from his mother,” the inspector said. Police said the boy was rescued within 45 minutes the complaint was lodged. Since the dispute was settled amicably, police said no case was registered against the accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-rescue-boy-abducted-by-grandpa/articleshow/81383305.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Surat||NRIs pour their hearts out to secure fatherless girl’s future||Surat: A 29-year-old marginal farmer died in a road accident in the first week of February, tragically leaving behind his young widow to fend for herself and their 3-year-old daughter. However, the community rallied around the little girl, Hena Patel of Nana Thakkarvada village in Valsad district, and decided to do something to secure her future. They started collecting donations and organized a three-day cricket tournament named Patidar Premier League in Kalvada village. “Our friend Ronak Patel is survived by his wife and a three-year-old daughter. We decided to do something for his daughter's future and floated the idea of a cricket tournament to collect donations from people and the non-resident Gujaratis, who are native of Valsad villages. We received an overwhelming response and Jayesh Patel, an NRI, a native of Kalvada village, especially came down to Valsad to sponsor the tournament,” said Trushit Patel, owner of cricket maidan in Kalvada village. “We broadcast the cricket tournament on YouTube and in three days, we received donations worth Rs 19.3 lakh, of which Rs 11 lakh came from NRIs alone. Another NRI Ramesh Patel, a native of Sonwada village took responsibility of the girl's education and marriage. We will put the amount in fix-deposit in the girl's name in a bank,” Patel added. Ten teams took part in the cricket tournament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nris-pour-their-hearts-out-to-secure-fatherless-girls-future/articleshow/81380967.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sena-led state may cut VAT on fuel to score against Centre||Mumbai: All eyes are set on the state budget, to be presented on Monday, as there is a possibility for the Maharashtra government to marginally reduce value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to score brownie points over the BJP at the Centre, which has not given any relief in excise duty. The price of petrol in Mumbai has peaked to an all-time high of Rs 97.57 per litre while diesel costs Rs 86.6 per litre. A few days ago, deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar had hinted at some relief in fuel prices. Political experts say that any tax relief given at this juncture will be remembered by citizens for a long time. But it could be a tough call for Maharashtra, as it earns over Rs 25,000 crore annually from VAT on fuel. Every Re 1 hike per litre of petrol and diesel gives the state additional VAT of Rs 140 crore and Rs 275 crore, respectively, officials said. Also, VAT on fuel is a major revenue earner for the state exchequer apart from excise on liquor, property registration charges and stamp duty, and tax on vehicles. On Sunday, petrol inched close to the Rs 100 mark, costing Rs 99.72 per litre in Parbhani, and diesel approached Rs 90 in various districts across Maharashtra. Experts told TOI that 66% of the price the consumer pays for petrol and 60% for diesel goes in taxes levied by the Centre and the state. Veteran petrol dealer and pricing expert Kedar Chandak explained that the base price of petrol has come down by Rs 33.57 per litre in seven years because of a fall in international crude prices. “The crude oil rate was 118 dollars per barrel as of August 1, 2014, as against the current rate of 65 dollars,” he said. But the central government frequently increased the excise duty on petrol, as and when crude price reductions occurred, thus depriving consumers of any benefit of falling crude prices, Chandak said, adding that Maharashtra also imposed high VATs on fuel. “When you are purchasing petrol at the pump for Rs 97.57 per litre today, you are paying Rs 33.59 for the fuel and the rest as taxes," he said. “Similarly, the basic price of diesel for every litre is Rs 35.26 today when you actually pay Rs 88.6 at the pump, which includes taxes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sena-led-state-may-cut-vat-on-fuel-to-score-against-centre/articleshow/81383315.cms||Somit Sen
March 8, 2021||Trichy||SASTRA Law School wins moot court competition||Trichy: SASTRA Law School has emerged as the winners in the 11th K R Ramamani tax moot court competition organised by SOEL, Chennai. The all-women team comprising Pratiksha Easwar, 5th year BCom LLB (Hons.), Aravindini U (5th year BA LLB (Hons.) and Kavitha Ravi (5th year BA LLB (Hons) won the trophy coinciding closely with international women’s day. The moot problem was on an intricate issue on curative & retrospective provisions of section 40 of the Income Tax Act. A total of 30 teams participated in the contest, the highest to date. In the quarters, the teams that had participated were Symbiosis Pune, TNNLU Trichy, Law Centre 1, Faculty of Law Delhi, RGNUL Punjab, Christ University Bangalore, Nirma University Ahmedabad, and NLIU Bhopal. In the semi-finals, SASTRA beat Christ University and in prelims, a premier national law school. In the finals, SASTRA Law School beat NLIU Bhopal to be adjudged the winners. In the last eight years of the prestigious Moot, SASTRA emerged winners five times increasing its competitive foothold on Tax Law Moot. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sastra-law-school-wins-moot-court-competition/articleshow/81383306.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Surat||‘Juvenile diabetes club’ in Surat||Surat: In order to create awareness about juvenile diabetes (or type 1 diabetes) among the people and guide those who are suffering from it, Dr Nischal Chovatiya has founded the 'Surat Juvenile Diabetes Club' on Sunday. “About 18 children, who were diagnosed with type 1 diabetes, were present along with their parents at the event. The idea of the club is to provide scientific information about the disease, remove misconceptions about it and help them lead a better life. We have given examples of celebrities who are living with this disease and everyone can lead a happy life,” said Chovatiya . According to Chovatiya, type 1 diabetes is a condition in which a person's immune system destroys insulin-making cells in their pancreas. There is a membership fee or charges in the club. Basically, it's a platform where problems and issues will be discussed. “We connected with Dr Vijay Panikar through video from Mumbai and he talked on various aspects of type 1 diabetes and interacted with the parents present at the event,” said Chovatiya. “We will plan to carry out regular talks, activities and discussion by experts on this subject to keep patients updated about it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/juvenile-diabetes-club-in-surat/articleshow/81380987.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Destiny made Mona a fashion designer instead of a doctor||It was destiny that made Mona Bhute, a 23-year-girl from Ballarpur in Chandrapur district a self-made fashion designer who recently made outfits for celebrity Jyoti Amge, an actress known more for being the world’s shortest living woman. Chandrapur district is known for tigers, power plants and paper mills, but now, Mona is all set to add another tag by bringing it on the fashion map. Mona was about to take admission in an MBBS college in Pune when tragedy struck. Her mother suffered a heart attack and was admitted to a Chandrapur hospital. “I had to stay back to look after her,” says Mona. In 2017, she took admission in Gurunanak College, Ballarpur, and completed her BSc in biotech. Simultaneously, she also pursued fashion designing from Unique Fashion Academy, Chandrapur, by doing a one-year diploma course. She topped her batch and started getting orders. She got in touch with Jyoti Amge on Instagram and thought of working with her. One day, she texted Jyoti but didn’t get a response for a long time. With luck was on her side, she was surprised to get an appointment with Jyoti. “I met her. She is so cute. Initially, I was a bit nervous as I realized that she is not the way she looks in photos. She is so small and her body structure is so unique and different. I told myself that Jyoti is one of a kind celebrity and took up the challenge when she asked whether I would be able to design her outfits for Diwali,” says Mona. “Jyoti told me that no designer was able to design outfits like a sari, salwar suit, fish cut gown, wall gown, short frocks, front cut dresses or sleeveless dresses for her due to her unique body structure. Within no time I made a sari, a salwar suit and length which was well appreciated by Jyoti and other members of her family. They said that you are the first designer who has designed outfits perfectly for her,” recalls Mona. Jyoti dreamt of wearing a fish cut gown which was very difficult to make but Mona successfully designed it. Jyoti even made Mona her personal designer on her Instagram page and other social media platforms. Since then, Mona has been designing all her outfits for all occasions. “I’m proud to say that I had the honour of opening the first fashion boutique and becoming the first celebrity designer from my place. I’m coming out with a fashion magazine of my own. I have been appointed as a fashion designer for international fashion week events and various fashion shows,” says Mona. She wants to be a celebrity designer in Chandrapur and change the fashion style of that place. Mona is training women and girls from far off places like Gughus, Rajura etc. to become fashion designers at minimal charges. Watch 23-year-girl fashion designer creates clothes for Jyoti Amge, world’s shortest living woman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/destiny-made-mona-a-fashion-designer-instead-of-a-doctor/articleshow/81380997.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court quashes animal welfare body’s suspension||Mumbai: Bombay high Court has set aside an order of Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) that suspended an organisation’s recognition and also directed closure of its sterilisation centre at Malad (W). A bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar passed the order on a petition by Universal Animal Welfare Society. The AWBI’s December 14, 2020 order was based on certain complaints about ‘cruel animal welfare activities’ at the centre including ‘suffering and pain to stray dogs due to non-availability of feed.’ The judges, in the March 2 order, said before taking such ‘drastic action’ of suspending recognition for conducting Animal Birth Control Programme and closing down the centre, the Society ought to have been heard. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-court-quashes-animal-welfare-bodys-suspension/articleshow/81382035.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Damage to women’s heart begins decades before diagnosis of disease||LUCKNOW: ‘She may survive heart breaks but her heart is not strong enough to brave heart aches.’ That’s how cardiologists describe the risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) in women. In fact, according to data from different sources, more women than men are living with CVDs in UP. The recently released Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI) Wave 1 Report indicates that against 25% males, 29% females above the age of 45 years in the country are living with a diagnosed cardiovascular condition. Brought out by the International Institute for Population Sciences, LASI is a nationally representative survey of 72,250 adults aged 45 and above across India. The report, released in January, has tracked self-reported prevalence of diagnosed CVDs in Indian population besides 100-plus other determinants. In Uttar Pradesh, 23% females had a CVD against 18% males. The situation is similar in Rajasthan, Bihar, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. However, 12 states and Union territories array differently. In Kerala for instance, more men (45%) than women (42%) have the disease, which is also the case in Andaman & Nicobar Islands. In Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and north east, the prevalence of CVDs is almost equal. DAMAGE STARTS EARLY Vice-president of Cardiological Society of India and faculty at SGPGI Prof Satyendra Tewari said that damage to a woman’s heart starts decades before it actually manifests. “Survival mantra of the modern woman is multi-tasking whether or not she likes it or can cope with. The juggle between career and home affects and alters hormonal function in the 20s and 30s which adversely impacts cardiac health. In due course, risk factors go up. This goes up further once the natural defence hormone against heart health lowers with menopause,” he explained. RISK INCREASES WITH AGE Raman Mishra of International Institute of Population Studies (Mumbai) and his assistant Monika Kundu in their paper ‘Determinants of cardiovascular disease and sequential decision-making for treatment among women: A Heckman’s approach’ have noted that the prevalence of cardiovascular disease increases significantly with age. “Women over the age of 40 from lower socio-economic status and those widowed/divorced are at elevated risk. Diabetes, hypertension, obesity and unhealthy diet are risk factors. Treatment-seeking is higher in older women from higher socio-economic status and those married,” said their key findings. ROLE OF SOCIAL FACTORS Women’s rights activists believe that cultural factors, particularly gender inequality, condition women to ignore their health. “Women accept health issues as part of the ageing process. There is dependence on males to see a doctor and preference to rely on home remedies,” said Dr Neelam Singh, gynaecologist and social activist. HIGH EXPECTATIONS Prof Tewari and other experts say the burden of responsibilities and expectations on women is higher than that on men. “The pressure to perform stresses her heart too. She may survive heart breaks but heart aches can be fatal. It is important to let women know the need to draw a line,” said Dr Singh. Prof Tewari added: “Women must practice meditation and yoga to keep their cardiac and mental health intact. They must focus on healthy eating which includes low salt and sugar and low carbohydrates. Alongside, they must monitor BP and sugar level.” Governments and communities can also think of ways to create awareness about CVDs in population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/damage-to-womens-heart-begins-decades-before-diagnosis-of-disease/articleshow/81383325.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Two weeks after bail, PV Varavara Rao gets hospital discharge in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Almost two weeks after the Bombay high court granted him temporary bail for six months on health grounds, PV Varavara Rao, 82, was discharged from Nanavati Hospital late on Saturday night. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had opposed the bail plea of Rao, an accused in the 2018 Elgar Parishad case under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Rao is accused of being a senior Maoist leader. His bail conditions require him to remain in Mumbai and he has to furnish Rs 50,000 by April 5 as security. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale had on February 22 granted him bail after observing that he may not get the care he needs in Taloja jail and agreed with his counsel Anand Grover that at the state-run JJ hospital’s prison ward, he may be at risk of hospital-acquired infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-weeks-after-bail-varavara-gets-hospital-discharge-in-mumbai/articleshow/81383345.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Lipstick under the PPE kit, steadfast||When most citizens were cooped inside their homes during Covid-19 lockdown, working from home and managing domestic chores sans househelps, Dr Ami Parikh, head of the medicine department at SVP Hospital - one of the first city hospitals to be Covid-designated - was poring over international research on how to save young patients who were sinking in front of her from a cytokine storm, an acute inflammation of vital organs, and a common complication of coronavirus that killed patients in hours. With no help at home, she had to teach her husband, senior cardiologist Dr Prakash Parikh how to use the washing machine to take care of piling laundry. She also had to ensure she placated her frail father-in-law, who would sit outside the house waiting for her to return home safely so that they could have dinner together. "Covid-19 was a steep learning curve for all of us. We were suddenly treating a disease we knew nothing about, and patients were going down so fast that, at times, we were left gasping," reminisces Dr Parikh, who oversees the medical unit which has 75% women doctors. Dr Monila Patel, professor of medicine at SVP Hospital, said the corona pandemic was a professionally-enriching but draining experience. "As a doctor, the initial months were frustrating as we could not save many lives. I wept when elderly couples would be admitted together but one of them failed to make it. We were their only families inside wards," reminisces Dr Patel. Once the corona pandemic ebbed in January, the doctors say they decided to dress up again: wear good clothes, put on lipstick and ornaments. "We spent the year in ‘corona clothes.’ All of us have consciously started dressing up again. No matter what the situation, a woman should always put her best foot forward," says Dr Patel. Shaken, but stronger: I specifically was jolted by the death of a very fit young man who had no vices, no co-morbidities. Within 48 hours of his admission, the smiling young man was dead. It shattered me emotionally," says Dr Parikh. Dr Patel adds, "We have seen young associate professors break down when they could not hold their young infants. We have seen people lose hope."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lipstick-under-the-ppe-kit-steadfast/articleshow/81382027.cms||Radha Sharma
March 8, 2021||Surat||‘Arrest Delkar’s culprits immediately’||Surat: Former chief minister of Gujarat, Shankersinh Vaghela, on Sunday met the family of late Lok Sabha MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) in Silvassa and demanded immediate arrest of those allegedly mentioned in the suicide left behind by Mohan Delkar. “Mohan Delkar was a courageous man and he can't commit suicide. One can imagine the torture the union territory administration would have subjected him to that led him to the extreme step. Those named in the the suicide note should be arrested immediately,” Vaghela told reporters after the meeting. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh submitted a zero hour notice in the Rajya Sabha to discuss the seven-time Parliamentarian’s suicide. Delkar (58) was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his room in a hotel in Mumbai on February 22. He had left behind a suicide note. Mumbai Police is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/arrest-delkars-culprits-immediately/articleshow/81381041.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Women cops lead the way in crime data management||Nagpur: Digital India paid off rich dividends to Nagpur police women cops, many of whom are now considered experts in crime data management, leaving their male colleagues far behind. Always behind curtains working as backup law enforcers, these women cops are the driving force behind invoking MCOCA-like actions and also conviction of criminals by supporting cases with data and records. The women cops, earlier considered merely a secondary line of support, have raced ahead with time to be in the driver’s seat after the police department switched to advanced countrywide software of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and System (CCTNS) for updating data, and records across the wide platforms of the criminal justice system. Anita Pratite, attached to Ganeshpeth police station, had updated almost 3,000-4,000 crime cases in the CCTNS software to help the department nail goons and take action against them. “We do not consider our work as secondary, but in terms of importance, it occupies a pivotal role. Our contribution strengthens legal arms of the cops before the judiciary,” she said, adding women cops are sound homemakers and daughters too. Pachpaoli police station was lauded for it’s 98% completion of crime data updation work, mainly due to the team of constables Chitra Nandanwar and Sarika Satpute. Nandanwar, recruited in 2008, was felicitated by CP Amitesh Kumar and rest of the top brass for her work. After being transferred to Pachpaoli in 2018, she had completed the entries of more than 2,500 case diaries. “Women cops are involved in investigations, raids and other actions too. Every work is crucial for ensuring punishment to a criminal,’ said Nandanwar, who has now turned into an asset after having entered the department as widow of a deceased cop in 2008. She is also mother of two children, who are doing higher studies. Pachpaoli police station’s another constable Nilima Singade, also felicitated by the CP, is known for her maintaining data and records of criminals which become key in filing charge sheet, opposing bails, invoking stringent preventive actions like Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA), Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) or externment and also filing replies before high court. “Even after 12 hours of duty, we do not hesitate if asked for crime record to be produced before senior officers, whenever they require,” she said. “Our focus is to help investigation officers so as to put the criminals behind bars,” said Singade, whose work was lauded by senior inspector Kishor Nagrale too. Senior fellow of the Indian Council of Social Sciences Research and activist Neelima Deshmukh said women cops’ contribution must be respected. These women must be motivated and given opportunity to grow. “The role of the women personnel often faces gender bias and they are confined to glass ceiling where they are praised on the face and ignored later. This duality should not exist,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/women-cops-lead-the-way-in-crime-data-management/articleshow/81381032.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Mercury crosses 37 degree C, warmer days ahead||Hyderabad: Mercury levels are on the rise with the city recording maximum temperature of 37.2 degree Celsius on Saturday, perhaps the highest for the season so far. Last year, the city recorded the same temperature on March 30, the highest for the month in 2020. Although the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad has forecast less harsher summer this season, it has started to turn hot much earlier this year. The IMD, Hyderabad forecasts that the weather conditions are only set to turn hotter in the next few days with maximum temperature likely to be around 38 degree Celsius on March 9-10 and minimum temperature around 20 degree Celsius. Thereafter, there will be a slight drop in mercury level as maximum temperature will hover around 35-36 degree Celsius until March 13. The rise in temperature is being attributed to dry and hot south easterly winds blowing across Telangana. The mercury levels in districts are even worse with Bhadrachalam witnessing maximum temperature of 38.5 degree Celsius followed by 37.8 degree Celsius in Adilabad, 37.5 degree Celsius in Nizamabad and 37.4 degree Celsius in Ramagundam. The maximum temperature in Bhadradri Kothagudem touched 39.4 degree Celsius on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mercury-crosses-37-degree-c-warmer-days-ahead/articleshow/81382032.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Holiday for govt woman employees today||Cleared: dk Hyderabad: The TRS government has declared a holiday in the form of special casual leave to all woman employees in the government sector in the state on Monday on the occasion of International Women’s Day. Orders to this effect were issued by chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Sunday. The TRS government has been declaring Women’s Day as a holiday for woman employees in the state for the past few years. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has conveyed his greetings to women in Telangana on the occasion of the International Women’s Day. The CM said women play a key role in the development and were not only competing with men in all the fields but also excelling. “Women, who constitute 50% of the population, would do wonders if they were given an opportunity,” he said. “The state government is taking a slew of measures to take women on the path of development and progress. These measures include setting up of SHE Teams, monthly social security pensions being given to the old-age women, single women and widows, and schemes like Shadi Mubarak and Kalyan Laxmi and KCR Kits go a long way in giving the much-needed fillip to the women for their progress and development,”he added. The government has also increased the salaries of ASHA workers, anganwadi teachers and there were several other schemes and programmes launched to empower women. “Telangana state is in the forefront as far as women’s welfare is concerned,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/holiday-for-govt-woman-employees-today/articleshow/81382048.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Undertrial don uses constable’s mobile phone to call businessman||LUCKNOW: Hours after audio of don Aquil Ansari making a call during his court appearance to a Lucknow businessman Shazil Rehman went viral, Hardoi police chief suspended a constable who was accompanying him. Ansari, who is lodged in Hardoi jail and was brought to Lucknow for a court hearing on March 5, allegedly used constable Ravindra Kumar's phone to make the call. Prison department issued a clarification that Aquil was brought to Lucknow court under security of Hardoi police and made a call while he was still in police custody on March 5. Following this, Hardoi SP Anurag Vats suspended constable Ravindra Kumar. Vats also ordered a probe under Additional Superintendent of police, east, into the incident. “Nobody involved in this case would be spared,” he added. In the two-minute audio that has gone viral, Aquil is first heard greeting Shazil, and then asking him to visit the court on 10th (month not mentioned). In reply, Shazil asks him why he wants to meet him to which the don replies that he will tell only after meeting him. Then Shazil is heard telling the don that he should come to meet him. To which, the don replies that he is in prison and has no time. Thereafter, Shazil says if time permits he would surely come to meet. Giving a detailed sequence of events, Hardo, Jail Superintendent Brijendra Kumar Singh said that around 8.50 am on March 5, Ansari was taken out of the prison for hearing in two cases pertaining to Gangster act and also in a case relating to Ayurveda scam in Lucknow. Cops of Hardoi police who took him in their custody included head constable Vinod Kumar Tripathi, constables Ramdhari, Ravindra Kumar and Raj Kumar. Aquil was brought back inside the jail premises after the hearing at 6 pm. However, he allegedly made the call to Shazil around 5 pm. Who is Aquil Ansari? Aquil Ansari was a police informer and later started running an extortion racket at the behest of the police. He used to threaten businessmen. He has around 25 cases registered in his name of which 11 are on trial while he has been convicted in two cases. One of these involves murder of 26-year-old Ayush Sahu, shot over a stock of beer in 2013. Later, Aquil allegedly shot Ayush's father Shrawan Sahu for pursuing the case, in 2017. Shrawan had demanded security cover but he was not provided. CBI is still probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/undertrial-don-uses-constables-mobile-phone-to-call-businessman/articleshow/81383353.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19 deepens digital education divide in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: An estimated 82% of the 19-year-olds are attending classes (46% of these classes are still online) in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. However, one in every five 19-year-old students enrolled in education in 2020 are not engaged in any form of learning, suggesting many students have lost a whole year of learning, revealed a report by Young Lives, an international body, on March 6. The body studied Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on education, employment, food security and mental health in the two states. As part of the study, 2,751 young people were interviewed (1,868 younger cohort respondents aged 19 and 883 older cohort respondents aged 26). “The majority of students not engaged in any form of learning were those from the poorest households, those from rural households, and those whose parents had no formal education. Within the most vulnerable groups, girls are relatively more likely to have stopped attending classes than boys,” the report said, adding that even now there remains a significant digital divide in access to online learning. A drop in anxiety and depression levels were also observed. “This recent improvement may be explained by falling infection rates and continued lifting of Covid-19 restrictions and more importantly as economic activity has picked up,” the report said. The study also found that the increase in self-employment and the shift towards agricultural jobs have slightly reversed, but the proportions were still larger than before the pandemic. “More engagement in education might have reduced the participation of the younger cohort in self-employment. Rural public works programmes might have enabled dependent workers to regain rural jobs,” it said. Overall, 5% of respondents reported that their households had run out of food at some point in the last one year. Further analysis on the impact of the pandemic on food insecurity is ongoing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-deepens-digital-education-divide-in-t-ap/articleshow/81382018.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Surat||Scary Sunday: Surat reports 125 Covid cases||Surat: As many as 15 textile market owners tested positive for Covid-19 as 125 more tested positive for the infection on Sunday. This the highest single-day rise reported in the city over the past several weeks. The Athwa zone continued to report the highest cases among eight zones with 49 more people found positive, followed by 23 in Rander. "In Athwa zone alone, as many as 18 people with travel history from outside the city including Rajasthan, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Mehsana, Goa, Rameshwaram and Nasik tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday,'' an official added.  "Out of the total 125 Covid-19 cases, 22 were reported from textile markets alone. Of these, 15 are textile market owners. We are not yet out of the woods and people need to know this and follow Covid-19 guidelines ,'' an SMC official said. There are around 165 textile markets which have roughly 70,000 traders and 2.5 lakh labourers. SMC on Sunday again urged all those returning to the city from outside to get themselves tested and ensure that they don't infect others around them. The civic body also appealed to people to go for vaccination at SMC's dedicated centres and private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/scary-sunday-surat-reports-125-covid-cases/articleshow/81381074.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Dist faces second wave, weekly +ve cases at 5th highest in pandemic||Nagpur: The district is now in second wave of Covid-19, shows a comparison of cases in last week of February and first week of March with the previous peak in September. The district registered 7,941 positive cases of novel coronavirus in first week of March, which is the highest in the year-long pandemic, except for the four weeks of September 2020, which was the peak of the pandemic. Guardian minister Nitin Raut had on February 22 itself claimed the rise in cases was the second wave. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “Spike in positive cases can be clearly seen in the district, that too in continuous manner, which is for sure a second wave.” Of 7,941 cases, 6,348 (79.94%) are from city, 1,575 (19.83%) of rural and 18 (0.23%) of other districts. Cases were above 1,000 for five days between March 1 and 7. Highest 1,393 cases were recorded on March 5. In the first wave, six weeks, which included last two weeks of August and all four weeks of September, were considered as the peak of Covid-19. The cases started to decline from October first week and continued dropping till first week of February. There were 1,824 cases for a daily average of 261 in first week of February. Cases increased slightly to 2,657 (380 per day) in second week. Since then, the cases are seeing a spike. Third week of February registered 4,378 cases for a daily average of 625 followed by 6,655 (951 per day) in last week. In first week of March, there were 7,941 cases for a daily average of 1,134. The number is as much as the last two weeks of August. Cases in all four weeks of September were very high since it was the peak of the pandemic. However, in August and September, number of tests were less as compared to the first week of March. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) led by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and team of zilla parishad under CEO Yogesh Kumbhejkar have provided sufficient number of testing centres. Also, contact tracing and testing along with special camps helped increase number of tests. Dr Shinde said, “People are now well educated about the pandemic and coming for tests as soon as they see symptoms or any one from the family tests positive. It is a good sign, due to which fatalities are low. Also, line of treatment is very clear and sufficient number of beds are available in hospitals, which is also helping control deaths.” Daily average of tests was 5,763 in last week of August followed by 7,025 in first week of September, 7,741 in second week, 6,212 in third week and 5,542 in fourth week. Therefore, test positivity was high, between 23-27% in four weeks of September. Daily average of tests was 6,327 in third week of February and increased to 11,240 in last week. Some 9,125 tests per day were conducted in first week of March. Still, TPR rose to 12.43% in first week of March, which is an alarming sign. TPR was 9.89% in third week of February and 8.46% in last week. Fortunately, deaths have continued to be low. The district registered 55 fatalities for a daily average of 8 in first week of March. Due to high number of cases, case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.7%. The number of fatalities was 30-56 per day in last two weeks of August and entire month of September. CFR was always above 3%. Dr Shinde said, “Chances of decline in cases cannot be ruled out from third week of March. Patients of respiratory diseases are high in first two weeks of March every year, and decline in third week.” In September, the district was witnessing restart of activities. In December, January and first three weeks of February, there were no restrictions and violations of Covid-19 guidelines were high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-faces-second-wave-weekly-ve-cases-at-5th-highest-in-pandemic/articleshow/81382031.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||NHAI geo-tags 6.17 lakh plantations in region||Nagpur: Amid all the criticism over not planting trees, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has taken to geo-tagging its plantations on the roadside to track the growth and health of the plants. NHAI chief general manager (CGM) and regional officer Rajeev Agrawal said, “In the last three months we have tagged over 6.17 lakh trees under the 10 project implementation units (PIUs) under Nagpur region.” Agrawal told TOI, “As per the latest figures, we’ve planted over 9.19 lakh trees in 8 PIUs. We are in the process of geo-tagging all the trees and saplings planted through ‘Harit Path’, a mobile app launched by highways minister Nitin Gadkari to monitor location, growth, species details, maintenance activities, targets, and achievements of each field unit for each and every plant under all projects.” The NHAI, a public sector undertaking under the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), is serious about plantations along the roadside and hence has appointed retired chief conservator of forest (CCF) Sanjay Thakre as a joint adviser (plantations). “The NHAI has appointed 22 young horticulture experts (YHEs) in the Nagpur region, who upload details of planted saplings and grown-up trees. To date, over 6.17 lakh trees and plants have been geo-tagged and work on remaining is in full swing.” CGM Agrawal said, “The photographs along with data of the plants captured using Harit Path shall be uploaded every three months on NHAI’s big data analytics platform called Data Lake.” “Highway contractors shall be accountable for proper upkeep and maintenance of the plantations and liable to replace the missing and dead plants. Performance and growth of the plants shall be linked to the payment to the contractors for this work,” said Agrawal. According to NHAI, to commemorate 25 years of its service to the nation, a nationwide plantation drive is being undertaken in line with its commitment to promote environmental protection and sustainability. “The plantation drive has been actively taken up by NHAI’s regional offices to achieve the collective target of making greener national highways. In order to ensure 100% survival of the plants, avenue plantation of a minimum height of 1.5-metre has been emphasized along the national highways,” said Agrawal. For proper supervision of plantation in each project, horticulture experts are also being engaged. Two professionals with suitable background and experience are being engaged for each of its regional offices. The NHAI has identified the highway stretches and is creating a database of all the plantations on these stretches. WHAT IS GEO-TAGGING? Geo-tagging means tagging the location of the plant, with the user also getting a chance to upload pictures. This data usually consists of latitude and longitude coordinates, but can also include altitude, bearing, distance, accuracy data, names of places, even a time stamp. The main objective of geo-tagging is to check fake plantation claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nhai-geo-tags-6-17-lakh-plantations-in-region/articleshow/81380279.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 8, 2021||Surat||Gujarat motel owners in US shot at by guest, wife dies||SURAT: A husband-wife duo from Bharthana locality adjoining Surat city were shot at in their motel in Elkton town of Maryland, the US, leaving the 59-year-old woman dead. The deceased was identified as Usha Patel while her husband Dilip, 59, suffered bullet wounds in the lower torso. His condition is said to be critical but stable in a private hospital. Usha was shot in the chest by the assailant and she died on the spot on Friday night  Relatives of the couple in Bharthana informed that Dilip has not been told about Usha’s death considering his medical condition.  Local police detained a Delaware resident Hakeem M Evans from a nearby area. Investigators also recovered the CCTV footage of the motel in which the suspect is seen present at the scene of crime. He had rented a room and some dispute over the rent is suspected to be the trigger behind the attack.  “Around three rounds were fired at the couple as per the preliminary information we received. Dilipbhai is still in hospital and critical,” said Sarju Patel, a Ghod Dod Road resident. Sarju is a distant relative of the couple and lives in Bharthana.  Usha, who was originally from Vyara in Tapi district, got married to Dilip around 40 years ago and they shifted to the US 20 years ago. The couple is survived by two sons Keyur and Kevin. “Their sons work with the couple at the motel,” Sarju said.  After shifting to the US, Dilip and Usha did private jobs and gradually saved money to build their own motel. The couple is known for their joyous and caring nature among villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-motel-owners-in-us-shot-at-by-guest-wife-dies/articleshow/81381092.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Lok Adalat helps clear unpaid dues of deceased||Hyderabad: With the city civil court premises at Purani Haveli getting filled with relatives of several departed defaulters last week, bankers feared they may have to give up hopes of recovering such 'dead loans'. However, after city civil courts legal services authority chairperson C Sumalatha allowed the bankers to give a last chance to the kin of the defaulters to remove the tag of defaulter from the deceased and use the court premises for such clearance work, the bankers made a fervent appeal to all such legal heirs and relatives of the borrowers to come forward and clear the dues. They also made an offer of OTS (one-time settlement) wherein some discount would be offered to the kin of the borrowers if they clear the dues in one go. The judges included this as one of the subjects in the Lok Adalat held last week. There were prior negotiations held between the bankers and the kin in the presence of judges, who ensured legal heirs got maximum rebates. Unpaid loan accounts that carried more than Rs 2 crore loans were closed down after the kin paid the discounted dues to an extent of Rs 53 lakh. SBI Dabirpura branch officials cleared the account of Dhanraj, a shoe repairer from the Old City who died before he could repay the Rs 50,000 loan he availed to start a small roadside shoe repair shop. His wife came forward and the judges prevailed on the bankers to settle her dues for Rs 15,000. Similar was the case of GHMC employee Lakshmaiah, whose dues were cleared by his kin at the Lok Adalat. “We are holding one more such Lok Adalat on March 23,” legal services authority secretary Murali Mohan said. Scores of such relatives who came forward to clear the defaulter tag lying in the name of their family members reminds one of the popular Telugu movie ‘Son of Satya Murthy’ that depicted the story of a son who gave up his wealth to clear the loans of his late father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lok-adalat-helps-clear-unpaid-dues-of-deceased/articleshow/81382065.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: She loses husband to Covid, but not her will to serve||As people approach retirement, they relax a bit. But for Urmila Pradhan, head nurse at New Civil Hospital in Surat, this was not so. The last year of her 30 years of service proved the toughest as she lost her husband, 65, to Covid-19. To make things worse, she also contracted the disease and became critical. However, post recovery, the 57-year-old continued to serve. Urmila, a native of Vyara, got married to Lalsing of Somawal village in Nandurbar. She was initially posted as a nurse in government health centres in Surat district. In 2016, she got promoted and was posted to NCH. "I served people throughout my life, but I have never seen a pandemic like this. We lost the main pillar of our family but I shoulder the responsibility towards my children who are starting new phases of their lives," Urmila told TOI. She is preparing to get her son Bhavish, 30, and her daughter Shreya, 26, married. Lalsing was admitted to the ICU at NCH in July and Urmila was one of the nurses taking care of him. She too got infected but recovered in a week. Lalsing, however, did not survive. "I never imagined that my husband would pass away like this. But I did my duty after his death and will perform my duties after retirement also," she said. "I don’t think I have any other option but to fight. I recently took the vaccine and am ready to treat people," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/she-loses-husband-to-covid-but-not-her-will-to-serve/articleshow/81382076.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Shweta the mother back on cricket field||Nagpur: Comebacks aren’t easy. They are even tougher after motherhood. It takes determination, dedication and commitment. Balancing personal life with the rigours of the professional grind is always an uphill task. Vidarbha wicketkeeper Shweta Naidu Kadam does not belong to the inspiring list of Mary Kom, Kim Clijsters, Serena Williams and Sania Mirza, but she has certainly followed in their footsteps. After making it to the Vidarbha team for the senior women’s one-day tournament, Shweta made history of sorts by becoming the first cricketer from the region to make a comeback after motherhood. Former India opener and ex-Vidarbha captain Monica Sumra also played after motherhood but only featured in some departmental matches. Shweta, who last played a List ‘A’ match in 2016, is one the three wicketkeepers in the squad along with Raveena Singh and Vinaya Mate. “Hats off to her and also to her family, especially her husband Amit, for all the encouragement. A woman’s body goes through a lot of changes after motherhood. These days, women cricketers delay their marriage because of their careers. Players like Shweta can inspire not only young cricketers but also those who leave the game at the peak age of 28-32,” a former Vidarbha woman cricketer, who didn’t wish to be named, told TOI. Shweta, a senior auditor with the Defence Accounts Department, married Amit Kadam in 2016. They had a son Rudransh in 2018. “She had started working on her fitness two years ago. His son was just one then. What I have heard is that she didn’t have any target in mind. She just started working hard without any expectations. It was only after she attained a certain level of fitness and felt confident about her abilities that Shweta approached the Vidarbha Cricket Association (VCA). They were happy to give her an opportunity to prove herself,” the player said. Shweta made her first class debut for Vidarbha in 2007-08, just after the BCCI took women’s cricket under its wings. Those days it wasn’t easy for women cricketers. She has played 7 first class, 30 List ‘A’ and 16 T-20 matches for Vidarbha. For VCA, it was all about performance. Shweta was told to maintain a certain standard of fitness and perform up to the expectations. “These stories are always inspirational but we only went by her performance and experience. She was part of the online training throughout last year. Once our players hit the ground, she joined them. She has always been a quality wicketkeeper. Her basics and ball sense are very good. She understands match situations very well. She will be a good asset for this young team. I hope she does well whenever she gets an opportunity,” a VCA source told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shweta-the-mother-back-on-cricket-field/articleshow/81381097.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra ATS registers murder case two days after businessman Mansukh Hiran’s death||MUMBAI/THANE: The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad registered a case of murder in businessman Mansukh Hiran’s (mistakenly spelled as Hiren in earlier reports) death case on Sunday, two days after his body was found floating in a creek in Mumbra and 10 days after his “stolen” SUV was found with explosives in it near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Insiders said the investigations suggested that the killers took Hiran’s mobile phone to Vasai—where the police found his last mobile location— and kept it on till 11.30pm to throw investigators off track. They also said Hiran (48) was probably killed before he was thrown into the creek. In the morning, a team of ATS officers visited the spot where Hiran’s body was found. The team is learnt to have surveyed the stretch for evidence. Later in the day, a police team visited the residence of the Hirans and questioned Hiran’s wife, Vimala, and the couple’s son. The murder case was registered on a complaint from Vimala. The accidental death case initially registered by the Mumbra police station was taken over by the ATS and converted into a murder case, said a police source. Hiran’s brother Vinod said the family suspected murder. Hiran had written a letter to the state home minister and commissioners of police in Thane and Mumbai complaining about harassment at the hands of various investigating agencies. Hiran resided in Thane and left his flat around 8pm on Thursday saying he was stepping out to meet a person called Tawde on Ghodbunder Road. Hiran’s mobile untraced; do injuries suggest foul play?Investigators were unable to find his mobile phone. The post-mortem report was inconclusive and the viscera samples were sent to the state forensic lab for further tests. Sources said there were some observations in the report, including the nature of some injuries, that gave rise to suspicion of foul play. Questions were also raised after handkerchiefs were found stuffed inside his mouth, said an officer. The ATS registered a case of murder, causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender, acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention and criminal conspiracy. The investigation is being headed and monitored by ATS chief Jai Jeet Singh and DIG Shivdeep Lande. The ATS team will also look at the line of investigation initially pursued by the crime branch team. This is also relevant considering that Hiran had hired an Ola cab on February 17, the day the SUV went missing from his possession, to the police headquarters in Crawford Market but ended up taking the cab to another location at CST. The cab driver, whose statement has been recorded, said that Hiran kept often referring to a certain “Sir” on the cellphone all through the trip. Officials will also ascertain if Hiran had any inkling about the identity of the person who parked the SUV near Ambani’s residence. The explosive-laden SUV was found on Carmichael Road on February 25. The SUV was stolen on February 17, after Hiran left it on the Mulund-Airoli road because it had developed a snag. A neighbour said last he saw “Bhaije” (elder brother), as Hiran was fondly called, a few hours before he left home last and said he seemed stressed about the continuous grilling and visits to police stations in the SUV explosives case. A family associate from Ameth village in Rajasthan, from where the family hails, said Hiran was socially active and was known to many people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ats-registers-murder-case-2-days-after-bizmans-death/articleshow/81383858.cms||Mateen Hafeez
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Film festival on Women’s Day||Hyderabad: In view of International Women’s Day on March 8, Instructional Media Centre, MANUU will organise a thematic film festival on the day at IMC Preview Theatre. The festival will also be live-streamed on IMC YouTube channel and other social media platforms. Instructional Media Centre has collaborated with the Mobile Film Festival, Paris, France for the film festival. Bruno Smadja, head, Mobile Film Festival, has agreed to provide 60 films of 1 minute duration each from 25 countries on women empowerment. Smadja said, “I am very excited to exhibit the films for Indian audiences and look forward to receive their response. These films are inspirational and will inspire women to become more self-reliant.” Rizwan Ahmad, director of the centre, said that this will be a unique programme where very powerful short films shot on mobile from different countries would be screened for the audience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/film-festival-on-womens-day/articleshow/81382064.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Denied a final goodbye by Covid-19, online memorial gives kin succour||New Delhi: It may not substitute for being unable to attend the last rites of a loved one lost to the heartless coronavirus or pay homage to the dead due to both social restrictions and the risk of infection during the ravaged year, but there is some consolation for grieving families and friends in the form of an online Covid-19 memorial. An NGO has launched the free platform for people to submit photographs, messages and an obituary, a necessity being the submission of a valid death certificate. Mourners can also light virtual candles or leave flowers in the memory of the deceased. The website www.nationalcovidmemorial.in was launched in the last week of January by Covid Care Network (CCN), a Kolkata-based volunteer group that was set up last year to assist families and patients impacted by Covid. The group says it has already received over a hundred requests for memorials. “As we try to put this difficult period behind us, we also want to keep the departed remembered while reminding coming generations about the losses caused by the 2020 pandemic,” is what CCN aims at. A group executive said, “Our most critical challenge at present is to get the stories out of people who are not tech-savvy and come from the socio-economic margins of Indian society.” Pramod Bhasin, one of the founding members of CCN, disclosed that the idea for the online memorial came after the NGO’s extensive work during the pandemic to create awareness about Covid-19. “The idea belongs to Dr Abhijit Chowdhury, who asked us to come together and focus on a website where people could express what they are feeling on losing their loved ones so abruptly and quietly,” said Bhasin. “So many people could not meet their loved ones, who passed away silently in an ICU.” He added that CCN was also contemplating similar memorials in regional languages. Shikha Paul, who lost her 87-year-old father, Kamakshya Lal Paul, on Ashtami night during the festive Durga puja period, recalls being home alone when he passed away because her mother was also in hospital due to Covid. Her words recall the traumatic time on the website: “My father had a 3-day fever with no breathing trouble. Since his oxygen saturation was decreasing, the doctor advised admission to a hospital on 15th October. He was getting out of the house for the first time during the pandemic and assured his near and dear ones waiting outside the hospital to go back home with a smile and not to worry. Little did we know that his lungs were already damaged horribly and that he would never return home.” Lawyer Aurobindo De Sarkar, who lost his battle against Covid on December 6 last year, is remembered by his family on the website as someone who fought valiantly for 19 days before succumbing to the virus. Sarkar’s sister-in-law Bani De Sarkar said, “As an income tax practitioner, he had big clients. But he provided help to small businessmen for free. He couldn’t return home for the last time. We are grief-stricken by the demise of this ever jolly man.” For many like Shikha and Bani, the website provides a place for them to open up their hearts about their losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/denied-a-final-goodbye-by-covid-19-online-memorial-gives-kin-succour/articleshow/81383426.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Intranasal vaccine Phase 1 trials commence||Hyderabad: The Phase 1 human clinical trials of Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s intranasal Covid-19 vaccine, codenamed BBV154, have commenced at some of the selected sites that include Hyderabad and Nagpur. The trials of the chimpanzee adenovirus vectored vaccine candidate, being developed in collaboration with the Washington University School of Medicine at St Louis (WashU), are to be conducted on 175 healthy volunteers aged between 18-60 years at four sites – Hyderabad, Nagpur, Patna and Chennai. Post the screening of volunteers, the administration of the vaccine doses has begun, said sources at Hyderabad’s St Theresa’s Hospital, one of the trial sites. “We began screening on Monday and started dosing volunteers from Wednesday. We have already administered the vaccine to about 10 volunteers,” a source at the hospital said. Apart from the Hyderabad hospital, the Gillurkar Multispecialty hospital at Nagpur, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Patna and the Apollo Specialty Hospital at Chennai will be conducting the vaccine trials, as per the CTRI (Clinical Trials Registry-India) website. While the institutional ethics committees of the Hyderabad, Nagpur and Patna hospitals have already approved the trials, the Chennai hospital is still awaiting the ethics committee nod. As part of the randomised, double-blinded trial to evaluate the reactogenicity, safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate, the volunteers will be divided into three groups. In the first group, 70 volunteers will be administered a single dose of the vaccine followed by a placebo after 28 days. In the second group 70 volunteers will be given two doses of the vaccine 28 days apart and in the third group 35 volunteers will get two doses of the placebo (a substance that has no therapeutic value). The company will conduct an interim analysis on day 42 after the administration of the first dose to ascertain the vaccine’s immunogenicity and safety before submitting the data to the CDSCO (Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation). Bharat Biotech plans to produce 1 billion doses of the non-invasive,vaccine, which is being touted as a gamechanger as it will not only be quicker but also easier to administer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/intranasal-vaccine-phase-1-trials-commence/articleshow/81382082.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||T sees 158 new Covid cases, 1 death||Hyderabad: Telangana on Sunday recorded 158 new cases of Covid-19 and one death. With this the state has reached 2,99,900 cases so far and the death toll stands at 1,641. The state currently has 1,886 active cases of the novel coronavirus, while a total of 2,96,373 patients have so far recovered from the virus infection. Of the total number of patients’ 70 percent have been asymptomatic. The case fatality rate (CFR) currently stands at 0.54 percent in the state. This is better in comparison to the country average of 1.4 percent CFR. The recovery rate meanwhile is currently 98.82 percent, also better than the country average of 96.9 percent. On Sunday, a total of 40,616 samples were tested for the virus, around 95 percent of which were tested in government testing facilities. Telangana has now completed testing 89.6 lakh samples from across the state and has reached 2.4 lakh sample testing per million population. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 30 new cases on Sunday, while Ranga Reddy recorded 15 and Medchal Malkajgiri recorded 19 new cases. While most other districts recorded new cases on Sunday, Jogulamba Gadwal, Kamareddy, Mulugu and Wanaparthy did not record any new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-158-new-covid-cases-1-death/articleshow/81382077.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Surat||13-year-old girl raped by relative in Surat||SURAT: Police detained a 25-year-old from Limbayat area on Sunday for allegedly raping his wife’s 13-year-old cousin sister. The accused Shafiq Shaikh, a labourer, was nabbed soon after the girl’s parents lodged a complaint. Shaikh allegedly raped the girl several times in the past six months after which she became pregnant. “On coming to know about her pregnancy, the family got the foetus aborted around a month ago. They did not inform police then but after threats by the accused, they approached the cops,” said a police officer at Limbayat police station. After abortion, the parents prevented the girl from keeping relations with Shaikh. Meanwhile, Shaikh started threatening the family with dire consequences if they stopped her from meeting him. The survivor’s mother and Shaikh’s mother-in-law are sisters. As they often met during family gatherings, Shaikh lured the minor by offering gifts and then promising to marry her. He was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/13-year-old-raped-by-cousins-husband/articleshow/81381174.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||35-year-old tempo driver hits cyclist killing him on spot, held in Mumbai||Mumbai: A 35-year-old tempo driver was arrested by the Oshiwara police for rash and negligent driving after a cyclist, Asphaq Ali Mustafa (28), was killed in Jogeshwari (west) on Saturday. The incident occurred at around 12.30 pm when the deceased was on his bicycle heading towards Link Road when a speeding vehicle hit him from behind. Mustafa was thrown a few distances away and succumbed to severe injuries even before he was admitted to a hospital. The driver was arrested from the spot, but was later released on bail. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/35-year-old-tempo-driver-hits-cyclist-killing-him-on-spot-held/articleshow/81383432.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Half of women’s welfare funds remain unused in Maha||Aurangabad: Roughly half of the funds meant for women’s welfare remained unutilised in Maharashtra in 2019-20 as well as in 2020-21. Of the Rs 83.8 crore sanctioned for the year 2019-20, nearly Rs 39.2 crore remained unused. Though the funding for women’s welfare was slashed to Rs 59.7 crore in the year 2020-21, almost Rs 39.1 crore was still to be utilised by the end of November 2020, show the latest economic survey report (ESR) of Maharashtra. The funding in question was meant for different destitute and women’s homes/orphanages, counselling centres and to protect women from domestic violence. The part of the fund also covered the Manodhairya scheme for rape survivors and the mass-marriage scheme of the government. In the year 2019-20, the Manodhairya scheme witnessed maximum official neglect with only Rs 3.4 crore being spent against the allocation of Rs 30 crore. In the current year, Rs 32.6 crore was sanctioned to protect women from domestic violence, but only about Rs 5 crore could get spent by November-end. Women rights activist Bharti Biswas-Bhandekar accused the public representatives — especially woman MLAs and MLCs — of not showing any concern for the effective implementation of women’s welfare programmes. “There is a gross lack of public awareness about women’s welfare schemes and programmes. The government authorities could have utilised the funds on at least the publicity of these initiatives. However, there is official apathy,” she said. Women’s rights groups have also expressed surprise over the paltry use of funds for preventing domestic violence cases, which were believed to be on the rise last year as many families were confined to their homes during the lockdown. Deputy chairman of Maharashtra Legislative Council and Shiv Sena leader Neelam Gorhe said the Covid outbreak was largely responsible for the non-utilisation of the funds in question. “Concerted measures will be taken for the effective utilisation of funds for all women’s empowerment schemes and all public representatives will be requested to keep a watch on it,” she said. Maharashtra women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/half-of-womens-welfare-funds-remain-unused-in-maha/articleshow/81393164.cms||Prasad Joshi
March 8, 2021||World||Peace is more powerful than war, Pope tells IS-ravaged Mosul||MOSUL: Muslim and Christian residents in the ruined Iraqi city of Mosul told Pope Francis of their lives under brutal Islamic State terror group’s rule on Sunday as the pontiff blessed their vow to rise up from ashes and told them that “fraternity is more durable than fratricide.” Francis flew into the northern city by helicopter to encourage the healing of sectarian wounds and to pray for the dead of any religion. The 84-year-old pope saw ruins of houses and churches in a square that was the old town’s thriving centre before Mosul was occupied by IS from 2014 to 2017. He sat surrounded by skeletons of buildings, dangling concrete staircases, and cratered ancient churches, most too dangerous to enter. Much of the old city was destroyed in 2017 during the bloody battle by Iraqi forces and an international military coalition to drive out IS. Francis, who is on a historic first trip by a pope to Iraq, was moved by the earthquake-like devastation around him. He prayed for all of Mosul’s dead. “How cruel it is that this country, the cradle of civilisation, should have been afflicted by so barbarous a blow, with ancient places of worship destroyed and thousands of people — Muslims, Christians, Yazidis and others — forcibly displaced or killed,” he said. “Today, we reaffirm our conviction that fraternity is more durable than fratricide, that hope is more powerful than hatred, that peace more powerful than war.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/peace-is-more-powerful-than-war-pope-tells-is-ravaged-mosul/articleshow/81384205.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Only 60% of eligible healthcare workers have taken 2nd vax dose in Vid||Nagpur: Only 60% of the eligible healthcare workers (HCWs) have taken the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine in 11 districts of Vidarbha. Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) has blamed lack of separate vaccination centres and closure of free inoculation at private hospitals for the delay. The ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said HCWs should take second dose 28 days after first dose. MoHFW had also said sufficient antibodies develop only two weeks after second dose. The vaccine roll out for HCWs started on January 16. In the first 21 days up to February 5, inoculation happened on 13 days in the region. Around 85,000 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc from government and private hospitals had taken the jab between January 16 and February 5 in the region. They were eligible to take second dose till March 7. The government started second dose for HCWs from February 15. Inoculation happened for 18 of the last 21 days. In 11 districts of the region, 50,821 (59.79%) of eligible 85,000 HCWs took the booster dose. The government had stopped free vaccination at private hospitals from March 1 after roll out of vaccine for age-appropriate groups. Also, vaccination centres at private hospitals were not available in first three days. Later, centres were allowed in private hospitals empanelled in government schemes but at the cost of Rs250 per dose. The civic bodies, zilla parishads etc are doing vaccination of HCWs, frontline workers (FLWs) and age-appropriate groups at a time at all centres. There is huge rush and crowding of age-appropriate groups as the government also allowed on-spot registration and vaccination. Convener of VHA Dr Anup Marar told TOI, “There are two major reasons for only 60% eligible HCWs taking the second dose. There is a huge crowd in all centres and very few free vaccination centres, which has made HCWs apprehensive about waiting time and also capability of tackling adverse reactions. Secondly, many are thinking waiting for a week or two does not matter, and by that time centres may increase, at more capable hospitals, leading to thinner crowds and less waiting time. HCWs will be forced to pay Rs250 and take second dose in selected private hospitals if the system does not improve.” Till beginning of vaccination of age-appropriate groups, it was very easy for HCWs and FLWs to walk-in and take the jab. From March 6, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started separate counters for HCW and FLW, but no separate centres. There is a plan to introduce same system at other centres. In Vidarbha, 2,04,769 HCWs were registered for vaccine. In last 51 days, 1,48,241 HCWs have taken first dose for a turnout of 72.39%. Despite deadline lapsing on February 14, the government has continued inoculation of HCWs. Government also facilitated on-spot registration and vaccination of HCWs who were not registered earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-60-of-eligible-healthcare-workers-have-taken-2nd-vax-dose-in-vid/articleshow/81381114.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Her school unlocked happiness for special kids||Pooja Patel’s school in Rajkot is like a home for children suffering from intellectual disability. Running the school was a Herculean task during the lockdown, imposed by the administration to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides normal children, there are some 200 students in the school in the age group of 5 to 35, suffering from autism, Down’s Syndrome, cerebral palsy and multiple disabilities. Faced with extreme difficulties, many even slipped into depression during the lockdown. Pooja took up all these as her responsibility as well as a challenge. "These are special children and it was extremely difficult for them to pass the days of lockdown. I used to get calls from parents that they cannot take proper care of the kids at their homes. These children need some activities. I used to go door to door during the lockdown to motivate special kids and their parents," said Pooja. Patel’s son is also suffering from intellectual difficulty and to teach him basic skills, she started this school in 2009 when she could not find a good school. Though it’s not a residential school, the students remain on the campus of the school, which is run by a trust in the building provided by the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC). Both the children of Sonal Chavda are suffering from intellectual difficulty. "My son could not understand what’s lockdown. He stopped taking food and used to get irritated. It was a tough situation for me, but thanks to the support I got from Pooja Madam, I could handled the situation," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/her-school-unlocked-happiness-for-special-kids/articleshow/81382088.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
March 8, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow private hospitals allowed to run vax drive all six days||LUCKNOW: As many as 137 private hospitals empanelled under Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) in the city have also got the green signal from the health department to run mass vaccination drive against Covid-19 for six days a week from Monday onward. “On Monday, 45 private hospitals will take part in the drive as they have procured vaccine vials required for giving the jabs. The rest will join the campaign in due course. Altogether, Monday’s vaccination exercise will be carried out in 96 centres including 51 government aided facilities. The drive will be carried out on all working days of a week,” said chief medical officer(CMO) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. The target groups in the drive are elderly who are 60 years or above and people with comorbidities in the 45-59 age group. The target groups in the drive are elderly who are 60 years or above and people with comorbidities in the 45-59 age group. The target group’s intended beneficiaries have the option to walk-in at a centre with government recognised photo IDs for the jab or pre-register themselves for inoculation at the centre of their choice. In addition to photo IDs, people with comorbidity will have to bring a certificate of their disease by a certified medical practitioner. The vaccine shots will be free at government centres, while Rs 250 per shot will be changed at private centres, he added. "The decision will make vaccines easily accessible to the target groups. We expect to cover all the 6.5 lakh beneficiaries within March," said spokesperson CMO office Yogesh Raghuvanshi. President, Indian Medical Association, Dr Rama Srivastava said, "The decision will ease pressure on the government facilities, but only those private hospitals which have extra staff, ice-line refrigerators and adverse-effect management facilities should join the drive.” Three centres for women only today: Health department has reserved three centres for women beneficiaries on Monday on the occasion of International Women’s Day. These pink centres with all-women staff will be set up at SPM Civil Hospital, Avanti Bai and RSM Hospital, said CMO Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. However, in case any male intended beneficiary comes to the centres, he will not be turned away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-pvt-hospitals-allowed-to-run-vax-drive-all-six-days/articleshow/81383435.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||International Women’s Day: Sky‘rocket’ing to new heights||To mark International Women’s Day, TOI caught up with some senior scientists from DRDO, each of whom are playing a key role in strengthening India’s defence sectorRani Surender, Project Director, DRDOMissiles have always fascinated Rani Surender. Not surprising then, her career has revolved around them – the Nag, Trishul, Prithvi, Akash and even Agni. “When a missile is flight tested for the first time, there is a lot of tension and expectation...The joy is indescribable when we work on projects and see great results,” shares Rani whose work involves simulation of missiles in the laboratory. Only when the lab gives successful results, the missile is launched. Looking back, Rani owes much of her achievements to her mother -- her loudest cheerleader. “She wanted me to be independent,” says Rani who has come a long way since she joined DRDO in 1987. Sheena Ran, Group head, DRDO When India test fired its intercontinental ballistic missile, Agni V, on April 19, 2012, the entire world stood up and took note. And as the country celebrated DRDO’s huge success, among the scientists who were exalted was Sheena Rani. “There were butterflies in my stomach as we prepared for the launch. But I really did not anticipate the delirium, among the common public,” said Sheena Rani who has been associated with all Agni missions. Her work involves checking and ensuring the overall health of missiles, before their launch. “The greatest satisfaction for me today is that I am serving the nation,” says Sheena Rani who grew up Trivandrum. The Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre was close to home and the launches there is what piqued her interest and curiosity. Mahaswetha Bakshi, scientist ‘G’, head of imaging infrared group, RCI, DRDOThe strengthening of India’s defence sector over the years, has made the role of those like Mahaswetha Bakshi, even more crucial. For her job involves image processing -- critical for a variety of weapons. “This is about giving protection and I am particularly happy about this... When users give us their feedback on what we have provided, there is no limit to our joy,” says this scientist from Kolkata. Of course, the job comes with its challenges -- be it meeting strict deadlines or working late in the night. “But then you know you are doing for the country, so that keeps you going,” she says. In 1990, Bakshi was selected for a job through campus interview and has ever devoted her life to image processing. T Venkata Mani, scientist ‘F’, head, onboard computers, RCI, DRDO Be it the supersonic cruise missile ‘BrahMos’, or the surface-to-surface missile defence system Akash or even the air-to-air Astra missile developed by DRDO. T Venkata Mani has been involved with them all as her job pertains to making onboard computers. A strong believer of the of Make in India programme, the scientist feels there is already a significant amount of indigenous work that’s being done. “And what needs to be done can also be done by us,” Venkata Mani says. But while the Mathematics enthusiast is very satisfied with the journey thus far, she adds: “There is lots more to be done and I am quite excited about it.” This drive, Venakta Mani dedicates to her grandmother, Lalitha, who spurred her “to pursue big ambitions”. Sunitha Devi Jena, project director in DRDLFor Sunitha Devi Jena, it is all about quality. The defence scientist who joined DRDO as a quality engineer has worked on the Nag and Akash missiles. “Precision matters the most,” Jena says, currently project director for an important mission. She takes pride in the fact that indigenous technology is being developed at DRDO to meet defence needs of the country. She herself is also working on many new technologies that have been throwing up great results. Jena’s inspiration? Her father, Ravi Kumar, who himself was a scientist with DRDL and her Army officer husband. “The support I get from my family is tremendous. It is only with that kind of support that one can give their best at work,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/skyrocketing-to-new-heights/articleshow/81383437.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC denies pre-arrest bail to magistrate in bribery case||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has denied anticipatory bail plea to a judicial magistrate first class in Pune district in an alleged case under Prevention of Corruption Act filed in January. “This is a very serious case in which a judicial officer is sought to be arrested,” said Justice Sarang Kotwal in his March 3 order. The HC refused the magistrate’s counsel Aabad Ponda’s request for a stay of four weeks on the rejection, “considering the gravity of offence and need of custodial interrogation”. “The investigation agency needs to go deep in the matter,” said Justice Kotwal. The high court said that the magistrate, a woman, was “occupying a very responsible position’’ and added that “society’s faith in judicial system should not be shaken by such instances”. An ‘associate’ of the magistrate, also a woman, had allegedly demanded and accepted a bribe on her behalf for dismissing a criminal complaint against a milk vendor. But the magistrate claimed she was living alone with an infant and had relied on the woman, “who won her trust” and helped with finding her a nanny. Ponda said the woman took advantage of the magistrate’s dependence on her and indulged in the alleged crime which he said came as a “shock” to the magistrate who denied ever demanding a bribe as alleged. On February 23, the sessions court rejected the magistrate’s pre-arrest bail plea. She then moved the HC, where prosecutor S H Yadav opposed her plea. He relied on a phone call between the magistrate and the co-accused woman to argue she cannot now claim “innocence or ignorance”. The FIR alleged that a woman had visited the milk vendor’s house on January 4, and asked his brother if he was aware of a criminal case against him in a court and that the hearing was two days later. She allegedly demanded Rs 5 lakh to have the “serious” case dismissed. They settled at Rs 3 lakh. But the complainant said he did not wish to pay any bribe and informed the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) Pune. During verification of his complaint, a phone call was recorded in which the magistrate was allegedly speaking at the other end. After the conversation, the co-accused allegedly told the complainant to bring the money. On January 14, he went to ACB office with Rs 50,000 and the officials mixed fake notes and added anthracin powder and gave it to him. The complainant gave the cash to the woman in his car and she was arrested. The ACB claimed that the co-accused woman had accepted the money on behalf of the magistrate. The HC, in its order, said prima facie the phone conversation “at least at this stage, does indicate the applicant’s involvement in the case”. “Investigation shows that there were 147 phone calls exchanged between the two,” the court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hc-denies-pre-arrest-bail-to-magistrate-in-bribery-case/articleshow/81382097.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Bhainsa on edge after groups clash||Hyderabad: Tension prevailed in Bhainsa, Nirmal district on Sunday night after members of two communities clashed and pelted stones at each other. At least three persons were injured and two houses were set ablaze in the incident. Sources said that at around 8.30pm, when a biker was travelling on the road in Zulfekar lane, an argument broke between him and members of another community. That led to two groups clashing. On knowing about the clash, police rushed to the spot, but there was property loss by this time. Inspector general of police (North Zone) Y Nagi Reddy was unavailable for comment, and even local police were unreachable. Bhainsa is an a sensitive location, and in the last few years there have been incidents of members of two communities clashing and indulging in arson. Following the incident, a large number of policemen were rushed to the location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhainsa-on-edge-after-groups-clash/articleshow/81382091.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Haryana again: Another water crisis looms large||NEW DELHI: Reduction in the supply of raw water from Haryana has once again impacted treatment plants in Delhi, which may lead to a supply crisis. Raghav Chadha, the vice chairman of Delhi Jal board said that Haryana has reduced the supply of raw water to Delhi through both carrier-lined canal as well as Delhi Sub-Branch canal. “Due to reduction of water coming from these two sources, we are currently facing a shortage in water production,” he said. The vice-chairman explained that as of Sunday evening, Haryana was only supplying 549.16 cusecs of water through carrier-lined canal against the normal supply of 683 cusecs through the channel. Similarly, the supply through Delhi Sub Branch DSB canal has reduced to 306.6 cusecs against 330 cusecs under normal circumstances. The cumulative shortage from both these sources is around 160 cusecs. A DJB official said that due to reduction in the flow of water, higher pollution levels have also been noticed, with ammonia levels noticed around 2.3ppm at some points. “The water levels in the carrier-lined canal have been steadily dropping. The flow measurement upstream of Bawana around 8pm on Sunday was around 576 cusecs against the normal level of 683 cusecs. It further dropped to 549.16 cusecs later,” official added. “We are also witnessing reduction in the flow in river Yamuna and the shortfall from the canals cannot be compensated from river, therefore rationalisation of water supply is being carried out,” the official further said. The reduction in raw water supply at has partially hit operations at Wazirabad as well as Chandrawal water treatment plants, where water production has been reduced by around 30%. These plants supply water to parts of central and west Delhi. Similarly, the water production at Okhla water treatment plant has reduced by around 15%, Chadha said. “This can lead to reduction in water pressure in some localities and the problem may be exacerbated in tail end colonies,” an official said. The vice-chairman alleged that Haryana government’s lackadaisical attitude has led to unchecked dumping of sewerage into Yamuna. “Samples picked up by our quality testing labs show high contamination of pollutants and ammonia levels. Delhi Jal Board is in constant contact with Haryana government requesting them to address these issues on war-footing, but to no avail,” Chadha said. “I have urged miniter of Jal Shakti Gajender Singh Shekhawat to intervene and direct Haryana government to release Delhi's share of water, while also curb rising levels of ammonia in Yamuna.” Watch Delhi water crisis: Haryana reduces raw water supply||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/haryana-again-another-water-crisis-looms-large/articleshow/81383464.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kochi||KWA to set up two more sewage treatment plants in Ernakulam||Kochi: Ernakulam generates approximately 357 millions of litre sewage waste per day, according to the district sewage action plan submitted to the state government by the vertical sewage section of Kerala water authority (KWA). Waste generation in Ernakulam has been divided into 44 zones. The report, which was prepared based on population and submitted a month ago, noted that areas coming under Kochi corporation limit generated highest amount sewage waste in the district at 147 MLD. Rest of the estimated 210MLD sewage waste is generated from 13 municipalities and 82 panchayats. . It has been proposed to set up two treatment plants initially, one in Kochi corporation limit and another in Aluva municipality. Officials will commence a survey in a week to identify accurate sewage waste load generated and land patterns for laying pipelines from the source to the destination (plant) as part of preparation of detailed project report (DPR). But the survey in Kochi corporation limit will be done after meeting with Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) which also proposes to set up plants in the city. “The survey in corporation limit will start once KMRL informs us about places they have identified for their plant. To provide a sewage network system at all households, ground levels of main roads and arterial roads will have to be identified as some places need pumping to transport the waste to the plant. Collection points will be constructed in some points for collection of the sewerage, as per the need of the area before transporting it to the plant. Socio economic survey will also be part of the upcoming survey by us since we need accurate load. The action plan has been prepared based on the population in the district,” said a KWA official. The survey will help the authority to understand at what capacity the plants should set up. All the areas, which do not fall under KMRL will be brought under KWA plant. The plants should meet the growing load till 2053 if the construction works start in 2023 as the design period validity is 30 years. The new plant of KWA would be set up on 15 acres of land owned by the authority in Elamkulam. Currently, construction of a new 5MLD sewage plant in Elamkulam is underway. Existing 4.5MLD plant treats waste from five divisions only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kwa-to-set-up-two-more-sewage-treatment-plants-in-ernakulam/articleshow/81381196.cms||T C Sreemol
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Man on 24X7 oxygen support takes the vaccine||Nagpur: Laxmikant Pandit, 68, who is on oxygen round-the-clock, took the Covishield jab at a private hospital on March 5 under challenging circumstances. Pandit, suffering from an interstitial lung disease, had to be kept under observation at the intensive care unit (ICU) for an hour before getting discharged. It’s learnt that the senior citizen’s lungs function only 10-15% of the natural capacity and cannot inhale oxygen through normal breathing. As per the doctors, the vaccine was crucial for him as he would have probably failed fighting Covid if it attacked his already heavily affected lungs. The doctors and the staff at Mogre Children’s Hospital at Sakkardara heaved a sigh of relief after Pandit was found without any adverse events following immunization (AEFI). The beneficiary was accompanied by his wife Sudakshine and brother-in-law, Dr Milind Naik. “My brother-in-law had spent most of his working hours at the construction site which may have affected his lungs devastatingly,” said Dr Naik. “He wasn’t scared and also knew that a team of doctors was keeping a keen eye on him,” he said. Pandit, a former deputy engineer with the public works department (PWD), was attended by a team comprising Dr Sandeep Mogre and intensivist Dr Bhushan Itkelwar apart from former Indian medical association president Dr Naik. Reputed pulmonologist Dr Ravindra Sarnaik had referred the beneficiary for the vaccine. “We were aware that some adverse reactions post vaccine can take place given the health condition of the beneficiary which had kept us on our toes but luckily, he sailed through,” said Dr Mogre who claimed that Pandit was the most challenging case among the 221 administered the vax on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-on-24x7-oxygen-support-takes-the-vaccine/articleshow/81381224.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 8, 2021||Delhi||BJP: New board will deprive city students of global competition||New Delhi: A day after the Arvind Kejriwal government announced setting up of Delhi Board of School Education, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said on Sunday that such a move will deprive city students of international competition. “Central Board of Secondary Education is an internationally acclaimed education board and by quitting it, forming a separate board for Delhi schools, the Kejriwal government is denying Delhi students international competition,” said Gupta during his political tour of Vikaspuri assembly. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-new-board-will-deprive-city-students-of-global-competition/articleshow/81382138.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Keeping the coffers ringing||Apart from raking in the moolah for the state, Telangana’s commercial taxes department is scripting another fascinating story – being run by almost 50% women; many in top positions. In fact, occupying the ‘hotseat’ here (read: head of department) is Neetu Kumari, the first woman IAS officer to ever run this important wing. But there’s more – three additional commissioners, seven joint commissioners (of 17 in total), six deputy commissioners and 27 assistant commissioners. “If women can rise through the ranks in the Army, Air Force and police department, why cannot we do so as tax collectors or tax generators?” says additional commissioner (state tax), Jaya Kameswari Sattenapalli, echoing the sentiment of every woman who refuses to let gender get in their way to success. And while the job comes with its challenges, these officials say, it’s equal for everyone – a man or a woman. “We have to be very vigilant as even a small mistake on our part can put the state’s revenues in jeopardy,” says Haritha Kallepu , additional commissioner ( state tax) stressing the need to constantly upgrade oneself to excel at the job as taxation laws keep changing with time. “The real task, of course, is dealing with taxpayers who are often either ignorant or arrogant. Also, there are hassles while working on the field hassles,” she adds narrating an incident when she had to forcibly shut down a liquor store for violation of excise and prohibition rules and even store the seized alcohol in her office, despite tremendous pressure to act otherwise! But such hurdles notwithstanding, these women march on. “Yes, it gets tough and tiring on the field at times...Sometimes, we also have to do panchanamas in the night... but that’s the job,” Sattenapalli candidly puts it. In fact, even at lower levels within the department, officials say women encouraged to take up tough tasks. The commercial taxes department has 106 circles in all with each circle earning anywhere between Rs 30 crore and Rs 140 crore a month. Even through the pandemic-induced economic slowdown, the department stayed at the top of its game.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/keeping-the-coffers-ringing/articleshow/81383457.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Emergency old issue, things much worse today: Raut||Mumbai: The Shiv Sena has a suggestion for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi: he need not discuss the Emergency imposed by his grandmother, the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, as it is an outdated issue and better buried permanently.  Sena MP Sanjay Raut, who is the executive editor of the party mouthpiece Saamna, said in his weekly column ‘Rokhthok’ that given the current situation, one could say that the “Emergency was better”. Raut called Rahul Gandhi a simple and open-minded person who had simply expressed his view on a past incident. He referred to activist Jayprakash Narayan, who in an interview to a magazine in 1976 had said: “I could not have imagined that democracy in the country would be so easily transformed into dictatorship.” Raut, without naming the BJP, asked whether the situation was any different today. Raut said that Indira Gandhi was firm on her decision and was of the view that Emergency was imposed only because democracy was derailed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-emergency-old-issue-things-much-worse-today-raut/articleshow/81383473.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 8, 2021||Kochi||Soon, KMRL to ventureinto sewage treatment||Kochi: Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) is also venturing into sewage waste treatment under its integrated urban regeneration and water transport system (IURWTS) initiative. It has been planned to set up sewage treatment plants at some parts of Kochi to treat waste from houses located close to five city canals, on which KMRL will operate ferry service. Sources in the knowhow said KMRL will operate the existing sewage treatment plant of Kerala water authority after dismantling it once the new plant, the construction of which is underway, is ready to function. KMRL has expressed willingness to operate the plant. It has also been planned to set up a plant in Muttar. The sewage generated in houses and other institutions, which currently discharge it to the five canals directly or through drains, will be transported to the proposed plants through pipeline networks. KMRL has initiated the plan as the canals were getting highly polluted due to discharge of sewage waste from households and other institutions. This will turn waterbodies unfit for navigation. Meanwhile, KMRL said the project is in the initial stage. “Setting up of STP is part of the concept of the project. It is in planning stage and the location might change since lots of stakeholders are involved in the project, which is a state government initiative. We can disclose further details only after securing all approvals,” said KMRL spokesperson. Government had issued an order banning dumping of garbage and draining of sewage into Thevara, Edappally, market canals and Chilavannur thodu. But the order remains on paper and people continue to dump waste into these canals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/soon-kmrl-to-ventureinto-sewage-treatment/articleshow/81381238.cms||T C Sreemol
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||10 pvt hosps now offer to run vax centres for free||Nagpur: Though private hospitals were up in arms over local administration’s move to turn them into Covid hospitals, the vaccination drive has evoked a completely opposite sentiment from them. As on date, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has onboarded 37 private hospitals as paid vaccination centres, while 10 bigger ones have petitioned the civic body to allow them to run the inoculation drive. In their request, the 10 hospitals have expressed willingness to run the centre free of cost. Some of them were ‘delisted’ after phase-I (healthcare workers) and phase-II (frontline workers) vaccination. Since everyone, sooner or later, would need or take the vaccine, hospitals are eyeing it as value added service and a measure to retain the goodwill with their existing patients. A top government doctor said, “The vaccine is still not available in the open market.” “The ongoing vaccination drive is the real fight against novel coronavirus”, said Kunal Hospital director Dr Shishir Shrivastav. Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) convener and Orange City Hospital & Research Institute (OCHRI) director Dr Anup Marar said big hospitals are not concerned whether vaccination is free or paid. “All I am concerned is how can hospital retain the goodwill through this drive.” “The drive is not going to end here, but likely to go on for a long time. Hence, I would like to offer a value added service to public rather than telling them to go to a particular centre,” he said. Asked about different approach on treating Covid patients and in vaccination, Dr Marar said, “The cap on hospital charges was harsh and unjustified.” VHA in its representation to the local administration has said multispeciality hospitals are ready to function free of cost as well as paid vaccination centres. “These hospitals have all infrastructural and staffing needs in place along with experience of successfully conducting phase-I and phase-II of Covid vaccination drive as per request of the NMC authorities,” say VHA office-bearers. Sengupta Hospital director Dr Shantanu Sengupta said herd immunity and breaking the chain of virus spread were his priorities. “We were the first to be authorized to run paid vaccination centre in the city. The faster we vaccinate, faster the community will have herd immunity. We are not earning anything from this drive. In fact, we are spending more resources on it. Technically, we are earning the goodwill of people, patients, their parents and elderly colleagues,” he said. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said private hospitals already have trained staff, which is an advantage. “Chances are that city may witness second wave of Covid infections in June, July or August. With more participation, it can be averted. For prevention of Covid, vaccination is important,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-pvt-hosps-now-offer-to-run-vax-centres-for-free/articleshow/81381250.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 8, 2021||Surat||Bodybuilders flex muscle at state championship||Surat: On the second day of the state-level bodybuilding and powerlifting championship, a preliminary round of selection in bodybuilding competition was held at the City Plus multiplex. Of the contestants, 40 were selected in eight weight categories for the final rounds that were held on Sunday evening in Police Parade Ground, Athwalines.Altogether 100 participants took part in the body building championship of whom, five were police personnel. The participants have come from 13 districts across the state. On Saturday, 248 participants took part in preliminary rounds of powerlifting at Dayalji Ashram. City police is organizing both the events in association with National Powerlifting Federation and State Body Building Association (SBBA). “The judges are senior sports persons and best in their respective fields. Participants are also the best of the lot of bodybuilders from across the state,” said one of the judges, Prashant Pillai. Guest at the event, Premchand Degra, an International Federation of Bodybuilding and Fitness (IFBB) professional bodybuilder, encouraged all the participants. “We have invited judges from Mumbai and all international standards are being followed. Apart from maintaining law and order it is the duty of police to give direction to society so that it can grow in the best possible way,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. “It is an expensive sport and such events are a platform for those who work dedicatedly. Every year our association organises state-level competition to promote sports,” said Kanti Bhungaliya, general secretary of SBBA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bodybuilders-flex-muscle-at-state-championship/articleshow/81381260.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Bird watchers visit Nehru zoo||Hyderabad: A group of 40 bird watchers from Hyderabad Birding Pals, visited Nehru Zoological Park. VVL Subhadra Devi, Curator, Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad briefed them about the bird watching etiquettes. The team members identified around 88 bird’s species. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-watchers-visit-nehru-zoo/articleshow/81382131.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Several face action at fish market after chaos||Nagpur: Amid confusion and commotion at Bhoipura fish market over Covid curbs, where mayor Dayashankar Tiwari visited on Sunday, Ganeshpeth police rounded up a few citizens only to be let them off after sometime. The weekend restrictions to curb spread of the coronavirus were better enforced on business and commercial establishments, while several residents opted to violate the ‘stay at home’ appeal of the district administration and guardian minister Nitin Raut. Even on Sunday, roads had substantial number of vehicles and crowd moving. “Cops were not allowing any trader to do business at the fish market on Sunday morning for reasons best known to them. I had to intervene as these businessmen were excluded from the restrictions. Later, cops had rounded up people who had assembled at the market,” said Tiwari. The mayor also said that the number of people on roads on Sunday was more than that seen last weekend. “Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) too initiated action on a number of offices after these establishments were found violating the Covid norms,” he said. In the last two days, NMC’s nuisance detection squad has recovered Rs72,000 from those violating Covid norms in different zones across the city. The squad also checked 92 marriage halls/ lawns during the weekends. NDS team also raided residence of one Hemraj Paunikar at Trimurti Nagar where a marriage ceremony was being held. Rs5,000 penalty was slapped on the family by Lakadganj NDS unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/several-face-action-at-fish-market-after-chaos/articleshow/81381277.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Turning the wheels of her family’s fortune||Repairing heavy vehicles isn’t the easiest of tasks. Yet, 31-year-old, Y Adilakshmi, just does that – fixes automobiles by the roadside in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district’s Sujathanagar town. And she perhaps is the only woman in Telangana with such a job. “I did not go to school and gain formal education. I started working as a mechanic when my husband, Veerabhadram, took ill three years ago and could not do this work. I took up a spanner and wrenches to mainly feed my family,” says Adilakshmi who attends to 15 to 20 vehicles every day now.  Though it was tough initially – tyres of earth movers and tractors weigh between 30 kg and 80 kg depending on size – she now does it all with ease, repairing/replacing punctured tyres, greasing, et al, even at odd hours. “Sometimes heavy vehicles come at 2 am or 3 am. We both (husband and she) take up the job even during those hours,” says Adilakshmi, even as her husband chips in to laud her skills. Ask her if she’s aware of International Women’s Day or has heard of women empowerment, she quickly retorts with a no. “I only know that I must help my husband to feed the family and give my two children, daughters Ashritha (9) and Samyukta (7 years) a good education,” she says. While she has received some help from MLC Kalvakunta Kavitha and a private company, along the way, Adilakshmi’s one big dream isto build a garage one day. “I have even urged Kavitha madam to provide some land abutting the main road instead of a 2BHK house so that I can set up my shop there. She has assured support,” the mechanic says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/turning-the-wheels-of-her-familys-fortune/articleshow/81383482.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Rani Jhansi flyover: AAP questions lengthy delay||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) functionary and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak on Sunday alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had claimed that the Rani Jhansi flyover will be completed in two years, but it actually took 24 years. “BJP-led municipal corporation completed the Rani Jhansi flyover in 24 long years — a flyover that was to be made with Rs 175 crore was completed for Rs 724 crore. The AAP government on the other hand showed not only the people of Delhi but people of the country how honest work is done. Arvind Kejriwal’s government made the Rs 302-crore Shastri Park flyover within 1.5 years at a cost of Rs 250 crore,” Pathak said. “BJP rubbished our claims of corruption despite an audit report proving otherwise,” he said, further alleging that Rs 26-27 crore were paid to an individual for government land. “BJP claimed that the cost increased owing to the land acquiring process, not the actual construction of the flyover. Our question is, when the land acquiring process has a land acquiring agency of the government which does all this, why were party leaders and engineers involved in it?” he asked. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that before raising questions on delay in construction of Rani Jhansi flyover and its increased cost of construction, AAP should tell Delhi why the its government’s Signature Bridge project — envisioned in 1998 at a cost of Rs 887 crore — took 11 years to get inaugurated in at an increased cost of Rs 1,575 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rani-jhansi-flyover-aap-questions-lengthy-delay/articleshow/81382161.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Wagh family members’ roar creates uproar at KA||PANAJI: Members of the Wagh family, Aruna Vishnu Wagh and Ramrao Wagh’s voices made the loudest noise at the CZMP hearing at Kala Academy (KA), on Sunday. “I am hurt that my people are (made to wait) outside,” said Aruna, the wife of the late deputy speaker and KA chairman Vishnu Wagh, while referring to nearly 500 people who were not allowed inside the premises. She demanded an answer from North Goa collector Ajit Roy for “changing the venue” from the Taleigao community hall to KA “at the last minute”. Second in the list of 100-odd speakers, Aruna sat near the microphone for the next two hours and refused to leave until Roy and the other panelists answered her questions.  Attending the meeting virtually, Ramrao, who is currently the principal of the Kala Academy College of Theatre Art, said, “Giving a short notice to the public is not healthy. Farmers wanted to participate in the meet, but were not aware how to (attend through the virtual platform). This meeting should’ve been conducted in a democratic manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wagh-family-members-roar-creates-uproar-at-ka/articleshow/81383597.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Yadadri done, now Maha Stupa takes shape at Buddhavanam||Hyderabad: With Yadadri temple complex nearing completion, another prestigious project — Buddhavanam—is waiting for chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s clearance. On the way to Guntur from Hyderabad, a white ‘maha stupa’ emerges from the backwaters of Nagarjunasagar, drawing the attention of passersby. The stupa, built amid lush greenery of the prestigious iconic Buddhavanam’, is located on 274 acres. After a series of meetings with experts in Buddhist sculptures, the Telangana government has built ‘Buddhist Theme Park’ at Buddhavanam. “A few sculptors were affected by Covid-19 pandemic, but Asia’s biggest ‘Maha Stupa (dome) has been completed,” Buddhavanam project special officer Mallepally Laxmaiah told TOI. The project has been completed with the involvement of an expert committee, consisting of eminent Buddhist architects, Buddhist historians and also senior officials from the state government. The dome was built under guidance of eminent Buddhist architect Sandeep Kamble, he said. “Though the Buddhavanam project was launched in 2003 in the united Andhra Pradesh, it got delayed due to various reasons like alienation of land, preparation of blueprint for Buddhist circuit and execution. The Centre (Rs 29 crore) and state government (Rs 25 crore) have contributed for completion of Buddhavanam with world-class amenities,” another officer said. Reputed international Buddhist organisations across the globe have drawn up plans to set up various institutions at the Buddhist circuit to the tune of Rs 326 crore . We forwarded them out project and are awaiting the state government’s nod to launch them,” K Sudhan Reddy, also a special officer of the Buddhavanam project, said. “We have imported lotus petals and sky panels from Germany and installed them in the the inside of the Maha Stupa,” said Kranthi Balu, superintending engineer. An expert committee had visited Amaravathi in Andhra Pradesh and built its replica at Buddhavanam, he added. President Ramnath Kovind reportedly enquired about the progress of the Buddhavanam project with the state government officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yadadri-done-now-maha-stupa-takes-shape-at-buddhavanam/articleshow/81382168.cms||Sunil Mungara
March 8, 2021||Nashik||Missing trader’s body found after 7 days||Nashik: Ahmednagar police on Sunday found the body of Guatam Zumbarlal Hiran — a trader from Belapur in Srirampur taluka who was missing for the past six days. The body, which has been sent to Aurangabad for autopsy, was found in a decomposed state along the railway tracks in the MIDC area of Srirampur. Hiran had gone missing on March 1 after he left his godown on his two-wheeler. He was also carrying cash with him. On his way home in Belapur, the trader was allegedly kidnapped by some unidentified people who forced him into a car. Subsequently, the police started investigating the case. The police had prepared four teams to investigate the case but as no motive of his abduction came to fore, it became difficult for them to decide the exact line of investigation. The police also checked the closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage of the Srirampur-Belapur Road. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, police also found Hiran’s two-wheeler on the Srirampur-Belapur outer road. Owing to the failure of the police department to trace the whereabouts of Hiran, traders in Belapur had observed a day’s strike in Belapur on Saturday. Superintendent of police Manoj Patil had assured the traders that they would soon find Hiran and put the criminals involved behind bar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/missing-traders-body-found-after-7-days/articleshow/81380329.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||After Rs11.6cr loss, BRTC to get power supply for fire systems||Chandrapur: Having lost two sprawling blocks in the fire at Bamboo Research and Training Centre (BRTC) at Chichpalli, public works department (PWD) is now focused on the remaining structure in the campus. While conventional fire control measures are being activated, PWD plans to put up some innovative measures to neutralize any spark in the highly-venerable buildings made of bamboo. Sources claimed that PWD and BRTC have come to agreement on taking Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) power supply in the under-construction BRTC to activate firefighting system in the remaining structures — academic building, two hostels and residential quarters. The administrative and workshop buildings were destroyed in the massive inferno, causing loss of Rs11.6 crore. Both the buildings had smoke detectors and water sprinkler system, but they were inactive due to lack of power supply. Sources told that BRTC was at disagreement with PWD over payment of the electricity bill, if power supply is taken from MSEDCL. However, after the loss of two buildings, both the departments are now in agreement to take the power supply for the safety of remaining structures. MSEDCL is likely to provide power connection within a week and this will help activate the sprinkler system and fire hydrant immediately. Sources said that PWD also plans to install special fire extinguisher having capacity to douse fire at a distance of 20 feet. The BRTC campus has four borewells and 2 lakh litres of water tank connected to fire hydrant. The campus also has the backup power supply through generator and diesel engine. PWD has claimed that fire at BRTC was ignited by sparks flying from the forest-fire raging in the jungle around. As the claims of fire retarding polish painted all over the building being capable of taming the fire have proved futile, officials see the bamboo-made buildings are most vulnerable to fire during summer months. Officials have decided to hire a government empanelled consultant to carry out fire audit of the BRTC campus. They have also planned to put sprinklers over the roof, which is made of bamboo shingles, and install water guns having range of 20 feet on compound wall to douse any spark of fire in forest surrounding the campus. Forest department is also likely to make fireline around compound wall of the campus by clearing the shrubs, sources told TOI. Executive engineer, PWD- II, Anant Bhaskarwar, ratified that MSEDCL is going to provide power supply to BRTC campus in next few days and firefighting system in campus will be immediately activated. He also confirmed plans of installing other firefighting measures, but maintained it would be done only with the consent of fire consultant agency. He also denied of having any knowledge about the constitution of the inquiry panel announced by guardian minister to probe BRTC campus fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-rs11-6cr-loss-brtc-to-get-power-supply-for-fire-systems/articleshow/81380346.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Two get Rs 8L compensation in Mumbai from MACT for 2009 chemical spill||Thane: Two children who were seriously injured in a chemical spill 12 years ago were awarded a cumulative compensation of Rs 8.3 lakh by the Maharashtra Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), a senior official said on Sunday. On October 9, 2009, Pawan Kanojia, then 13, and Manish Mathur, then nine, were traveling in an MSRTC bus going from Thane to Bhayander when a chemical-laden tanker tried to overtake it, he said. As the tanker swerved, its lid opened and some of the chemical fell on Kanojia and Mathur, causing, permanent injuries. MACT Member and Principal District Judge RM Joshi, in his order awarded Rs 4.20 lakh to Kanojia and Rs 4.10 lakh to Mathur. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-get-rs-8l-compensation-in-mumbai-from-mact-for-2009-chemical-spill/articleshow/81383510.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||12 stations of Delhi Metro’s oldest line get fresh paint||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has completed more than half of a massive revamp of its first corridor -- Red Line (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal). DMRC had started the renovation of 21 of the oldest stations of the corridor, some of which were part of the 8.4-km-long first section between Shahdara and Tis Hazari that opened in 2002. TOI was the first to report in August 2018 that DMRC was planning a major makeover for its ageing firstborn. “Major stations where the renovation work is almost complete are Dilshad Garden, Jhilmil, Mansarovar Park, Shahdara, Welcome, Shastri Park, etc. The work at remaining Metro stations will be completed by May 2021,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communication), DMRC. “The exercise was aimed at giving them an enhanced aesthetic look and upgrade of various infrastructure to keep pace with the changing times and ensuring an enhanced commuting experience to its customers,” he said. DMRC’s managing director Mangu Singh inspected the renovated stations on this section in the early hours of Sunday, before train operations could begin for the day. He was accompanied by director (operations), A K Garg and other senior DMRC officials. “DMRC has always been at the forefront of keeping its premises and services in best of the shape to serve as a world-class Metro system for its millions of users. This exercise has been accomplished in a record time despite the challenges posed by the ongoing pandemic, leading to even temporary halt of all the activities in 2020,” Dayal said. The renovation exercise has been challenging for DMRC as there were only a few hours available for carrying out restoration in an operational corridor. Apart from its age, the corridor also faces other problems like many of its stations being at ground level, which results in more dust coming inside. Many stations are also located near low-lying areas, which results in problems in the shape of sewage and rainwater entering the premises at times. The renovation work carried out at the 12 stations includes finishing or replacement of exterior façade with contemporary and easy to maintain material, relaying of dilapidated granite flooring, retro-plating (chemical polishing) of platforms, internal and external painting of stations, relaying and rerouting of old drainage system, which was causing leakages, new signage, painting of roof trusses and sheeting, renovation of toilet blocks and parking lots, LED lighting at stations, renovation of escalators and installation of new escalators, replacement of analog CCTV cameras with digital ones, etc. Dayal said similar exercises would be carried out on other Lines in a gradual manner. It is likely that DMRC will take up similar renovation work at its second and third oldest corridors, the Yellow (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) and Blue (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12-stations-of-delhi-metros-oldest-line-get-fresh-paint/articleshow/81382209.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Development manager, builder both liable for delay in Mulund project: Rera||MUMBAI: Is the development manager who signs an agreement with a builder for exclusive rights to sell flats liable to pay compensation to the buyer in case of delay or does liability rest only with the builder? A RERA order on March 5 said both were liable in a Mulund project, reports Swati Deshpande. MahaRERA directed the development manager, a subsidiary of Shapoorji Pallonji Group, and Nirmal Developers, to refund the money paid by four flat purchasers with 9% interest for delay in construction and possession of flats. MahaRERA member B D Kapadnis said the DM would be considered a ‘promoter’ of the project along with the builder Nirmal Developers. It directed that the SP subsidiary be added as promoter on the web page of the project within 30 days of the order.Four flat purchasers who had booked apartments in ‘Mumbai Dreams—Olympia C & D’ in Mulund west moved RERA last year alleging delay in construction. One of the complainants said the date of completion was given as June 2019, but was later unilaterally revised to December 2024. Advocates Harshad Bhadbhade, Ashwin Shah and Rajeshwar Deshmukh, representing the buyers, said they had booked the flats with the belief that the DM would construct the building and there would be no delay. The buyers had paid under Rs 20 lakh each so far. They wanted to withdraw from the project and, citing provisions of the Rera Act, claim a refund with interest. Neither sought compensation. But they said the DM was also liable to refund the amounts as a ‘promoter’. Shapoorji Pallonji, through its lawyer Aftab Diamondwala, argued that the company’s subsidiary, Lucrative Properties Pvt Ltd, was only a DM in the project for aiding in the management, planning, supervision of the project and use of their brand name. Hence, he said it was not liable to refund the money. Advocate Vaishali Mohite for Nirmal Developers said the complainants were not ‘allottees’ under the Act and also no agreement for sale had been executed, hence, their plea was “not maintainable”. The builder also submitted that liability to refund would be attracted only on failure to hand over possession on the date mentioned in the registration application. Shapoorji argued the developer was financially liable, adding Lucrative Properties was mentioned as ‘other professional’ on the project web page. The order said, “The terms of agreement…clearly shows the DM has authority to supervise and control all activities of planning, selling, funding and constructing of the project.” Also, if the person who constructs and person who sells are different, they are jointly liable, said Kapadnis in the order. “Lucrative Properties is using brand name and goodwill of Shapoorji Pallonji, collecting money from buyers…and selling units,’’ said the order. It is also sharing 10% revenue. “Therefore, I hold that it comes under the definition of the promoter,” said Kapadnis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/devpt-manager-bldr-both-liable-for-delay-rera/articleshow/81383872.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 8, 2021||World||Swiss back ban on face coverings||ZURICH: A far-right proposal to ban facial coverings in Switzerland won a narrow victory in a binding referendum on Sunday instigated by the same group that organised a 2009 ban on new minarets. The measure to amend the Swiss constitution passed by a 51.2-48.8% margin, provisional official results showed. The measure will outlaw covering one’s face in public places like restaurants, sports stadiums, public transport or simply walking in the street. It foresees exceptions at religious sites and for security or health reasons, such as face masks people are wearing now to protect against Covid-19, as well as for traditional carnival celebrations. Authorities have two years to draw up detailed legislation. The proposal under the Swiss system of direct democracy does not mention Islam directly and also aims to stop violent street protesters from wearing masks, yet politicians, media and campaigners have dubbed it the burqa ban. “In Switzerland, our tradition is that you show your face. That is a sign of our basic freedoms,” Walter Wobmann, chairman of the referendum committee and a member of parliament for the Swiss People’s Party, had said before the vote. The Central Council of Muslims in Switzerland called the vote a dark day for the community. “Today’s decision opens old wounds, further expands the principle of legal inequality, and sends a clear signal of exclusion to the Muslim minority,” it said. It promised legal challenges to laws implementing the ban. France banned wearing a full face veil in public in 2011 and Denmark, Austria, the Netherlands and Bulgaria have full or partial bans on wearing face coverings in public. Practically no one in Switzerland wears a burqa and only around 30 women wear the niqab, the University of Lucerne estimates. The Swiss government had opposed the measure as excessive, arguing that full-face coverings are a “marginal phenomenon”. It argued that the ban could harm tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/swiss-back-ban-on-face-coverings/articleshow/81384208.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolhapur||27.2% women from low-income groups have high BP: Study||Kolhapur: A study conducted by experts of the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital — the largest public hospital in Kolhapur district — has found pressure mounting from domestic chores, high intake of salt and consumption of tobacco are the major reasons for hypertension or high blood pressure among the poor women in the district. As per the study, the average prevalence of hypertension among women from low-income groups is around 27.2%, which is higher than the national average of 23.7% and the state average of 22.8%. Blood pressure (BP) is the amount of pressure felt by the blood vessels when blood flows through them. The BP recordings of over 1,300 women admitted to the hospital were studied between 2018 and 2020. The study came to a halt last year following the outbreak of Covid-19 as the hospital was converted to a designated Covid hospital. Akshay Bafna, a cardiologist at the hospital said, “ The study shows that hypertension is prevalent among women of all age categories. The usual pattern of higher blood pressure with the increase in age has also been observed in the district.” “We found definite causes for hypertension in around 10% of the patients. Most patients here fall in the low-income groups and are unaware of the dietary practices or lifestyle changes that have to be adopted to keep hypertension at bay. We also found that many patients, who are prescribed medicines to keep their blood pressure under control, discontinue their medication after sometime. As a result, they develop hypertension later,” said Bafna. Around 10% of the woman patients, who were part of the study, had come to Chhatrapati Pramila Raje hospital for delivery. Bafna said they have found most women developed hypertension during their pregnancy and for over 40% of them, hypertension continued even in the later stages of life. “Hypertension is a fast-growing disease across the globe. It is a cause for concern given the socio-economic status of women in our society. The study needs to be taken forward in order to bring in various workable solutions to address hypertension in various age groups,” added Bafna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/27-2-women-from-low-income-groups-have-high-bp-study/articleshow/81380341.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||85% Delhi Prisons staff get the jab||Delhi Prisons department said that around 85% jail staff and over 58% security personnel deployed in three jails under it have received Covid-19 vaccine shots. Delhi Prisons comprises Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails. A jail official said there are around 2,000 jail staff, out of which 1,700 staff have been vaccinated. Out of around 1,700 security personnel deployed with Delhi Prisons and who have registered on Co-WIN portal, 1,000 personnel have got the shots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/85-delhi-prisons-staff-get-the-jab/articleshow/81383516.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar deplores Giriraj Singh’s ‘beat govt officials’ remark||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday disapproved of Union minister Giriraj Singh’s controversial advise to the people to “beat up with bamboo sticks” those government officials who do not listen to their grievances. A video of Giriraj’s speech has now gone viral on social media platforms. “Ask him (Giriraj) only. Is it justified to use words like ‘pitai’ (beating up)?” Nitish said when reporters sought to know his reaction over the Union minister’s yet another controversial speech at a function organized by an agriculture institute at Khodawandpur in his Begusarai parliamentary constituency on Saturday. Nitish was talking to reporters after attending an event of the Prajapita Brahmakumari Ishwariya Vishwavidyalaya at Patna. “In this democracy, parliamentarians, MLAs, DMs, SDOs, DDCs are under you (people). You must go to these representatives and officials with ‘your good words’. Recently, a friend gave me in writing that a CO (circle officer) is committing irregularities. I gave that letter to the CO and asked him to look into it. ... You yourself should go to the government officers. There is no need to tell all these things to Giriraj. It is your right to lodge your grievances (to the officials). If your rights are not protected, Giriraj will stand by your side; because you have made me a parliamentarian. You have made someone an MLA, you have made someone the district board member. Someone is a mukhiya at your strength. You are not (surviving) at the strength of MP, MLA or a mukhiya. ... if the officials do not listen to your grievances, take bamboo sticks and hit them. I don’t want to hear words like ‘someone is not listening,” Giriraj told the people of his constituency.  In the same video, Giriraj is heard telling the people, “Neither we will ask them (officials) to do any illegal work nor will we tolerate their illegitimate actions. Neither I ask any officer to do illegal work nor I can tolerate ‘nanga nritya’ (naked dance) of any officer.” The minister’s speech invited sharp reaction from the leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “Union minister Giriraj Singh has been telling that there is anarchy in the state. Government officers do not listen to the grievances of anyone. Therefore, beat up the officers with bamboo sticks. The Nitish government lodges FIR against the journalists who highlight wrongdoings, but gives prizes to those ministers who provoke violence,” Tejashwi said in a tweet on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-deplores-girirajs-beat-govt-officials-remark/articleshow/81381354.cms||Madan Kumar
March 8, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Bhagalpur man forced to carry son’s body in a bag||PATNA: In a shocking case of administrative apathy, a man was forced to carry his minor son’s highly decomposed body in a cement bag after local police failed to arrange an ambulance or any other vehicle for carrying it to Katihar Sadar hospital for postmortem. As the video went viral, state police headquarters on Sunday ordered an inquiry and suspended two junior police officers for not providing a vehicle to the man for carrying the body to Katihar Sadar hospital. Rajdev Raman, a sub-inspector of Gapalpur police station, and ASI Nandlal Choudhary of Kursela police station were suspended on the basis of an inquiry conducted by a DSP-rank officer of Katihar. As per the police inquiry report, one Teju Yadav of Karari Tintanga village under Gopalpur police station in the neighbouring Bhagalpur district was crossing Ganga river with his 13-year-old son Hari Om by a small boat on February 26. Hari Om fell into the river when the boat was midstream. Teju tried his best to search his son for hours, but in vain. Later, he informed Gopalpur police (Bhagalpur) the following day about it. Police made an entry in the station diary in this connection and advised him to continue searching the body in the lower stream of the river. On March 3, a highly decomposed body was seen near Kheria Ghat under Kursela police station in Katihar district. Kursela police informed the Gopalpur police about the recovery of the body. Teju, based on an information received from the Gopalpur police, rushed to Kheria Ghat and identified the body as of his son on the basis of the shirt he was wearing. But the body was highly decomposed and giving a foul smell. After inspecting the body, the police officers of both Gopalpur and Kursela police stations asked Teju to carry his son’s body to the Sadar hospital at Katihar. Finding no option, Teju put the remains of the body in a cement bag and walked on the road. As the body was giving a foul smell, some passersby inquired and made a video of the man walking with his son’s body. Watch Bihar: Man forced to carry son's body in bag in Katihar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-man-forced-to-carry-sons-body-in-a-bag/articleshow/81381363.cms||Madan Kumar
March 8, 2021||Thane||Biker dies in Bhayander after branch falls on him||MUMBAI: A 41-year-old biker died of severe head injuries after a branch of a cluster tree fell on him on a busy road in Bhayander (west) on Saturday. His teenage son, riding pillion on the scooter managed to jump off the two-wheeler and escaped with minor bruises. Both were not wearing helmets. The incident took place at around 10.09 am at Chandulalwadi, station road, Bhayander (west). Jagram Prajapati, a mason and his son Amit (18) were headed to the Bhayander railway station. When the scooter reached the road near cross garden, a branch of the tree, located on a private property, came crashing down. Video images showed Prajapati losing balance and falling off the two-wheeler. Amit managed to jump out of the scooter that fell on the road. Several two and three- wheelers had passed the spot before the branch fell. Pedestrians were also seen on the road when the incident took place. Passersby and motorists helped the victim. He was taken to the Indira Gandhi civic hospital in Mira Road where was declared dead before admission. Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) garden department officials rushed to the spot. The fallen branch that had blocked vehicular traffic was later moved away. Locals said that though the tree was on a private land its branches were dangerously spreading on the busy road. Huge heaps of debris were found lying around the tree. Residents said that the tree, believed to be several years oldmay have weakened due to massive dumping of construction debris around the tree. The plot of land has been lying abandoned. Civic officials said that pruning of trees on private plots was the responsibility of the property owner. Officials said that they had not received any complaint regarding the said tree and its branches. A soil test of the tree will be carried out to know its stability and will be cut if necessary, said an official. The victim’s family blamed the municipality for negligence. “It is neither monsoon nor was there any wind blowing. The municipality should be responsible for branches that hang dangerously on the roads,” said Prajapati’s nephew Sushil. He said that his uncle and brother had gone to the station to buy some materials required for a contract job. Auto rickshaws, two-wheelers and pedestrians use the busy road that leads to the station. Several autos and two-wheelers had passed by the tree minutes before the incident took place. A few men and women were also walking when the tree branch came crashing down. CCTV images showed a motorbike was just ahead of the victim's scooter when the branch fell. Few vehicles behind the scooter applied emergency brakes when the tree branch came crashing down. A case of accidental death has been registered, said Bhayander police inspector Manisha Patil. The owner of the property is being ascertained and will be questioned, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-biker-dies-in-bhayander-after-branch-falls-on-him/articleshow/81383522.cms||Sandhya Nair
March 8, 2021||Pune||Vax response is set to grow more after impressive week||PUNE: Despite a small number of operational hospital sites on Sunday, some 2,000 senior citizens received their first shots of the Covid vaccine in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The first week of the vaccine drive, for the elderly and those above 45, has generated impressive numbers. Officials said they expect the response to grow further once more sites are activated. On Sunday, the drive was carried out at only eight private hospitals in Pimpri Chinchwad and two in Pune city limits. A total of 838 beneficiaries received their jabs in PCMC areas. And in Pune city, there were 659 beneficiaries at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and 567 at Bharati hospital. Manish Naik, assistant health officer of the PMC said other private hospitals had not yet approached the civic body for vaccine doses. “But civic-run facilities will be operational once again from Monday,” he said. Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner, said response is gaining momentum. “We want to increase the number of vaccination sites. By this weekend, we would have boosted it to 30 centres from the current 17.”  Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle, said, “We have given shots to over 30,000 beneficiaries within a week. And nearly 3,376 people were from the above-45 group with comorbidities. This coverage has been possible due to the gradual rise in the number of sites. On first day, we had only 27 sites. But by Saturday, we were running nearly 110 sites. We are now aiming to increase this number to over 200.” When asked about problems with the CoWIN portal and the failed token system at government-run facilities, Deshmukh said the administration is trying to fix the niggles as soon as possible. “Once more private vaccination sites go live, the burden on the government facilities will ease,” he said. On Sunday, 65-year-old Rajesh Lalwani said he only had to wait for less than 30 minutes to get his shot at Bharati hospital in the city. Early last week, many had to wait for over three hours for their shots. Jitendra Oswal, medical director of the hospital, said they plan to increase the number of daily vaccinations to at least 800. An official from Deenanath Mangeshkar said the hospital has vaccinated over 2,000 elderly since March 3. (With inputs from Shyam Sonar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vax-response-is-set-to-grow-more-after-impressive-week/articleshow/81382246.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Engineer duped of Rs 50,000 by ‘army man’ looking for rented house online||Mumbai: A Borivli resident was duped of Rs 50,000 by an e-fraudster, who posed as an army officer to get in touch with the victim for an advertisement he had placed on a real estate database to rent his flat. The victim, Samip Patil, an engineer, is the second such victim in the city, who was duped on February 19 by a man posing as an army officer. The MHB Colony police registered a case on March 5 after Patil lost the money to one Randeep Singh. Patil was asked to scan a Quick Response (QR) code allegedly sent from the Army Bank in Pune. “We have sought the bank details to understand the money trail. The fraudster has been executing the crime using a fake identity and has collected details of people who have placed advertisements about renting their flat on social media platforms,” said an officer. The modus operandi involves targeting people who upload advertisements to rent their houses. The fraudster calls the victim and tells him/her that he has got posted in Mumbai and is in dire need of a house as he is travelling with his family from Pune. In Patil’s case, the accused claimed that the security deposit of and rent will be transferred by the Army Bank. Patil told TOI, “I insisted that he pay through NEFT transfer. He gave excuses that his bank was unable to operate NEFT and asked for my UPI details. To gain my confidence, he credited Rs 5 and asked me to scan a QR code for a money transfer. When I told him that I was aware that the code is used to debit money from the account, he made me believe that he was not a cheat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-engineer-duped-of-rs-50000-by-army-man-looking-for-rented-house-online/articleshow/81382263.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 8, 2021||Aurangabad||NGO promotes use of menstrual cups||Aurangabad: City-based NGO Sahyog Foundation, to mark the occasion of International Women’s Day, is promoting the use of menstrual cups and biodegradable sanitary pads. As a part of its drive, the NGO recently conducted an awareness seminar at the police commissionerate in presence of senior women policemen and health experts. Sanveer Chhabda from Sahyog Foundation on Sunday said eco-friendly options for maintaining menstrual health and hygiene are essential. “Used sanitary pads generate a lot of waste which is largely non-recyclable and non-biodegradable in nature. Besides posing environmental problems, these pads create issues like rashes and infections. All these problems can be addressed by switching over to menstrual cups or biodegradable sanitary pads,” she said. “Money spent on menstrual cups in 10 years is only in the range of Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,000 as compared to Rs 12,000 to Rs 45,000 depending upon the quality of pads. These cups are not only eco-friendly, but pocket-friendly too,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ngo-promotes-use-of-menstrual-cups/articleshow/81380353.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Small is big in space: India gears up for lift off in smallsat segment||While the race to space is heating up with companies around the world betting big on small satellites, what is interesting is that even in India, ISRO as well as a clutch of startups are rocketing ahead in this segment. Alaric Diniz, partner, Deloitte India, said globally, companies are launching more small satellites into space compared to conventional satellites (> 500 kg) because they are not only quicker to develop and launch but also cost-effective. Read the entire story on TOI+How India is gearing up for lift off in small satellite segment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/small-is-big-in-space-india-gears-up-for-lift-off-in-smallsat-segment/articleshow/81382250.cms||Swati Rathor
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: School moves classes online as a student tests positive||NEW DELHI: Another student in a private school has tested positive for Covid-19. After the case was reported, the school shifted classes to online mode for students of classes of IX to XII. The incident took place at Indraprastha World School, Paschim Vihar. The principal of the school, Shikha Arora, did not respond to calls and messages. In a message sent to the parents, the school said, “With utmost concern, we want to inform you that one of our students who attended school on only one day i.e. on March 2, 2021, has tested positive for Covid-19. The school has discontinued offline classes immediately. All the contacts of that child have been identified and informed. No other case, except this one, has been reported to the school. In addition to the regular sanitation, the school has ensured deep medical sanitation of the campus. All guidelines issued by health agencies and government are also being strictly adhered to in the school.” According to a parent whose child is studying in class XII said the student went to the school till Thursday. “A class XI student has tested positive. We were informed of the case through a WhatsApp communication. I think offline classes are closed till further orders,” said the parent on condition of anonymity. This is the third school in the city, where Covid-19 positive cases have been detected. The first school where the case was reported the school was shut for a week. The Queen Mary’s School will now be re-opening on Monday. The other case was at Venkateswara School, Dwarka, where the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) had also issued notice to the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/school-moves-classes-online-as-a-student-tests-positive/articleshow/81383520.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: RWAs, markets act tough as they seek to keep Covid at bay||NEW DELHI: With the increase in Covid-19 cases, RWAs and market associations are trying to impose restrictions again for the safety of people. The measures include wearing masks, maintaining social distancing in public areas and avoiding a rush in markets. Sainik Farm RWA has told shopkeepers in the local market to sell commodities only to those wearing masks. “There are 30-40 shops and they have been asked to ensure their staff follow the norms. To avoid unnecessary rush, they have been advised to take orders on the phone and pack the items for pickup or delivery. They have been distributed sanitisers and masks to offer to visitors,” said Hardeep Singh, president of Sainik Farm RWA. “The entry of hawkers has been restricted to the main gate. Guards have been asked to ensure that visitors, household workers, etc wear masks and maintain social distancing,” added Singh. New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA), which had organised a third testing camp for shopkeepers, workers and visitors at Connaught Place last week, has requested the district administration to make arrangements for vaccination of traders aged above 60. It has also asked for challaning those not wearing masks in the market. Amit Gupta, executive member of NDTA, said, “Rather than testing people repeatedly, the more feasible option is to get them vaccinated. Not many can take out time for inoculation as they have to open their shops, so we have requested the administration to vaccinate traders aged above 60. We might sanitise the area again if cases keep on increasing.” At Navjeevan Vihar, of the 125 senior citizens registered for vaccination, 90 will avail of the facility by Monday. Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjeevan Vihar RWA, said, “Not just visitors, but people working in offices, household workers, etc have to enter the colony wearing a mask. The guards are keeping their records.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-markets-act-tough-as-they-seek-to-keep-covid-at-bay/articleshow/81383528.cms||Vibha Sharma
March 8, 2021||Delhi||In Switch Delhi’s fifth week, focus shifts to boosting EV charging infrastructure||New Delhi: As the Switch Delhi campaign entered its fifth week on Sunday, Delhi government said it will focus on creating awareness on charging infrastructure in the city and the government’s preparedness to enable the transition as part of the initiative to promote adoption of electric vehicles (EV) in the capital. Switch Delhi is an eight-week mass awareness campaign by Delhi government to sensitise Delhiites about the benefits of switching to EVs as well as to make them aware of the incentives and infrastructure being developed under Delhi’s ambitious EV policy. The campaign aims at informing, encouraging, and motivating every person in Delhi to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission electric vehicles. “The AAP government has carried out a comprehensive planning to build an effective EV charging infrastructure across the national capital for faster uptake of these vehicles,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot said. “The government left no stone unturned to pave the way for smooth transition of EVs. We already have over 72 charging stations in the city and 100 new ones are coming up with 500 charging points in the next six months,” he added. He said that Delhi already has the highest number of charging stations in any city in India and Delhiites can view the list and location of the charging stations in the national capital on Delhi’s EV website - ev.delhi.gov.in. “Delhi government aims to achieve the goal of having charging stations every 3km in the city,” Gahlot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-switch-delhis-fifth-week-focus-shifts-to-boosting-ev-charging-infrastructure/articleshow/81382265.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Task force nabs cell phone thief||Hyderabad: Task force sleuths arrested a cell phone thief, Ashok Arjugonda, 25, of Narayanguda. On February 21, the accused snatched a victim’s cell phone in Narayanguda. On Saturday, police arrested the accused and seized two cell phones along with an autorickshaw from his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-nabs-cell-phone-thief/articleshow/81382264.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Rajkot||Travelling to Rajasthan? RT-PCR -ve report a must||PALANPUR: Citing rising Covid-19 cases in its neighbouring states, Rajasthan government has taken the decision of sealing its borders with all other states including Gujarat. Since Sunday morning all the checkpoints on Rajasthan-Gujarat border were sealed. Visitors travelling from Gujarat to Rajasthan are being asked to produce a negative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction test (RT-PCR) report for entry into the state. It was on Friday that Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s office had issued a statement mentioning that visitors to Rajasthan from four states including Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh will have to furnish RT-PCR negative reports for Covid-19 for entry. It is also applicable to visitors from Maharashtra and Kerala which was notified earlier by the state government. Visitors are being asked to produce a negative report of RT-PCR test done 72 hours before the time of travel. Even as checking of passengers began on Sunday, those who had come to Gujarat from Rajasthan went through a lot of inconvenience as their entry back home hangs in balance. Rajasthan government has erected check posts in Aravalli district and other areas bordering Gujarat. On Sunday, many travellers were unable to enter Rajasthan including those who had come from other states to Gujarat and were on their way to North India passing through the neighbouring state. The Gehlot government has also kept police bandobast at all border check posts and health workers teams meticulously check the health conditions of those arriving at the borders and scan their reports. Businessmen from both the states are worst hit as they routinely travel to and fro. “We travel so often between the two states. How, do you expect us to produce a RT-PCR negative report every time we enter Rajasthan,” said an aggrieved trader, who was surprised by the sudden decision to close the borders at such a short notice. Many Rajasthani families and travellers from other states who were held on the borders were angry with Gehlot government’s “dictat” that came like a bolt from the blue for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/travelling-to-rajasthan-rt-pcr-ve-report-a-must/articleshow/81380453.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||‘I was shattered, but I started work a day after cremating my dad’||MUMBAI: Healthcare workers not just battled fear, burnout and distress as they tended to the sick, but many put aside their personal grief as they reported to work within hours to days of losing a loved one. Intensivist Dr Pinank Pandya (35) and his colleagues at Jaslok Hospital were closely following the global developments around Covid-19 and arming themselves with all the information coming from the worst-hit countries. But nothing quite prepared him to deal with the hospitalisation and death of his father in the ICU, where Pinank has worked for the past six years. “It left me shattered, but I returned to work a day after cremating him. I knew I wouldn’t feel better sitting at home nor would it bring an end to the pandemic,” Pinank told TOI. Pinank’s father Himanshu Pandya (66), a physician at Vile Parle, had been consulting for over 40 years. Around June, the senior doctor resumed seeing patients physically as he didn’t think online consultation was as effective. After testing positive, both father and son got admitted to Jaslok on the same day, June 11. While Pinank was treated in the ward, his father, who had comorbidities, had to be moved to the ICU three days later. “He went on a ventilator soon after and stayed on for ten days, before coming out of life support,” said Pinank. Five days later, he had to be put on a ventilator again. This time he didn’t recover and succumbed on July 7. Call it the curse of being a doctor, Pinank said, but one knows when there’s nothing that one can do. On the morning of his father’s death, Pinank visited him in the ICU and played him his favourite Bollywood songs and a few bhajans. “My mother and I did a video call with him, though he was not coherent. That evening, he passed away,” said Pinank. A last screenshot that captured the three of them together is now his most prized possession. Seven months later, it’s still not easy to work in the ICU. “The sound of the plastic box cracking in the electric crematorium still rings in my ears,” he said. Dr Shruti Tandan, a critical care expert at Jaslok, struggled with losing her maternal uncle who was under her care following a surgery in June. “I somehow felt guilty and responsible for losing him despite trying everything. He was just 54 and it was a semi-emergency surgery, but it made me question everything,” said Tandan. She cried at nights and even had doubts about continuing in critical care till a younger cousin told her every patient was someone’s relative. She started reading spiritual books to cope with the loss and deal with everyday deaths in ICU. Nursing superintendent Jyoti Pandey was among the first few to willingly turn up to work at a Covid centre in April. The 29-year-old left her teaching position at a central Mumbai nursing institute to join MA Podar Hospital in Worli that was being converted into a Covid centre. Her primary role—to teach nurses and other healthcare workers the right way to wear a PPE suit—was a crucial one. Her work also involved doing the rounds of wards to supervise nursing work. But Jyoti faced her biggest fears when both her parents, in their 60s, tested positive for coronavirus, and were admitted to the same centre. While her mother tested ‘negative’ in seven days and went home, her 65-year-old father, deteriorated. “It was tough to see him go on a ventilator. But unlike most others, I could be close to him by wearing PPE,” she said. However, he passed away in the early hours of August 13. Less than 12 hours after carrying out his final rites, she returned to work. The toughest part for Jyoti, she admits, is walking into the same hospital every day where she lost her father. “I sometimes feel I did whatever I could for my country, but I couldn’t do anything for my family,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-i-was-shattered-but-i-started-work-a-day-after-cremating-my-dad/articleshow/81383566.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 8, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala assembly elections 2021: Congress prepares jumbo list of probables||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Despite all the claims of reserving 60% of the seats for new faces and women, the Congress state leadership, as usual, has made a jumbo list of probable list of candidates for the assembly polls. The discussion to finalize the candidates will begin in New Delhi on Monday. It is learnt that over 200 people have featured in the probable list prepared by the screening committee of the KPCC for 92 seats. Almost all the group leaders have managed to include their nominees in the list. Even the names of fresh faces and women have been included based on the group affiliations. Interestingly, all the siting MLAs, except K C Joseph, have also been included in the list. The ‘A’ group is lobbying for a seat for him and Joseph, an eight-time MLA, has demanded Kanjirappally seat. However, the AICC is unlikely to accept this demand since they have already instructed the party state leadership that those who have contested consecutively for four times should stay away from the fray. The list prepared by the screening committee has four-five names in many seats. As the leaders here could not arrive at a consensus on many of the seats, they are of the view that a massive pruning will have to be made in Delhi. The AICC leaders, who have been in the screening committee, were miffed about making such a big probable list. They had urged the leaders to limit the panel to three people each in each constituency. But the lobbying was so high that the state leaders had to include at least five candidates in several seats. “There are some differences of opinion in a few seats, which can be sorted out. The final list will be out before March 10. There will not be any delay on this,” said AICC general secretary K C Venugopal. However, the state leaders are of the view that the first list of candidates can be announced on March 9. This will include the seats of the sitting MLAs and the seats where the party high command has suggested the names. The screening committee will meet on Monday and if needed on Tuesday before submitting the list to the high command. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran left for New Delhi on Sunday while Ramesh Chennithala and Oommen Chandy will reach Delhi on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-prepares-jumbo-list-of-probables/articleshow/81381381.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Delivering Hyd its daily dose of news||At the crack of dawn, even as the city slowly starts to awaken, T Vijaya Kumari, a 52 -year-old newspaper dealer is already at work carrying piles of newspapers, segregating and distributing them to vendors of nearly 20 different areas in the city. Kumari, who is in a profession largely dominated by men, has not missed a single day of work in the last 15 years. “Every single day, I make sure that all the 20,000 newspapers are handed over to the 50-odd vendors who work with me. Before Covid-19, I also had a few people to help me carry the piles of newspapers and segregate them but now I do everything single-handedly,” said Kumari. A typical day in the life of the 52-year-old shows how she wears many hats, effortlessly. “Be it rain, floods, or delays, I have to make sure that the newspapers are delivered at the doorsteps of my customers every single day. I am also in constant touch with delivery boys who collect the newspapers from the vendors to ensure they are delivered to all customers on time,” she said. Kumari, who is a native of Khammam, shifted to Hyderabad in 2004. While at first, she started by helping her husband, who is also in the same profession, she eventually decided to expand the business by employing more vendors and becoming a dealer herself. On being a woman in the male-dominated profession, she said, “It didn’t take much time for me to realise that I must perform better than the average male to be accepted in this line of work. That’s when I stopped depending on others to help me carry loads of newspaper bundles or even deliver the paper to customers directly when the vendors are understaffed.” “It is because of these challenges that I faced in all these years, I was able to stand my ground even during the pandemic when several other dealers in the city changed their profession. I love what I do, so I didn’t want to see anything as a difficult task,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/delivering-hyd-its-daily-dose-of-news/articleshow/81383546.cms||Moulika.KV
March 8, 2021||Delhi||As air pollution eases, ban on diesel generator sets lifted in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has lifted the ban on use of diesel generator sets in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad after considering the prediction of better air quality in the coming days. Track the pollution level in your cityThe board has directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and state pollution control boards to take stringent action with emphasis on hotpots. According to a latest report compiled by the Delhi environment department, 23,663 notices were issued this season for causing air pollution and 2,66,829 challans were issued for vehicular pollution. The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) had enforced Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) from October 15 last year and banned the use of diesel generator sets in Delhi and its vicinity towns. However, on the constitution of Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas last year, EPCA was dissolved. The commission had then directed CPCB to monitor GRAP. “As per the forecast received, air quality in Delhi-NCR is expected to be better in the coming days due to improved ventilation conditions. Based on this forecast, CPCB has decided to lift the ban on use of DG-sets in Delhi-NCR with immediate effect,” said CPCB in a letter to DPCC and state pollution control boards. The central board asked the implementing agencies to be more vigilant and ensure quick actions, including on redressal of complaints on SAMEER and other social media platforms to curb polluting activities. It directed them to continue to take stringent actions with emphasis on hotspots. State pollution control boards and DPCC have been asked to ensure that large construction sites are adhering to prescribed norms/ guidelines and taking adequate measures for dust management. The CPCB letter also told the agencies to strictly enforce all pollution control regulations in brick kilns and industries. The agencies have been asked to ensure that garbage is not burnt in landfills and other places and strictly enforce pollution control norms in thermal power plants. The state pollution control boards and DPCC have been advised to do periodic mechanised sweeping and water sprinkling on streches with heavy traffic and unpaved roads. They have been asked to stop plying of visibly polluting vehicles by impounding these or imposing heavy fines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-air-pollution-eases-ban-on-dg-sets-lifted/articleshow/81382271.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Cases under 300 after 92,000 tests, Delhi minister says pandemic stage ending||NEW DELHI: Despite the number of Covid-19 tests carried out over the past 24 hours being the highest at 91,614, the positivity rate on Sunday dropped to 0.3% from 0.6% a day earlier. After witnessing more than 300 new cases for two days, 286 fresh cases and two fatalities were recorded on Sunday. Health minister Satyendar Jain said that the pandemic phase of the disease, when it spreads very fast, was on its way out and Delhi was entering the endemic phase now. “We have carried out more than 90,000 tests and the positivity rate is 0.3%. Just like H1N1 (swine flu), which has not gone away completely and every year a few cases come up, we will now have to live with Covid-19 and only wearing a mask can save you,” he added. Though the number of Covid-19 cases have seen a marginal rise, Jain said everyone had to remain alert and there was no need to create panic. “World Health Organisation says that cases should be below 5%, but in Delhi these have not even reached 1% in the last two months,” said Jain. “We are completely prepared and there is less than 10% occupancy in hospitals. We are carrying out tests 6-7 times the national average, apart from contract tracing. From 8,600 new cases in a day, Delhi has come down to 200-250. Our learning in the last one year is that it is most important to wear masks. The fine of Rs 2,000 and compliance in Delhi is very good,” added the minister. The total number of tests included 71,250 RT-PCR. The last time the numbers were so high was on December 17, 2020 when 90,354 tests were carried out. With 260 patients recuperating from the disease in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases has reached 1,803. While in February it seemed that active cases might go below the 1,000-mark, the rising number of new cases and those recuperating being comparatively lower have led to active cases jumping up 35% from 1,335 last Sunday and more than 68% compared with 1,071 on February 21. The overall infection tally in the city stands at 6,41,101, out of which 6,28,377 patients have recuperated, which is a recovery rate of 98%. While the total death tally on Sunday reached 10,921, the first week of March saw the average daily death count come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cases-under-300-after-92000-tests-jain-says-pandemic-stage-ending/articleshow/81383563.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 8, 2021||Kozhikode||‘Twin-loss norm won’t apply to defeat in CPM strongholds’||Kozhikode: KPCC working president K Sudhakaran said that the party will give relaxation to leaders who had unsuccessfully contested from CPM strongholds. Earlier, the party had said that it won’t be fielding candidates who were defeated in two consecutive elections. Addressing the media persons in Kannur on Sunday, he said that leaders, who had contested in CPM strongholds in previous elections under the instruction of the party and were defeated, cannot be included in their ‘personal quota’. "Some leaders had to contest in assembly constituencies which were CPM strongholds as instructed by the party as not many leaders were keen to contest in those seats. For instance, Kannur DCC president Satheesan Pacheni had contested two times in Malampuzha and once in Taliparamba as instructed by the party. It is not proper to include such contests in his personal quota," Sudhakaran said. He added that such relaxation will be applicable to other leaders who had contested in similar circumstances. On the discontent in CPM in Kannur against the denial of seat to P Jayarajan, Sudhakaran said there was an ongoing internal strife in the CPM and there was a general feeling among people that Jayarajan was being sidelined in the party that had ‘used him 100% once’. When asked if the discontent in CPM will benefit UDF in the district, Sudhakaran said that it is natural for rifts and difference of opinion in a party to benefit the opponents. "However, we are not expecting such dividends. Even if all the leaders in CPM stand united, UDF will win the seats it is expected to win in the district," he added. Sudhakaran said that Congress will announce the candidate list covering a majority of the seats by March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/twin-loss-norm-wont-apply-to-defeat-in-cpm-strongholds/articleshow/81381394.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||Electricity duty benefits denied to units in SEZ areas||Jaipur: The industrial units set up in Mahindra SEZ Jaipur are denied electricity duty exemption despite being eligible for the benefits under the SEZ policy.The Jaipur discom has refused to offer the exemption citing non-submission of ‘original entitlement certificate’. But the units in the SEZ said that since the benefit does not cover under Rajasthan Industrial Promotion Scheme, there is no need for the submission of the certificate.As per the notification in 2010 by the state finance department, units established in the SEZs are eligible for 100% exemption in electricity duty for first seven years of operation which has been increased to10 years. The duty is fixed at 40 paisa per unit of power.Abhinav Banthia, who runs a unit in Mahindra World City SEZ, said, “Since the units in the SEZ are not covered under the RIPS-2019 policy, we are not required to submit the original entitlement certificate. The certificate is required for those who take RIPS benefits. The Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd (Jaipur discom) officials perhaps lacked the clarity and that’s why the benefit was held up.”Banthia said they have already approached the officials concerned at JVVNL. “We want the JVVNL to release the pending benefits or make provisions for adjustment in the monthly power bills expeditiously because the issue has been pending for a long time,” added Banthia.There are about 60 units in Mahindra World City SEZ area and about 40 in the Domestic Tariff Area.In the RIPS-19, the SEZ units were also given employment benefit. Before that only units set up non-SEZ areas were offered the employment benefit. A factory owner in the SEZ said that some companies have already availed the employment benefits.“There is not much awareness of the benefits. Industry should know them and take advantage of them,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/electricity-duty-benefits-denied-to-units-in-sez-areas/articleshow/81381390.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Pune||PMC plans 15 post-vaccine care centres||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to start at least 15 post-vaccination care centres across the city to treat beneficiaries suffering from side-effects. PMC said these centres would run on the lines of post-Covid care centres, which cater to patients with post-recovery complications. At the moment, there are 65 vaccination centres in PMC limits and. “Beneficiaries will get post-vaccine guidance at these centres. Details would be announced soon,” additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said. Post-vaccination side-effects include fever or headache, which can sometimes lead to trauma, officials said. Each vaccination centre has one observation room, where beneficiaries must wait for 30 minutes after the vaccination. In case of a reaction, s/he is moved to a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-15-post-vaccine-care-centres/articleshow/81382275.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Only DMK-led alliance can ensure secular rule: TPDK||Coimbatore: The Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) on Sunday unveiled the plans to support the DMK-led alliance in the upcoming state assembly elections. The decision was taken at the outfit’s state executive meeting that was held in the city on the day. Speaking to reporters, K Ramakrishnan, general secretary of the outfit, said the BJP was trying to curtail the state’s rights, education and employment opportunities and the economic growth and the AIADMK was supporting the saffron party’s efforts.“To avoid ‘manu dharma’ rule in the state, we will have to reject the BJP. To prevent the saffron party from entering the state, we will have to support and work for the victory of the DMK-led alliance. Only then, women’s rights, social justice and state’s rights could be protected,” he said.Ramakrishnan made it clear that the outfit would never contest the elections, as the TPDK wasn’t a political entity. “We will, however, back a party that works for the welfare of the public and see if its ideology is in sync with that of Periyar. Presently, only the DMK-led alliance could bring secular rule in the state.”He also took a dig at the AIADMK for joining hands with the BJP. “The alliance shows nothing but how disloyal AIADMK leaders are to their predecessors C N Annadurai and J Jayalalithaa, who had vowed to prevent the BJP from entering the state.”Ramakrishnan said they would mainly campaign in the 20 constituencies where the BJP would field the candidates to ensure their defeat. “The people of Tamil Nadu are clever and will not waste their votes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-dmk-led-alliance-can-ensure-secular-rule-tpdk/articleshow/81382274.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Techie, 25, younger sister found dead in water tank||Coimbatore: A 25-year-old man and his 20-year-old sister, who had gone missing from their house at Gudalur Kavundampalayam on Saturday, were found dead at their house itself on Sunday. The deceased were identified as P Arunkumar and P Preetha of J MGR Nagar. Their bodies were found in the water tank of the house on Sunday. Arunkumar, a BE graduate, was working with an IT firm at Keeranatham at Saravanampatti, a police source said. “Their father Parameswaran had passed away five months ago and their mother P Alamelu, 45, is a homemaker. Preetha was a person with learning difficulties. Arunkumar was the sole breadwinner of the family. He was working from home because of the pandemic and was suffering from depression,” a police officer said.After her children went missing, Alamelu searched for them in vain and lodged a complaint with the Periyanaickenpalayam police the same night. Police registered a missing case and launched a search.“Relatives found the bodies in the ground-level water tank of the house on Sunday afternoon. The duo had drowned on Saturday evening. Arunkumar had left a suicide note, before taking the extreme step. He did not hold any one responsible,” the officer said. The bodies were sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. Police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/techie-25-younger-sister-found-dead-in-water-tank/articleshow/81382269.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Code violation complaints pour in||Coimbatore: The district administration has received close to 1,000 complaints pertaining to violation of model code of conduct so far. Most of the complaints were related to defacing of public property and other infrastructures with political advertisements.An official source said, “As on Saturday, the control room at the district collectorate and the cVIGIL app received 367 poll code violation complaints, which are being verified by flying squads. In addition, people are also complaining directly to the returning and assistant returning officers, and flying squads. Most of the complaints that we have received are related to defacing of properties with political posters or graffities and hoisting of political flags. They were addressed without any delay.”He said they had also received a few complaints regarding distribution of cash and prizes, but without any solid evidences. The election officials are also receiving queries regarding electors’ photo identity card through voter helpline. “We are receiving about 120 calls on an average a day, compared to around 20 in the past, following the announcement of election dates.”“We received complaints about wall posters and flag poles of political parties. Some people alerted us about silver vessels stored for distribution among voters. Flying squads and static surveillance teams would inspect such places,” he said. “We urge all voters to install the app and alert us about the violations,” the official said.People can also contact the control room by dialling toll free number 1800-425-4757. “Only six complaints were received at the control room. We need a fast information channel to transmit and track complaints. Delay in reporting the violations has often resulted in the culprits escaping detection,” the official said. “Complaints lodged on the app will reach the district control room, returning officer, flying quads and static surveillance teams, which will reach the spot concerned. The user should click a picture or a two -minute video of the violation and describe it shortly before registering complaint.”The app can be used only within the geographical boundary of states where elections are held. It will not allow to upload pre-recorded images or videos, neither would it allow users to save photos or videos clicked from the app in the phone’s gallery.  To monitor the poll code violations in media, the district administration has formed a media certification and monitoring committee with more than 40 officials and a monitoring room at the collector’s office. Working in shifts with an eight-member team, the committee is monitoring about 24 television channels, newspapers, radio stations and social media platforms, including Twitter and Facebook, round the clock.“To be on the safer side, more than an official is monitoring a medium. We have not recorded any violations as of now,” said a member of the committee.While the committee is also incharge of granting permission to print pamphlets and jingles for political advertisements, it has not received any requests to this effect till date. “The applications will come in only after the announcement of candidates,” the member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/code-violation-complaints-pour-in/articleshow/81382272.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||Rakesh ‘aide’ arrested in New Alipore cocaine case||Kolkata: The detective department has arrested an alleged key aide of BJP leader Rakesh Singh, who, they claim, was a key conspirator in the New Alipore cocaine case. The accused has been identified as Aryan Dev alias Aryan Singh (42), a resident of New Alipore. He was arrested from the New Town area, claimed police sources. This is the seventh arrest in this case. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma confirmed the arrest but refused to speak much on the accused’s exact role. The probe will include multiple angles, he said. Police sources though maintained that the accused might have played the lead role of an informer for the other accused. Cops suspect that he might also have been the one who had actually called up New Alipore police after another key aide, Amrit Singh, allegedly planted the drugs in the car on February 19. The arrest comes less than 48 hours before Singh is produced in the court. He is likely to apply for bail with his lawyer, claiming it is an elaborate conspiracy by police to stop him from fighting the assembly elections. Incidentally, Dev’s arrest from New Town is also critical, given that co-accused Pamela Goswami’s business interests centred around this township. The development came a day after the fourth additional district judges (ADJ) court, Alipore, has called for a report from the jail superintendent after the lawyer of Pamela Goswami filed a petition seeking additional security for the BJP youth leader. A few days ago, Goswami had alleged that there was a threat to her life in judicial custody. On Saturday, her lawyer Kailash Tamoli appealed before the NDPS court to keep Goswami in a safe place or step up her security during her judicial custody at Alipore women’s correctional home.He also appealed to shift Goswami’s friend Prabir Kumar Dey to Dum Dum jail. He is presently in judicial custody at Presidency Correctional Home. After hearing the petition, the magistrate called for a report from both the jail superintendents. Police sources said the fresh arrest will not mean the end of the probe. “Goswami has been alleging from day one that she was being framed. While it is now clear that absconding accused Amrit Singh did call someone from the phone, we need to know details of how Pamela had waited at the spot before the local police arrived and arrested her, along with two of her associates. Since Goswami has also alleged a cop was part of the conspiracy, we will have to look into all angles,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. The CCTV footage from the spot will also be tallied with the footage from television channels that had managed to arrive at the spot when the raid was near completion, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rakesh-aide-arrested-in-new-alipore-cocaine-case/articleshow/81381400.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 8, 2021||Chennai||Post-Covid air travel from smaller airports takes off||Chennai: It’s 8pm, a live flight tracking site shows the sky is crowded with moving yellow dots over the Indian peninsula. About a year since domestic flights were closed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic on March 25, 2020, the planes are back in large numbers, so are the passengers inside the terminals on the ground. Coming out of the shadow of pandemic, the smaller airports in Tamil Nadu, that were hit the hardest with reduced flights, are slowly recording an upward trend. With the cases on the decline and vaccinations in full swing, the airlines and the airport authorities are now banking on election travel and the IPL to sustain the momentum in the coming months.Passenger numbers are yet to reach the pre-Covid-19 level, but there has been a good month-on-month increase in passenger traffic. While Coimbatore (1,31,986), Madurai (82,000), Trichy (46,000) and Tuticorin (15, 165) have seen the numbers for January edging close to 70% of what it used to be in the pre-Covid-19 time, Salem has shown a 7.5% increase when compared to the same period last year. Riding on resumption of manufacturing and businesses, Coimbatore tops in passenger volume after Chennai. Strict safety protocols when compared to other modes of transport, mandatory PPEs, and masks, frequent disinfecting of flights and terminals have reassured people about flying.Southern region airports, which also include small airports in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and parts of Andhra, lead in the revival of aircraft and passenger movement across the country, shows the AAI data for January. The southern region airports together handled 51,969 flights with 51,58,807 passengers this January as against as against 79,366 flights with 1,00,38,29 passengers in the same period last year. A senior official of AAI said the increase hints at a quicker revival than expected. "People have regained confidence in flying. It is expected to grow in March because of the election. A lot of people will fly to small cities in the south with the VIP leaders. Once, the election season is over, the IPL will bring in passengers. Though there will not be spectators, at least 50 to 60 people plus support staff will be flying with the teams."The buzz has started to reflect in the life of airline staff at Chennai and other airports. "I see a long queue of people for early morning flights. The workday has become hectic again when compared to the six to seven month ago. There was a time when there were just 20 to 30 passengers or fewer per flight. Now, all domestic flights go full. The baggage carousel has people crowded around it and no one seems overtly concerned about the virus," said a ground staff at the Chennai airport.Coimbatore airport director R Mahalingam, said, "We have reached around 50% of the pre-Covid level. When flights resumed after the shutdown was lifted, only guest workers and those who had essential travel were flying. With every passing month more people are venturing out and now the profile of travellers is more or less the same as it used to be in the pre-Covid times," said, Mahalingam, who expects the traffic to touch pre-Covid levels by April-May. There are no restraints on the airlines, we are accepting schedules that are being offered."The stumbling block, however, is airlines doing away with some routes to focus on high-profit routes to balance the costs. The airports, especially the government-run ones, have no control over this. For instance, SpiceJet has discontinued flights from Coimbatore, while IndiGo is the only airline that is flying to Tuticorin though there is good demand from people to have more flights to major cities.Tuticorin airport director N Subramanian said, "The passenger demand is high now. People want flights to Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. The existing flights operated by IndiGo are full. We have been asking other airlines to start services. There may be more flights when the airport will be made ready for night operations soon." With entrepreneurs, families and senior citizens travelling again, two more flights are all that is needed to touch pre-Covid activity.The frequent changes in the Covid-19 restrictions and protocols such as need for Covid-negative certificates, epass and others have been confusing passengers. Though customer experience at the terminals have not improved, the authority has used the slump time to add more features to improve safety of planes and airports. Infrastructure work like checking runways, painting of taxiways, parking bays, maintenance of navigational aids are being done making the most of the slump in traffic. Former pilot and air safety expert Mohan Ranganathan said, "Vaccination does not mean that it’s safe to lower the guard. The airports and airlines should take steps to enforce wearing of masks inflight and at terminals and build confidence among people."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/post-covid-air-travel-from-smaller-airports-takes-off/articleshow/81384209.cms||V Ayyappan
March 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Two men extort Rs 1,300 from pedestrian at gunpoint, held||Coimbatore: Police solved an extortion case within hours after the incident was reported at Brindhavan Nagar near the city airport on Saturday, by arresting two men, who took away Rs 1,300 from a 36-year-old man after threatening him at gunpoint.A police officer said the incident occurred around 11am when B Nagarajan, a resident of Sowripalayam, was walking to his relative’s house at SIHS Colony. “Two men waylaid him at Brindhavan Nagar and asked him to handover all the cash to them by pointing a gun to his chest and a knife to his stomach. When he refused, they threatened to murder him and took Rs 1,300 away from his pockets.”While passers-by attempted to nab the duo hearing Nagarajan cry for help, the officer said, the two managed to flee by threatening them with the weapons.Nagarajan lodged a complaint with the Peelamedu police, who registered a case under sections 387 (extortion) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25(1B) (A) of the Arms Act, 1959, and arrested S Ravi alias Viyasarpadi Ravi, 33, a resident of Peelamedu, and S Logeshwaran, 23, a resident of Udayampalayam, the same evening.“We have recovered the stolen money and seized an air pistol and two knives from them. They were produced before the judicial magistrate and lodged in jail under judicial custody,” the officer said.In another incident, unidentified person(s) broke into a house at Kumaran Nagar at Saravanampatti on Saturday night and decamped with gold ornaments weighing six sovereigns.According to police, the house was burgled when its owner Ganesan had gone to visit his relatives in Pudukottai district along with his family members on Saturday. “On Sunday morning, neighbours found that the front door of his house was broken open and alerted him. Ganesan returned home, only to find gold ornaments were missing.” Based on his complaint, the Saravanampatti police have registered a case and launched a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-men-extort-rs-1300-from-pedestrian-at-gunpoint-held/articleshow/81382276.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Man who robbed couple held||Coimbatore: The Negamam police have arrested a 61-year-old notorious burglar and recovered gold ornaments weighing 17.5 sovereigns, Rs 2.05 lakh and a motorcycle from him. A police officer said they had nabbed A Sajath, of Nedumangad in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, from Thuvakudi toll plaza in Trichy on Saturday. “Impersonating himself as Sandh Singh, Sajath had found a job at the farmhouse of 61-year-old N Ramraj at Vanjipalayam near Negamam in January this year. When Ramraj and his wife left for a temple at Idikarai in the district on February 21, he made away with their gold ornaments and cash.” Based on Ramraj’s compliant, police registered a case and formed a special team that arrested him on Saturday. “Sajath is facing several cases in Kerala. We suspect that he might have been involved various burglaries in Tamil Nadu. We will approach court seeking his custody,” the officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-who-robbed-couple-held/articleshow/81382278.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Why did Covid cases rise in Maharashtra in February? Fear waned, people tired of pandemic: Central panel||MUMBAI: A 3-member central team that visited the state early March has attributed a lack of fear of the disease in people and pandemic fatigue as among key factors responsible for the February surge in Covid-19 cases. The team also observed that the virus is spreading to unaffected areas, although most cases are asymptomatic. It said that those who are opinion makers, like political leaders and doctors, may themselves not be following Covid-appropriate behaviour. “While the exact causes of the surge are not known — since laxity in Covid behaviour is not specific to the state — possible factors are Covid-inappropriate behaviour due to lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue; missouts and super spreaders; and enhanced aggregation due to recent gram panchayat polls, marriage season and opening of schools, crowded public transport, etc,” said a report shared by the government. In some places in Nagpur, senior doctors have not been attending to critical Covid patients, leaving management to juniors, affecting nuanced critical care like oxygen therapy, ventilator management, the team pointed out. The observations were shared by the Centre after the expert team visited the state on March 1 and 2. The health machinery also may have become lax after cases came down after September, the report is believed to have stated. Maharashtra is once again inching closer to a lakh(97,983) active cases. The team pointed out that the sense among people is that the current wave is less virulent. “People are not forthcoming for strictly following quarantine or getting testing done. Some among the doctor fraternity, especially private, may not be counselling patients for testing or followingprotocol, dismissing it as flu,” the team observed. The team has said. “The chief minister (CM), chief secretary and principal secretary of health were sensitized. The CM suggested that a direct video conference of collectors with union health ministry could help.” Senior health officials didn’t comment on the team’s observations. (With PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-why-did-cases-rise-in-feb-fear-waned-people-tired-of-pandemic-central-panel/articleshow/81386462.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Thane||Why did Covid cases rise in Maharashtra in February? Fear waned, people tired of pandemic: Central panel||MUMBAI: A 3-member central team that visited the state early March has attributed a lack of fear of the disease in people and pandemic fatigue as among key factors responsible for the February surge in Covid-19 cases. The team also observed that the virus is spreading to unaffected areas, although most cases are asymptomatic. It said that those who are opinion makers, like political leaders and doctors, may themselves not be following Covid-appropriate behaviour. “While the exact causes of the surge are not known — since laxity in Covid behaviour is not specific to the state — possible factors are Covid-inappropriate behaviour due to lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue; missouts and super spreaders; and enhanced aggregation due to recent gram panchayat polls, marriage season and opening of schools, crowded public transport, etc,” said a report shared by the government. In some places in Nagpur, senior doctors have not been attending to critical Covid patients, leaving management to juniors, affecting nuanced critical care like oxygen therapy, ventilator management, the team pointed out. The observations were shared by the Centre after the expert team visited the state on March 1 and 2. The health machinery also may have become lax after cases came down after September, the report is believed to have stated. Maharashtra is once again inching closer to a lakh(97,983) active cases. The team pointed out that the sense among people is that the current wave is less virulent. “People are not forthcoming for strictly following quarantine or getting testing done. Some among the doctor fraternity, especially private, may not be counselling patients for testing or followingprotocol, dismissing it as flu,” the team observed. The team has said. “The chief minister (CM), chief secretary and principal secretary of health were sensitized. The CM suggested that a direct video conference of collectors with union health ministry could help.” Senior health officials didn’t comment on the team’s observations. (With PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-why-did-cases-rise-in-feb-fear-waned-people-tired-of-pandemic-central-panel/articleshow/81386460.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Burglar damages collector’s vehicle, NMC chief’s gate, injures cop, held in Gondia after ramming barricade||Nagpur: Hardcore criminal Sandesh Bhoyar, in his 30s, was intercepted by Gondia police at Duggipar on his way to Raipur on late Saturday evening. Having stolen a car from a showroom at Khamla on March 3, Bhoyar had damaged a collector’s car the following day, NMC commissioner B Radhakrishnan’s bungalow gate on March 5 and also tried to crush traffic constable Nitin Warthi under its wheel at Shatabdi Chowk on Saturday before getting arrested in Gondia as city police teams were following him. It’s learnt that Bhoyar had also rammed into Gondia police’s barricades at Dewri before getting caught at Duggipar. He ran amok with the stolen car without a registration number for four days before getting caught. It’s learnt that Bhoyar, having 12 offences of burglary, six thefts and three molestation cases in the past, was working as a driver with a travel agent near Sai Mandir on Wardha Road. He had visited his office on March 3 before heading to Khamla where he allegedly stole one Rajesh Jaiswal’s car from a showroom-cum-service centre. His act was also captured on CCTV. Police said Bhoyar is likely to have parked the stolen vehicle at the collector’s office to avoid any suspicion. On March 4, he dashed the collector’s vehicle parked under the porch while reversing and fled at top speed. The following day, Bhoyar was fleeing when cops tried to stop him at Civil Lines but he drove rashly to evade being caught and in the process veered towards the NMC commissioner’s bungalow and damaged the gate. On Saturday, traffic cop Warthi had tried to intercept Bhoyar at Shatabdi Chowk and was dashed. His condition is serious. Bhoyar is now in the custody of Ajni police who got him from their Gondia counterparts. An offence of attempt to murder has been registered at Ajni police station and another for theft at RP Nagar police station. Two offences were registered at Sadar and Sitabuldi police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/burglar-damages-collectors-vehicle-nmc-chiefs-gate-injures-cop-held-in-gondia-after-ramming-barricade/articleshow/81381409.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Why did Covid cases rise in Maharashtra in February? Fear waned, people tired of pandemic: Central panel||MUMBAI: A 3-member central team that visited the state early March has attributed a lack of fear of the disease in people and pandemic fatigue as among key factors responsible for the February surge in Covid-19 cases. The team also observed that the virus is spreading to unaffected areas, although most cases are asymptomatic. It said that those who are opinion makers, like political leaders and doctors, may themselves not be following Covid-appropriate behaviour. “While the exact causes of the surge are not known — since laxity in Covid behaviour is not specific to the state — possible factors are Covid-inappropriate behaviour due to lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue; missouts and super spreaders; and enhanced aggregation due to recent gram panchayat polls, marriage season and opening of schools, crowded public transport, etc,” said a report shared by the government. In some places in Nagpur, senior doctors have not been attending to critical Covid patients, leaving management to juniors, affecting nuanced critical care like oxygen therapy, ventilator management, the team pointed out. The observations were shared by the Centre after the expert team visited the state on March 1 and 2. The health machinery also may have become lax after cases came down after September, the report is believed to have stated. Maharashtra is once again inching closer to a lakh(97,983) active cases. The team pointed out that the sense among people is that the current wave is less virulent. “People are not forthcoming for strictly following quarantine or getting testing done. Some among the doctor fraternity, especially private, may not be counselling patients for testing or followingprotocol, dismissing it as flu,” the team observed. The team has said. “The chief minister (CM), chief secretary and principal secretary of health were sensitized. The CM suggested that a direct video conference of collectors with union health ministry could help.” Senior health officials didn’t comment on the team’s observations. (With PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-why-did-cases-rise-in-feb-fear-waned-people-tired-of-pandemic-central-panel/articleshow/81383576.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||University exams in Rajasthan from April 15||JAIPUR: This year, university students for their final examination will get two instead of three hours to solve the question paper. Guidelines for the final examination of universities have been issued by the state government. As the pandemic has changed the exam pattern in every aspect of education, this year government has given many reliefs to students. The timing of the question paper will be two hours due to which it has been advised the universities to let the solution of 60% question paper a requirement for passing marks. Higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said looking at the impact of studies on students in higher education many changes have been brought by the state government. Practical examination, self-financing, and diploma courses exam in the universities will start from April 15, 2021. For general classes, the examination will start on May 5, 2021. Universities have been advised to conduct post-graduate examinations as soon as possible after the completion of other examinations. For the final year batch, the examination result will be declared on July 31, 2021, so that these students won’t find it difficult to apply for higher education or in other jobs. For semester classes, universities have been given a free-hand to conduct classes according to their convenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/university-exams-from-april-15/articleshow/81385954.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||POW’s trips cancelled, but it is set to get R7 cr Central fund for refurbishment||Jaipur: Efforts to start a truncated tour of Palace onWheels in the current season with 30% discounts on tickets fell flat in the face of resurgence of corona cases, resulting in cancellation of the trips planned for March and April. But good news for the luxury train is that it is expected to get a central funding of Rs 7 crore to fully refurbish the train before it starts the new season from September.According to a source in railways, the Union tourism ministry has sanctioned the funds to improve the look and feel of the coaches. “The funds have been sanctioned in principle. But we are yet to receive it. The main objective to renovate the interiors of the train and enhance the experience of the passengers,” said a railways official.The train is run jointly between Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC) and the railways. There is enough time before the next season for the refurbishment. When TOI spoke to an official of RTDC, he said there were some bookings though not enough to start the journeys. “We had made up our mind not to run the train at a loss. The number of bookings required to run the train profitably was not there. That’s why we had to cancel the trips,” said the official.He said farmers’ agitation had also an impact as people were apprehensive of getting stuck. The luxury train runs between September and April, clocking about 4 journeys a month. Due to the pandemic last year, RTDC had to cancel the trips in March and April and could not start in September.However, as new infections started declining in January, the RTDC authorities redesigned the itinerary and also offered discounts of up to 30% to attract domestic travelers like schools, corporates and social groups. It was for the first time, RTDC had planned to market to the train for the domestic segment.The luxury train is specifically targeted at the foreign tourists who constitute 95% of its passengers. Because of the visa restrictions due to the pandemic, the movement of foreign tourists have come to a halt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pows-trips-cancelled-but-it-is-set-to-get-r7-cr-central-fund-for-refurbishment/articleshow/81381399.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||Excise dept receives many fake bids||Jaipur: The excise department is allegedly receiving several fake bids in the e-auction of liquor stores where bidders have quoted unrealistic amount.One such case came to the fore on Saturday where a bidder from Hanumangarh offered a fictitious price of Rs 510 crore for a shop, approximately 700 times higher than the fixed base price of Rs 72.70 lakh.Agreeing to the fact that the bid is fake, a senior excise officer said, “Such problems are teething and bound to occur whenever a new system is put into place. We are not expecting such bidders to deposit the amount. The second closest bid will be examined and given the opportunity. We will blacklist such bidders for the next three years.”Sources said there might be some more bids from traders which might be fake or they may backtack. “We believe 15% of the highest bidders will not come forward to deposit money as they have placed the bid without examining the financial viability. The bidder who placed a bid of Rs 8.9 crore for a shop in Gaj Singh Pura, Sanganer, in the first phase of e-auction, did not deposit the money,” he added.As e-auction process has been introduced for the first time, several irregularities have also surfaced. In the new policy, one person will not be allotted more than five shops in the state and not more than two shops in a district. However, it has been observed that many traders have bidden for more than five shops. “In phase 3, a female candidate from Ludhiana won bid for four shops in one district. Though she will have to surrender two shops, bid for other candidates was blocked and ruined,” said sourceNilesh Mewara, president of Raj Liquor Welfare Society, said, “It has been observed that there are many non-serious bidders who are ruining the trade practice. The department has to increase the security amount from Rs 2 lakh to at-least Rs 10 lakh, so that a person will think before placing fake bid. At present, many big players are not bothered of getting Rs 2 lakh forfeited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/excise-dept-receives-many-fake-bids/articleshow/81381392.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Modi duping TN people by reciting Thirukkural: Raja||Coimbatore: CPI national secretary D Raja said that the victory of DMK alliance in Tamil Nadu was not only important for the state but for the entire country.Inaugurating a new hall built in CPI office in the city and unveiling the bust of veteran left leader K Balathandayutham on Sunday, Raja told party cadres that the duty of saving the country from the ‘fascist rule’ was with Tamil Nadu.“If fascism wins, people would lose their freedom,” he said.Raja said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was duping the people by reciting Thirukkural whenever he visits Tamil Nadu. “They don’t believe in multiculturalism. They want one nation, one culture to be imposed. So, it’s obvious that they are duping people by reciting Thirukkural in Tamil Nadu, praising Bengali culture in West Bengal and appreciating Kerala while campaigning in that state,’’ he said.Noting that it has become important to protect secularistic ethos of the country, social justice, political and economic equality, Raja said that the BJP government in the Centre was working against these ideals. “The Modi government was working only for the benefit of corporates. They devise policies that favour the big corporates and affect common people like farmers,’’ he said.CPI state secretary Mutharasan alleged that the country has been engulfed by the danger of communalism. The divisive forces are ready to go to any extent to capture power, he said alleging that in Puducherry a democratically elected government was pulled down by the divisive elements.“In Tamil Nadu, the divisive forces are attempting to get a toehold by exploiting the weak AIADMK. But we must prevent them from achieving that objective,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/modi-duping-tn-people-by-reciting-thirukkural-raja/articleshow/81382277.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Periyar statue set on fire in K’giri||Krishnagiri: Tension prevailed at Kattinayanapalli panchayat after miscreants set fire to a Periyar statue on Sunday around 3am. Hundreds of Periyar supporters gathered at the spot and urged police to take stern action against the culprits.“Two people, who came on a motorcycle, placed an autorickshaw tyre on the statue, doused it with petrol and set it afire,” said Ganesh Kumar, inspector of Maharajakadai police station. “Road users who witnessed the incident raised an alarm, following which they managed to escape from the spot. The statue was partially damaged in the incident,” he said.People and political party cadres, including those from Dravidar Kazhagam (DK), gathered in front of the statue and raised slogans against the culprits. A police team pacified the crowd and assured to take action against the culprits.Meanwhile, DK cadres repaired the damages and repainted the statue.The statue was unveiled 14 years ago, local residents said. “We will continue our protest until the culprits are arrested,” said K Manoharan, a resident.Krishnagiri DMK MLA Sengottuvan condemned the incident. “I have urged police to nab the accused at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/periyar-statue-set-on-fire-in-kgiri/articleshow/81382279.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cops struggle to spot motive for killing elderly couple in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Even after two days, the city police and their premier agency detection of crime branch (DCB) continue to struggle to find the motive behind killings of Thaltej-based elderly couple — Ashok and Jyotsna Patel. Sources in police said that four of the five accused might have fled to Rajasthan after committing the murders and various teams of the city police have been in the neighbouring state to nab the accused. Senior officers of city crime branch and city police claimed that they have checked around 300 CCTV footages and zeroed in on the accused who drove their two motorcycles till Chanakyapuri. But they are in a tizzy as some valuables were found not taken by the accused, which include Rs 48,000 cash. “The accused had not touched some cash, ornaments and a costly digital gadget at Ashok and Jyotsna Patel’s house in Shantivan Palace bungalows society where they were killed,” said a police officer. On the other hand, they had taken away two cellphones of the deceased and also tried to flee with their SUV car but failed to manage the vehicle. The question remains that if they had not stolen the cash, then why did Sola police mention in the FIR that they had decamped with the cash and ornaments worn by Jyotsna? On the other hand, sources in police said that Jyotsna used to remove her ornaments before going for her morning walk. Before the incident happened, she had removed the ornaments and kept them in the safe. Also, the FIR mentioned that the concerned cash amount was Rs 50,000 but Ashok had on March 4 evening withdrawn Rs 48,000 to pay for renovation work of the house which was also not touched by the ‘robbers’. “Usually, robberies or burglaries do not take place at this time when an area is bustling with people’s movement. The time of killing could be between 8.20am and 8.35am. If the accused had just come to rob then why didn’t they choose a different time like r.30am-5.am, when Jyotsna went out for her walk, and Ashok slept?” wondered a police officer. “Had the accused done recce, would not they know that wee hours were safe and easy for the robbery?” he added. A source privy to the development said that an old property dispute could be the reason behind the killing. Senior crime branch officers kept mum over the issue while maintaining that the investigation is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-struggle-to-spot-motive-for-killing-elderly-couple/articleshow/81381406.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Pune||Daily Covid infections in Pune Metropolitan Region cross 2,000-mark||PUNE: More than 2,000 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region for the first time in 150 days. The last time PMR recorded over 2,000 cases was on October 8 (2,039). On Sunday, 2,044 people tested positive. This took the overall number of positive cases in the region so far to 4,19,465. Pune Municipal Corporation accounted for 984 fresh cases (tally 2,08,330), while Pimpri Chinchwad had 629 new cases (1,09,034 total). The other areas in the district — rural parts, municipal council limits and cantonments — added 311, 102 and 18 fresh daily cases respectively. A daily report issued by the district health office added that 1,348 people were discharged in PMR in 24 hours till 8pm on Sunday, pushing the total number of recoveries for the region to 3,96,244. As many as 750 people were discharged in PMC limits, while 405 recovered in Pimpri Chinchwad. The rest of the district accounted for 193 recoveries. Eight people succumbed to the contagion during this 24-hour window. Five patients breathed their last in Pune municipal limits, while two people died in the rural parts of the district. One person passed away in the municipal council areas. As per reports issued by health officials, the deceased were suffering from underlying problems such as hypertension and heart problems. With this, PMR’s death toll stood at 9,303. As of Sunday, there were 14,087 active cases in the district — 4,808 patients were being treated in various hospitals, while 9,279 were under home quarantine. As per the data available with PMC, areas under its jurisdiction had 682 patients being treated with oxygen support. PMC’s report further added that 341 patients, admitted in various, were in a critical condition. On Sunday, 12,501 samples were tested in the region, pushing the total number of tests conducted to 24,02,072.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-covid-infections-in-pmr-cross-2000-mark/articleshow/81382283.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Spike in attempt to murder, rape cases||AHMEDABAD: According to figures provided by the state government in the ongoing session of the Gujarat assembly, as compared to the previous year, there have been a rise in the number of rapes, attempt to murder, accidental deaths and robberies in temples in Ahmedabad city during the year 2020. Dariyapur MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh, in a written question,sought details of serious crimes registered in Ahmedabad city during the past two years ending December 31, 2020. In his written reply, the CM, who holds the home portfolio, said that against 253 cases of rape registered in the city in 2019, 267 were registered during 2020. Similarly, there was a marginal increase in the number of attempt to murder cases in 2020. Accidental deaths rose from 1,308 in 2019 to 1,385 in 2020. The reply said that while 6,308 cases were solved in 2019, the number for 2020 was 5,780.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spike-in-attempt-to-murder-rape-cases/articleshow/81381455.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kochi||Local leaders not in favour of fielding Kunju, son||Kochi: With discussions being held for finalizing the candidates of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) for the assembly polls, there is strong dissent from within the party against fielding senior leader and sitting MLA V K Ebrahim Kunju from Kalamassery constituency. The district and Kalamassery constituency leaderships on Sunday met the state leadership in Malappuram and opposed the plans of fielding Kunju or his son Abdul Gafoor from Kalamassery. The local leaders informed the state leadership that they would accept any leaders even from outside the district as candidates but giving another chance to Kunju, whose embroilment in Palarivattom flyover scam has affected the party’s reputation, would reduce winnability of the UDF. It is learnt that the local leaders have pushed for fielding someone with a clean political image in Kalamassery this time as CPM has announced its state secretariat member P Rajeev as the candidate in the constituency. They said Kunju or his son Gafoor, whom Kunju wants to be fielded if the party denies his claim to the seat, has a very low probability of winning. “The corruption allegations against Kunju are widely used by the LDF as a campaign tool and if they are allowed to contest, it will have an impact across the state. Many UDF leaders have already advised against fielding Kunju,” said a local IUML leader. However, the state leadership of IUML has not commented on the dissenting opinions but said that all issues raised by the district leaders will be discussed and addressed. IUML is yet to finalize its candidates and is expected to announce it this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/local-leaders-not-in-favour-of-fielding-kunju-son/articleshow/81381438.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Coimbatore||On a mission to popularise Bharatanatyam||Salem: There is an incredible relation between Bharatanatyam, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and drawing skills, says Ammapet-based Bharatanatyam dancer Aparna Ramesh, who recently bagged the Kalaimamani award conferred by the government of Tamil Nadu.“Only those who excel in these subjects can master this dance form,” Aparna, who received the prestigious award from chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in Chennai last month, told TOI. “The award shines bright like a diamond.”Aparna started learning Bharatanatyam when she was seven years old. She received basic training from renowned musician and dance maestro Savitri, a disciple of Needamangalam Krishnamurthy. She later trained under Saraswathi Sundaresan in Chennai at Vipanchee, founded by Padma Vibhushan winner Balamuralikrishna. She has a double masters degree in music and Bharatanatyam from the University of Madras. She has over 2,000 stage performances in India, Japan, the US, Gulf and Sri Lanka to her credit. A passion for classic Tamil literature helped her compose and choreograph Tirukkural, Natrinai, Kurunthogai and Kutrala Kuravanji, Aparna said. “I also compose and choreographed bhakthi literature such as Thiruppugazh, Tevaram and pasurams. I can sing and perform Nattuvangam. I created a dance ballet in Tamil featuring Ramayana, Bandasura Vadham and Thrisakthi.”Teaching and sharing the art is as significant as her performing career, she said. Her inclination towards culture, arts and bhakthi sets her apart as a teacher of Bharatanatyam, vocal music, slokas and hymns and inculcates the rich heritage of Indian culture and value-based learning, thus ensuring continuity of the arts in the hands of the future generation. “I want to take all these to the all levels of people, irrespective of caste and religion.”Aparna is running ‘Jathiswaram’, a centre for art and culture, in Salem city. “I have students from rich and poor families as I want to be an example for everyone,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/on-a-mission-to-popularise-bharatanatyam/articleshow/81382299.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||Drug money: Rs 61 lakh seized from north Kolkata||KOLKATA: Five days after the Special Task Force (STF) of the Kolkata Police arrested a East Burdwan resident and seized over 5 kg heroin worth Rs 25.1 crore in the international market, it has seized cash worth Rs 61 lakh that was used to procure drugs through hawala channels. “We have questioned the accused Sunul Howlader and he led us to the office of a trader at Jorasanko from where we seized the huge amount of unaccounted cash. Howlader has accepted that this money was deposited by him in the recent past at Khan’s office as payment of the narcotic drug that he peddled,” said DC (STF) Aparajita Rai. The cops are ascertaining if the unaccounted cash was to be used for electoral purposes. “The trader is not directly related to the drug case. Hawala or money laundering is not something that we can investigate on our own. We have reported about the trader to all concerned departments, including the Income Tax department,” said DC Rai. While the link between hawala money and drug chains are common, it is not always that cops carry out such seizures. The fresh seizures by the STF has now led to cops recovering as much as Rs 1.31 crores of unaccounted money from central Kolkata in the run up to the assembly polls. So far, seven persons have been arrested with the unaccounted money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drug-money-rs-61l-seized-from-n-kol/articleshow/81381457.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Two bronze idols seized||Tirupur: Police seized two bronze idols that were being taken in a car from Tirupur to Bengaluru without valid documents on Saturday night.Two men travelling in the car said that they had brought the idols to Tirupur for polishing and were taking them back to Bengaluru for selling. However, police are investigating the incident as they did not produce documents supporting their claim.A flying squad that was conducting vehicle check at Mannarai Kulathupalayam, in the Tirupur north assembly segment, had intercepted the car bearing Bengaluru registration number.The officials found two idols made of bronze, a pedestal and some embellishments meant to be installed along with the idols. Car driver Rashool Ahmed and another man identified as Ramesh gave contradictory information about the idols. The flying squad seized the idols and car. The duo was taken to the Tirupur north police station, where policemen interrogated them.The men told police that they were involved in furniture and artefact business at Jalahalli in Bengaluru and had come to Tirupur to deliver an order to a client.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-bronze-idols-seized/articleshow/81382301.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Back on tractors, women to lead farmers’ stir today||GURUGRAM: Women camping at protest sites are set to celebrate International Women’s Day by leading the agitation in districts like Jind, Karnal and Nuh. From addressing gatherings to taking out tractors, women will be out on the streets to mark March 8 as Mahila Kisan Divas. Farmers have also decided to resume their door-to-door campaign and khaps are trying to ensure that more women take part in the agitation. From Tuesday, women will visit villages in Palwal, Jhajjar and Sonipat and garner support for the agitation. At most major protest sites across the state, a resolution has been passed to ensure maximum participation of women on Monday. Panchayats have declared that men would take a back seat and only women will lead the agitation. In Jind, khaps have urged women farmer leaders to hold meetings and mobilise local residents. “Women have been participating in huge numbers. They are rallying behind us and standing by our side. Now, it is time for them to take the lead and ask us to follow them. Hundreds of women will take out tractors and reach Khatkar toll plaza on Monday. A few others will head towards Tikri border to join the agitators there,” said Virendra Singh Sindhu, a local farmer leader. Women leaders said they have chalked out a detailed plan. “We will organise cultural programmes and for that school girls and elderly women have been preparing for the past few days. Women will display their strength and take the protest forward,” said Shikhim, the district head of the women’s unit of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). In Nuh, farmer leaders and former councillors are mobilising women. “There is growing support for the protest,” said Mohammadi, a women rights activist from Ferozpur Jhirkha. On Saturday, BKU state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni held a meeting with farmer leaders in Rohtak and it was decided that the protest would intensify and other issues, like fuel price hike, would also be taken up. He added that more women should take part in the protest. From Tuesday, women from Jhajjar, Palwal, Sonipat and Rohtak will start visiting villages to seek support for the protest. Mahender Chauhan, a farmer leader from Palwal, said: “We will go to each and every household and organise meetings to make people aware of the farm laws. Since the talks are not yielding results, it is clear that the farmers will have to remain at the protest sites for a long time. So, it is important to strengthen the agitation.” Anita Gulia, a woman camping at Dhansa border, said: “We will start in the morning and return in the evening. The farmers don’t get their dues anyway and now, the government has forced these laws on us. History says women have managed to push many movements. We will do the same.” Meanwhile, farmers in Nuh have said they will observe “Sahadat Diwas” on former ruler Hasan Khan Mewati’s death anniversary on March 15 and hold a mahapanchayat at Sunehra Jurhera border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/back-on-tractors-women-to-lead-farmers-stir-today/articleshow/81382308.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
March 8, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan will receive 98,000 Covaxin doses to meet shortage||JAIPUR: The state will receive 98,000 doses of Covaxin from the Centre as some of the districts are now running out of vaccines. The state government had informed the ministry of health and Niti Aayog regarding the urgent need for vaccines. Acting on it, the Centre agreed to supply 98,000 Covaxin doses for providing urgent relief. Currently, Nagaur, Bundi and Karauli are facing shortage of doses. “We needed urgent doses of vaccines to keep the vaccination drive moving,” said a health department official. The vaccines will be supplied to the centres where there is a need. “After we receive the supply on Monday, we will be able to run the vaccination drive till Tuesday. After that we require more doses. The Centre will send more than 6lakh doses of Covishield on March 9 and March 10,” said the official. The state on Sunday reported 4,806 vaccinations including 4,400 first dose and 406 second dose. Among them, 3,500 doses were meant for senior citizens and 779 were meant for people aged 45 years with co-morbidities, while rest were for healthcare and frontline workers. The overall tally increased marginally and rose to 21,36,249. Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department said, “The preparations of organising a camp at Vidhan Sabha for vaccination of MLAs have been completed and it will be done on Monday.” In just seven days of vaccination of above 60 years, the enthusiasm among such beneficiaries was seen at vaccination centres as they turned out in good numbers. In all, 8,95,154 above 60 years of age got vaccinated in the past seven days, while 75,651 above 45years with specified co-morbid conditions got the jab in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-will-receive-98000-covaxin-doses-to-meet-shortage/articleshow/81381444.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Varsity sets up incubation centre to promote start-ups||Nagpur: To encourage and mentor innovative start-ups, Nagpur University has set up an incubation centre at its premises at Maharaj Bagh Square.Brainchild of vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhari, the centre would help NU students from Vidarbha to set up their enterprise.“Aspirants can approach us with their ideas for start-ups. We will help them with guidance and infrastructure to carry forward their ideas and turn them into a reality,” an elated VC told TOI.Set up at NU’s academic section in one of its old buildings, the state-of-the-art centre would be looked after by the newly appointed chief operating officer (COO) Pratap Shukla. A team of experts will work under Shukla to assist students.“We’re basically targeting students who have a background in science and technology. They must have novel ideas as well. Besides training and guidance, we will also lend financial support,” added Chaudhari.The university had inked a pact with the Maharashtra State Innovation Society (MSIC) for providing financial support to start-up aspirants. Accordingly, the centre would get Rs 5 crore as seed money to promote start-ups.“We will also try to connect the youths at our centre with local industries so that they can learn and implement new concepts in their ventures. We will continue our support to the aspirants till their start-ups take off and attains sustainability,” the VC said, adding, tie ups with industries are also in the pipeline.Aspirants need to get registered after the incubation centre gets started. After that, they have to explain their ideas and concepts of their proposed start-ups to officials. In the third stage, they would be guided and mentored by experts from various fields. “We’ve appointed eight colleges as sub-centres, which would provide similar facilities to students like the ones at the incubation centre. In the city, three engineering colleges will cater to the needs of the aspirants as they’re well equipped with all the facilities,” said Chaudhari. HOW THE INCUBATION CENTRE WILL WORK* Aspirants need to register with their ideas* They will be guided to carry forward their works* They will be mentored by a team of experts* Financial assistance would be provided* Initially, they can use the centre’s infrastructureSOME SUB CENTRES * Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Management* JD College of Engineering* Bapurao Deshmukh College of Engineering (Wardha)* Sindhu College and some others||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/varsity-sets-up-incubation-centre-to-promote-start-ups/articleshow/81381464.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 8, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan will receive 98,000 Covaxin doses to meet shortage||JAIPUR: The state will receive 98,000 doses of Covaxin from the Centre as some of the districts are now running out of vaccines. The state government had informed the ministry of health and Niti Aayog regarding the urgent need for vaccines. Acting on it, the Centre agreed to supply 98,000 Covaxin doses for providing urgent relief. Currently, Nagaur, Bundi and Karauli are facing shortage of doses. “We needed urgent doses of vaccines to keep the vaccination drive moving,” said a health department official. The vaccines will be supplied to the centres where there is a need. “After we receive the supply on Monday, we will be able to run the vaccination drive till Tuesday. After that we require more doses. The Centre will send more than 6lakh doses of Covishield on March 9 and March 10,” said the official. The state on Sunday reported 4,806 vaccinations including 4,400 first dose and 406 second dose. Among them, 3,500 doses were meant for senior citizens and 779 were meant for people aged 45 years with co-morbidities, while rest were for healthcare and frontline workers. The overall tally increased marginally and rose to 21,36,249. Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department said, “The preparations of organising a camp at Vidhan Sabha for vaccination of MLAs have been completed and it will be done on Monday.” In just seven days of vaccination of above 60 years, the enthusiasm among such beneficiaries was seen at vaccination centres as they turned out in good numbers. In all, 8,95,154 above 60 years of age got vaccinated in the past seven days, while 75,651 above 45years with specified co-morbid conditions got the jab in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-will-receive-98000-covaxin-doses-to-meet-shortage/articleshow/81384965.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||No salary after December, say teachers of 12 Delhi University colleges||NEW DELHI: Teachers of 12 DU colleges funded by Delhi government on Sunday alleged that they had not received their salaries after December. The senior teachers of the 12 colleges held a press conference and demanded that the government release funds without delay. “These colleges get grants from Delhi government. It is unfortunate that these colleges have not received any money after December,” said Subodh Kumar, president of staff association of Maharaja Agrasen College. Delhi government officials didn’t respond to calls or messages over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-salary-after-dec-say-teachers-of-12-du-colleges/articleshow/81382305.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Many unable to download vaccination certificate||PUNE: It has been days since their first shots, but several citizens are yet to get their digital vaccine certificates, which has key details such as name of the vaccine, batch number of the shot and date for the second dose. The certificate is available via the Aarogya Setu app and the registration portal, www.cowin.gov.in. But recipient Ashok Jaswal (66) said, “My wife and I got our shots on March 2. I didn’t get the post-jab SMS that has the link to the cowin.gov.in self-registration page, from where one can download the certificate.” Jaswal said he’s been facing problems with the Aarogya Setu app too. “On the app, I see my 13-digit CoWIN registration ID instead of the beneficiary ID, which is 14-digit. We need the 14-digit ID to get the certificate from the app,” he said. Chirag Baxi (54), who got his first dose on March 5, said, “On Aarogya Setu, after I punch in my beneficiary ID, I get an error saying ‘invalid beneficiary ID’ though it is the same ID which I have under my account on the app. Also, when I click on the post-vaccination SMS link, I’m led to the CoWin self-registration vaccination certificate page. But there too, I cannot see this document.” Sandeep Iyer, who took his parents for shots on March 3, said site officials told them to come on Monday to get the certificates. “But I’m not sure if we’ll get it on Monday. We have not receive the post-vaccination SMS,” Iyer said. District immunization officer Dr Sachin Edake said, “It’s likely that beneficiaries are not familiar with the new system. Beneficiaries have to go to selfregistration.cowin.gov.in, enter mobile number and click on ‘GET OTP’. They will then see the list of individuals registered under the mobile number. They must then click on the download tab in ‘Actions’ to download vaccination certificate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-unable-to-download-vaccination-certificate/articleshow/81382303.cms||Neha Madaan
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Meghaninagar man forces wife to abort five times in five years||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old woman from the Meghaninagar area of city on Sunday filed a complaint with police alleging that she was forced to consume some pills by her husband to abort fetus due to which she suffered miscarriages five times in around five years. The case came to fore after the victim Nanda Chauhan, who married a furniture dealer Dharmesh Chauhan in February 2014, was admitted to Civil hospital in Asarwa after she went unconscious following the fifth abortion on Friday night. In her FIR with Meghaninagar police, Nanda said that two years after their marriage, she gave birth to a girl child in September 2016. In 2017, she again got pregnant, but her husband did not want the second child, so he forced her to abort the child during the seventh week of her pregnancy. Later, she was forced to abort three times between 2018 and 2020. On Wednesday, her husband allegedly demanded Rs 40 lakh from her parents as he suffered loss in business. “As he asked me to bring the money from my father’s place, I refused to bring any money from my father’s place. This agitated him and he flogged me all over my body with a belt,” Nanda said in the FIR. When he was beating her, her in-laws abetted him to thrash her so badly that she dies. She stated in the FIR that she told her husband not to beat her as she was pregnant. Having heard that, he went from there. But on Friday, he and other in-laws came there and this time Dharmesh was holding the same pills which he forced her to consume earlier after which she suffered miscarriages. “Before I could ask them anything, they held me forcibly, thrashed me badly and my husband forced me to consume those pills again. After that, I started bleeding severely and went unconscious,” she said. But as she had sent a message to her brother before losing consciousness, her brother reached her house and took her to hospital. She had then filed a complaint of causing hurt, forcing abortion and under the charges of domestic violence act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/meghaninagar-man-forces-wife-to-abort-five-times-in-five-years/articleshow/81381469.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan will receive 98,000 Covaxin doses to meet shortage||JAIPUR: The state will receive 98,000 doses of Covaxin from the Centre as some of the districts are now running out of vaccines. The state government had informed the ministry of health and Niti Aayog regarding the urgent need for vaccines. Acting on it, the Centre agreed to supply 98,000 Covaxin doses for providing urgent relief. Currently, Nagaur, Bundi and Karauli are facing shortage of doses. “We needed urgent doses of vaccines to keep the vaccination drive moving,” said a health department official. The vaccines will be supplied to the centres where there is a need. “After we receive the supply on Monday, we will be able to run the vaccination drive till Tuesday. After that we require more doses. The Centre will send more than 6lakh doses of Covishield on March 9 and March 10,” said the official. The state on Sunday reported 4,806 vaccinations including 4,400 first dose and 406 second dose. Among them, 3,500 doses were meant for senior citizens and 779 were meant for people aged 45 years with co-morbidities, while rest were for healthcare and frontline workers. The overall tally increased marginally and rose to 21,36,249. Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department said, “The preparations of organising a camp at Vidhan Sabha for vaccination of MLAs have been completed and it will be done on Monday.” In just seven days of vaccination of above 60 years, the enthusiasm among such beneficiaries was seen at vaccination centres as they turned out in good numbers. In all, 8,95,154 above 60 years of age got vaccinated in the past seven days, while 75,651 above 45years with specified co-morbid conditions got the jab in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-will-receive-98000-covaxin-doses-to-meet-shortage/articleshow/81384967.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Kochi||Ettumanoor: Lathika miffed at seat denial||Kottayam: The decision by the UDF to hand over Ettumanoor seat to Kerala Congress (M) faction led by P J Joseph has come as a shocker to Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash who had already begun preparations for contesting from the constituency. Sources said Lathika was assured the seat once the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K Mani left UDF. Thomas Chazhikadan of the Jose group contested the elections from Ettumanoor six times from 1991. He won four times while Suresh Kurup of CPM won the seat in 2011 and 2016 Congress was forced to drop Lathika’s name at the last moment for unknown reasons, sources said. The party leadership did not want to create an unwanted controversy by awarding the seat to another Congress leader and instead allotted it to the KC (M) faction. Meanwhile, protests have been intensifying in the Congress against the decision. Youth Congress had taken out a march to the DCC office. An emotional Lathika on Sunday said she did not want to contest from any other constituency. “Ettumanur is the place where I was born and grew up,” she said. She also said that she was expecting that she will be allowed to contest from the constituency and her name had figured in the candidate list. To defuse the internal spat within the party, senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy has urged the leaders to abstain from making any controversial statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ettumanoor-lathika-miffed-at-seat-denial/articleshow/81381474.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan will receive 98,000 Covaxin doses to meet shortage||JAIPUR: The state will receive 98,000 doses of Covaxin from the Centre as some of the districts are now running out of vaccines. The state government had informed the ministry of health and Niti Aayog regarding the urgent need for vaccines. Acting on it, the Centre agreed to supply 98,000 Covaxin doses for providing urgent relief. Currently, Nagaur, Bundi and Karauli are facing shortage of doses. “We needed urgent doses of vaccines to keep the vaccination drive moving,” said a health department official. The vaccines will be supplied to the centres where there is a need. “After we receive the supply on Monday, we will be able to run the vaccination drive till Tuesday. After that we require more doses. The Centre will send more than 6lakh doses of Covishield on March 9 and March 10,” said the official. The state on Sunday reported 4,806 vaccinations including 4,400 first dose and 406 second dose. Among them, 3,500 doses were meant for senior citizens and 779 were meant for people aged 45 years with co-morbidities, while rest were for healthcare and frontline workers. The overall tally increased marginally and rose to 21,36,249. Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department said, “The preparations of organising a camp at Vidhan Sabha for vaccination of MLAs have been completed and it will be done on Monday.” In just seven days of vaccination of above 60 years, the enthusiasm among such beneficiaries was seen at vaccination centres as they turned out in good numbers. In all, 8,95,154 above 60 years of age got vaccinated in the past seven days, while 75,651 above 45years with specified co-morbid conditions got the jab in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-will-receive-98000-covaxin-doses-to-meet-shortage/articleshow/81384966.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Half-measures take toll on bus revenue||NEW DELHI: From nearly 49 lakh passengers a day before the national lockdown, the combined ridership of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster scheme buses has come down to 27.5 lakh passengers per day due to Covid-19 safety protocol that doesn’t allow standing passengers. The transport department had pinned hopes on Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) easing restrictions ,but with the number of daily Covid-19 cases slowly rising again, that seems unlikely soon. The first Covid-19 case in Delhi was detected on March 3, 2020 and till February last year, total 48.9 lakh passengers used to travel by public transport buses in the city, which included the more than 32 lakh passengers a day ferried by DTC buses and 16.8 lakh passengers who travelled by the cluster scheme buses operated by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System. According to sources, after travel in public transport buses was allowed with a cap of 20 passengers per bus, the ridership was around 13 lakh, but with the DDMA approving Delhi government’s proposal to allow buses to run with full seating capacity in October, the ridership increased. By allowing buses to operate at full seating capacity but no standing passengers, the number of passengers that can travel by an AC bus went up to 35 and for non-AC buses, the fleet size of which is much higher, it went up to 41 passengers. In January 2021, the average daily ridership in buses stood at 27.6 lakh with a total 16.3 lakh passengers traveling by DTC buses and 11.3 lakh by cluster scheme buses. The transport department now wants standing passengers to be allowed in buses so that the 2,990 cluster scheme buses and the 3,760 buses in the DTC fleet can ferry more passengers. The corporation had sent a proposal to DDMA to allow standing passengers in public transport buses, but no decision on relaxations was taken in the authority’s meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/half-measures-take-toll-on-bus-revenue/articleshow/81382326.cms||Sidharatha Roy
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||Two arrested for labourer’s death at Nayabad||Kolkata: The Panchasayar police has arrested a promoter, hours after a labourer, Biswanath Bagh (31), died after falling from the third floor of an under-construction structure and was impaled on the iron gate of the adjoining building.  The cops said the accused have been identified as Anirudddha Mukherjee (59) and Goutam Dey (59). Both were released on bail as they were charged under the negligence act. Cops said they are ascertaining the movement of a third accused, identified as labour contractor Paritosh Mondal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-arrested-for-labourers-death-at-nayabad/articleshow/81381475.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Motorcycle riders fall into pit, 1 dead||Ahmedabad: A 32-year-old man from the Meghaninagar area of city died after he along with two others who were riding on a motorcycle fell into a pit near Kotarpur turning, after hitting a tree during the wee hours on Saturday. According to an FIR filed with G division traffic police, Dilip Yadav, 20, resident of Kubernagar, his friend Arjunsingh Chauhan, 30, who stays in Meghaninagar, and deceased Ranjitsingh Bhadauria, 32 who was also a resident of Meghaninagar, were travelling from Bhat village to their residences when the accident took place. They were going to their homes after completing their shifts as security guards at a dairy in Bhat village of Gandhinagar. “Bhadauria was driving the motorcycle and we two were sitting pillion when he picked up speed and hit a tree near Kotarpur turning. Due to its impact, we fell into a pit on roadside which was there because some pipelines being laid,” Yadav said in his FIR. The incident took place at around 4am on Saturday. As all three were severely injured, they could not come out of the pit on their own. At around 6am, when they saw some man moving in the area, Yadav started screaming for help and some passersby helped them by calling an ambulance. When they were taken out of the pit, Bhadauria was unconscious and the other two were also unable to move. An 108 service ambulance reached there but Bhadauria had died by then, and the other two were taken to Civil Hospital in Asarwa. Later, G division traffic police registered a case of negligent driving causing death and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/motorcycle-riders-fall-into-pit-1-dead/articleshow/81381477.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Delhi||At 18.9C, city’s highest minimum temp of 2021||New Delhi: Delhi recorded the highest minimum temperature of the year at 18.9 degrees Celsius, five degrees above normal, on Monday at Safdarjung, the city’s base station. The maximum temperature was 32.2 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. However, as two western disturbances are likely to impact the plains this week, the temperatures may not rise much this week, Met officials said. Some stations recorded even a higher minimum temperature than Safdarjung. At 22.5 degrees Celsius, Najafgarh reported the warmest night while the minimum temperature rose to 21.8 at Pusa, 21.7 at Pitampura, 21.6 at Sports Complex, 20.8 at SPS Mayur Vihar and 20.1 at Palam. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “A fresh western disturbance will impact the plains on Tuesday while another is expected on March 12. Due to the western disturbances, there will be cloud formation and there are chances of only slight variation in temperatures.” According to IMD, the maximum and minimum temperatures will remain around 32 and 17 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Tuesday. Met officials said the maximum temperature was to hover around 32 degrees Celsius for the next five days. The mercury may start soaring from March 14. The air quality of Delhi remained in “poor” category with an overall air quality index of 207.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-18-9c-citys-highest-minimum-temp-of-2021/articleshow/81400634.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Rocking social media with desi spices||Around two years ago when Seepaani Santhamma’s husband died, she slipped into depression. That’s when a relative suggested she make videos of her mouthwatering recipes. So, in the middle of the pandemic last year Santhamma, (54), took the plunge, started a YouTube channel -- ‘Srikakulam Palle Ruchulu’ -- with the help of her daughter. Today, her channel has over 1.28 lakh subscribers and in addition to traditional recipes of the Srikakulam region, she shares instant recipes for bachelors and health tips too. “When I started, I didn’t know I could earn money with this…I was surprised that I made about Rs 50,000 the month I came up with the video on fish curry and allam (ginger) barfi. Today, I use this income to help others, especially to feed the poor…But it is not money I am interested in. It is the love and appreciation I receive from people that makes me happy,” she says. Like Santhamma, there are many middle-aged and elderly women across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, who are discovering the power of social media and, in the process, not just gaining admirers across the globe but also supplementing family incomes. Milkuri Gangavva, from Lambadipally, is one among them. Her journey to being a YouTube sensation started with a guest appearance on her relative’s ‘My Village Show’. But it hasn’t been easy for this grandmother of eight. Her husband was a drunkard and after he passed away in 2013, she started farming in nearby lands. “I want women to be brave and not worry about anything,” she says. Like Gangavva, octogenarian Savitramma, who lives near Machilipatnam, runs a channel -- Myna’s Street Food – started by grandchildren started it in 2016. Currently, it has about 13.5 lakh subscribers. Her USP: she uses no mixer grinder or kitchen gadgets, but swears by her traditional style of cooking. “Age doesn’t matter…it is important to work hard and you will definitely get success,” says Savitramma, who still works in the farm at this age. High on popularity The growth in consumption of content in native languages, including Telugu, has been staggering, says Satya Raghavan, director, YouTube Content Partnerships, India. “Over the past few years, we have noticed that in rural Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the maturing of village comedy content and its growing popularity year-on-year has emerged as a key trend,” he shares. According to him, breakout creators from tier 2 and 3 cities have quickly attained celebrity status, and made video creation feel more accessible to others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rocking-social-media-with-desi-spices/articleshow/81383592.cms||Swati Rathor
March 8, 2021||Pune||Domestic air travel from Pune remains steady despite curbs||Pune: The recent surge in Covid-19 cases in different states and subsequent travel restrictions has had little effect on domestic air travel from the city. As per travel agents and airlines, the domestic passenger traffic at the Pune airport has been steady over the past few days and many attribute this to passengers adapting to different states’ requirements. “I have had several enquiries and quite a few cancellations too, but domestic travel from Pune has not dipped. Rather than not travel at all, passengers have become more cautious and adapted to different travel requirements,” Nilesh Bhansali, director of Travel Agents Association of Pune, told TOI. With the rising cases in Maharashtra, many states like West Bengal, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, et al, have imposed restrictions, including a negative RT-PCR test report within 72 hours of the travel date. On an average, Pune airport sees 80 flight movements and around 9,000-10,000 passengers per day. A team of medical officials that checks arriving flyers’ test reports said incoming passenger traffic too has remained steady. “People coming to the state from Delhi, Rajasthan, Kerala, Goa and Gujarat must bear a negative report or get tested at the airport. We see that more than 90% of arriving passengers carry reports. This shows people are aware while travelling,” an official said. Santosh Gupta, owner of Shree Vinayak Holidays, said he has observed an increase in the number of Pune travellers to hitherto rarely visited destinations. “Passengers travelling to states like Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Kerala, etc, have gone up from 20% to 80%,” Gupta said. Krishna Patil, who recently returned from Goa, said, “staying locked up at home is not the answer. We need to be responsible and cautious, and follow regulations while travelling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/domestic-air-travel-from-pune-remains-steady-despite-curbs/articleshow/81382314.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 8, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay Hospital seeks BMC approval to give Covid vaccination shot till 10pm||MUMBAI: Bombay Hospital, Marine Lines, has sought BMC’s nod to carry out vaccination for extended hours. Many civic centres too have said that they could start the drive early in the day and continue till late evening. However, there’s one hitch: Co-Win doesn’t allow sessions beyond 5pm-6pm. And vaccines can’t be given on an offline mode as it will mean huge backend work, BMC officials said. Dr Gautam Bhansali of Bombay Hospital said they can vaccinate till 10pm, which could allow many to come after office hours. “The BMC chief has agreed to it in principle,” said Dr Bhansali.  Despite health minister Harsh Vardhan’s assurance last week that the government has done away with the 9am-5pm time window and that recipients can take the vaccine round the clock, the change has not been completely implemented. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the app still doesn’t allow vaccinations beyond 5pm-6pm. “Once the app shuts, we can’t check beneficiaries or administer doses. Initially, even we wanted to start vaccination in two shifts so more people could be covered, but we haven’t managed due to the app restrictions,” he said, adding that Bombay Hospital was yet to submit a written request and the Centre’s nod would be needed.  Mumbai’s 60 centres administered a record number of 37,309 vaccine doses on Saturday. Civic officials said they are trying to push it to 50,000. On Monday, number of centres is likely to be pushed to 70. “Our goal is to increase it to 100 in coming weeks. The turnout we are seeing lately is around 150%-200%. It means teams are working under enormous pressure which could be leading to burnout in vaccinators if the load is not eased,” Kakani added.  Among civic centres, BKC jumbo hospital’s vaccination centre has most footfalls at an average of 4,000 daily. People queue up from 6.30am. “If the app allows, we can start from 7am and go on till 10pm. Two shifts can double daily coverage,” said dean Dr Rajesh Dere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sobo-hospital-seeks-bmc-approval-to-give-covid-vaccination-shot-till-10pm-in-mumbai/articleshow/81383594.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||Poor security blamed for twin break-ins in land records room||Dumka: A recent burglary incident at the district record room in Dumka has exposed the poor security apparatus at the crucial establishment where land records are kept. On Thursday night, unidentified miscreants broke into the record room in the old building of the deputy commissioner’s office in the court compound. Although the authorities concerned are yet to divulge if any land documents were stolen/damaged or not, executive magistrate Vinay Manish Lakda filed an FIR in Town police station on Friday, mentioning that a vacuum cleaner was stolen. “We are investigating the matter and the night guards and other staff are being interrogated,” a police official said. Land documents pertaining to land surveys, mutation and judgements regarding land disputes, dating back to the period of erstwhile Santhal-Pargana district, are kept in the Dumka district record room. “The possibility of involvement of land mafias in the burglary to temper or steal important documents cannot be ruled out,” a local bar practitioner preferring anonymity said. This was the second breaking and entering incident in the district headquarters this year. In January, some miscreants burned records of land disputes in the old office of SDO (civil). Despite the twin incidents, no major steps have been taken to upgrade the security system. “Soon after I joined here, I wrote to my higher ups for proper security arrangements in the district record room,” Lakda said, adding, “Even the building where the record room is situated is in a dilapidated condition.” He said he has requisitioned for the renovation of the building to prevent such mishaps. A district official claimed that the record room doesn’t even have any CCTV cameras and it is only guarded by a handful of security personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/poor-security-blamed-for-twin-break-ins-in-land-records-room/articleshow/81382087.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||26 tribal girls from Khunti successfully complete US consulate general programme||Ranchi: As many as 26 girls from the tribal hamlets of Khunti formally graduated from the US Consulate General Kolkata’s English Access Microscholarship programme at a ceremony held in Khunti’s Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya on Saturday. The English Access Microscholarship programme, funded by the regional English language office of the US Embassy in New Delhi and the US Consulate General Kolkata, is a two-year programme aimed at providing a foundation of English language skills to bright, economically disadvantaged children and youth from 13-20 years through after-school instruction and intensive sessions. The programme was launched in Jharkhand in November 2018. As per the US Consul General Kolkata’s office, the programme has been extended to 1 lakh children globally since its launch in 2004. At present, there are 1,800 children enrolled in the programme nationally. Upon completion of the course, the trainees are eligible for various student exchange programmes. Monica Shie, the director of the American Center Kolkata, extended her best wishes to the girls. Stating that the girls will join 1 lakh students across 85 countries, Shie wished the students well. “You all are women of courage, and you have chosen to challenge limitations, challenge stereotypes, and challenge yourselves. Each of you has shown indomitable strength and resilience through the pandemic to step into leadership roles in your communities, and to commit to a better future for yourselves and your families,” she said in a video message. Aloka Kumari, one of the students, said: “I aspire to be a teacher and aim to open a free school so that no child remains uneducated due to poverty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/26-tribal-girls-from-khunti-successfully-complete-us-consulate-general-programme/articleshow/81382113.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||Baghmundi victory guaranteed: Ajsu-P||Ranchi: The BJP has left the Baghmundi assembly seat in Purulia district for its ally Ajsu Party in the forthcoming Bengal polls. The announcement came when the saffron party declared its first list of candidates for the neighbouring state on Saturday. Speaking to TOI on Sunday, the central spokesperson of the Ajsu Party, Deosharan Bhagat, said: “Baghmundi was one of the seats we were keen to contest. It is flanked by three Jharkhand assembly segments — Jugsalai, Silli and Ichagarh — where Ajsu Party has a considerable presence. We are more than sure of winning this seat.” “With the BJP national leadership announcing to give the seat to us, it is now clear that Ajsu Party is no longer an insignificant player. We are now set to contest the polls in Bengal with more vigour,” he added. The party, however, remained tight-lipped on the total number of seats that it is eyeing to contest in Bengal. Bhagat said, “We aren’t trying to contest many seats but the focus is to win the limited amount of seats we decide to throw our weight behind.” Sources in the BJP said that Ajsu Party may get a handful of more seats to contest in Bengal under a seat-sharing pact, but that decision will be taken by the central leadership of the saffron party. Assembly election in Bengal will be conducted in eight phases, with the first phase comprising 30 seats going to the polls on March 27. Asked about the issues Ajsu Party will focus on in Bengal, Bhagat said, “An autonomous council in the Jangalmahal region will be our major poll plank.” Notably, the party has already held several pre-poll rallies in Bengal since January to assess the ground situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/baghmundi-victory-guaranteed-ajsu-p/articleshow/81381587.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||Over 1k barred from contesting polls for 3 years||Garhwa: As many as 1,676 contestants of the three-tier panchayat elections, including mukhiyas, ward councillors and others of Garhwa district, have been debarred from elections for three years as they did not submit their expenditure account of the 2015 panchayat election despite repeated notices sent to them by the district panchayati raj department. District panchayati raj officer (DPRO) Chandrajeet Singh said, “Of the total 2,667 contestants, only 991 had submitted their expenditure accounts while the rest ignored the notices.” Sources said 23 constants have been debarred in Kharondhi block of the district, 192 in Bhawnathpur, 27 in Majhiaon, 272 in Ramna, 81 in Sagma, 101 in Dhurki, 154 in Dandai, 138 in Chinia, 218 in Meral, 287 in Garhwa, 29 in Danda, 29 in Ranka, 9 in Ramkanda, 93 in Bhandaria, 21 in Bargarh and one each in Kandi and Bardiha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/over-1k-barred-from-contesting-polls-for-3-years/articleshow/81381670.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||42 cases, 38 cured, 2 deaths in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Sunday recorded 42 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 38 recoveries while the number of active cases were 463. As many as 2 persons succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 1,093. Meanwhile, a total of 6,547 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Sunday, including 3,780, who received their first dosage and 2,767, who received their second dose. Health workers, frontline staff, senior citizens and those aged 45 and above with co-morbidities were among those who received their first shot. As per health department data, as of Sunday 35,41,00 people have been administered their first dose while 67,390 have been administered the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/42-cases-38-cured-2-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81381553.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Rajkot||Rs 2cr siphoned off in name of farmers’ loan||Rajkot: Two employees of Gujarat State Co-Operative Agriculture and Rural Development Bank Ltd (Kheti Bank) were booked after the bank discovered that the duo had siphoned off Rs 2.04 crore bank’s money in the past few years. According to Jamnagar police, a complaint in this regard was lodged by bank’s manager (Jamnagar unit) Viramji Thakore against the two employees, Deepakram Bhatt and Sahendrasinh Zala. Cops registered an offence and booked them under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 406 (criminal breach of trust), 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 465 (forgery) and 466 (forgery of record of Court or of public register) among others. “Bhatt and Zala made false entries into the bank’s account book of credit to farmers and also payment of loans to the farmers without actual monetary transaction. The duo would fraudulently withdraw the money later. Employing this modus operandi, the duo amassed Rs 2.04 crore from the bank between 2014 and 2020. After it came to the knowledge of the bank officials, they investigated the case and later lodged a criminal case against the duo,” police said. Kheti bank is an apex institution in the co-operative sector in the state for providing investment finance for development of agriculture and allied activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-2cr-siphoned-off-in-name-of-farmers-loan/articleshow/81380821.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||FIR filed against squatters residing near Bokaro airport||Bokaro: Chas SDO Shashi Prakash Singh on Saturday ordered an FIR against squatters living near Bokaro airport for creating nuisance for workers engaged in the drome’s expansion work. This comes after the Airports Authority of India (AAI), in its complaint to the district administration, said that the squatters are regularly throwing plastic bags filled with excreta at the workers. “An FIR has been lodged based on the complaint by AAI senior manager Priyanka Sharma and we have intensified patrolling near the construction site of the boundary wall. We are trying to identify the miscreants involved in such activities,” officer in-charge of Sector-12 police station Ujjawal Sah said. A labourer said, “We regularly put mud on the excreta to stop the bad smell. Sometimes the squatters even pelt stones at us.” For decades, these squatters have been living in Bokaro Steel Plant’s (BSL) land adjacent to the airport boundary in about 200 hutments. Before the airport expansion work began, the squatters used to defecate near the boundary wall construction site. They even used to leave their cattle to graze inside. AAI has also written to BSL to sort out issues related to trespassing by the locals. Meanwhile, asked about the status of the expansion work, an official said that the construction of the terminal building is done. “The boundary wall’s construction is going on in full swing,” the official added. Of the four sides of airport, the boundary wall is to be constructed on one side while the rest of the area has already secured. The expansion of the airport is being carried on under Phase-II of the Regional Connectivity Scheme (UDAN)-2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fir-filed-against-squatters-residing-near-bokaro-airport/articleshow/81381619.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||ESL ‘faults’ in acquiring land highlighted in public hearing||Bokaro: BJP’s Chandankyari MLA Amar Kumar Bauri on Sunday organised a public hearing in Hazra More in Alkusha in Chas block to seek people’s views on the expansion plans of Vedanta ESL Steel Limited’s plant. “I organised the hearing to highlight the ESL management’s wrongdoings in acquiring land for its expansion, the rising level of pollution and unemployment.” ESL is planning expand its existing 1.5MTPA steel plant to 3MTPA at Siyaljori under Chandankyari block. On December 16, ESL organised a public hearing to get environmental clearances for its expansion plan. Bauri claimed that the company had not invited him for the hearing despite he being a local MLA. As a result, he had announced to hold his own public hearing (open Lokjansunvai) where people can express their genuine concerns about the project. At Sunday’s hearing, which saw a huge participation, Bauri asked the ESL management to stop making fake promises to the people. He demanded that the locals be provided 75% employment in the plant and reduce air and water pollution levels. “Laws are made in the Constitution for protecting the citizens and it is violated, then people will revolt. The earlier public hearings organised by ESL in its premises were fake. The huge gathering here today is proof that the residents were opposed to the company-sponsored public hearing,” Bauri said. He displayed the report sent by the company to seek environment clearances based on December 16 hearing and said that “the report is a bundle of lies”. He added that the people are not opposing the expansion plan but are opposing any attempts made by the company to cheat them. “No wrongdoing will be tolerated,” he said. Upon contact, ESL spokesperson Shilpi Shukla did not wish to comment on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/esl-faults-in-acquiring-land-highlighted-in-public-hearing/articleshow/81381630.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 8, 2021||Faridabad||Four-lane flyover on Gurugram-Faridabad road to open March-end||GURUGRAM: An 800-metre-long four-lane flyover near Bandhwari village will soon become operational and likely ease traffic woes on the Gurugram-Faridabad road. The newly constructed flyover will likely be open to the public by the end of this month. The construction work on the road is complete and the public works department (PWD) has started a trial run to check the safety standards. The Gurugram-Faridabad road has several blind spots and sharp turns. A comprehensive mobility plan released by the Gurugram Metropolitan Authority (GMDA) earlier this year stated that the road is among the city’s accident-prone areas. The other areas included Pataudi Road, Sohna Road, NH-8 and Golf Course Road. On all these roads, pedestrians also face a challenge while crossing the highway. Intending to curb the number of accidents on the stretch, the PWD had started work on the flyover in August 2019. The project was supposed to be completed by July 2020, but in 2019 winters, work stopped due to a ban imposed on construction by the pollution control board. Further, the Covid-induced lockdown didn’t help matters. The department then missed the deadline and the authority extended the deadline till March 2021. Now, the construction work is complete but streetlight installations at the flyover are yet to be done. The PWD officials said that the streetlights should be functional before operations start. According to a senior official of PWD, the road has been a witness to several accidents as it developed as a black spot due to a sharp-turn on the entry road for Bandhwari. Due to the traffic slope from Faridabad-side, the vehicles come down at a very high speed, often leading to accidents. As a result, the residents of Bandhwari had urged the authorities to develop a flyover to get rid of the accident-prone area. The official added, “The construction work of the flyover has been completed and we have been working on the service lane. When the service lane will be done, we will formally inaugurate the flyover for commuters. The villagers too will get the benefit as they will be able to go to Bandhwari village using the road under the flyover. Besides, the first flyover on this road will definitely help the commuters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/4-lane-flyover-on-gurgaon-faridabad-road-to-open-march-end/articleshow/81384299.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
March 8, 2021||Gurgaon||Four-lane flyover on Gurugram-Faridabad road to open March-end||GURUGRAM: An 800-metre-long four-lane flyover near Bandhwari village will soon become operational and likely ease traffic woes on the Gurugram-Faridabad road. The newly constructed flyover will likely be open to the public by the end of this month. The construction work on the road is complete and the public works department (PWD) has started a trial run to check the safety standards. The Gurugram-Faridabad road has several blind spots and sharp turns. A comprehensive mobility plan released by the Gurugram Metropolitan Authority (GMDA) earlier this year stated that the road is among the city’s accident-prone areas. The other areas included Pataudi Road, Sohna Road, NH-8 and Golf Course Road. On all these roads, pedestrians also face a challenge while crossing the highway. Intending to curb the number of accidents on the stretch, the PWD had started work on the flyover in August 2019. The project was supposed to be completed by July 2020, but in 2019 winters, work stopped due to a ban imposed on construction by the pollution control board. Further, the Covid-induced lockdown didn’t help matters. The department then missed the deadline and the authority extended the deadline till March 2021. Now, the construction work is complete but streetlight installations at the flyover are yet to be done. The PWD officials said that the streetlights should be functional before operations start. According to a senior official of PWD, the road has been a witness to several accidents as it developed as a black spot due to a sharp-turn on the entry road for Bandhwari. Due to the traffic slope from Faridabad-side, the vehicles come down at a very high speed, often leading to accidents. As a result, the residents of Bandhwari had urged the authorities to develop a flyover to get rid of the accident-prone area. The official added, “The construction work of the flyover has been completed and we have been working on the service lane. When the service lane will be done, we will formally inaugurate the flyover for commuters. The villagers too will get the benefit as they will be able to go to Bandhwari village using the road under the flyover. Besides, the first flyover on this road will definitely help the commuters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/4-lane-flyover-on-gurgaon-faridabad-road-to-open-march-end/articleshow/81382399.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
March 8, 2021||Business||Cabinet to decide on tax waiver, HQ for new DFI||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet will soon decide on offering tax waiver to the proposed development financial institution (DFI) in the initial years of its operation as well as its headquarters. The RBI is keen that the DFI is based in Mumbai as it believes that India Infrastructure Finance Company (IIFCL), which will be subsumed into it, is seen to be facing pressure from the finance ministry due to its location in the capital, sources told TOI. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the setting up of the DFI in the Budget and is expected to move the Bill to provide it legislative backing during the current session of Parliament. The Cabinet will decide on the details and the contentious issues such as a tax holiday over the next few weeks after the revenue department rejected the proposal. The DFI, government sources insisted, will not be modelled on its predecessors such as ICICI and IDBI, which were converted into banks. The new entity will focus exclusively on financing infrastructure projects. While multiple options for accessing low-cost funds, for long period, will be outlined by the government at the time the Bill is introduced in Parliament, bonds will be a key element of the strategy and it will channelise long-term investors.  With the Centre holding the entire stake in the institution, at least initially, the government is unlikely to offer it a sovereign guarantee, although the idea is to ensure that the new outfit can access funds at rates available to top-graded or AAA entities, sources said. Apart from offering services such as project appraisal and long-term finance, a key element will be to help improve the viability of the projects being financed through instruments such as credit enhancement and other tools. “Banks are not offering long-term loans and the bond market is not developed. Several countries such as Germany, South Korea and China have used the DFI route to finance long-term projects,” said a source, adding that the government has a large pipeline of infrastructure projects that need funding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cabinet-to-decide-on-tax-waiver-hq-for-new-dfi/articleshow/81384212.cms||Sidhartha
March 8, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 100-bed block at Civil Hospital to be ready in 18 months||GURUGRAM: Work on a new hospital block at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 seems to be finally gaining momentum, around five years after it was announced. The public works department (PWD) has started digging work for the new building on a vacant plot of 1.5 acres inside the hospital premises. The new five-storey block, which will have 100 beds, is likely to be completed in the next 18 months at a cost of Rs 21.5 crore. It will also have an intensive care unit (ICU), burns ward and special out-patient department (OPD), among other wards. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced a new hospital block at the 100-bedded hospital in 2015 and the project was supposed to be completed before the state government ended its five-year term in Haryana. The plan initially was to build floors of the new block above the existing hospital building, but in August 2015, an inspection revealed that the building could not bear the weight of additional floors. So, in November 2016, it was decided that the new block would be built on a vacant plot adjacent to the hospital owned by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran. It took two years, however, to finalise this. In July 2018, the director-general of health services wrote to HSVP to transfer the land to the health department. But HSVP turned down the request, stating that the ownership of the land would remain with Huda, even if the new block is built there. The current three-storey hospital started operations in 2014. It has 100 beds and caters to around 2,000 patients in the general OPD and speciality departments for ophthalmology, gynaecology, dermatology and paediatrics on a daily basis. A senior health department official said with the new block, patients will be able to get more facilities in the hospital. “It will also have better facilities. More specialities will come up with new infrastructure,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/100-bed-block-at-civil-hospital-to-be-ready-in-18-months/articleshow/81382447.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
March 8, 2021||Noida||Once an infrastructure showpiece, Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway is no one’s child now||NOIDA: Dysfunctional lights, broken barriers, and widening cracks are common sights on the high-speed carriageways of the Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway that was constructed in 2001. Over the past few years, most public facilities that had been built along the crucial link between the national capital and the city have also fallen to disuse. Twenty years on, the arterial road waits for a proper upkeep plan. But no authority is ready to take the responsibility for now. The road was inaugurated in February 2001 and since then, thousands of commuters use it every day, most of them for work. It is among the country’s first public-private-partnership projects of the scale and size. But from the time toll collection was suspended on the 9km road, following directives of the Supreme Court and the Allahabad High Court in October 2016, facilities that were once available have gradually collapsed. During a recent visit, TOI found that of the four toilets built for women, three were locked. For men, the only option is to use the mobile toilet on the Noida-Delhi carriageway.  “But it is cleaned only once in a day and remains filthy for most part of it,” said Saurabh Yadav, an advocate who practises in Delhi courts and stays in Noida, Sector 61. “People suffering from health issues like diabetes, have to be extra careful while taking the flyway,” he added. Commuters, however, tend to choose the most convenient option, which is to relieve themselves in the open after parking their vehicles on the edge of the high-speed carriageways. With no schedule or timeline for an annual maintenance exercise, the condition of the road is also worsening. Several cracks can be seen on both the Delhi and Noida-bound carriageways. Currently, work is being conducted in patches with potholes and cavities being leveled with hot mix. But that is hardly enough. “Periodic review and maintenance of high-speed corridors are extremely important to avoid accidents. Continuous vehicular movement without regular maintenance not only increases risks but will also push costs during extensive repairs,” said Dhaval Parsana, an urban planner who works with several government agencies in NCR as a private consultant. Some of the stretches are just dirty with broken barriers and leaves and branches scattered around. “What the road needs is a thorough, time-bound maintenance plan that is properly executed,” said a Noida resident who takes the road almost every day. But what is holding up such an exercise? Noida Toll Bridge Company Limited (NTBCL) says its income and funds have both dried up after the stretch was made toll free. The company has been trying to stay afloat on the basis of advertising revenues by selling hoardings and signboards along the road. With its promoter, Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited (IL&FS) facing insolvency proceedings, the records of NTBCL are also under the scanner now. The firm is facing additional burden in the form of recovery certificates issued by Noida Authority. The authority had appointed IL&FS and NTBCL to execute and implement the road plan in December 1998. Although NTBCL kept collecting toll and generating revenues through advertising, from 2010, the equation changed. Noida Authority framed an outdoor advertising policy and demanded basic charges from the toll company since the land on which the flyway was built belonged to the authority, along with the kiosks and hoardings. According to some officials in the authority, the company owes them about Rs 8.5 crore. “Two recovery certificates have been issued. The company and authority are both waiting for a decision on the arbitration appeal (over change in law of the original concession agreement) that is pending before the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, the authority’s chief legal advisor is also looking into the moratorium on all creditors ordered by NCLAT who have to recover money from IL&FS and its subsidiaries to decide on the next course of action,” said officer on special duty, Indu Prakash Singh, who is in-charge of advertising division. The firm did not respond to queries. Although Noida Authority has been raising a demand to get advertising revenues, it has no plans to maintain the carriageways. The chief general manager of the authority, Rajiv Tyagi, said: “The road has to be maintained by the company and we have been forwarding concerns of commuters and residents to it.” Another official said that with Noida Authority’s coffers running dry, it won’t be able to take up repairs and maintenance work. “The company has also told its shareholders in its filings that it is fulfilling its obligations and maintaining the project assets. There is no need for the Noida Authority to enter the picture,” added the senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/once-an-infrastructure-showpiece-dnd-flyway-is-no-ones-child-now/articleshow/81383601.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Ghaziabad||Scolded in class, Ghaziabad student opens fire at teacher after school||GHAZIABAD: A Class XII student of a private school in Muradnagar shot at his commerce teacher on Saturday after being scolded for misbehaving with other students. However, CCTV footage showed the bullet missing the teacher. Police said the student and two of his friends were waiting for the teacher, Sachin Tyagi, outside the main gate of Krishna Vidya Niketan and attacked him after the classes were over. Tyagi, a resident of Saraswati Vihar in Delhi, was taking class as usual when he found the 17-year-old boy misbehaving with his classmates. He not only reprimanded him in front of others, but also asked him to leave the class. After the school gave over at 1.30pm, Tyagi was on his way home on a motorcycle when he was stopped outside the main gate. “The accused student and two of his friends were standing around 150 metres from the gate. They stopped the teacher’s bike and fired a bullet at him,” said Iraz Raja, the SP (rural). The trio fled the spot, leaving their scooter behind. “The entire episode was captured on a CCTV camera installed nearby. Interestingly, when we were scanning the footage, we realised that the bullet did not hit the teacher. There was no damage to his shirt too,” the officer said. CCTV footage shows Tyagi picking up his bike and leaving the spot soon after the students had fled. However, an hour after the attack on him, Tyagi reached the local police station and showed an injury mark on his right arm. He also lodged a complaint against the student and his friends, who are from the same school. “On the basis of his complaint, an FIR has been registered against the three students under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. Police have also seized the scooter which the students left behind. We are certain that a bullet had been fired at the teacher, but not sure if it hit him. It appears the teacher made the injury mark himself,” Raza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/scolded-in-class-boy-fires-at-teacher-after-school/articleshow/81383701.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
March 8, 2021||Business||Work from home helps married women return to work||MUMBAI: Last year, when Divya Kohad, 27, got married, she had to quit her job in Bengaluru because her husband was based in another city. Divya wanted to spend time with her in-laws before she took up another job. Post-Covid, as more options emerged on the WFH front, Divya, now based at her husband’s native place Jaipur, decided to look for a job. Although initially her “career break” posed a hurdle, she has got a job with an investment bank and is happily working from home. Divya is one of the 86% of married women surveyed who has sought a job post-Covid. This is over 40% higher as compared to pre-Covid times, says the survey of women job applicants by Avtar Group shared exclusively with TOI. WFH helps women on break: StudyThe survey was carried out by leading diversity, equity and inclusion firm Avtar Group between December 2020-February 2021, and has been shared exclusively with TOI. A majority of these women are in the age bracket of 25-35 years, where it’s a constant struggle for India Inc to fix a leaky pipeline. “Both my husband and my in-laws were motivating me to get back to work. I share the household chores with my mother-in-law, who is more than happy to adjust with my shift timings at the new job,” said Divya. An increasing number of married women applying for jobs post-Covid is a clear indication of rising career choice among female employees who find a better work-life integration with WFH. The survey points towards the changing dynamics among women, marriage and careers, given that 44% of the women job applicants were from the mid-career stage. About 20% of these were married women on career breaks. “This marks a big change. In the previous year, around the same time, the split was more skewed towards single women among job applicants,” said Saundarya Rajesh, founder of Avtar Group. Many women take career breaks due to various reasons following marriage, spousal relocation and child care. “The broad narrative among some of the women job applicants we spoke to is that post-pandemic there has been a general acceptance among women and their families on working as a large number of organisations are offering WFH options to employees. So, they feel it is going to be easier to manage their work-life integration,” said Rajesh. Sectors that are the early adopters to remote work options, such as IT/ITeS and BFSI, are the most sought-after by women applicants, the study said. “Remote/hybrid work models are being adopted across industries and they offer a lot more choice and flexibility to employees. The post-pandemic world will see an increasing trend of more women joining the workforce,” said TCS chief leadership & diversity officer Ritu Anand. With over 1,75,000 women, TCS is among the largest female employers in the country. Anand said a holistic reintegration programme that offers women who rejoin work after a break is needed. She cited ‘Ethos’, a programme at TCS, which helps create an ecosystem to “enable, engage and develop employees” who are returning after a long leave. Google India senior director (gTech), Madhuri Duggirala, said digital services is a sector most naturally conducive to working from home in a post-pandemic world. However, a second theme that Avtar picked up can be concerning. Among these women job applicants who are married, there were many who have lost their jobs during the pandemic. Many of them are concentrated in the lower order skills, which points to a possibility that they may have lost their jobs because of a skill gap. “Even though job intentionality exists, redundancy at work due to skill gaps is an issue. This is a wake-up call for women to upskill to grow in their careers. Organisations need to sensitize women professionals to invest in skilling themselves,” said Rajesh. Duggirala said the pandemic has served to sharpen the mission of the DigiPivot__a platform to build digital marketing skillsets among women. An increasing number of women are seeking opportunities to pivot to careers such as digital marketing, which are likely to function in a combination of on-site and remote work formats in the future. “This is a time when reskilling is extremely relevant, especially when the option of remote work eases one of the key frictions for women managing families, which is time spent away from home,” said Duggirala. From 2016 to 2020, companies offering remote working has risen to 85% from 60%, while those having formal programmes to recruit second career programmes also grew to 65% up from 30%. The study tracked job applications from 1,347 women professionals who enrolled for jobs across functions and roles from 11 locations in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/work-from-home-helps-married-women-return-to-work/articleshow/81384231.cms||Namrata Singh
March 8, 2021||Goa||Pvt hosps not keen on empanelling under central govt health scheme||Panaji: About 5,000 central government employees in Goa, including the retired, enrolled under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) are yet to get due benefit of the scheme even three years after it was rolled out. Except basic services, mostly consultation, beneficiaries are not able to get free medical services as no hospital or diagnostic laboratory has been empanelled under the scheme in the state. Over the past one and a half years, stakeholders have been petitioning various authorities, but no solution has been found yet. Under the scheme, a clinic – Wellness Centre – at Bambolim has been set up and a medical officer was appointed, but it offers only consultation. “In the event of hospitalisation, beneficiaries do not get any financial relief and need to bear the cost. This scheme is without any benefit,” a retired government employee said. Action Council coordinator, Goa, Dhanraj T Sugire said that in other states the scheme has been implemented in toto, and the central government employees there are able to avail all medical benefits under it, probably Goa is the only state where no private hospital has come on board. Initially, one corporate hospital did get empanelled, but it pulled out of the scheme after there was a delay in clearing its bills. Sugire said a hospital has to deposit Rs 10 lakh as bank guarantee to be eligible for empanelment, but hospitals are not willing to do it. “This rule is applicable to all empanelled hospitals and not just those in Goa. Bills pertaining to retired employees are cleared by the Mumbai office, while those who are still in service are cleared here. So, delays may happen in clearing bills of retired government servants,” he said. Those who have opted for the scheme pay Rs 400 to Rs 1,000 a month. More will join the scheme provided they can avail of benefit under the scheme. “But at present even the existing beneficiaries want to exit,” another employee said. After Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik’s help was sought, the minister wrote to the Union health minister and CHCS authorities regarding the problem in Goa, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-hosps-not-keen-on-empanelling-under-central-govt-health-scheme/articleshow/81382908.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 8, 2021||Goa||For 5th day, positivity at 4%||Panaji: Although new infections dropped to 48 from 70 on Sunday, the positivity rate continued to be more than 4% for the fifth consecutive day. Testing fell over the weekend with a mere 1,165 samples tested, the lowest seen over the past two weeks. Twenty-one people were hospitalised and 38 opted for home isolation. The state’s active cases stand at 688. Sixty patients recovered over the past 24 hours and the recovery rate is at 97.1%. No Covid-related deaths were reported over the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-5th-day-positivity-at-4/articleshow/81382962.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Curbs on OCI an insult, revoke notification: Cong||Panaji: The Congress on Sunday slammed the BJP for trying to curtail the rights and status of Overseas Citizens of India (OCI), including Non-Resident Goans, and demanded that the Union ministry of home affairs should repeal the notification issued on March 4. The party also said that by bringing in fresh restrictions on OCI card holders, the Centre has insulted Indian origin individuals who continue to support their families and the nation through foreign income. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that non-resident Goans will not be able to send money to their families in India without taking approval under the Foreign Exchange Management Act. Chodankar said that Goan OCIs, especially those with Portuguese passports, will not be able to participate in religious activities such as organising feasts and donating to temples, churches, mosques and gurdwaras. “The new notification humiliates and illegally classifies OCIs as foreign nationals and introduces a series of new restrictions that dramatically curtails the rights and liberties of OCIs,” said Chodankar. “We demand from the Centre and the state to withdraw this notification. This notification will create a wall between OCIs and their family members in Goa because of the FEMA notices.” Terming the home ministry’s notification as draconian, Chodankar said that thousands of Goans who are overseas will find themselves being treated like foreign nationals and will not be able to send money home to their family, to their local associations. Chodankar also said that the notification closes the door for many OCI card holders who work abroad and who wished to hold dual citizenship. “We should be protecting their interests instead of classifying them as foreign nationals. There will soon come a time when they will have to obtain a permit to visit their family in Goa. The chief minister must call a cabinet meeting and take a stand on this,” said Chodankar. Congress said that the move is just another step to destroy Goa’s economy and culture and a way to harass the minority communities. The party also condemned the way the public hearing for the Coastal Zone Management Plan was held and said that the government is trying to suppress the voice of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curbs-on-oci-an-insult-revoke-notification-cong/articleshow/81383000.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Locals worry as dead fish float in Tar||Saligao: A number of dead fish were found floating in the Tar at Mapusa raising concerns among locals that it might be due to the release of hazardous chemicals. Locals had previously raised concerns over the pollution of the Tar. “The result of the fish dying is due to the harmful effluents released into the river ” said local Shekar Naik, adding that the river has become a gutter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-worry-as-dead-fish-float-in-tar/articleshow/81383037.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||‘Shiv Sena will contest 20-25 seats in Goa on its own’||PANAJI: Shiv Sena’s Goa desk in-charge Sanjay Raut on Sunday announced that the party will contest around 20-25 seats independently in the 2022 assembly polls. In the 2017 election, Sena had contested three seats in a pre-poll alliance with MGP and GSM. “In an alliance, we used to get only two to three seats and that too in an area where our party had not done much groundwork,” Raut said, adding that Sena will contest from the constituencies where their party workers are active. When asked if they are open to an alliance to defeat BJP in Goa, Raut said because the party always had an alliance they were not able to expand. He also said that political parties have been holding meetings with Shiv Sena in Mumbai over a possible alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sena-to-contest-20-25-seats-independently/articleshow/81383059.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Business||Volkswagen eyes comeback with Rs 8,000 crore investment||NEW DELHI: Germany’s Volkswagen group has started to pump in fresh investments to the tune of nearly Rs 8,000 crore for a India fightback, and group company Skoda — that will lead the charge — says it will launch four new cars in the market, taking on models from Maruti, Hyundai and Tata Motors. However, just as it expands in India and gets deeper with localisation, Skoda has also said that the government should allow easier import of parts and do away with special tax benefits reserved only for cars under 4 metres. “It (tax breaks for small cars) has lived its utility and should be done away with,” Thomas Schaefer, chairman of Skoda’s global board, told TOI ahead of the unveiling of the company’s first mass-localised SUV Kushaq that will take on models such as Hyundai’s Creta and Kia’s Seltos. Schaefer said the Volkswagen group is eyeing a 5% share of the Indian market by 2025, mainly led by Skoda and VW brands for volumes while luxury ones such as Audi, Porsche and Lamborghini also chipping in (failed in previous target of 20% by 2018). The Indian market, while being a top global opportunity, remains challenging, and Schaefer said that the company will get in cars that are competitive, “including on prices”. “We compete with brand such as Hyundai at a global level, and it will also be a key competitor in India. We will surely convince people into our cars.” Just as Skoda develops and sells highly-localised models, VW will also look at a similar new model blitzkrieg and these would be developed around local pricing and needs. Schaefer said Skoda is also looking into some of the highly-lucrative segments such as compact SUV. “It’s a tough segment… and you need lots of work to get it right. We are not quite sure whether it will be a hatch, or a crossover or an SUV. We are not quite sure.” Speaking about the special tax (GST) dispensation that cars under-4-meters get in India, he said that “while we need to live with this regulation for now”, it doesn’t make sense to continue with the incentive. “It might have served its purpose. Maybe it’s better to focus on emissions, and consumption. There are other ways of supporting development. Why 4 meters?” Also, he said that while localisation is important, the Indian government should also make it easier for companies to import some critical parts from global manufacturing locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/volkswagen-eyes-comeback-with-rs-8000-crore-investment/articleshow/81384243.cms||Pankaj Doval
March 8, 2021||Goa||‘Our civic polls rigged like in Russia, China’||Panaji: Criticising the election process for the March 20 civic polls, GFP on Sunday said that Goa’s municipal polls are being conducted on similar lines as the rigged elections in China, USSR and the presidential elections in Russia. GFP functionaries said that the state election commission (SEC) and BJP were working together to manipulate and rig the civic polls to try and ensure that BJP wins the polls. “During the reservation and delimitation process we have seen chicanery and cheating going on in Goa, which used to not happen before. If you look at the municipality elections one cannot tell what will happen in Goa during the assembly elections,” GFP general secretary Mohandas Lolienkar said. GFP officials highlighted recent instances where Congress and independent candidates were harassed, threatened, restrained and even went missing. In Quepem, Ramesh Naik who was on his way to file his nomination papers for the Quepem civic polls was physically prevented from doing so. At St Jacinto island in Chicalim, a 21-year old girl, who was elected unopposed in panchayat elections, was allegedly threatened and coerced by certain individuals close to BJP MLA and minister Mauvin Godinho. Chicalim parish priest Fr Bolmax Pereira was also reportedly threatened on Saturday. “This shows that despite the manipulation in the reservation process the BJP is not confident of winning the elections and has to resort to such steps,” said Lolienkar. GFP has demanded that state authorities take suo moto cognizance of the alleged crimes and file criminal cases against those involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/our-civic-polls-rigged-like-in-russia-china/articleshow/81383090.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Chicalim priest abused over p’chayat bypoll||Vasco: Chicalim witnessed tense moments on Saturday night after Stephanie Lucas, 21, won the panchayat bypoll unopposed. The reason was that some BJP workers wanted to take credit for her victory. This led to the group allegedly abusing Chicalim parish priest Fr Bolmax Pereira, who mentors the Chicalim Youth Farmer’s Club of which Lucas is an active member. Residents of St Jacinto island and Chicalim filed complaint against the personal assistant of panchayat minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho, Ligor Monteiro. Tension ran high as they gathered at the Vasco police station on Saturday night. Villagers alleged that BJP workers were trying to hijack the victory of their newly elected panch of Chicalim panchayat. They were furious after Monteiro abused Fr Pereira and a local youth from St Jacinto. Sources said that a group of BJP workers along with Monteiro reached the Mormugao Municipal Council building on Saturday and asked Lucas to tell media that she is backed by BJP. She refused. When the club members dropped Lucas to her house they got a call from her saying that the same BJP group had reached her house and were abusing her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicalim-priest-abused-over-pchayat-bypoll/articleshow/81383121.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Need policy to protect Goans: GFP||Panaji: GFP on Sunday urged the state government to formulate a policy to protect the interest of Goans. “The government needs to come up with a policy to protect the interests of Goan youth to ensure that they can get jobs here so that they can live here. We need to ensure all this so that Goans don’t become minorities. Many register themselves as voters here even though they live in Delhi. This has already happened in Vasco, Chicalim and Sancoale,” said GFP general secretary Mohandas Lolienkar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-policy-to-protect-goans-gfp/articleshow/81383095.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Business||Women investors’ interest in cryptocurrencies rising||BENGALURU: More women are actively engaging with cryptocurrency as an asset class than ever before. Take Nirali Solani who heads a Mumbai-based family office. Until last March, she had shunned away from crypto as it was volatile. And then she started reading whitepapers on it. “I read them because I’m not from a tech background. I started with small investments, but my faith in the asset went up and now most of my personal savings go into Bitcoin and Ethereum. I'm a long term investor. I look at it as a store of value, it is a great inflation hedge over a longer period,” she says. Solani initially allocated 3-4% of her portfolio to Bitcoin and Ethereum. Over time, the exposure has grown to 15-20%. "When I started investing, the average purchase price was $8,000-10,000, and today, it's 4x higher,” she says. On India’s cryptocurrency exchange ZebPay, the average ticket size of women investors increased to Rs 5.7 lakh in the September-February period, compared to Rs 3 lakh in the March-August timeframe last year. February saw two key developments – Tesla buying Bitcoins worth $1.5 billion, and Bitcoin surpassing the $50,000 mark. The growing user base is a reflection of how the cryptocurrency ecosystem is shaping up. About 15% of ZebPay investors are women, a monthly active user base of 4 lakh investors. “Our target is to get the women investor base to 25% within a year,” says Vikram Rangala, CMO of ZebPay. The most women investors are from Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Delhi. The top five coins that they invest in are Bitcoin, Tron, Ripple, Ethereum, and Matic. Women are a lot more careful than men when investing. Rangala says they want to assess the risk and develop a risk management strategy. “Our women investors are mid-career professionals. Our data shows that women currently invest 1%-5% of their savings in crypto,” he says. About 46% of their women investors are in the age group of 26-35, and 45% are above 35. A survey by US digital currency investor Grayscale in 2020 showed that 47% of all female investors would consider a Bitcoin investment product (up slightly from 43% in 2019), and 66% of women interested in Bitcoin would be more open to investing if they could see evidence of a strong performance track record. Cryptocurrency exchange CoinDCX cofounder Sumit Gupta said 15% of its total investors were women in 2020, but this rose to 20% this year. “60% of women investing in crypto are in the age group of 18-34 years. And 30% of women investors come from Mumbai, Delhi, and Chennai. Many investors invest fractional amounts in Bitcoin, in multiples of Rs 500, 1,000 and 10,000, instead of buying a whole coin,” he says. The average ticket size is Rs 8,000-10,000. CoinDCX data shows Bitcoin is the most preferred cryptocurrency asset, with almost 15% of women investors trading in BTC pairs till date this year. In cryptocurrency, trading pairs refer to an asset pair being traded, one cryptocurrency for another. Ashish Singhal, founder & CEO at cryptocurrency exchange CoinSwitch, says they have 5 lakh women investors, mostly in the 25-35 age bracket, and with an average ticket size of Rs 16,000,. “The highest amount invested by a woman investor is Rs 50 lakh and the total transactions by women to date have been Rs 450-500 crore,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/women-investors-interest-in-cryptocurrencies-rising/articleshow/81384250.cms||Avik Das
March 8, 2021||Goa||‘Domestic Violence Act not followed in toto’||Panaji: The state must have full-time protection officers under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, said former chairperson of the Women’s Commission Dr Pramod Salgaocar. “According to the law, full-fledged protection officers must be appointed. The act can give complete protection, but the government hasn’t followed the act in letter and spirit and there is no fear of the law,” she said. “The charge is given to the block development officers (BDOs) or superintendents of police, who are already burdened with their own work. This is not the right attitude of the government.” Bailancho Saad convener Sabina Martins said BDOs are often found lacking as protection officers. “They turn women in distress away. They also make their own rules at times like asking for unnecessary documents and create obstacles for the women. We have seen many times that the process for justice actually turns out to be a punishment for many victims,” she said, adding that many are waiting for their cases to come up in courts. Stating that the systems to protect women must receive full support from the government, Salgaoncar said, “They must be kept active and strengthened with all the infrastructure including proper office space and staff, so that they can work well. The state commission for women can be a very useful body if it is backed by the government,” she said. “Professional counsellors are also lacking at the state commission for women. The government has to pump in the funds,” Salgaoncar added. A full-fledged state-owned shelter home will also come to the rescue of women and children who are in distress. The government currently relies on shelter homes run by NGOs. Chairperson of the commission Vidhya Gaude said the issue came up at a recent meeting with the stakeholders and added that the commission will be putting up a proposal to the government. “With our own shelter home we can give relief to women for at least a month if required. In the meantime, we want to get all shelter homes registered with us and provide some guidelines for their functioning,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/domestic-violence-act-not-followed-in-toto/articleshow/81383162.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Report women’s abuse cases on 181 helpline||Panaji: People can report cases of abuse on the 181 helpline for women, chairperson of the state commission for women, Vidhya Gaude, said. “Neighbours, family or friends of a victim of violence can also call the helpline directly. The helpline has a tie-up with 108 ambulance and they will go with the police to rescue the woman in distress,” she said. “Besides rescuing the woman, the helpline also has counselors who assist the victims. Anyone in need of urgent assistance can call the helpline,” she added. Women who cannot be counseled over the phone are also provided with counseling at their doorstep and there have been cases where counselors have visited distressed women’s homes. The reports are shared with the department of women and child and recently with the commission, too. The commission has also been conducting site inspections.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/report-womens-abuse-cases-on-181-helpline/articleshow/81383198.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Talks and bazaars to mark Int’l Women’s Day||Panaji: Several programmes are being organised across the state to empower and educate women on the occasion of International Women’s Day. The women’s collective Bailancho Saad has invited officials from the Reserve Bank of India to talk about schemes and financial assistance it offers to make women self-sufficient. The talk and interaction titled ‘Financial Literacy: Towards Self-Reliance of Women’ will be held at its office at Porvorim. “We will highlight the difficulties women face in accessing various schemes and also raise issues of men putting women in financial distress by taking loans in their name and leaving them to deal with the notices received. Several such cases of women struggling to pay these loans, have reached us,” convenor Sabina Martins said. In Saligao, women will get together on the evening of March 9 at the Saligao Institute and provide a platform for women to empower themselves at the “Made in Saligao’ market. Keeping the International Women’s Day theme ‘Men for Women’ in mind, the state commission for women has organised a panel discussion with four eminent male personalities on March 10. Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s wife, Sulakshana, will be the chief guest. Meanwhile, on Sunday, Speaking at a Women’s Day programme organised by the Jose Cabral Trust at Verna panchayat, DYSP Suchita Desai appealed to working women not to give up on their families for their careers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/talks-and-bazaars-to-mark-intl-womens-day/articleshow/81383226.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Temperature likely to rise in next two days||Panaji: The maximum temperature over Goa may slightly rise over the next two days by 1-2 degrees, from its present value of approximately 33 degrees celsius, the India meteorological department (IMD) said on Sunday. “In past 24 hours, maximum temperatures recorded at Panaji and Mormugao were 33C and 32.6C respectively. The temperature values in the inland regions of Goa may be higher than that at coastal areas,” said IMD. The changes are likely to fall under the category of ‘no large change’ – a variation within two degrees in 24 hours. No large change is expected in minimum temperature also, IMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/temperature-likely-to-rise-in-next-two-days/articleshow/81383304.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||‘Arpora p’chayat ghar delayed for over 10 yrs’||Calangute/Saligao: Villagers of Arpora-Nagoa on Sunday questioned the panchayat members over the long delay in building a new panchayat ghar. Gram sabha member Peter D’Souza pointed out that the matter has been pending for over a decade. “All we get is assurances that it will be built soon,” he said. Urging the sarpanch to implement the project at the earliest, he suggested that if the panchayats department is unable to build the new premises, then it can be built through the rural development agency (RDA) as Calangute MLA Michael Lobo is the minister for RDA and Arpora-Nagoa is part of Calangute constituency. Sarpanch Rajesh Morajkar said they have been pursuing the matter and the file is pending with the director of panchayats. “The project has received technical sanction,” he said, adding that work should begin shortly. One member, Anna D’Mello, said the widening of the road from Arpora to Anjuna, which is being done by filling mud in low-lying areas, is likely to result in old, traditional drainages getting blocked. D'Mello said many of the restaurants in Arpora are releasing raw sewage and wastewater in the nullahs and fields and suggested that the panchayat penalises them. Villagers also urged the panchayat to regularly paint speed breakers as tourists are unable to see them, leading to accidents. Sarpanch Rajesh Morajkar said the file is pending with the director of panchayats but the project has received technical sanction. Work is expected to begin shortly||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arpora-pchayat-ghar-delayed-for-over-10-yrs/articleshow/81383263.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Goa||Nachinola gram sabha approves waste facility||Saligao: A resolution for setting up a waste disposal facility was taken at the Nachinola gram sabha meeting held on Sunday. A proposal for the same has been lying with the block development officer (BDO). The meeting started with Nachinola panchayat secretary Bheldas Karapurkar reading the minutes of the previous meeting. The budget for the year 2020- 21 was also presented before the members. Anita Govekar, a villager, raised the issue of garbage collection in the panchayat area. Deputy sarpanch Freddie Fernandes replied saying the panchayat had taken possession of the land from the comunidade and that a no-objection certificate had also been obtained from the pollution control board for the site. He said a protective wall would be erected soon there and that steps have already been initiated to make a material recycling facility available. Fernandes also said a three-wheeler will be procured from the MPLAD fund for collecting garbage. The proposal has been prepared and submitted and the vehicle will be in possession of the panchayat by May, he said. Panch member Satish Govekar raised the issue of speed breakers stating that speeding vehicles are endangering lives. One villager suggested that all speed breakers in the panchayat area be repaired and painted. The meeting was attended by seven panchas. Sarpanch Pooja Mayekar was absent. Panch member Satish Govekar raised the issue of speed breakers stating that speeding vehicles are endangering lives. One villager suggested that all speed breakers in the area be repaired and painted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nachinola-gram-sabha-approves-waste-facility/articleshow/81383303.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||Ex-UP minister’s house choked, ‘fund-hit’ NMC fails to clear it||Nagpur: Former minister in the Mayawati government in Uttar Pradesh and a resident of Gautam Nagar in Gaddigodam, Yeshwantrao Nikose, has been running across several officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for the last two months to get the choked sewerage network of his tin shed house cleared. But to no avail. Now, he has decided to approach the district guardian minister Nitin Raut and urge him to direct the NMC officials to get his problem solved.Speaking to TOI, Nikose said that he had been making rounds of NMC’s headquarters and Mangalwari zone to resolve the choked sewerage network of his tin shed home for the last two months. “I also met mayor Dayashankar Tiwari but he too has failed to pay heed to my appeal,” a miffed former UP cultural minister said.Tiwari, later talking to TOI, expressed his anguish over the delay in the work and said he has already directed the NMC officials to resolve the issue immediately.Born and brought up in Nagpur, Nikose was a staunch follower of Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP) founder late Kanshi Ram. He left Nagpur some 35 years ago to work with the BSP founder. After his demise, he became a close aide of former UP CM Mayawati who inducted him as cultural minister from 2007 to 2012.Some three years ago, Nikose returned to Nagpur and started living at his tin shed house with his younger brother and sister. Some two months ago, the drainage network of the house got damaged due to erecting of I-blocks carried out by the NMC.“When our washroom started choking, I alerted Mangalwari zone. An NMC team visited the place and admitted that the main sewer line has got completely damaged. They said it could be resolved only with replacement of the damage network line with fresh sewerage network. But they could not carry out the work citing the lack of funds problem,” Nikose said.He also met local corporators from his own party Narendra Walde, Mamta Sahare and Sanjay Burrewar. But they too expressed helplessness citing fund crisis, he said. With no other options left, Nikose and his siblings have been compromising hygiene to answer nature’s call. “Our house stinks permanently and even neighbours started blaming us for the filthy atmosphere in our locality,” he said. Now, Nikose accused the civic body for step-motherly treatment of Gaddigodam area. I never defaulted on property tax, then why are the civic amenities in our locality not at par with Civil Lines or Bajaj Nagar area,” he asked. He also wondered how Nagpur city will become ‘Smart City’ if citizens like him are forced to live in unhygienic conditions. Officials from Mangalwari zone clarified that the main problem is the rampant encroachment in this locality, which is preventing the civic body to replace the damaged sewer network. They said the entire conservancy lane in this part of the city has vanished due to illegal extension by the residents.To this, Nikose said the NMC should demolish all illegal construction and encroachments in the area to ensure better civic amenities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-up-ministers-house-choked-fund-hit-nmc-fails-to-clear-it/articleshow/81394569.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
March 8, 2021||Nagpur||35 tribal youths get employment, courtesy MTR||Nagpur: The Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Saturday put its best foot forward towards tiger conservation by providing livelihood opportunity to 35 local youths from the tribal dominated Melghat. APCCF & Melghat field director MS Reddy said these youths were provided skill development training at Melghat-Pratham Skill Training Centre at Paratwada. “This is the maiden batch to get self-employment after the centre was started two months ago. The basic idea is to shed dependence of people on the forest by making them atmanirbhar (self-reliant),” said Reddy. The centre imparted training to 36 youths to become assistant electricians. The first batch, including four girls, passed out on March 6. Out of the 36 youths, 23 have got job placements while six are opening their own workshop. Some of them have decided to pursue further education while one backed out on health grounds. According to Prafull Sawarkar, working with communities in Melghat, the batch started on January 7. It included unemployed youth from villages that have eco-development committees in Painganga wildlife sanctuary under Pandharkawda wildlife division and Melghat. “It is a sort of best from waste project because the training centre was once an abandoned forest department godown,” said Sawarkar. One of the candidates, Ashish Wanole from Gadi in Umarkhed (Yavatmal), said, “It is really a good project which makes you either self-employed or provides a job. Entire course fee was borne by Melghat Tiger Conservation Foundation.” “I got an offer for Rs7,000 per month but I turned it down as I can earn more by being self-employed. Secondly, another reason to refuse the job was that I want to complete my graduation. I am a BA-II student,” said Wanole. Other students like Raghunath Pilwand, Shubham Padwale and several others got a job in Pune for Rs10,200 per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/35-tribal-youths-get-employment-courtesy-mtr/articleshow/81380365.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 8, 2021||India||‘Tacit nod’ to curtail session worries Congress||NEW DELHI: A claim by Congress floor leaders at a party meeting on Sunday that they had heard from the government side that the Budget session could be curtailed in view of assembly elections in five states triggered strong reaction within the party. Sources said the claim saw Congress chief Sonia Gandhi ask colleagues to wait and see if such a proposal was made by the government. “Why should we be seen as curtailing the House?” she is reported to have asked, possibly concerned about the speculation stemming from the opposition camp. The Congress brass expressed disagreement with any plan for early conclusion of the session. It is waiting to see if such proposal is made in the business advisory committee meetings of the Houses likely to be held on Monday. Congress managers in the Houses are from poll-bound states. Key opposition parties and a chunk of Congress MPs are likely to be away for campaigning. With speculation if a tacit nod had been given by opposition leaders, Congress managers said any such move would set a wrong precedent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tacit-nod-to-curtail-session-worries-congress/articleshow/81384293.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||‘Khela khatam, vikas shuru’: PM Narendra Modi vows to end ‘corruption, tolabaazi’||KOLKATA: PM Narendra Modi on Sunday pitted the BJP’s “politics of development” against “the Trinamool Congress’s model of corruption and violence” to ask Bengal’s voters to help him usher in “ashol parivartan (real change)” in the state. Modi, who addressed a massive rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds on Sunday, also sought to turn the Trinamool’s “Khela hobe (Let’s play)” slogan on its head, reminding the enthusiastic crowd of all the “khela (games) — from corruption to tolabaazi — that the Trinamool had played with Bengal for the last 10 years” and blaming them for the state’s ills. “You (the TMC) are experienced players. What games have you not played? You have looted Bengal’s poor, looting even cyclone relief sent by the Centre. There is an Olympic Games-level of corruption in Bengal,” he said, adding: “Lekin khela abhi bandh hona chahiye. Khela khatam, vikas shuru (But the games should end now. An end to these games will mean the start of development). The lotus is blooming in Bengal because of the mountain of rubbish that Trinamool has created.” The PM, whose chopper circled the rally venue in the heart of the city before landing, tried to establish a direct line with Bengal’s voters, stressing how the state could gain out of this “dosti (friendship)” and turn the clock back to “again lead the country when India would celebrate its independence’s centenary in 2047”. A BJP government would not only mean a change of parties but also result in a Bengal “where youth have education and employment and are not forced to flee the state”, Modi said, adding that a “double-engine BJP government at both the Centre and in Bengal” would usher in industry and commerce, investments and 21st-century infrastructure, where every section — “from Adivasis to refugees” — would be equal partners in development. “A BJP government will mean appeasement for none,” the PM added. “So much has been snatched away from Bengal in the 75 years since India’s independence. We will return everything that has been snatched away,” he promised, adding that five years of “development with a BJP government in office could lay the foundation for the next 25 years of progress till 2047”. “There is no reason why Kolkata cannot become the city of the fut-ure,” he added. The PM also sought to rebut the Trinamool charge of the BJP being “outsiders” in Bengal. “The Trinamool was born from the Congress. But the BJP was born out of the vision of Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who was from Bengal. Our traditions, our culture are rooted in Bengal’s DNA,” he said. Modi also targeted another Trinamool slogan — “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter)” — projecting CM Mamata Banerjee as the state’s choice. “Bangla chay unnati, Bangla chay shanti, Bangla chay pragatishil Bangla, Bangla chay sonar Bangla (Bengal wants development, peace, a progressive milieu...),” he said, asking why Banerjee was keen on projecting herself as only Bengal’s daughter when she was “entire India’s daughter”. “People chose you to be their elder sister. But you limited yourself to being only one nephew’s aunt. What about the dreams of the other nephews and nieces of Bengal?” he asked Banerjee. Modi also referred to the Bengal CM’s e-scooter protest against fuel price rise and her decision to fight from Nandigram: “It is good that you did not fall that day; because, if you fell, you would have blamed the state where the e-scooter was made. Now you have changed direction from Bhowanipore to Nandigram. What will happen if your scooter falls in Nandigram?” Working up the crowd and pleased with the impact, Modi said their roar on Sunday was a precursor to what would happen on May 2 (when the Bengal poll result would be announced). “Repeat after me: ar noy onyay (no more injustice), no more corruption, tolabaazi, cut money, syndicates, unemployment, violence, appeasement, injustice,” he said, then asking: “Didi, have you heard Bengal’s voice?” The PM’s address also took cognisance of the Congress-Left Front-Indian Secular Front alliance. “The LF used to say: ‘Congress-er kalo haath bhenge dao, guriye dao (Break the Congress’s black hands)’ How have those hands suddenly become safed (white) after three decades. How are you now joining hands with them?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/khela-khatam-vikas-shuru-modi-vows-to-end-corruption-tolabaazi/articleshow/81383773.cms||Rohit Khanna
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||‘PM travel miles to address rallies, but can’t meet farmers at Delhi borders’||Ranchi: Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on Sunday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he does not have time to meet protesting farmers who have gathered just a few miles away from the national capital but has time to attend conferences and political rallies thousand miles away from New Delhi. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in Gujarat yesterday (Saturday) and will be addressing a political rally in Kolkata today (Sunday). But he doesn’t have time for protesting farmers who are stranded on the road for more than 100 days. This reflects how much he is committed to providing a solution to their demands,” Pawar said. Pawar, a former Union agriculture minister, has been rallying against the Centre over the farmers’ issue and blamed BJP for the violence that took place during the farmers’ parade on Republic Day. “The violence that took place on Republic Day was done at the behest of BJP as people associated with ruling dispensation were instrumental in the violence. The Centre should work towards allaying communal disharmony,” he said. Addressing party workers, Pawar said he was told that more party workers wanted to attend the Sunday rally, but due to Covid-19 restrictions, many weren’t allowed. “Six months from now when I visit Ranchi again for a similar meeting, I would love to see a bigger crowd full of energy and enthusiasm which will strengthen our party in Jharkhand,” he said. In another jibe at Modi's 'Thali Bajao’ appeal during the Covid-19 outbreak, Pawar said when thousands were left on the roads during the lockdown, Modi was interested in asking people to beat utensils instead of putting some food on their plates. “I was an agriculture minister and I didn’t believe in people running here and there banging their plates for food. Instead, I believed in putting food on their plates. The BJP-led Narendra Modi government should introspect on what they have been doing,” he said. NCP national general secretary and member of Rajya Sabha, Praful Patel, who also addressed the gathering, invoked tribal icon Birsa Munda and said, “In Maharashtra, the NCP government had allocated a total of 9% of the total budgetary allocation for the welfare of Adivasis who constitute 9% of the total population. We would like to bring in a similar provision for Jharkhand through our policies and for that we need to strengthen the party in the state.” State NCP president and Hussainabad MLA Kamlesh Kumar Singh, who was instrumental in organising the rally, assured their national leaders that in the next six months, they will strengthen their party. “We will expand our presence across all 24 districts of the state as our party workers are enthused with the presence of our national leaders who came to address them,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pm-travel-miles-to-address-rallies-but-cant-meet-farmers-at-delhi-borders/articleshow/81381451.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||JWC to train potential women panchayat members||Jamshedpur: The Jamshedpur Women’s College (JWC) will conduct a five-week-long leadership programme for rural women in the state aspiring to contest the panchayat polls. The programme will commence from March 26 and the participants would get free accommodation and food, the JWC said. Principal Shukla Mahanty said that the idea is to empower candidates with the knowledge about the duties of the elected members and to augment their leadership skills. Iterating that 50% of the seats in the three-tier panchayati raj system are reserved for women, the principal said panchayat bodies are the basis of the pyramid of the elected democratic bodies of the country with Parliament being the apex institution. “If our women elected representatives at the panchayat level are empowered then it would augur well for the country,” Mahanty said. A team comprising faculties of political science, economics, public administration and sociology will impart training to the candidates. “The training programme will not be superficial but would be an insightful one,” said a faculty at the department of political science in JWC. Academic Jeetrai Hansdah commended the college for its bid to train aspiring women candidates. “Over 1.7 crore rural voters, of whom about 83 lakh are women, would exercise their franchise to elect gram pradhan/mukhiya, panchayat samiti members, zila parishad members for the 4,402 panchayat bodies in the state. Women voters will enthusiastically take part in the polling if they have the opportunity to elect educated and informed women leaders,” a young tribal activist, Sura Biruli, said. He claimed that a majority of the panchayat seats are reserved for candidates from the scheduled tribes, hence the programme would be particularly helpful to aspirants from the tribal communities. Notably, state election commissioner D K Tiwary on his visit to the city on February 22 had said that panchayat elections in Jharkhand will be held in a few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jwc-to-train-potential-women-panchayat-members/articleshow/81381484.cms||B Sridhar
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||Narendra Modi-Amit Shah is nation’s only syndicate: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||SILIGURI: The only ‘syndicate’ in India is that of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, chief minister Mamata Banerjee told a rally in Siliguri on Sunday, where she equated the upcoming elections as a “battle for survival”. “If you can’t ensure that [survival], Modi will divide and take pieces of Bengal away,” she told the crowd after a 3km road rally to protest against rising LPG prices, adding that she was ready to take on the PM in a one-on-one public debate at a time and place of his choosing. “Prime Minister, you never come to Bengal for work. You come here to spread canards and lies,” Banerjee said. “You can come for your political compulsions. You came today, too. But before campaigning, answer why the price of an LPG cylinder is nearly Rs 900. Why are kitchens on fire? Why are petrol and diesel prices rising daily? Bengal gives free rice. But one needs to buy gas for Rs 900 to even boil it.” she said, adding, “You speak of tolabaazi. You speak of syndicate. What syndicate? India knows only one syndicate: the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah syndicate. And they do not even listen to BJP.” Banerjee also countered Modi on his claim that Bengal will see “parivartan (cha-nge)”. “Parivartan toh Delhi me hoga (Change will come in Delhi). You will have to leave then,” she said, adding, “The five states (where there are elections) will hit BJP for a six. You will lose everywhere. You talk of Sonar Bangla after selling Delhi. After selling off the Red Fort, Indian Railways, BSNL, Coal India, Air India, the only thing left to change is India’s name, after your name. You are the biggest tolabaaz. Poor people may get Rs 5 or Rs 100 if they engage in tolabaazi. What happens when you do it? SAIL was sold for how much? Rail, how much?” Banerjee said cooking gas should be provided “for free”. “Mothers and sisters are hit the most when kitchens are on fire. They constantly give their daily dose of lies. Did you get that Rs 15 lakh in your bank account they promised you in the last polls? Did they open the seven tea gardens they promised when you voted for them in the last Lok Sabha polls?” she said, adding, “The PM lies. It’s a behaviour that does not behove the PM’s chair. Give me a date and time. Tell me when I will come for a debate.Khela hobey (the match is on). People will be the judges. I am prepared to debate him one-on-one.” The CM also took on Modi for alleged Covid mismanagement. “When people were dying and suffering due to Covid, where were you? I was on the streets and hospitals. You spoke virtually. And now the vaccines will have your name. You speak of women’s security. In Bengal, women can still step out on streets at night. In Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, they can do that after 3pm,” she said. Before her speech, the chief minister led a rally from the Mallaguri More to the Sardar Hasmi Chowk. Trinamool leaders said there were 50,000 people in the rally, of whom 80% were women. The rally had the party’s north Bengal candidates, along with MPs Dola Sen, Shanta Chettri and actor-MPs Nusrat Jahan and Mimi Chakraborty. “Around 50,000 people from four assembly constituencies of Siliguri subdivision participated in the rally,” Darjeeling district Trinamool Congress president (Plains) RanjanSarkar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/modi-shah-is-nations-only-syndicate-mamata/articleshow/81383777.cms||Roshan Gupta
March 8, 2021||Kolkata||Armed forces line up events for ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’||Kolkata: Over the next few months, the city is set to witness fly pasts by the Indian Air Force’s Su-30 MKI aircraft and demonstrations by the elite marine commandos (Marcos) of the Navy. These, apart from events by the Army, will be part of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ being celebrated by Indian armed forces to commemorate the victory against Pakistan in 1971 that led to the Liberation of Bangladesh. The Army’s Eastern Command, on Saturday, released a calendar of events scheduled for the months to come before the gala event on December 16 that may witness Indian PM Narendra Modi and his counterpart from Bangladesh Sk Hasina share stage in what has been promised as a gala celebration of bonding and bonhomie between the two nations. “Our main aim is to reach out to the youth and students. They need to know what happened in 1971 and the effort put into it by our armed forces. This is more relevant here as West Bengal was the worst affected during the conflict. Unfortunately, not much has been published about the War and its outcome. Somebody told me how Pakistani journalists never had the inclination and Bangladesh was a fledgling state. In India, we are poor at documentation, hence the mighty effort by India in 1971 may not have attracted the attention it deserved,” said Maj Gen Satbir Singh, GOC, Bengal Sub Area. Several events will be organised in March. These will include display of equipment by the Army, Navy and Air Force and a flypast by Sukhois. This will be followed by display of naval warships and a submarine — for the first time ever — at the Kolkata port. The Navy’s Marcos, along with ships and Indian Coast Guard assets, will also demonstrate their Search and Rescue (SAR) skills on the Hooghly on March 20. “The events will start with entry of the Swarnim Vijay Flame in Kolkata. It reached Panagarh on Saturday. Four torches were lit in Delhi and sent to formations in the four corners of the country. Our torch will also pass through Bangladesh between West Bengal and Tripura as both nations celebrate the Golden Jubilee of one of the greatest events of the last century,” Maj Gen Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/armed-forces-line-up-events-for-swarnim-vijay-varsh/articleshow/81383525.cms||Jayanta Gupta
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||JMM to back TMC in West Bengal polls, not to put up candidates||Ranchi: In a twist of events, JMM, which was trying to make a cut in the West Bengal election, on Sunday said it will not put up candidates and canvass for the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the neighbouring poll-bound state. RJD’s Tejaswhi Yadav and NCP president Sharad Pawar were instrumental in brokering a truce between JMM and TMC, sources said. The tribal party, which until last week was eyeing a chunk of the ST seats in the border and northern districts of West Bengal, said it has decided not to contest in the election after consultations with chief minister Hemant Soren, who returned to Ranchi after wrapping up a two-day visit to New Delhi on Sunday evening. “An official announcement in this regard will be made on Monday,” a senior JMM leader told TOI on condition of anonymity. A truce was brokered between JMM and TMC by RJD’s working president Tejashwi Yadav and NCP chief Sharad Pawar. Pawar and Yadav, through telephonic conversations, persuaded Soren, who is also the JMM working president, to rally behind Banerjee, who now is looking for tribal faces to match BJP’s battery of star campaigners drafted for poll duty. JMM sources said Soren and his father Shibu will aggressively canvass for Banerjee’s TMC in these districts. ST seats in Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura and Midnapore districts go to polls in the first two phases.  “TMC does not have a tribal face. On the other hand, BJP has their star campaigners such as Arjun Munda (Union tribal affairs minister), Babulal Marandi (former Jharkhand CM) and others. So, there was a consensus that Soren will join forces and canvass for TMC in the tribal pockets,” another JMM leader in the know of things told TOI. Notably, JMM’s Jhargram rally in January this year had irked Banerjee. However, the JMM leadership had made it clear that it will contest the polls. As per a field survey of JMM’s West Bengal unit, it was a strong force in at least 25 seats in Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura, West Midnapore, East Midnapore, Aliupurduar, Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-to-back-tmc-in-west-bengal-polls-not-to-put-up-candidates/articleshow/81381470.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 8, 2021||Ranchi||In J’khand, many women fight Covid from the front||Ranchi: As the world celebrates International Women’s day during the Covid-19 pandemic, women in the state have come to the fore to save the lives of many from the virus after striking a balance between work and their personal lives at home. Many of these women healthcare and frontline workers braved the deadly virus and made many sacrifices to help those who are in need. Sharing her experience with TOI, Ramrekha Rai (55), a senior nurse and in-charge of the Covid-19 ward at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), said she has been attending to Covid patients since the first patient arrived at the trauma centre of the hospital on March 31 last year. She said, “It has been a hell of a journey for me shuttling between the hospital ward and attending domestic chores at home. There were instances where I couldn’t attend to my kids as I used to reach home late in the night and had to come to the hospital early as some VIP patients were getting admitted and my superiors wanted me to be present. I haven’t been able to celebrate any festival with my family in the past year." Another woman health worker, Jiren S Kandulna, is the manager of Ranchi district hospital has shown excellent commitment towards her work during the pandemic. “The difficult phase has passed and now we are a bit relaxed as we manage the vaccination programme. I come from Khunti and live in a rented accommodation in Ranchi and have spent an average of 12 hours per day in the hospital since the outbreak," she said. Kandulna added, "The first challenge was handling our own healthcare workers who were getting infected while attending pregnant women who called us at odd hours like 3 am or 4 am. I remember the day in July last year when my father was sick and I haven't visited him for over five months. So, I left the city around 4 am and after attending to him in Khunti, I returned to the hospital around 8 am as I had to be at work." Like Rai and Kandulna, Dr Varsha Kumari, a microbiologist at the Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) had to take risks while juggling between work and family chores. Dr Kumari was the nodal officer for sample collection as well as in-charge of the Covid-19 ward at BGH. She said, "It was exhausting for me physically and mentally as I have two small kids aged nine and 11 and I could not attend to them at all. I have long working hours like personally monitoring sample collection, patient admission and their treatment at the Covid-19 ward apart from training the staff related to the virus. After these works, I cannot take care of my children as I pose an infection risk to them."  On how she managed her work, Dr Kumari said, "I was not staying at home and thanks to my in-laws, I was able to perform my job well. On March 23 last year, I was asked to take over the Covid-19 ward and I could not say no because I know someone has to do it. After that, I could not take a single holiday during the peak of the pandemic. The only compensation was when we were put in quarantine after a period of duty."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/in-jkhand-many-women-fight-covid-from-the-front/articleshow/81381500.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 8, 2021||India||‘Thinning fear and pandemic fatigue led to Covid spurt’||NEW DELHI: A three-member central team that visited the state early March has attributed a lack of fear of the disease and pandemic fatigue as among key factors behind February surge in Covid cases. The team observed that the virus is spreading to unaffected areas, although most cases are asymptomatic. It said political leaders and doctors, may themselves not be following Covid-appropriate behaviour. The observations were shared by the Centre after the team visited the state on March 1 and 2. The health machinery also may have become lax after cases came down after September, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/thinning-fear-and-pandemic-fatigue-led-to-covid-spurt/articleshow/81384341.cms||---
March 8, 2021||World||US says Russian-backed outlets spread Covid-19 vaccine 'disinformation'||WASHINGTON: The United States has identified three online publications directed by Russia's intelligence services that it says are seeking to undermine Covid-19 vaccines produced by Pfizer and Moderna , a State Department spokeswoman said on Sunday. The outlets "spread many types of disinformation, including about both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, as well as international organizations, military conflicts, protests, and any divisive issue that they can exploit," the spokeswoman said. The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) first reported on the identification of the alleged campaign on Sunday. A Kremlin spokesman denied the US claim Russia was spreading false information about vaccines to the WSJ. Russia's embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Russia approved its Sputnik V vaccine in August, before a large-scale trial had begun, saying it was the first country to do so for a Covid-19 shot. Peer-reviewed trials months later proved it was almost 92% effective in fighting the virus. Pfizer, headquartered in New York, and Germany's BioNTech, produced the first vaccine that was authorized in the United States, which regulators approved in December. The second, made by Moderna, headquartered in Massachusetts, was authorized later that month. The State Department's Global Engagement Center, set up to counter propaganda and disinformation campaigns, identified the three outlets, the spokeswoman said. News Front is controlled by Russia's federal security service, the center found. New Eastern Outlook and Oriental Review are directed and controlled by the Russian foreign intelligence service. A fourth outlet, Rebel Inside, controlled by the Russian army, was also named by the center but is largely dormant, the spokeswoman said. "The Department will continue to expose Russia’s nefarious activities online," she added. "We will also continue to work closely with our allies and partners to provide a global response to countering disinformation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-says-russian-backed-outlets-spread-covid-19-vaccine-disinformation/articleshow/81384352.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Hubballi||No significant rise in Covid cases in north Karnataka||BELAGAVI: While the number of fresh Covid-19 cases are burgeoning in some districts of the state, Bengaluru Urban especially, most districts in North Karnataka have seen only a marginal increase over the past week. While district administrations have kept beds ready in case there is a second wave of infections, it has also implemented several safety measures such as tightening movement across the border to prevent spread of the virus. Over the past three days, most districts in North Karnataka barring Kalaburagi have seen between one and 20 cases daily. In Kalaburagi though 78 cases were registered over the past three days – 37 on March 5 alone. On many days in the past couple of weeks, Bagalkot, Gadag, Haveri, Koppal, Raichur and Yadgir districts have seen less than 10 or even no new cases. Yadgir did not report a fresh case for three days in a row, while less than 20 cases each were reported in Belagavi, Vijayapura and Bidar districts. However, despite the numbers being low, there has been a marginal rise in Bidar. VG Reddy, Bidar district health officer, insisted testing has not been cut. “The health department is ensuring over 1,000 tests,” Reddy said. He said the district administration has kept beds ready to handle a possible second wave. “Each taluk hospital has 50 dedicated beds,” he said. “In government facilities, a total 550 beds are on standby including ones at Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS).” Reddy said border checkposts are active and those traveling from Maharashtra without a Covid-19 negative test report are being sent back. Those who show symptoms at the post are being sent to quarantine where they will undergo RT-PCR tests. “The administration is taking every possible step to curb the spread,” he said. MK Patil, Kalaburagi DHO, cited three major reasons for the sudden surge in cases. “Although RT-PCR negative report is mandatory to those travelling from Maharashtra, it hasn’t been effectively implemented. This has resulted in the spread,” he said. He said Chittapur town saw an influx of people from Maharashtra, resulting in a rise in cases. “A few stringent measures at the border will curb cases. Although there is a limit on the number of people at weddings, the norm is being flouted. The third factor is people are not wearing masks nor maintain social distancing. We are testing more than 2,000 people every day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/no-significant-rise-in-covid-cases-in-north-karnataka/articleshow/81384371.cms||Shreyas HS
March 8, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka more adept at handling virus||BENGALURU: Monday will mark the completion of a year since Karnataka reported its first Covid-19 case. A 41-yearold software engineer who had returned from the US via Dubai tested positive on March 9 last year — the first case in the state — kicking off a fight against the pandemic which is still far from over. From complaints of nonavailability of ambulances, patients dying outside hospitals due to lack of beds to uncertainty in policies to curb the virus and treat the infection around this time last year, Karnataka, which faces a second wave of infections, is much better prepared to tackle the pandemic today. Although the state, like many others in India, had experience in dealing with H1N1 a few years ago and the Nipah virus more recently, the pace at which SARS-CoV2 spread caught the administration off guard and overwhelmed health facilities. “The first few weeks were very challenging,” one official said. “Despite Karnataka being one of the first states to impose restrictions that were followed by a nationwide lockdown, curbing the spread was a tough task given that contacts had to be traced and isolated while we awaited a treatment protocol.” While the initial growth in Karnataka was not alarming — it took more than a month to add 1,000 cases — the situation appeared to spiral out of control from the end of May 2020. From just 1,056 cases in mid-May, the state’s overall tally crossed the 10,000 mark by the third week of June from when cases began surging. As of Sunday (March 7, 2021) the state has more than 9.5 lakh cases, of which a majority were added in four months (July 1-October 31). From 15,242 cases on June 30, the state’s tally jumped to 8.2 lakh on October 31. From there, it has added only 1.3 lakh cases in four months and one week. Naturally, even deaths followed a similar pattern peaking in mid-2020 before tapering off in the last few months of the year. At the end of October 2020, Karnataka had recorded 10,036 deaths compared to just 114 in mid-June. As of Sunday, it is 12,362. “When we began, there were only eight labs capable of conducting RT-PCR tests, but by mid-2020 we increased that to 175 labs,” said Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka Covid-19 task force. “The Karnataka government was among the ones that acted quickly. It formed the task force and a technical committee and gave them powers to take decisions which allowed standardised treatment protocols that helped prevent deaths. Other decisions the government took ensured efficient tracking and testing that eventually curbed the spread. Today, the state is in a much better position to tackle a second wave.” Notwithstanding the marginal increase in the number of cases in February 2021, Karnataka has the situation under control with an average growth rate of just 0.1% for the week between February 28 and March 6. The case fatality rate, a major indicator of how the state managed the pandemic, stands at 1.3%, which is better than the national average, while active cases account for only 0.7% of the total positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-more-adept-at-handling-virus/articleshow/81384385.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Pune||Pune: Army major held in recruitment exam paper leak case||PUNE: The city police on Sunday formally arrested an Army major after taking him into custody on Saturday from Wellington in Tamil Nadu and bringing him here in connection with the question paper leak related to the entrance exam for recruitment of soldiers (general duty), which had to be cancelled on February 28. “We shall produce him before the cantonment court on Monday to seek his custodial remand,” said a Pune police crime branch inspector, investigating the case registered with the Wanowrie police. With the major’s arrest, a total of nine persons have landed in police custody so far in the two paper leak cases — one registered with the Wanowrie police and the other with the Vishrantwadi police. The police have not ruled out more arrests, including officer-rank individuals. Army sources, who are in the know of the development, told TOI that the arrested officer was a special list commissioned major — someone rising from the rank of a junior or non-commissioned officer or other rank. He is suspected of having forwarded the leaked question paper to one of the suspects arrested in the Wanowrie case. Top city police officers as well as the investigators coordinating with the Army to further their investigation preferred not to name the arrested major for now. “It won’t be appropriate to divulge any further information at this juncture as our investigation is on. We managed to track him with the help of officials of the Military Intelligence,” Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said. A senior crime branch officer said, “We were supposed to reveal the name of the arrested officer on Sunday but after our communication with the Army officials, the same has been withheld.” The officer said, “On Sunday, we found involvement of two more Army officers in the case and further details can be revealed after verifying their role as they are closely linked to the arrested officer.” Another senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “We are now trying to establish the arrested Army officer’s link with other suspects and how he got in contact with them. We can’t rule out the possibility of his contact with senior Army officers involved in the printing of the question paper and other activities pertaining to the examination.” Of the nine arrests so far, six have been made in the Wanowrie case and the remaining three in the Vishrantwadi case. The city police on Saturday formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe into the two cases related to the army recruitment exam paper leak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-army-major-held-in-recruitment-exam-paper-leak-case/articleshow/81384400.cms||---
March 8, 2021||World||Blinken offers plan to bolster Afghan peace process: Report||WASHINGTON: Secretary of State Antony Blinken is proposing a series of steps to help jumpstart Afghanistan's stalled peace process between the government and Taliban, according to a letter from Blinken to Afghanistan's president Ashra Ghani published Sunday by Afghanistan's TOLONews. The letter calls for bringing the two sides together for a UN-facilitated conference with foreign ministers and envoys from Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and the United States “to discuss a unified approach to supporting peace in Afghanistan.” Blinken also calls for holding talks between the Afghan government and Taliban in a senior-level meeting in Turkey in the coming weeks to hammer out a revised proposal for a 90-day reduction in violence. The secretary of state has also called on special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad to share with both the Afghan government and Taliban written proposals to help accelerate discussions, according to the TOLONews report. Blinken also made clear in the letter that the Biden administration continues to consider a “full withdrawal” of the roughly 2,500 US forces in the country by the May 1 deadline negotiated by Trump administration. The State Department declined to comment on the TOLONews report. “We have not made any decisions about our force posture in Afghanistan after May 1,” the State Department said in a statement. “All options remain on the table.” Afghanistan presents one of the new administration's most difficult foreign policy decisions. The US public is weary of a war nearly 20 years old, but pulling out now could be seen as giving the Taliban too much leverage and casting a shadow over the sacrifices made by U.S. and coalition troops and Afghan civilians. Blinken urged Ghani to quickly embrace the proposal and underscored his concern that the security situation in the country could quickly deteriorate as the weather warms in Afghanistan. “Even with the continuation of financial assistance from the United States to your forces after an American military withdrawal, I am concerned that the security situation will worsen and the Taliban could make rapid territorial gains,” Blinken wrote in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/blinken-offers-plan-to-bolster-afghan-peace-process-report/articleshow/81384436.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Madurai||AIADMK-BJP-PMK will form coalition govt: Amit Shah||MADURAI/KANYAKUMARI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday exuded confidence that an AIADMK-led coalition government will be in power in Tamil Nadu after the assembly election. The party would also win the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha byelection from where Pon Radhakrishnan is contesting. "I am confident that a coalition government of AIADMK-BJP-PMK will be formed (after the assembly polls)," he said in Nagercoil. Launching his "Vetri Kodiyendhi Tamizhagam Velvom" (Will Win Tamil Nadu carrying the flag of victory) campaign from Suchindram, Shah also set off the BJP's door-to-door campaign by distributing pamphlets to residents. Party sources said the campaign was aimed at connecting with the people and also to announce the candidature of Pon Radhakrishnan. Later, accompanied by Radhakrishnan, he campaigned in an open vehicle from Hindu College in Nagercoil to Kamarajar statue at Veppamedu amidst cries of "Bharat Mata ki Jai" and "Vetrivel Veeravel" (dedicated to Lord Muruga). Speaking to reporters later in Hindi without a translator, Shah said he was sure about the outcome (of the polls), looking at the "excitement of the people," both in Kanyakumari as well in the assembly polls. "We have started the campaign to take the BJP's lotus symbol door-to-door. Sending a BJP candidate to the Lok Sabha is important for the overall development of the region. People should vote for the AIADMK-BJP alliance and ensure its win with a big majority in the assembly," he added. He said he visited 11 houses to "convey Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message." "Shah was happy and just smiled and gave us pamphlets," said a resident. He also garlanded a statue of Congress leader and former chief minister K Kamaraj State BJP chief L Murugan and other senior state BJP leaders were present during Shah's tour. Earlier, the home minister arrived in Nagercoil by helicopter from Thiruvananthapuram where he was campaigning, and went to the Sri Sri Thanumalayan temple in Suchindram to offer worship. Tight security arrangements were made at the temple for the VVIP visit and devotees were not allowed inside in the morning. Shops near the temple also remained closed till he completed his rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-bjp-pmk-will-form-coalition-govt-amit-shah/articleshow/81384444.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly election: Sonia Gandhi's call to M K Stalin seals Congress-DMK pact||CHENNAI: It took a call from Congress president Sonia Gandhi to DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday night to end the meandering seat-sharing talks between the two sides. The Dravidian major signed a deal to allocate 25 assembly seats and Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat to the national party the very next day on Sunday.  Sonia Gandhi reached out to Stalin and underscored the need to sustain the secular alliance in the wake of the BJP onslaught, a senior AICC leader based in Delhi told TOI. Besides the assembly seats, the talks centred around the Congress party's request for two Rajya Sabha seats, with one directly from the DMK and another based on the outcome of the assembly election. "The DMK had assured to consider the request at the right time. We do not put these in black and white and it works on mutual trust, " said the AICC leader. Secular plank more vital than number of seats: TNCC chiefFollowing the conversation, Stalin invited TNCC president K S Alagiri and AICC general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao to his residence late Monday evening. DMKwomen’swingsecretaryKanimozhitoowas present. Significantly,itwasthefirstsuch meeting that Stalin held at his residence, as the DMK held all its negotiations at its party office. On Sunday morning, Stalin and Alagiri formally signed the seat-sharing agreement at Anna Arivalayam,theDMKheadquarters.DineshGundu Rao, Congress legislature party leader K R Ramasamy and Kanimozhi were present. Thedevelopmentbringsto anendthe protracted negotiations that the DMK had with the Congress. The first round of talks began on February 25, followed by the second round last Tuesday, amid tears, angst and recriminations. Last Friday, at an internal meeting of the TNCC, Alagiri broke down while narrating to party colleagues how the negotiating team was “treated” by DMK leaders. “Thiselection is more aboutthe needtostrengthen the secular plank rather than the number of seats. To prevent the spread of the BJP, which is more dangerous than the coronavirus, all secular parties had to join hands with the single aim of defeating the BJP and its allies,” Alagiri told reporters after signingthedeal.He recalledthatin his recent campaign in Tamil Nadu, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi described the assembly election as an ideological war, more than a mere change in regime. “This secular front will win big in this election,” Dinesh Gundu Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sonia-gandhis-call-to-m-k-stalin-seals-congress-dmk-pact/articleshow/81384455.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Pune||Pune: Tanker runs over six-year-old boy, mom seriously hurt||PUNE: A speeding tanker ran over a six-year-old boy and seriously injured his mother after hitting their scooter from the rear near the RTO Chowk around 2pm on Saturday. Police said the boy, Dattatray Bharat Thorat, was riding pillion with his mother, Manisha (38). They were going to a relative’s home at Chakan from their residence at Shivnerinagar in Kondhwa, the police said. TimesViewReckless tanker drivers have been responsible for quite a few fatal road accidents in the city off late. Besides strict action against them, an increase in penalty for flouting the road rules can be a deterrent. Also, the traffic police and the Regional Transport Office should team up to check the condition of the tankers, which are often not maintained properly.Manisha drove her scooter along the Moledina Road to reach Gadital Chowk, from where she took a right turn to emerge at the RTO Chowk, after crossing the railway underpass, the police said. The tanker was trailing the scooter on the same route and hit the two-wheeler moments after it crossed the underpass, the police said. Dattatray and his mother fell of the scoter. The tanker ran over the boy and its wheels rolled over his mother’s leg, the police said. Tanker driver Ram Babu Khade (24) of Shirur was later arrested on the charge of rash and negligent driving following an FIR lodged by the deceased boy’s uncle, Bharat Thorat (35) of Kondhwa, with the Bundgarden police. A police officer said, “Manisha wanted to meet her relatives in Chakan and had left her home around 1pm on her scooter. She had reached the RTO Chowk when the tanker hit her scooter from the rear.” Dattatray and his mother were taken to the Sassoon General Hospital, where the boy was declared dead on arrival. The police said the boy’s father worked in a private company as a clerical staff, while Manisha was a homemaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-tanker-runs-over-six-year-old-boy-mom-seriously-hurt/articleshow/81384459.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Chennai||E-pass must, Tamil Nadu tightens norms for international & local visitors||CHENNAI: The state government on Sunday made e-pass mandatory for all international and domestic passengers arriving in TN except those from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry. The automatic e-pass that could be generated on https://eregister.tnega.org doesn't need clearance from any state authority, a government order said. While business travellers visiting the state for a short stay of 72 hours are exempt from home quarantine, people from Maharashtra and Kerala must undergo mandatory 14-day home quarantine. By amending an earlier notification through the order, the health and family welfare department has made testing norms stringent for travellers from the UK, South Africa and Brazil arriving at Chennai airport in transit. Fiat to submit declaration form on portalAccordingly, transit passengers from these countries whose final destination is Tamil Nadu and who have tested negative in a transit airport, will have to give a sample at Chennai airport and leave. These passengers will be tested again in Chennai and follow-up action would be taken based on the test result. The order also says that passengers should submit a selfdeclaration form for Covid-19 on the online Air suvidha portal (www.newdelhiairport.in)before scheduled travel, declare their travel history, and should carry a negative RTPCR test report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/e-pass-must-tamil-nadu-tightens-norms-for-international-local-visitors/articleshow/81384478.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Jakhar writes to speaker for debate on Rs 31k cr food loan account||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar has written a letter to Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh seeking a debate during the ongoing budget session on “how the previous SAD-BJP government mortgaged the state’s financial independence through Rs 31,000 crore food loan account”. Highlighting the issue of critical importance having grave financial implications for Punjab and its people, Jakhar mentioned that a document had come to light which revealed how the state’s economy has been deliberately undermined. “The central government’s ‘non-paper’ on Rs 31,000 crore food loan account exposes how instead of accepting a proposal of the Union finance ministry in 2017, which pegged the Punjab’s liabilities at Rs 13,000 crore, then SAD-BJP government connived to burden the state with a liability of Rs 31,000 crore,” he said. “Not only it is bizarre and baffling but is clearly an act of criminal betrayal of the state,” alleged Jakhar, attaching a copy of the document with his letter. He said the Punjabis deserve fulsome disclosure on the issue to understand and expose those who played with their future. The state Congress president requested the speaker to initiate a discussion on this issue in the House. Jakhar also urged the speaker to allow enough time to then finance minister and now Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa to explain the series of deliberations “detailing the nefarious role played by both SAD and BJP leaderships to mortgage Punjab’s financial independence”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jakhar-writes-to-speaker-for-debate-on-rs-31k-cr-food-loan-account/articleshow/81382327.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Noida||Battled virus & ostracisation, he looks forward to vax now||NOIDA: His landlord asked him to vacate the flat in the middle of the lockdown, shops refused to deliver ration and his RO water supplier stopped coming near his house. Social taboo, isolation, insensitivity — Anugrah Pandey’s battle with the pandemic has been much beyond the medical concerns. It was exactly a year ago that Pandey had tested positive for Covid — the second patient from the city found to have contracted the infection. The private firm employee and his wife had just returned from a trip to Indonesia and were tested after arriving in the city. While Pandey was found Covid-positive and sent to an isolation ward, his wife was taken to a quarantine centre. At a time the entire world had a meek surrender to the infection, the news of Pandey contracting Covid spread like wildfire at his housing society in Sector 41. His house was soon labelled “Corona wala ghar” and few dared to venture near it. But what was more painful for the couple was the way they were treated after their return from hospital. His landlord threatened him over the phone to vacate the house and even sent his friends over to ask the couple to leave. There was neither food nor water to drink. Pandey and his wife were away for almost a month and by the time they returned from the trip, lockdown had been enforced. The couple hadn’t stocked on ration or groceries. “The isolation ward at the hospital was much better than the isolation we faced back at home. For more than 15 days, we didn’t have drinking water. We boiled water from the tap and drank it. There was no food, milk, toiletries or other bathroom essentials. We weren’t allowed to go out and no local shop was ready to drop stuff at our doorstep. Even the sanitation workers didn’t pick up garbage for 15 days. All this after I had recovered,” Pandey told TOI. However, the biggest problem for Pandey and his wife was the constant prodding to vacate the house in the middle of the lockdown. “I had to speak to the district magistrate and seek help. The worst was faced by my wife, who was new to the city and had no friends or family here. I couldn’t help her either for a few days as I was in isolation,” he added. Pandey had to request the authorities at the quarantine centre to keep his wife there until he recovered and returned home himself. But the harrowing time also brought along a few lessons for the couple. “The good thing is that we have become stronger. My wife and I can take on almost anything now. Also, we save much more, so that even if there is a job loss, we can survive for a few years. I have seen the pandemic hit many of my friends pretty hard,” Pandey said. As the next phase of Covid vaccination begins, Pandey and his wife are eagerly waiting to get the jabs. They said they would be the first in the queue the day they are listed for the inoculation. “Getting the vaccine is much better than the ostracisation we faced. We hope our society treats medical conditions better and nobody has to go through what we did,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/battled-virus-ostracisation-he-looks-forward-to-vax-now/articleshow/81382346.cms||Snehil Sinha
March 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders immediate action on 7-point ‘Agenda 2022’||CHANDIGARH: All ministries and departments of Punjab government have been told to aggressively push for realisation of the 7-point ‘Agenda 2022’ that chief minister Amarinder Singh had unveiled in the legislative assembly on Friday. Capt Amarinder had claimed in the legislative assembly on Friday that his government has already accomplished 84.6% of the election manifesto commitments, “a feat never achieved before by any political party”. He had also promised to fulfil the remaining promises in the next one year. The CM on Sunday directed all departments to work on on the ‘Agenda 2022’. Under the 7-point agenda, the chief minister has promised that the government would fully protect the ‘zarr and zameen’ of the state at any cost, ensure peaceful co-existence (shantmayee samaj) for all, save lives and livelihood (jaan and jahan) of all Punjabis and would reach out to every needy person (zarroratmand) to alleviate his or her economic miseries by providing them their due benefits under the socio-economic programmes. Capt Amarinder has also promised to empower youth (sashakt naujawan) by enabling them to stand on their own feet, ensure adequate food and shelter at affordable prices (sasti roti and pakki chhat) for all deserving, and develop every village and town of the state in a manner that everybody got an equal opportunity to live a quality life. The chief minister said on Sunday the overarching goal of the agenda was to ensure the development of a ‘kaamyab and khushal’ Punjab. He claimed said in the assembly on Friday that out of the 546 commitments made to the people of Punjab in the election manifesto during the 2017 state assembly elections, his government had fulfilled 455.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cm-orders-immediate-action-on-7-point-agenda-2022/articleshow/81382335.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Fulfil remaining poll promises in budget, then rest: SAD to CM||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has appealed to the Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to fulfil the remaining 15.4% poll promises made to the people of state in Monday’s budget presentation itself and “take a well deserved rest”. Reacting to Capt Amarinder’s statement that his government had fulfilled 84.6% of the promises made in the party’s election manifesto for the 2017 assembly elections, SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said fulfilling the remaining 15.4% promises should be child’s play now. “You have as per your own self acclaimed ‘miyan mithu’ statement admitted to have done so much and that too without any help from Prashant Kishor. Surely, with a little nudge from Kishor you can fulfil the 15.4% remaining promises in tomorrow’s (Monday’s) budget itself,” said Cheema. He said remaining 15.4% promises include decision to release Rs 90,000 crore to ensure a complete farm loan waiver as promised by the chief minister and Rs 10 lakh compensation and a government job to all farmer suicide victim families. The Akali spokesperson said his party was hopeful that all these remaining promises would be fulfilled in the budget so that the chief minister could be “honoured appropriately” and advised to take “much needed rest after doing 100% work one year before completion of his term”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fulfil-remaining-poll-promises-in-budget-then-rest-sad-to-cm/articleshow/81382349.cms||---
March 8, 2021||Gurgaon||30% used, Haryana to get another 3 lakh doses of Covid vaccine today||GURUGRAM: As the third phase of Covid-19 vaccinations is under way, Haryana is set to get 3 lakh additional doses by Monday to ensure adequate numbers in each district, said officials concerned. At present, Haryana has over 9.2 lakh Covid vaccines at the state vaccine storage facility located in Kurukshetra. Till now, Haryana has inoculated a total of 3,64,996 recipients across districts. While 45,071 recipients got the jab in phase 3 of the drive, the state vaccinated 3,19,925 recipients in phase 1 and 2, including the second doses of healthcare workers. This essentially means Haryana has used up 28.4% of the vaccine doses that it has received so far. “The decision on the distribution of vaccines to the districts will be taken on Monday. We have sufficient number of vaccine doses in our stores,” said a senior official of Haryana government. Similarly, in Gurugram, which has conducted the highest number of inoculation in Haryana, has already used up 75% of its vaccine. It had received as many as 1,21,890 doses of Covishiled and 22,000 of Covaxin. Out of these, 94,540 doses of Covishiled and 14,120 of Covaxin have been used by the district so far. At present, it has 27,350 doses of Covishiled and 7880 of Covaxin at its district store. Till Sunday, 11,375 people over the age of 60 had their first jabs. Also, 1,129 recipients between 45 and 59 years of age with comorbid conditions have been administered the vaccine in Gurugram. “We have adequate vaccines for Phase 3. We have a target of inoculating around 1.5 lakh people in the district, who fall in this category,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. He said all private hospitals have been asked to inoculate as many people as possible and thus Gurugram will be getting more vaccines in a few days. “There is no cap on daily vaccination in this phase now. We are giving the private set up as many vaccines as we can to boost vaccination in the district. We will be getting additional 16,700 more vaccine doses in the coming days,” he added. Gurugram’s neighbouring district Faridabad has 13,000 vaccine doses at present at its stock. Meanwhile, 67 vaccine centres have been set up for the inoculations scheduled for Monday. While 45 of them will be in private facilities, the rest will be in government hospitals. The district is likely to have more session sites as two of them will be set up in a polyclinic in Sector 31. The health department has also directed private hospitals to have multiple session sites. Major hospitals like Max, Medanta, Paras and Artemis hospitals will set up more than two session sites inside their premises. All centres have been given told that the minimum number of people getting the vaccine per session site is 100, but all sites require Covid behaviour. “Health department is planning ICE activities to make people aware of the Phase 3 vaccination in the district,” a senior official said. Meanwhile, Dr Yadav said the health department will be launching a dedicated helpline number for the Phase 3 drive. “The timetable for all government and private for March has been uploaded on the Co-WIN portal wherein people can see the session plans and book their appointments for the vaccination for the first and second dose,” he added. The private setups will have 100% open slots so that the recipients can walk-in for their vaccinations whereas in government set up will be having advance booking, on-spot registration and cohort mobilisation facility in the Co-WIN portal. The health officials are hopeful that these new changes will further enhance the vaccination drive in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/30-used-haryana-to-get-another-3l-doses-of-covid-vaccine-today/articleshow/81382354.cms||Ipsita Pati
March 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder tried to derail agitation at every step: Mann||Bathinda: Attacking the Congress, BJP and SAD on the issue of three agriculture laws, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann alleged these parties had betrayed the farmers of Punjab by playing tricks. Speaking to mediapersons at Bathinda on Sunday, the Sangrur MP claimed these three parties had jeopardised the lives of the farmers as they had taken every step to ruin them. Mann said in 2013, these parties were instrumental in passing of the Contract Farming Act and in 2017, when Captain Amarinder Singh came to power, he did not repeal this Act. “Moreover, he passed the APMC Amendment Act, 2017, which privatised the fruit and vegetable market, whose effects are still being seen. Kinnow is being sold below the production cost in Abohar,” he claimed. Mann said these two laws that were passed by these parties had become the basis of the recent central laws. He said now that the farmers were protesting against it, these parties were involved in theatrics and trying to show the people that they are pro-farmer. “Every step that these parties have taken points to the fact that they have always been trying to derail the farmer protest,” added Mann. The AAP leader said the Akali Dal and BJP were claiming for months that the farm laws were beneficial to the farmers. The Congress, on the other hand, did not protest these laws when it was proposed in the high-powered committee, although Captain Amarinder Singh was part of it, he claimed. “Moreover, Captain Amarinder neither met Prime Minister Narendra Modi nor did he mention the farm laws to Union home minister Amit Shah, when he went to meet him. In fact, he asked the farmers to accept the proposal given by the central government, which itself exposes his intentions and propaganda,” alleged Mann. The MP said AAP was organising a Kisan Maha Sammelan on March 21, to give voice to the agitating farmers at Baghapurana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-tried-to-derail-agitation-at-every-step-mann/articleshow/81382361.cms||---
