March 9, 2021||World||Absence of peace deal may allow Taliban rapid territorial gains, Washington warns Kabul||ISLAMABAD: The Biden administration wrote letters to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and the head of the Afghan peace council, Dr Abdullah Abdullah, in which a four-point strategy was presented to the Afghan government seeking an end to war in Afghanistan. The letter, written by US secretary of state Antony Blinken, was handed to both leaders by the US special envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, during his recent visit to the war-torn country. There was also a chilling message in the letter for the Afghan leaders — that the absence of a peace deal may allow the Taliban to make “rapid territorial gains”. The letter shared by TOLOnews, an Afghan news outlet, suggested the Biden administration wants to accelerate peace efforts. As part of the four-point strategy, the US has proposed a UN-sponsored meeting of the foreign ministers of Iran, China, Russia, Pakistan and India to discuss a “unified approach” for Afghan peace. “It is my belief that these countries share an abiding common interest in a stable Afghanistan and must work together if we are to succeed,” Blinken wrote. Blinken wrote that Turkey will be asked to host a senior-level meeting of both sides in the coming weeks to finalise a peace agreement and urged Ghani or his nominees to attend the meeting. The letter said Khalilzad was directed to share specific proposals both with the Afghan government and the Taliban aimed at accelerating discussions on a negotiated settlement and ceasefire. These proposals, the letter read, would enable the Afghan government and the Taliban to move urgently to the task of developing foundational principles that would guide Afghanistan’s future constitutional and governing arrangements, a road map to a new inclusive government, and the terms of a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire. Blinken also expressed concerns over the increased level of violence in Afghanistan, saying: “We have prepared a revised proposal for a 90-day reduction in violence, which is intended to prevent the spring offensive by the Taliban to coincide with our diplomatic efforts to support a political settlement between the parties.” Secretary Blinken made it clear that these proposals were not meant to dictate terms to the parties but added the US expected a positive response from the Afghan government. The Afghan side was also informed that the Biden administration had not ruled out any options at this stage. The letter added that the US was considering full withdrawal from Afghanistan by May 1, the deadline set in the February 29, 2020 Doha deal, as it pondered other options. The letter concluded with a warning for the Ghani administration: “Even (after) continuation of the financial assistance of the United States to your forces after the American military withdrawal, I am concerned that the security situation will worsen and the Taliban could make rapid territorial gains.” Responding to the letter, Afghan vice-president Amrullah Saleh warned there would never be any compromise on Afghanistan’s constitution and on the people’s right to vote. He said the US could hold a conference and decide on the presence of its troops in Afghanistan or negotiate with the Taliban but that it was the legitimate right of the Afghan government to not compromise over the fate of 35 million people in Afghanistan. Abdullah Abdullah, however, cautiously supported the US remarks in the letter, saying, “Although I don’t want to defend the letter, there are important issues that have been brought up in it.” Mohammad Mohaqiq, an Afghan politician and senior adviser to Ghani, said, “The weakness in the message of the US state department is that they have not recognised Afghanistan’s structure, and it has coercive language and a coerced and tailored peace will not lead anywhere.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/absence-of-peace-deal-may-allow-taliban-rapid-territorial-gains-washington-warns-kabul/articleshow/81399127.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 9, 2021||India||In a first, 5 bank accounts of drug cartel frozen in J&K||JAMMU: Continuing its crackdown on drug dealers in Jammu and Kashmir, the Anti-Narcotics Task Force (ANTF) on Monday froze five bank accounts of a drug cartel. This is the first time that bank accounts have been frozen in the Union Territory under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act. “The frozen bank accounts are directly linked with a drug cartel operating in Kashmir, headed by Masood Ahmed Dar of Bijbehara, Anantnag. The total money in these accounts amounts to more than Rs 54 lakh,” ANTF SSP (Jammu) Vinay Sharma said while addressing a press conference. Three main handlers of the cartel have already been arrested. Giving details, SSP Sharma added: “The process involves proving such accounts to be proceeds of narcotics. Proper right to be heard was given to the account holders while the investigating officer proved beyond reasonable doubts that all money in the said accounts came from narcotics.” Among the arrested handlers, Salman Khan and Amit Saxena were apprehended from Delhi for distributing psychotropic drugs in J&K, while one Jahangir Ahmed, who was the main supplier of drugs from J&K to other parts of the country, was arrested from J&K. “This cartel had been supplying hashish from Kashmir Valley to other parts of the country and distributed psychotropic drugs in the UT,” said SSP Sharma, adding that ANTF was investigating all aspects of the transactions, including hawala. “ANTF is probing several other such accounts and properties — both moveable and immovable — and proper confiscations and forfeiture will be carried out soon,” said SSP Sharma, adding, “These drug dealers also include illicit crop cultivators, cross-border smugglers, peddlers, etc. ANTF will target the finances of these cartels, which is both their purpose as well as their strength.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-5-bank-accounts-of-drug-cartel-frozen-in-jk/articleshow/81399220.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
March 9, 2021||India||Apni Party warns it’ll hit streets over restoration of J&K’s statehood||SRINAGAR: Apni Party chief Syed Muhammad Altaf Bukhari on Monday said that his party will not hesitate to hit the streets if New Delhi fails to restore J&K’s statehood. Addressing reporters on the occasion of the first anniversary of his party, Bukhari said much was promised in 1947, but nothing has been fulfilled. “We have to fight for the restoration of statehood to J&K. We also demand the conducting of assembly elections as soon as possible,” he said. J&K Apni Party was floated on March 8, 2020. Bukhari said the agenda framed by Apni Party on the day of its birth was “pursued in letter and spirit”, but certain things like prolonged shutdown in the wake of the revocation Article 370 and the slicing of erstwhile state of J&K into two UTs, followed by Covid-19 outbreak, “we couldn’t pursue our manifesto the way it should have been”. On why he is not demanding restoration of special status, Bukhari said he can’t make false promises as it was only the Parliament of India that can restore special status to J&K. “I would like to make it clear that August 5, 2019 was the darkest day in the history of J&K that nobody will forget. We will strive hard for restoration of statehood to J&K and if Delhi delays it, we will not hesitate to hit the streets,” he said. Demanding early assembly polls, Bukhari said if Apni Party is voted to power, it will take historic steps especially making 25 years’ stay mandatory for becoming the domicile of the state. Bukhari criticized the National Conference’s decision of staying away from the delimitation exercise. “The biggest party could have participated in the process and put forth its point. They choose otherwise and I at times believe, boycotting something is aimed at facilitating the bigger plans. Perhaps, Delhi’s plan was to be made successful by staying away,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/apni-party-warns-itll-hit-streets-over-restoration-of-jks-statehood/articleshow/81399276.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 9, 2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir amends warrant of precedence||SRINAGAR: The Jammu & Kashmir government on Monday amended its warrant of precedence, placing chairpersons of the district development councils on a par with administrative secretaries and IGPs. According to the warrant of precedence, chairpersons of DDCs have been placed at serial Number 26 in the protocol list. They will now have a status equal to administrative secretaries, divisional commissioners, IGPs, joint secretaries to the government of India, and officers of equivalent rank, and officers of the rank of Major General or equivalent rank. As per the warrant of precedence, vice-chairpersons of the DDCs have been placed at serial Number 27, equivalent to the vice-chancellors of universities within the state or UT. The DDC members figure at the bottom of the warrant of precedence along with block development council chairpersons, presidents of municipal councils, and municipalities, district magistrates, officers of the rank of brigadier and equivalent, major heads of departments, and district and sessions judges, at serial Number 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jammu-and-kashmir-amends-warrant-of-precedence/articleshow/81399323.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 9, 2021||---||Kamal Haasan’s MNM finalises seat-sharing pact with Saratkumar's SMK and IJK.||CHENNAI: Actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) finalised a seat-sharing pact with its two allies late on Monday night. As per the agreement, the MNM will contest in 154 assembly constituencies out of the total 234 seats while setting aside 40 seats each to its two allies - actor Saratkumar's All India Samathuva Makhal Katchi (SMK) and Indhiya Jananayaka Katchi (IJK). "The above parties have joined together to bring in overall change in the state of Tamil Nadu. With the common agenda of restoring the pride and glory of Tamil Nadu,” a statement signed by these parties said. They had decided to embark on a lasting journey together, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/kamal-haasans-mnm-finalises-seat-sharing-pact-with-saratkumars-smk-and-ijk-/articleshow/81399660.cms||D Govardan
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Kamal Haasan’s MNM finalises seat-sharing pact with Saratkumar's SMK and IJK.||CHENNAI: Actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) finalised a seat-sharing pact with its two allies late on Monday night. As per the agreement, the MNM will contest in 154 assembly constituencies out of the total 234 seats while setting aside 40 seats each to its two allies - actor Saratkumar's All India Samathuva Makhal Katchi (SMK) and Indhiya Jananayaka Katchi (IJK). "The above parties have joined together to bring in overall change in the state of Tamil Nadu. With the common agenda of restoring the pride and glory of Tamil Nadu,” a statement signed by these parties said. They had decided to embark on a lasting journey together, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kamal-haasans-mnm-finalises-seat-sharing-pact-with-saratkumars-smk-and-ijk-/articleshow/81399661.cms||D Govardan
March 9, 2021||Business||End of an era: Air India planning to phase out its Boeing 747 jumbo jets||NEW DELHI: Air India is planning to phase out a key slice of its history — the Boeing 747s — which it has been operating for exactly 50 years now and are synonymous with the Maharaja’s long gone heydays. The airline had got its first jumbo jet in 1971 — a B747-200B named Emperor Ashoka — and for the last over 25 years is operating the B747-4 version that has an extended upper deck. For decades, the jumbo jet has been the sky’s most sensuously curvaceous beauty. Three of the 4 B747s in AI fleet (one is in no condition to fly) were being mainly used for VVIP flights and regular commercial ones when not used by the dignitaries. Last year, the government got two new state-of-the-art Boeing 777s as India’s desi Air Force One which will be exclusively used for the president, PM and Vice-President’s ultralong/long/medium haul international visits. Recently the government conveyed to divestment-bound AI that its requirement for the old warhorse B747s will not be much for VVIP flights. “We are planning to phase out the jumbo jets. The final decision will be taken by AI board, possibly in its next meeting. The planes are over 25 years old on an average and will be scrapped. Their residual value lies in the about 10 engines we have of these 747s that could fetch about $2 million apiece,” said a senior official. AI could be the only commercial Indian airline ever to operate four-engine aircraft. Vijay Mallya had ordered the four-engine Airbus A340s for Kingfisher, but could never induct them in the fleet before the airline shut down in 2012. With the 747s, AI under JRD Tata had set new levels of inflight luxury. It introduced a new "Palace in the Sky" livery and branding for this aircraft. The tastefully decorated staircase to the upper deck; jharokha interior flight panels; dewans and bar were way ahead of their time when introduced onboard these beautiful machines in the 70s by JRD. JRD Tata in front of an Air India Boeing 747. (Photo: Tata website)The drastically reduced demand for air travel during Covid has shortened the commercial lifespan of even new-gen four-engine passenger jets — B747, A340 and A380 — with airlines using them globally grounding them; drastically reducing their use or cutting short their use-by period — in favour of the frugal twin-engine medium/long haul jets like B777, B787, A330 and A350s. An old timer in AI Engineering, that maintains the Maharaja’s fleet, recalls that the upper deck of the B747 would often serve play area as the play area with toys for then very young Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi when they used to travel with their PM dadi Indira Gandhi. In the last two decades, the 747s were used for commercial flights — including one-stop to the US destinations like Delhi-London/Frankfurt-New York/Los Angeles. The government would inform AI in advance when the planes were required for VIP flights and the seats in the lower deck would be removed to make way for the dignitaries’ bed and meeting area. Top bureaucrats travelling with the president, PM or VP would sit in the upper deck. “These beautiful planes have served us very well. They had become expensive to operate when we got the new-gen B777 and B787s. They have truly earned their retirement,” said a 747 pilot unable to hide his emotions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/end-of-an-era-ai-planning-to-phase-out-its-boeing-747-jumbo-jets/articleshow/81399689.cms||Saurabh Sinha
March 9, 2021||World||Fully vaccinated people in US can gather without masks, CDC says||NEW YORK: Fully vaccinated Americans can gather with other vaccinated people indoors without wearing a mask or social distancing, according to long-awaited guidance from federal health officials. The recommendations also say that vaccinated people can come together in the same way — in a single household — with people considered at low-risk for severe disease, such as in the case of vaccinated grandparents visiting healthy children and grandchildren. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced the guidance Monday. The guidance is designed to address a growing demand, as more adults have been getting vaccinated and wondering if it gives them greater freedom to visit family members, travel, or do other things like they did before the Covid-19 pandemic swept the world last year. “With more and more people vaccinated each day, we are starting to turn a corner,” said CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky. During a press briefing Monday, she called the guidance a “first step” toward restoring normalcy in how people come together. She said more activities would be ok'd for vaccinated individuals once caseloads and deaths decline, more Americans are vaccinated, and as more science emerges on the ability of those who have been vaccinated to get and spread the virus. The CDC is continuing to recommend that fully vaccinated people still wear well-fitted masks, avoid large gatherings, and physically distance themselves from others when out in public. The CDC also advised vaccinated people to get tested if they develop symptoms that could be related to Covid-19. Officials say a person is considered fully vaccinated two weeks after receiving the last required dose of vaccine. About 31 million Americans — or only about 9% of the US population — have been fully vaccinated with a federally authorized Covid-19 vaccine so far, according to the CDC. Authorised vaccine doses first became available in December, and they were products that required two doses spaced weeks apart. But since January, a small but growing number of Americans have been fully vaccinated, and have been asking questions like: Do I still have to wear a mask? Can I go to a bar now? Can I finally see my grandchildren? The guidance was “welcome news to a nation that is understandably tired of the pandemic and longs to safely resume normal activities,” said Dr. Richard Besser, president and CEO of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and a former acting director of the CDC. “I hope that this new guidance provides the momentum for everyone to get vaccinated when they can and gives states the patience to follow the public health roadmap needed to reopen their economies and communities safely,” said Besser, in a statement. But Dr. Leana Wen called the guidance “far too cautious.” The CDC did not change its recommendations on travel, which discourages unnecessary travel and calls for getting tested within a few days of the trip. That could seem confusing to vaccinated people hoping to visit family across the country or abroad. The new guidance also says nothing about going to restaurants or other places, even though governors are lifting restrictions on businesses, said Wen, an emergency physician and public health professor at George Washington University who was formerly Baltimore's health commissioner. “The CDC is missing a major opportunity to tie vaccination status with reopening guidance. By coming out with such limited guidance, they are missing the window to influence state and national policy,” Wen said, in an email. The CDC guidance did not speak to people who may have gained some level of immunity from being infected, and recovering from, the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/fully-vaccinated-people-in-us-can-gather-without-masks-cdc-says/articleshow/81399986.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cyclists promote women empowerment and safety||To commemorate International Women’s Day yesterday, Mumbai’s cyclists marked the day with a special trail — for women empowerment and safety. It was a sporty, fun event that saw a bunch of avid city cyclists participate. They happily pedalled away for a cause on the cool, crisp morning and ended with a workout session, too! ‘Heartening to see women of all ages take part’It saw women of all ages take partOrganiser Aman Rai (M East ward) said, “It was a pleasure to organise a 12-km ride on the occasion of Women’s Day. We started our ride early from a cafe in Chembur at 6:30 am, took a loop of Central Avenue Road and went till Anushakti Nagar Road and returned back to Chembur. We believe women are strong pillars of our society and the response we received from our fellow riders was amazing. We had participation from 70 riders out of which 40 were women. It was nice to see them dressed in traditional attire and cycle. We also planned a small gesture of distributing food hampers among people. We will always cherish this experience.” Adds Samir Jhaveri, bicycle councillor from Chembur M, West Ward, “Women between the ages of 12 to 63 participated in the ride. They were students, doctors, corporate folk as well as some new riders. It was so heartening to see the enthusiasm and excitement of everyone around.” Have witnessed an increase in women cyclists in pandemic: Mumbai bicycle mayorThe women are all smiles after their rideMumbai’s bicycle mayor Firoza Suresh, who has been spearheading the sport of cycling, says it’s time more women took it up as she addressed the benefits of cycling, too. Said Firoza, “Cycling is one of the most rewarding sports women can do — no matter your age or activity level. During the pandemic, we have seen an increase in the number of women cyclists. While cycling’s popularity has seen a rise, we still have a long way to go before men and women share the road equally. To bridge this gap, on International Women’s Day, ‘Cycle Chala City Bacha’ announced a crowdfunding campaign to empower women who come from low-income homes by providing cycles. These cycles are specifically made for Indian women who wear traditional outfits such as saris and salwar kameez. Women, who work as cooks, domestic help and other support functions, often have to travel a lot. We want to help them by giving them cycles and teaching them how to ride them.” The ride ended with a prize distribution ceremony for the best dressed cyclists, followed by a round of stretching exercises and breakfast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cyclists-promote-women-empowerment-and-safety/articleshow/81398511.cms||Ismat Tahseen
March 9, 2021||India||Breaking barriers: For first time in 23 years, women officers deployed on warships||NEW DELHI: Women are breaking all barriers in the armed forces as they are now being deployed on warships, flying fighter jets and are patrolling in forward areas near the LoC, which used to be the men’s bastion. The Indian Navy recently deployed four women officers (two each) on board its warships — aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and tanker INS Shakti — for the first time since 1998 (23 years ago) when lady officers were posted on navy vessels but the practice was discontinued soon due to logistical issues. Of the four officers, two are for logistics, one is an air traffic controller and one medical officer. The doctor has been deployed on INS Shakti. With changing times, the navy has started building separate cabins and toilets on warships to make them ready for all genders. The Navy has also deployed Lieutenant Navjot Kaur as a logistics officer at INS Kardip, a forward operating naval base under the joint-services Andaman and Nicobar Command located on Kamorta Island. The 27-year-old is the first woman to be posted in the middle of the Indian Ocean. In 2019, the maritime force deployed Lt Commander Karabi Gogoi as the Navy’s first defence attache abroad (in Moscow). Women also broke the glass ceiling in the air force when three pilots from the first women batch of 2015 — Bhawana Kanth, Avani Chaturvedi and Mohana Singh — qualified for day-time combat missions on a fighter aircraft in 2019. Ft Lt Kanth, who debuted at the R-Day parade this year, is currently flying MiG-21 Bison and deployed in a forward airbase in Rajasthan. Following the Navy and the IAF, the Army is also planning to enroll women pilots in the combat flying role. Army chief General M M Naravane recently said that women officers would be deployed for combat roles in the flying branch of the Army Aviation Corps as early as next year. Women officers would undergo pilot training in the next course beginning July, and after a year of training, they would be serving in front-line operational units for flying duties, he said. Three IAF officers — Ft Lts Bhawana Kanth, Avani Chaturvedi and Mohana Singh — who have qualified for day-time combat missions on a fighter aircraft From last year itself, the Army started deploying women soldiers for patrolling in Kashmir. The Army moved in two sections of women soldiers of the Assam Rifles last May. The women soldiers deployed in north Kashmir near the LoC have been assigned duties like security duties, sentry, manning check posts, frisking and guard duty. The Army has also kick-started the process to grant permanent commission to eligible women officers after the defence ministry approved the proposal. Women soldiers deployed in a forward area for patrolling in KashmirCurrently, the Navy has the maximum percentage of women in its workforce among the three services at 6.5%, as the percentage in the IAF (excluding those serving in the medical and dental wings) and the Army is 1.08 and 0.56, respectively. However, women’s strength is very less as compared to men in the military. According to the defence ministry’s records, 6,807 women (including doctors and nurses) are employed in the Army while 12.1 lakh men are serving the force. The number of women in the Navy is 704 while the men’s strength is 10,108. The number of women and men in the IAF is 1,607 and 1,46,727, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/breaking-barriers-for-first-time-in-23-years-women-officers-deployed-on-warships/articleshow/81400624.cms||Surendra Singh
March 9, 2021||India||Supreme Court to examine whether to review 50% cap on quota||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine whether the 1992 verdict by a nine-judge bench capping quota at 50% needed to be revisited in view of subsequent constitutional amendments and changed social dynamics. A five-judge Constitution bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat, which is examining the validity of the Maharashtra government’s decision to grant reservation to Marathas, agreed to expand the ambit of the proceedings to settle the 50% ceiling and larger constitutional questions pertaining to reservation and issued notices to all states and Union territories. The bench framed six questions to be adjudicated by it but the most important of them is "whether judgment in case of Indra Sawhney needs to be referred to a larger bench or requires relook by a larger bench in the light of subsequent constitutional amendments, judgments and changed social dynamics etc". It asked all parties to formulate their submissions on these aspects. The Indra Sawhney verdict, delivered almost three decades ago, tried to strike a balance between promotion of social justice and the right to equality by fixing a cap of 50% on reservation. Though the court in its verdict, known as the Mandal Commission judgment, had said that 50% was a rule which could be breached under extraordinary circumstances, it has so far enforced the ceiling. Governments, political parties and social groups chafed at the restraint, with different regimes seeking to probe judicial resistance by framing laws which were clearly in breach of the threshold which, as per the court, ought not to have been crossed. The court's decision on Monday to revisit the limit came in a case arising from the challenge to the former BJP government's decision to extend reservation to the Maratha community by disregarding the 50% cap. The court passed the order after senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Maharashtra, insisted that all state governments must be heard on the issue as the SC's verdict or interpretation of the 102nd constitutional amendment would have wider implications on the federal structure and states’ power to frame laws to provide reservation to socially and educationally backward classes. The bench will also examine Article 338B, Article 342(A) read with Article 366(26c) of the Constitution which were inserted by the Constitution (102nd Amendment) Act, 2018. The amendment deals with the constitutional status of the National Commission for Backward Classes. Article 338B is about the structure, duties and powers of the commission while 342(A) talks about the power of the President to notify a class as socially and educationally backward (SEBC) and the power of Parliament to alter the central SEBC list. The court will decide whether the amendment deprives the state legislature of its power to enact a legislation determining socially and economically backward classes and conferring benefits on the said community under its enabling power. The court said it would decide "whether Article 342A of the Constitution abrogates states’ power to legislate or classify in respect of any backward class of citizens and thereby affects the federal policy/structure of the Constitution of India". While seeking response from states, the bench said, "In view of the issues of seminal importance which have arisen before this Constitution bench, i.e. pertaining to interpretation of 102nd constitutional amendment, the states have to be given opportunity to have their say. We, thus, issue notice to all the states as requested. The notice may be served on the standing counsel appearing for different states and be also sent by email to the chief secretary of states by tomorrow." The bench adjourned the hearing and posted it for March 15 and the judgment may be reserved on March 25 as per the scheduled fixed by the bench. The SC had last year stayed implementation of reservation for Marathas in government jobs and admissions in educational institutions under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act and referred to a Constitution bench to decide the validity of the law. The state government had framed the law on November 30, 2018, granting 16% quota for Marathas in government jobs and admissions in educational institutions. While upholding the law, Bombay high court on June 27 last year directed the government to bring it down to 12% for education and 13% for jobs as recommended by a state-appointed backward class commission headed by former HC judge M B Gaikwad. Challenging the high court order, the petitioners contended that the HC misread SC judgments to conclude that there was no stringent ceiling of 50% on reservation as set out in the 1993 Indra Sawhney case. The main plank of the bunch of petitioners challenging the validity of the Maratha quota is that it took total reservation in the state to 74%, which is way beyond the 50% ceiling put by the SC while upholding the validity of 27% OBC quota in government jobs, which was later extended to admissions in state-run educational institutions. The petitioners said the 50% ceiling must be honoured and it could not be breached. They alleged that the state government had enacted the SEBC Act under political pressure, completely disregarding constitutional principles of equality and rule of law. The state government, however, said there was no illegality in giving reservation to the Maratha community and pointed out that many states were providing reservation above 50% which had not been stayed by the SC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-to-examine-whether-to-review-50-cap-on-quota/articleshow/81400895.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
March 9, 2021||India||Centre hands over SUV case to NIA, sparks fresh row with Maharashtra govt||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The Union home ministry on Monday ordered a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the recovery of explosives from an SUV parked at Mumbai’s Carmichael Road near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. The decision sparked a fresh row between the Centre and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, with CM Uddhav Thackeray smelling “something fishy” and state home minister Anil Deshmukh terming the move “wrong”. Deshmukh said while the NIA had taken over the explosives case, the case pertaining to the death of Thane resident Mansukh Hiran (48), who had claimed the car belonged to him, will continue to be probed by the Anti-Terror Squad. Thackeray said the ATS was looking into the matter “but despite that, if the Centre hands it over to NIA, it would mean something is fishy. We won’t give up till we expose it”. The NIA said it is in the process of re-registering the explosives case that was till now being probed by the ATS. The NIA is empowered by the NIA Act to probe cases related to explosives and IED/bomb blasts as the Explosive Substances Act is part of the NIA ‘schedule of offences’. For this, consent of the state government concerned is not needed. All that is required is an MHA order entrusting the case to the NIA. Read AlsoMukesh Ambani case: ATS probes businessman's death as murderThe Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad registered a case of murder in the Mansukh Hiran (mistakenly spelled as Hiren in earlier reports) death case on Sunday, two days after the body of the 48-year-old businessman was found floating in a creek in Mumbra and 10 days after his “stolen” SUV was foundMumbai police were initially looking at the explosives angle while Mumbra police had registered an accidental death report after Hiran’s body was found in a Thane creek last Friday. The ATS took over the explosives probe after opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis made charges against assistant inspector Sachin Waze on the floor of the Assembly on Friday. After Hiran’s family said they suspected foul play, the ATS on Sunday took over that case as well and turned it into a murder investigation. A letter purportedly written by Hiran claiming harassment by the police has also surfaced. Read AlsoMansukh Hiran a good swimmer, says his friend, doubts drowning theoryThe body of Mansukh Hiran (48), owner of the Scorpio found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was found by police in a creek near Mumbra on Friday. The probe into the explosives-in-vehicle case, initially being overseen by Sachin Waze who belongs to the crime branch’s crimeDeshmukh said on Monday, “The state home department has received a communication from MHA on the probe into recovery of explosives having been entrusted to NIA. In our opinion, this was a wrong decision particularly when state law-enforcing agencies were moving in the right direction. Mumbai police are highly competent and professional. But since the case has been given to NIA, we will cooperate with the Central agency.” The Explosive Substances Act was added to the NIA Schedule in 2019 through an amendment to the NIA Act. Recently, the NIA took up a case related to a blast in Murshidabad, West Bengal, in which state minister Jakir Hossain was injured. Soon after the Shiv Sena-led government assumed office, the NIA had taken over the Elgar Parishad case about a Maoist conspiracy against the government. At the time, the MVA government had not objected to the NIA taking over the investigation. Read AlsoMukesh Ambani case: SUV ‘owner’ found dead in Thane creekMUMBAI/THANE: On a day the body of Mansukh Hiran (48), owner of the Scorpio found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was found by police in the Reti Bunder creek near Mumbra and opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis levelled charges against assistant inspector Sachin Waze and demanded anAn NIA official said the agency, as of now, was only entrusted with the case relating to recovery of the explosives-laden car outside the Ambanis’ residence Antilia. “The Mansukh Hiran case is not mentioned in the MHA order. We cannot say at this point what our investigation into the SUV case will lead us to in the future. Any leads or angles with a bearing on our case will be thoroughly followed,” the official told TOI. Deshmukh said that in the past, the Centre had entrusted the probe into sensitive cases either to the CBI or NIA but there had been no visible progress. “The offence in the Elgar Parishad case was registered on January 8, 2018 for objectionable speeches, while NIA took over the probe on January 24, 2020. We do not know the status of the case,” he said. In the case related to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death too, he added, “the CBI is yet to conclude the cause of death. We hope the CBI submits a report at the earliest.” Read AlsoAmbani SUV case: Bizman wrote of police harassment to Maharashtra CMHiren’s autopsy report accessed by TOI on Saturday revealed “minor abrasions on his face on the left side, the upper part of the nostril, the right cheek up to the chin and the right eye”. The report stated that his ribs, cartilages, lungs and pericardium were intact, but reserved the cause ofGelatin sticks and an anonymous note threatening harm to the Ambani family were recovered during a search of the Scorpio found parked near Antilia on February 25. Mumbai police had said, on the basis of Hiran’s statement that his car had developed a snag and that he had left it on the Eastern Express Highway, that the vehicle was stolen on February 17. Watch Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray slams NIA takeover of Antilia bomb scare case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-hands-over-suv-case-to-nia-sparks-fresh-row-with-maharashtra-govt/articleshow/81401110.cms||Bharti Jain
March 9, 2021||Business||New rules for pesky calls lead to SMS outages||NEW DELHI: Lakhs of consumers across the country faced mobile messaging outage for bank and payment OTPs, company service and promotional matters and even for Aadhaar and Covid vaccination drive schedules (through CoWin platform) with telecom companies implementing Trai’s rules for registration and standardisation of customer communication to guard against pesky and fraudulent messages. The new standards, based on blockchain technology, have been pending since 2019, and telcos have finally implemented them amid rising instances of unsolicited commercial communication, pesky calls and even phishing attacks through mobile phones. Telecom companies such as Reliance Jio, Airtel and Vodafone Idea mandated the standards post Sunday midnight (0001 hours Monday) and this caught many companies, banks, and even government agencies by surprise. “The measure was taken as per Trai’s directive. While there were customer outages on Monday as the day started, we are hopeful that these would be sorted out soon as corporates, telemarketers, banks and payment companies and government agencies fall in line with the mandate,” top mobile industry officials told TOI. As per Trai’s mandate, companies, banks and payment companies, government agencies and telemarketers need to link themselves with telecom operators, and also register the messaging templates (mostly the content of communication) to get their messages through to the customers (the process is known as content scrubbing). Telecom industry officials claim that they had been prodding all of them to register at the earliest, but there have still been delays. “And with the Delhi high court recently seeking implementation of the guidelines, we had no option but to enforce the same,” a senior executive with a big telco said. Telecom industry officials said that after consumers started complaining about problems in banking and payment services, they gave leniency in some of the critical transactions. Even the Aadhaar and CoWin platform messaging was restored so that important transactional messaging could be carried out unhindered. “The relaxation was given with a clear understanding that all the necessary registrations would be completed over the next one or two days. Or else we will have no other option but to discontinue the messaging services of those left unregistered,” the official said. The implementation, however, had created problems for lakhs of customers who kept on waiting for OTPs and other crucial messages, but all in vain. Many of them complained to banks and payment companies about incomplete transactions but help was difficult to get. Trai had sought implementation of the measure was unsolicited commercial communication continued unabated and there was no respite even after the rollout of the do-not-disturb (DND) service. The government is also getting stricter on the menace and has decided to impose penalty on the tele-marketers, while disconnecting resources in case of repeat violations. Also, the Centre is setting up a Digital Intelligence Unit (DIU) to coordinate with various stakeholders when investigating fraudulent activities that are conducted using telecom resources, communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in the middle of last month. The minister directed telecom ministry officials to conduct a meeting with mobile operators and tele-marketers to apprise them of the seriousness of the issue and to ensure compliance with the laid-down rules and procedures. For effective handling of unsolicited commercial communication and also tackle financial frauds, it has been decided to develop a web/mobile application and SMS-based system for redressal mechanism. "This will enable telecom subscribers to lodge their complaints related to matters involving UCC," the government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-rules-for-pesky-calls-lead-to-sms-outages/articleshow/81401184.cms||Pankaj Doval
March 9, 2021||Business||Desi apps offer local alternative to giants||NEW DELHI: A bunch of domestic apps pitching themselves as homegrown alternatives to global social media behemoths are flourishing, partly due to support from government agencies. Dubbed as Twitter’s competitor, Koo was founded in March 2020 and has reached nearly 5.4 million downloads in India, according to data analytics firm Sensor Tower. Map My India, dubbed as an alternative to Google Maps, has nearly 1 million downloads. It has also been integrated with the Co-Win app. “We are not competing with Twitter, which operates on a global scale, mainly serving the English-speaking audience. We aim to serve the people of India who do not have an option to microblog in their own language because of linguistic barriers. We have given users the option to choose their own language,” said Mayank Bidawatka, co-founder of Koo. The homegrown app currently supports English, along with Hindi, Kannada, Tamil, Telugu and Marathi. It also has a Beta version that supports Bengali. Koo’s popularity shot up nearly a month ago when several BJP politicians, including IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, joined the platform. On February 10, Prasad also praised Koo during a question hour in Rajya Sabha. “Koo is a made-in-India app that has become a toast for success today and we should be proud of it... Let us salute the extraordinary courage of our start-ups,” he said. Twitter, founded in 2006, has over 90 million lifetime downloads in India, according to Sensor Tower. Active monthly users, according to Prasad last week, stand at 17.5 million in India. Read AlsoHow Modi made IT ministry burn the midnight oil to ban Chinese appsThe decision to ban Chinese origin apps including TikTok and WeChat, just ahead of the third round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders, saw the information and technology ministry work through the night to put together the extensive paperwork needed for the unprecedentedMap My India began operations in 1995. But it only gained popularity recently when the company tied up with ISRO to develop apps and geospatial software to encourage local mapping systems. The app is available on both PlayStore and Apple Store. “A lot of big e-commerce and food delivery companies use our map in their backend to locate addresses accurately. Our map is also used in the navigation systems of some vehicles. But people did not know our name because we did not deal with the final internet user. After the ISRO announcement, however, our downloads went up nearly 500%,” said MMI chairman and managing director Rakesh Verma. Recently, the National Informatics Centre (NIC) launched “Sandes” to provide government officials with instant messaging services similar to WhatsApp. But regular users can also sign up for the platform by using their phone number. In November last year, Tooter, a microblogging platform modelled after Twitter gained limelight when several internet users pointed out that there was a “verified” account of PM Modi and Amit Shah on the platform. The app, available only on Google Playstore, however, did not clarify what the process of verification was. After an initial download spurt, Tooter’s growth stagnated. According to Sensor Tower, the app had a lifetime download of just 1.07 lakh. Read AlsoKoo, home-grown social media app: All you need to knowHome-grown social media app Koo is witnessing a surge in popularity with top politicians and others are flocking to it. The app started trending after the Centre rebuked Twitter on Wednesday for not complying with its orders to take down certain content and warned the social media giant that itAccording to Verma, the biggest challenge in promoting MMI as an option is the monopoly Google has in the market. “A lot of Android phones come preloaded with Google Maps since the company owns the operating system. It’s a misuse of dominance as users don’t even get a chance to choose an option that suits them better,” he said. Previous attempts to popularise domestic alternatives have not yielded desired results. After the Centre banned over 250 Chinese apps, including the Byte-Dance-owned short video sharing app, TikTok, several clones like Chingari, Dubsmash and Roposo flooded the Indian market. But a few months on, they have not managed to gain the popularity TikTok once enjoyed. Centre for Internet and Society researcher Arindrajit Basu asserted that local apps can grow only with government aid. “American technology giants based out of Silicon Valley thrive because of the network effect. Reining in these apps without regulation is very difficult because of the scale of their operations in both developed and emerging economies,” he said. According to Basu, the shift to domestic apps has been “politically motivated”, which is not sustainable in the long run. “A lot of domestic apps flourished by appealing to the nationalistic side of users. The migration from Twitter may have been enough to start them off, but it remains to be seen if the people they have attracted can sustain their growth. Domestic companies can compete if they are given regulatory incentives like tax benefits,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/desi-apps-offer-local-alternative-to-giants/articleshow/81401581.cms||Anam Ajmal
March 9, 2021||India||Hubby liable for woman’s injuries in matrimonial home, says Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: Denying pre-arrest bail to a man accused of assaulting his spouse, the Supreme Court on Monday said a husband would be primarily liable for injuries inflicted on a wife in the matrimonial home even if these were caused by his relatives. It was the man’s third marriage and the woman’s second. A year after the marriage, a child was born to them in 2018. In June last year, she lodged a complaint with Ludhiana police against her husband and in-laws after an alleged brutal assault on her by the husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law, accusing her of not meeting their growing dowry demands. When the husband’s counsel Kushagra Mahajan persisted with the request for anticipatory bail, a bench headed by CJI S A Bobde said, “What kind of a man are you? She alleges that you were about to kill her by strangulation. She alleges that you forced a miscarriage. What kind of man are you to use a cricket bat to beat up your wife?” TimesViewThe home must be a safe space for married women. And the responsibility of making it secure is collective but must rest primarily with the husband. The Supreme Court has made the right observation. Those trying to pass on the blame within the family should not only be discouraged; they should be made to intervene in potentially violent situations.When Mahajan said she had alleged it was the husband’s father who had used the bat to assault her, the CJI-led bench said, “It does not matter whether it was you (husband) or your father who allegedly used the bat to assault her. When injuries are inflicted on a woman in a matrimonial home, the primary liability is on the husband.” The bench rejected the man’s petition. The Punjab and Haryana high court, while refusing to grant anticipatory bail to the husband, had extracted the woman’s complaint, which read, “On June 12, 2020, at about 9 pm, the petitioner (husband) and his father, armed with a cricket bat, gave the complainant merciless beatings in which the petitioner’s mother also participated; the petitioner attempted to strangulate the complainant and his father put a pillow on her face with an intention to kill her; after giving her merciless beatings, she was thrown on the road; on being informed, the complainant’s father and brother came there and got the complainant treated as also medico legally examined.” She had also alleged that she had miscarried twice earlier because of assault in her matrimonial home. Looking at the medical report, the HC had said, “The complainant’s MLR reveals as many as ten injuries on her person including five on her head/face, one on her vagina and multiple reddish bruises of varying sizes around her neck. Eight of the ten injuries are medically opined to have been inflicted by a blunt weapon.” Refusing to grant pre-arrest bail, the HC had said, “The above injuries and the medical opinion with regard to eight of them having been inflicted with a blunt weapon give prima facie credence to the allegations by the complainant with regard to the petitioner having attempted to murder her by strangulation and of beating her with a cricket bat (a blunt weapon).” Watch Husband liable for woman's injuries in matrimonial home: Supreme Court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hubby-liable-for-womans-injuries-in-matrimonial-home-says-supreme-court/articleshow/81401699.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 9, 2021||India||It’s time that we are also given farmer tag: Women||GURGAON: “Sarkar bhi humein kisaan nahi maanti hai (even the government doesn’t consider us farmers),” said Manjula Rani, a woman farmer in her 50s from Palwal’s Aurangabad village. Manjula, who was at Atoha on the Delhi-Agra highway along with nearly 1,000 women farmers to demand the repeal of the new central agriculture laws, said she’s been working in farms for 30 years but has to look to the men for resources. “ Mehnat mazdoori hum kartein hain, lekin humhare hisse mein bas mehnat hi rehti hai. Na paise miltein hain na humare naam pe zameen hoti hai (we work hard and perform most of the big farming jobs, but we neither get the money nor the land ownership),” she said. Since the agitation began last November, thousands of women farmers have made their presence felt — driving tractors to Delhi’s borders and camping at various protest sites. On Monday, when they were asked to lead the protests to mark International Women’s Day, many said the time had come to move beyond token gestures and begin a national discussion on recognising women as farmers. Because of gender discrimination and practices like having land title rights mainly in men's names, women are denied the institutional support of banks, insurance companies, cooperatives and government departments. Pratibha Shinde, a farmer leader from Maharashtra, said, “Women plant the seeds and harvest the crops. About 80% of the farm work is done by us. But most don’t own the land that they cultivate.” Rani Duggal (46) from Rajasthan’s Alwar said she had been farming since she was a child said selling the produce was a challenge for women too. “Women farmers, because of poor mobility and access to transport facilities, are not on an equal footing with men when it comes to travelling to another place to sell their produce or bargain for better prices,” she pointed out. Prof MP Singh, a former agriculture scientist from Haryana Agriculture University, said as per Census 2011 and the Center for Land Governance index, women constitute 32% of India’s agricultural labour force and contribute 55-66% to farm production. Yet, their share of land holdings is just 12.8%. “The average size of women’s land holdings is 2.2 acres while that of men is about three acres. Among large agrarian states, their share is 11.9% in Haryana, 8.6% in Madhya Pradesh, 7.1% in Rajasthan, 6.1% in UP and 0.8% in Punjab,” he added. Swaraj India founder and psephologist Yogendra Yadav said the root of the problem lies in the official lack of recognition of the 'female agricultural worker', as a result of which they are excluded from entitlements like institutional credit, pension and irrigation sources. “In 2011, MS Swaminathan had proposed the Women Farmers Entitlement Bill, which lapsed in 2013. There is a chasm as far as land ownership is concerned, which impacts the economic empowerment of women in agriculture,” he added. Activist Vibhu Kapoor said there were several restrictive factors for women in agriculture, such as post-marital residence, traditionally institutionalised gender roles and low literacy. “Low awareness about right to land aggravates the magnitude of the problem. Some women also want to avoid conflict with male members of the family,” she added. Experts said farming is usually seen as a male fief and the gender imbalance has been normalised to such an extent that women don’t see themselves as primary players in the farming sector. “Women don’t decide which crop to sow nor do they take produce to mandis. As a result, the government registers only male members as farmers… We need to build local village functional committees and unions of women farmers to make any difference to policymaking,” said Anita Agarwal, assistant professor, department of political science, Dyal Singh College, Karnal. Women farmers said this is the first time their role in agriculture is being recognised at a national level. The protests, they said, have galvanised them into one unit and they are stepping out of their houses not as women, but as farmers. “We certainly need more dialogue around the issues faced by women farmers. But we first need to save the farming sector and then build on this momentum to demand rights for women farmers,” said women farmers’ right activist Kiranjit Kaur. 1/5When women farmers took centre stage at Ghazipur protest site Previous NextShow Captions<p> Women farmers at the Ghazipur border have got the 'protest' slogan painted on their palms with mehendi, as a mark of protest against the Centre's three agri laws, on International Women's Day.<br /></p><p>Women farmers raise slogans of "kisan ekta" (farmer unity) and deliver speeches at the Ghazipur protest site.<br /></p><p>Women reach the protest site in tractors, cars, jeeps and tempos, waving "mazdoor-Kisan" flags.</p><p>Organisers lay out elaborate plans to let women farmers manage the stage.</p><p> Many said the time had come to move beyond token gestures and begin a national discussion on recognising women as farmers.</p>(With inputs from Siddharth Tiwari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-time-that-we-are-also-given-farmer-tag-women/articleshow/81401794.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
March 9, 2021||Agra||For 30 years, she walked 8km a day to vaccinate kids in remote areas||AGRA: Madhuri Mishra had defied her family and circumstances to become a health worker in 1983. It was just five years after the national immunisation programme had been launched in the newly smallpox-free country. For 30 years since then, Madhuri, now 60, walked 8km every day to reach remote villages, immunise those most vulnerable and with the least access to healthcare. Even when they “banned” her from entering. “The first few years were very tough. People didn’t want to get immunised,” she told TOI on Monday. Myths and rumours about vaccines would reach these villages faster than she could. People were worried vaccines would cause infertility, fever or just make them sick with the disease the shot was meant to prevent. “But I’d keep walking, stopping at villages and vaccinating children. It had to be done. At times, people would misbehave. At others, they wouldn’t let me enter. I would keep going back, sometimes with others who had vaccinated their children, until I could convince them.” Her path to becoming an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) was also an interrupted one. While she was preparing, in 1978, her father died. No one else in her family wanted her to keep studying. So, she took up a job with a tailor to put together enough money for her ANM course while supporting her family. “After I got through, I served the Bah block for 10 years. Immunisation cover went up to 90% in my time. Then, I worked in the Fatehabad block for over 20 years. Here, too, I managed to take immunisation past the 90%-mark. Not for one day did I just sit in the office,” she said. Her work did not go unnoticed. “She has been a star immunisation campaigner. Wherever she worked saw a massive surge in immunisation. She barely ever took a day off,” said Agra chief medical officer Dr R C Pandey. It is the office of the CMO to which she was attached in 2013 because of her work. “I was made a health visitor (registered nurse or midwife with additional training in community public health nursing). I vaccinated thousands of children,” she said. “I think of myself as a soldier. I can’t leave my post.” And she didn’t, when Covid-19 hit. “Even though her retirement was round the corner, she would work at the district hospital, sometimes for over 12 hours,” said district immunisation officer Dr Sanjeev Burman. “In the last three days at work, she administered Covid-19 vaccines to several frontline workers. It has been a pleasure working with her.” Madhuri retired last week. Her husband was suffering from multiple ailments and died four years ago. Her two sons are now working. But she is far from done. “I miss going to work. I have asked the authorities to call me whenever they need my services. I am ready to keep going.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/for-30-years-she-walked-8km-a-day-to-vaccinate-kids-in-remote-areas/articleshow/81401842.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 9, 2021||India||Future Congress chief minister is now a BJP backbencher: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Urging Youth Congress workers to be consistent and focused in their activities, Congress’ Rahul Gandhi is learnt to have cited Jyotiraditya Scindia’s decision to quit the party as a short-sighted move which had only diminished his political stature. Addressing the national executive meeting of the Youth Congress, sources said Rahul gave a pep talk to the young cadres from state and national units. He is learnt to have cited “patience” and “ideology” as important tools in Congress and said that any worker heeding them can expect to grow in the organisation.  In that context, the former Congress president mentioned Scindia, a former Union minister and Congress general secretary who last year crossed over to BJP and is now a Rajya Sabha MP. Rahul said if Scindia had shown patience, he could have in future become the chief minister. He said big leaders leaving Congress were sitting in the back benches in BJP, adding that they can never become the CM in the rival party. According to a participant, the Congress leader urged workers to focus on their organisational activities while asking them to ignore “who comes to the party and who leaves it”. This is the second time that Rahul has made such biting comments about turncoats in the meeting of the youth outfit, having made a similar remark — “whoever wants to leave can leave” — during the crisis in Rajasthan last year when Sachin Pilot rebelled with a group of party MLAs to threaten the survival of the Ashok Gehlot government.  The remark comes amid rumblings in the Congress with a group of senior members questioning the functioning of the party, with public comments that Congress was weakening by the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/future-congress-chief-minister-is-now-a-bjp-backbencher-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/81401900.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||Election Commission is for greater inclusion so that no voter is left out: CEC Sunil Arora||Ahead of another round of state polls, CEC Sunil Arora talks to Bharti Jain about major initiatives during his tenure that ends next month, pointing to measures like the universal reach of Helpline 1950 and postal ballot for 80-plus voters and people with disabilitiesEC has sought remote voting via ETPBS for NRIs? Will this be allowed for resident migrant voters too? Also, is online voting a future possibility? A large number of Indians are outside the spectrum of voting on account of their physical location, which could be because of their occupation or education or other reasons. EC has always stood for promoting greater inclusion for  so that no voter is left behind. Technology is a big enabler in bridging the gap and offers new solutions. This includes students, patients, professionals, migrant labour and essential service providers. Early this year, we started a research project for enabling remote voting, using cutting edge technology, in consultation with IIT-Madras and eminent technologists from IITs and other leading institutions. Over the last few months, a dedicated team has been working to give shape to this project. I am happy to share that we have made good progress. It needs to be underscored that the project is neither aimed at internet-based voting nor does it imply voting from home. For the commission, transparency and confidentiality of voting has always been a guiding consideration in ensuring free, fair and credible elections. India is one of the few countries that held a successful assembly election in ‘physical’ mode months after Covid-19 outbreak. What was the basis of EC’s confidence? As the commission said in September 2020 and has been reiterating, conducting elections despite Covid concerns is not a leap in the dark but a ‘leap of faith’. It is premised on meticulous planning of every detail by the EC team at HQs and at field level down till every polling station. Starting with elections to the council of states, the commission decided to announce Bihar assembly elections. With voting percentage in Bihar surpassing those in earlier polls, these measures are now a template for current and future polls. TMC has questioned holding of polls in Bengal in eight phases... EC has gone by inputs from multiplicity of sources — from deputy election commissioners, observations during our visits to poll-bound states, NCRB reports on political killings. Given charges and counter-charges of political violence, and in view of availability of central forces and their movement, we devised a schedule where West Bengal has one phase more than Lok Sabha polls and 2016 assembly polls (where six phases were effectively seven) and Assam has three phases instead of two earlier. However, total time between announcement of poll and counting day has been reduced to 66 days from 77 days in 2016. Advertising and publicity via social media platforms have emerged as a major part of campaign expenditure by political parties. A panel set up by you suggested monitoring of ‘paid-for’ hashtag trends. Given the faceless nature of social media campaigning, do you think it is a doable thing to account for expenditure on hashtag trends?  The commission has been issuing advisories to political parties for maintaining high standards in election campaign and to observe restraint and decency. Any violation is dealt with immediately with strict action like censoring the violators and even debarring them from election campaign for a fixed period or remainder of the election. Social media platforms had agreed upon a Voluntary Code of Ethics (since March 2019). Recently, the IT ministry released amended IT rules, which lay down a mechanism to deal with specific complaint concerning social media posts. We will go by time limits agreed in our voluntary code of ethics. Harish Kumar committee will come out with recommendation for expenditure limit for candidates. Any electoral reforms that you would want to be in place on priority? The commission has proposed that Section 14(b) of the RP Act, 1950, may be amended so as to provide that ‘qualifying date’ for enrolment in relation to an elector would be the date on which a person becomes 18 years old. Also, we have mooted amendments to RP Act and Aadhaar Act to link Aadhaar with electoral roll. Another reform sought by us is bringing print media under purview of Section 126 of RP Act or the ‘silence period’. EC is also seeking powers to regulate registration and de-registration of political parties to rule out possibility of political parties being formed simply to avail the benefit of income tax exemption. What are the steps you have taken to further the legacy of the commission? The commission is in existence since January 25, 1950. In its seven decades, it has conducted 17 general elections and a number of assembly elections, council of states elections besides President/Vice President elections. On January 23, 2020, the commission organised the first Sukumar Sen lecture to honour our first CEC, who not only laid the foundation of electoral administration but also successfully conducted two general elections. Also, a T N Seshan Chair has been established in IIIDEM, Delhi, acknowledging his enduring contribution to the cause of probity, transparency and integrity in various aspects of the electoral process. What are your plans after retirement? Well, I plan to write a couple of books, possibly one on my career as a bureaucrat in Rajasthan and another on the subject of aviation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/election-commission-is-for-greater-inclusion-so-that-no-voter-is-left-out/articleshow/81401924.cms||Bharti Jain
March 9, 2021||India||Horticulture output to hit all-time high||NEW DELHI: Just as India’s foodgrain output witnessed a record surge despite challenges posed by Covid-19, the country’s horticulture production too is likely to touch an all-time high of 327 million tonnes (MT) in 2020-21 with potato and mango dominating the vegetables and fruits segments, respectively. Estimates of horticulture crops in the 2020-21 crop year (July-June cycle), released on Monday, show an increase of nearly 2% over 2019-20 in production of fruits, vegetables, aromatic & medicinal plants and plantation crops. Output of spices and flowers has, however, shown a decline over the previous year.  Acreage records show that the area under horticulture crops has also consistently been increasing in tune with growing demand for fruits and vegetables in the country. Overall figures show that the horticulture production has once again outstripped foodgrain production in 2020-21 – a trend which has been visible since 2012-13. Driven by an increase in output of potato by nearly 10%, the overall output of vegetables is estimated to be 194 million tonnes (MT) in 2020-21 compared to 189 MT in the previous crop year. Among the three most popular kitchen staples, tomatoes, onions and potatoes (TOP), onions recorded a marginal increase, while tomato production dipped by nearly 1 MT in 2020-21 compared to 2019-20. Backed by the ‘king of fruits’ mango that recorded an increase of over 4% to 21 MT, the overall production of fruits is estimated to be 103 MT in 2020-21 compared to 102 MT in 2019-20. Output of bananas too is estimated to be higher at 33.7 MT for 2020-21 compared with 32.5 MT last year. The ministry had last month released estimated output data of foodgrains, showing a new record of around 303 MT which is over 2% higher than the production in previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/horticulture-output-to-hit-all-time-high/articleshow/81401959.cms||Vishwa Mohan
March 9, 2021||India||Discharge accused even before trial in frivolous cases, says Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: Expressing concern over misuse of criminal procedure to harass people for personal vendetta by filing frivolous cases, the Supreme Court on Monday asked the trial courts “to nip in the bud” such cases by discharging the accused even before trial.  Holding that a litigant, caught in a frivolous case, loses a self of himself in the legal battle to protect himself and his reputation, a bench of Justices M M Shantanagoudar and R Subhash Reddy said it is the duty of the trial court, being the first line of defence of the criminal justice system, to protect people from vexatious litigation. “We are of the considered opinion that the trial courts have the power to not merely decide on acquittal or conviction of the accused person after the trial, but also the duty to nip frivolous litigations in the bud even before they reach the stage of trial by discharging the accused in fit cases. This would not only save judicial time that comes at the cost of public money, but would also protect the right to liberty that every person is entitled to under Article 21 of the Constitution,” Justice Shantanagoudar, who wrote the judgement, said. Times ViewCourts are instruments to obtain justice, not avenues where private vendettas are carried out through legal means. The apex court has rightly said that such proclivities must be discouraged. In fact, in cases where mala fide intention is proved beyond doubt, penalties must be imposed.The bench said a significant factor in this backlog is the vast “mass of frivolous litigation” instituted year after year by litigants with an intent to use the courts of justice for their own mischievous ends. “Curtailing such vexatious litigation is, thus, a crucial step towards a more effective justice system — a step that cannot be taken without the active involvement of the lower judiciary, especially in criminal proceedings,” it said. The court passed the order while quashing proceedings against four members of a family, including one 84-year old man and a person of unsound mind, against whom complaints were filed six years after an alleged case of assault. Holding that a trial judge is duty-bound under the Constitution and CrPC to identify and dispose of frivolous litigation at an early stage, the bench said, “A falsely accused person not only suffers monetary damages but is exposed to disrepute and stigma from society. While running from pillar to post to find a lawyer to represent his case and arranging finances to defend himself before the court of law, he loses a part of himself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/discharge-accused-even-before-trial-in-frivolous-cases-says-supreme-court/articleshow/81402005.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 9, 2021||---||TMC, NDA, DMK set to win Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu: Opinion poll||Incumbents are likely to retain power in West Bengal, Kerala and Assam while Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are in for a change of regime, a Times Now opinion poll aired on Monday suggested. According to the poll conducted by CVoter, Trinamool Congress is likely to survive a major surge by BJP in West Bengal and win 154 of the 294 seats in the assembly. BJP is projected to win 107 seats, a massive jump from the three it won in 2016, but fall well short of challenging TMC. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance will be an also ran winning just 33 seats according to this poll.  In Tamil Nadu, the DMK led alliance is projected to win by a comfortable margin bagging 158 of the 234 seats, leaving the AIADMK-led NDA with just 65 seats. In Kerala, LDF will buck the state’s trend of alternating between the two fronts and retain power comfortably winning 82 of the 140 seats, the poll estimated. BJP is likely to hold on to its tally of just one seat. In Assam, NDA could just cross the half-way mark winning 67 of the 126 seats, if the poll is right. In Puducherry, NDA is expected to win 18 seats, giving it a slim majority in the 30-member House. If the predictions prove accurate, they would be a disappointment for the two major national parties. For the Congress it would mean settling for consolation prizes in the form of a junior partner status in Tamil Nadu and a somewhat improved tally in Kerala and Assam. For BJP, the reduced strength in Assam and making no significant progress in Kerala and Tamil Nadu would be a dampener and falling short in West Bengal would hurt despite the huge gains vis-a-vis five years ago. For the Left, such results would be a mixed bag with reason to celebrate in Kerala and for alarm in West Bengal. The DMK would be unambiguously happy while TMC would be relieved at surviving a real scare but very aware of BJP looming large as a threat to its continued dominance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/tmc-nda-dmk-set-to-win-bengal-assam-tamil-nadu-opinion-poll/articleshow/81402248.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||TMC, NDA, DMK set to win Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu: Opinion poll||Incumbents are likely to retain power in West Bengal, Kerala and Assam while Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are in for a change of regime, a Times Now opinion poll aired on Monday suggested. According to the poll conducted by CVoter, Trinamool Congress is likely to survive a major surge by BJP in West Bengal and win 154 of the 294 seats in the assembly. BJP is projected to win 107 seats, a massive jump from the three it won in 2016, but fall well short of challenging TMC. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance will be an also ran winning just 33 seats according to this poll.  In Tamil Nadu, the DMK led alliance is projected to win by a comfortable margin bagging 158 of the 234 seats, leaving the AIADMK-led NDA with just 65 seats. In Kerala, LDF will buck the state’s trend of alternating between the two fronts and retain power comfortably winning 82 of the 140 seats, the poll estimated. BJP is likely to hold on to its tally of just one seat. In Assam, NDA could just cross the half-way mark winning 67 of the 126 seats, if the poll is right. In Puducherry, NDA is expected to win 18 seats, giving it a slim majority in the 30-member House. If the predictions prove accurate, they would be a disappointment for the two major national parties. For the Congress it would mean settling for consolation prizes in the form of a junior partner status in Tamil Nadu and a somewhat improved tally in Kerala and Assam. For BJP, the reduced strength in Assam and making no significant progress in Kerala and Tamil Nadu would be a dampener and falling short in West Bengal would hurt despite the huge gains vis-a-vis five years ago. For the Left, such results would be a mixed bag with reason to celebrate in Kerala and for alarm in West Bengal. The DMK would be unambiguously happy while TMC would be relieved at surviving a real scare but very aware of BJP looming large as a threat to its continued dominance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-nda-dmk-set-to-win-bengal-assam-tamil-nadu-opinion-poll/articleshow/81402312.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||Denied tickets, five TMC MLAs cross over to BJP||KOLKATA/MALDA: Five senior Trinamool Congress MLAs who had been denied tickets to seek re-election joined BJP on Monday as part of an exodus that saw Mamata Banerjee’s party also lose a designated candidate and 14 local body members in Malda, giving the saffron camp a majority in a zilla parishad for the first time in Bengal.  The defections, which came a day after PM Modi signalled “game over” for Trinamool at a massive Brigade rally in Kolkata, included the outgoing deputy speaker and Satgachhia MLA Sonali Guha, who used to be CM Mamata’s shadow during her opposition days. Legislators Rabindranath Bhattacharya (Singur), Jotu Lahiri (Shibpur), Sital Sardar (Sankrail) and Dipendu Biswas (Basirhat Dakshin) also made a beeline for BJP, which has been an open house for disgruntled Trinamool folk ever since Suvendu Adhikari opened the floodgates. The exit of former minister Bhattacharya could tilt the scales against Trinamool in the seat. Lahiri too might make things difficult for his former party in Shibpur. Trinamool’s first choice for the Habibpur seat in Malda, Sarala Murmu, sprung a nasty surprise on the party by switching to BJP just three days after getting the ticket. Getting a whiff of her plans, Trinamool hurriedly announced a change on Monday morning, fielding Pradip Baskey in Habibpur.  Malda Zilla Parishad sabhadipati Gour Mandal, an Adhikari loyalist and MLA aspirant who missed out on a ticket, led 14 Trinamool members to BJP. Mandal, who wants to contest the Manikchawk seat, made the move after Trinamool gave the ticket to Sabitri Mitra. With nine others crossing from Trinamool to BJP earlier, the saffron party’s tally in the 38-member zilla parishad now stands at 23, three more than the number required for a majority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/denied-tickets-five-tmc-mlas-cross-over-to-bjp/articleshow/81402382.cms||Subhro Maitra
March 9, 2021||---||Denied tickets, five TMC MLAs cross over to BJP||KOLKATA/MALDA: Five senior Trinamool Congress MLAs who had been denied tickets to seek re-election joined BJP on Monday as part of an exodus that saw Mamata Banerjee’s party also lose a designated candidate and 14 local body members in Malda, giving the saffron camp a majority in a zilla parishad for the first time in Bengal.  The defections, which came a day after PM Modi signalled “game over” for Trinamool at a massive Brigade rally in Kolkata, included the outgoing deputy speaker and Satgachhia MLA Sonali Guha, who used to be CM Mamata’s shadow during her opposition days. Legislators Rabindranath Bhattacharya (Singur), Jotu Lahiri (Shibpur), Sital Sardar (Sankrail) and Dipendu Biswas (Basirhat Dakshin) also made a beeline for BJP, which has been an open house for disgruntled Trinamool folk ever since Suvendu Adhikari opened the floodgates. The exit of former minister Bhattacharya could tilt the scales against Trinamool in the seat. Lahiri too might make things difficult for his former party in Shibpur. Trinamool’s first choice for the Habibpur seat in Malda, Sarala Murmu, sprung a nasty surprise on the party by switching to BJP just three days after getting the ticket. Getting a whiff of her plans, Trinamool hurriedly announced a change on Monday morning, fielding Pradip Baskey in Habibpur.  Malda Zilla Parishad sabhadipati Gour Mandal, an Adhikari loyalist and MLA aspirant who missed out on a ticket, led 14 Trinamool members to BJP. Mandal, who wants to contest the Manikchawk seat, made the move after Trinamool gave the ticket to Sabitri Mitra. With nine others crossing from Trinamool to BJP earlier, the saffron party’s tally in the 38-member zilla parishad now stands at 23, three more than the number required for a majority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/denied-tickets-five-tmc-mlas-cross-over-to-bjp/articleshow/81402381.cms||Subhro Maitra
March 9, 2021||India||Modi goes shopping to laud women enterprise, creativity||NEW DELHI: After handing over his social media accounts on International Women’s Day last year to seven women who inspire, this year Prime Minister Narendra Modi chose to take the online shopping route to purchase a few products showcasing “women enterprise, creativity and India's culture”. “Women are playing a leading role in India’s quest to become ‘aatmanirbhar’. On International Women’s Day, let us commit to encouraging entrepreneurship among women,” the PM tweeted while sharing that he had bought a few products to celebrate women enterprise. The PM had posted another tweet earlier where he said, “saluting our indomitable #NariShakti on International Women's Day! India takes pride in the many accomplishments of the women of our nation. It is our Government’s honour to be getting the opportunity to work towards furthering women empowerment across a wide range of sectors.” Sharing details of the products he had bought, the PM said that he had purchased an exquisite hand embroidered shawl made by artisans of the Toda Tribe of Tamil Nadu and that it “looked wonderful”. he also shared that this product is marketed by Tribes India. Using the hashtag “#NariShakti” the PM went on to share a screenshot of a Gond art paining he purchased from Tribes India. “Adding more colour to the surroundings! Art by our tribal communities is spectacular. This handcrafted Gond Paper Painting merges colours and creativity. Bought this painting today,” he said. The PM also purchased a traditional shawl from Nagaland and said, “India is proud of the Naga culture, synonymous with bravery, compassion and creativity.” Next the PM tweeted that he had bought a Khadi cotton Madhubani painted stole. “Khadi is closely associated with Mahatma Gandhi and India’s rich history.” Modi then went on to say, “I am surely going to use this handmade jute file folder from West Bengal. Made by tribal communities of the state, you all must have a jute product from West Bengal in your homes!”  The PM then wrote that “you have seen me wear the Gamusa very often. It is extremely comfortable. Today, I bought a Gamusa made by various selfhelp groups of Kakatipapung Development Block.” He further said that he was eagerly awaiting to receive the classic palm craft Nilavilakku made by women based in Kerala. “It is commendable how our #NariShakti has preserved and popularised local crafts and products,” the PM added. Meanwhile, lauding the role of women healthcare workers in the ongoing pandemic, Union minister for women and child development, Smriti Irani said in a tweet, “There is No HERO Without HER! The spread of Covid-19 brought to the fore selfless and determined role of #NariShakti during the crisis. This Women's Day, we salute our 6 million+ women health workforce for their unequivocal contribution in India’s fight against Corona.@WHO.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-goes-shopping-to-laud-women-enterprise-creativity/articleshow/81402390.cms||---
March 9, 2021||World||Lining up countries to help India attain energy goals: US||NEW DELHI: The US says it’s putting together a group of countries that could help India with financing its massive goal of producing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. In a chat between US President Joe Biden’s climate czar John Kerry and former energy secretary Ernest Moniz over the weekend, Kerry said, “India has a plan to produce about 450 GW of renewable power by 2030, it’s a very ambitious goal. It’s a great goal but they need about $600 billion in order to be able to help make that kind of a transition. … I’ve put together a small consortia of a number of countries that are prepared to help India with some of the finance and transition.” There is no clarity on which countries or private sector entities might be roped in for the effort. Kerry added that he was talking to “major investment houses and asset managers in our country to try to determine how much private sector capital can be directed in the right place here so that we can make this transition faster.” Indian officials said this was still “work in progress”. Some clarity may be expected when a Biden-initiated climate summit is held with the world’s top carbon-emitters on April 22. However, Kerry’s assertion means the fundamentals of India-US cooperation would shift to technology, innovation and climate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/lining-up-countries-to-help-india-attain-energy-goals-us/articleshow/81402402.cms||Indrani Bagchi
March 9, 2021||India||Lining up countries to help India attain energy goals: US||NEW DELHI: The US says it’s putting together a group of countries that could help India with financing its massive goal of producing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. In a chat between US President Joe Biden’s climate czar John Kerry and former energy secretary Ernest Moniz over the weekend, Kerry said, “India has a plan to produce about 450 GW of renewable power by 2030, it’s a very ambitious goal. It’s a great goal but they need about $600 billion in order to be able to help make that kind of a transition. … I’ve put together a small consortia of a number of countries that are prepared to help India with some of the finance and transition.” There is no clarity on which countries or private sector entities might be roped in for the effort. Kerry added that he was talking to “major investment houses and asset managers in our country to try to determine how much private sector capital can be directed in the right place here so that we can make this transition faster.” Indian officials said this was still “work in progress”. Some clarity may be expected when a Biden-initiated climate summit is held with the world’s top carbon-emitters on April 22. However, Kerry’s assertion means the fundamentals of India-US cooperation would shift to technology, innovation and climate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lining-up-countries-to-help-india-attain-energy-goals-us/articleshow/81402396.cms||Indrani Bagchi
March 9, 2021||India||Opposition protest over fuel price disrupts House||NEW DELHI: Proceedings in both Houses of Parliament were disrupted on Monday amid protests by opposition members over rising fuel prices on the first day of the second leg of the Budget session. When Lok Sabha was reconvened at 7pm after an adjournment, the Chair allowed discussion on the issue of women empowerment on the occasion of International Women’s Day. The discussion continued for about 20 minutes amid continued protests by opposition members, leading to adjournment of the House for the day. In Rajya Sabha, Congress MPs raised slogans demanding discussion on rising fuel prices. “Petrol and diesel prices are nearly Rs 100 per litre and Rs 80 per litre, respectively. LPG prices have also gone up. Rs 2 lakh crore have been collected by putting excise duty/cess, because of this entire country including farmers are suffering,” leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said. The House was first adjourned for around an hour at 10am after a small discussion on the occasion of International Women’s Day as Congress members started raising slogans. However, the ruckus continued when it resumed at 11am, prompting deputy chair man Harivansh to again adjourn the House till 1pm. After 1pm, the House again saw successive adjournments over the same issue before it was finally adjourned for the day at 1.30pm by Vandana Chavan, who was in the Chair. Before that though, Chavan announced that the Upper House will meet at its normal time of 11am to 6pm from Tuesday. The timings were changed to 9am to 2pm from last year’s monsoon session due to the pandemic. The revised timings continued during the first leg of the Budget session. The members will be seated in the chamber and the galleries only with some distancing, Chavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-protest-over-fuel-price-disrupts-house/articleshow/81402405.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||In one-day record, India administers 17 lakh Covid vaccines||NEW DELHI: India administered nearly 17 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses till 9 pm on Monday, the highest doses given in a single day so far. Of this, over 71% doses were given to those above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 60 years with specified comorbidities. The rapid increase in vaccination against Covid-19 assumes significance, particularly in the wake of a surge in infection in several states such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. A total of 2.2 crore vaccine doses have been given since the launch of the nationwide vaccination drive on January 16. While the first phase of the drive included health and frontline workers, 37.1 lakh health and 3.1 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated with two doses. On Monday, 16.9 lakh vaccine doses were given till 9 pm. Out of which 14.3 lakh beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose, and 2.6 lakh health and frontline workers received the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-one-day-record-india-administers-17-lakh-covid-vaccines/articleshow/81402430.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||24 states see weekly rise in Covid cases||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 infections in the country surged by 10% last week with as many as 24 out of 36 states and UTs registering a week-on-week rise in cases last week. Of these, 13 showed a significant spike with Covid-19 cases rising by at least 300 over the previous week or showing a surge of 25% or more. Maharashtra continued to drive the surge in national numbers, recording 64,657 fresh cases during the week (March 1-7), the highest in 20 weeks since October 12-18. The spurt of the pandemic in Punjab was also dramatic. It recorded 6,215, cases — a 22week high.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Read AlsoMaharashtra: Limited lockdown in 16 Thane hotspotsThe Thane municipal corporation late on Monday announced a “limited lockdown” or micro containment zones in 16 local hotspots till March 31. At a meeting chaired by CM Uddhav Thackeray on Monday, district collectors supported the “localised containment zone” plan against a lockdown across the city.Kerala logged the second highest number of new cases in India during the week at 17,924. In terms of percentage rise, Himachal Pradesh showed an 82% growth in cases in the past week as compared with the previous one, followed by Punjab at 67% and Haryana 65%.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); On Monday, India reported 15,376 fresh cases. The seven-day rolling average of daily cases has now risen uninterruptedly for 22 days. The average crossed 17,000 to 17,189 on Monday. The country recorded 77 deaths from the virus on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/24-states-see-weekly-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/81402468.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
March 9, 2021||India||CJI clears air on ‘will you marry her’ query||NEW DELHI: Chief Justice S A Bobde chose Women's Day to declare that the Supreme Court has always accorded highest respect to womanhood and lamented the out of context reporting last week on his “will you marry her" query that got traction among a section of women activists who demanded his resignation. A bench of Justices Bobde, A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said expressing a point of view was always welcome but it should be contextual. On Monday, while hearing a petition filed on behalf of a minor rape survivor seeking to abort her 26-week-old pregnancy arising from sexual assault, the bench recalled the unseemly controversy over a "complete misreporting of the query". "We did not ask the man to go and marry the girl. We only wanted to know whether he was willing to marry the girl as per his earlier commitment," the bench said. Advocate V K Biju, appearing for the rape survivor, complimented the court for being generous enough to allow urgent hearing of the girl's plea for medical termination of pregnancy. The CJI-ld bench informed Biju about the medical report advising against termination given the advanced stage of pregnancy. Returning to the controversy, the bench told Biju, "It is good to hear compliments from the bar though we heard opposite opinions last week." Biju said he was against the manner in which the institution's reputation was tarnished and judges were targeted over an unnecessary controversy. The bench said, "Our reputation is in the hands of the bar." Sharing the CJI's anguish over the controversy, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said, "What was reported about the Supreme Court's query was completely off the context of the case. Statements were twisted out of context to mean something completely different." The CJI said, "We don't remember it to be a case of marital rape." When the CJI-led bench stressed that a court of law needs to ask questions to elicit facts behind the case, the SG quoted Section 165 of the Evidence Act, which provides, "The judge may, in order to discover or to obtain proper proof of relevant facts, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties, about any fact relevant or irrelevant; and may order the production of any document or thing." Justice Bobde said, "The fact of the matter is that we have the highest regard for womanhood." The CJI's "will you marry her" query last week had come in a case in which two minors had developed physical relationship and years later, the girl had returned from the police station without lodging a complaint against the man after his mother and her mother signed an agreement that the boy and girl would be married after she attained majority. When he resiled, the girl slapped rape charges against him. To know the marital status of the man, the CJI-led bench had asked "will you marry her now" to decide whether he was entitled to bail in an alleged rape FIR. The bench's intent was to grant bail to the man if he agreed to honour his earlier marriage commitment. Once the man said he was already married to someone else, the bench castigated him for seducing a minor girl and asked him to face the rigour of rape case trial. It had protected him from arrest for four weeks to allow him to apply for regular bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cji-clears-air-on-will-you-marry-her-query/articleshow/81402476.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 9, 2021||India||Marriages work with two hands, not one: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday rejected a woman’s plea to live with her husband 14 years after she deserted him and scotched reconciliation efforts by slapping false dowry harassment charges against him and his relatives, the two grounds on which the trial court and the high court had granted him divorce. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai brushed aside the woman’s counsel Dushyant Parashar’s plea for quashing the decree of divorce and her desire to live with him. The woman had left the matrimonial home in 2007 soon after the man started losing vision. Later, she slapped dowry harassment charges against him and his sister, when he filed for divorce. The bench said, “Marriage works with two hands, not one. After 14 years of separation, you want to try your hand at matrimony with the same man whom you deserted?” Finding her plea for quashing of the divorce decree making no impact on the bench, Parashar said the alimony of Rs 10,000 per month for the woman and her 18-yearold daughter was insufficient to make ends meet. He said she wanted Rs 35,000 every month to meet the growing needs of the child’s education. When Parashar said the woman was also worried as to who would bear the expenses of her daughter’s marriage, the bench said, “Who says the father will not get her married? Of course, the father will get her married.” The bench refused to entertain the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/marriages-work-with-two-hands-not-one-supreme-court/articleshow/81402502.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 9, 2021||India||4 child victims of sexual abuse denied justice||NEW DELHI: At least four child victims of sexual abuse are denied justice every day while as many as 3,000 cases registered and probed under the Pocso Act fail to reach the courts for a fair trial every year, reveals a study by Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation (KSCF) study released on the International Women’s Day . The study “Police case disposal pattern: An enquiry into the cases filed under Pocso Act, 2012’, is an analysis of pattern of disposal by police of Pocso cases during 2017-19. It is based on the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. The NCRB data analysis is cited to say that in a large number (two-fifth) of Pocso cases which were disposed of by the police without chargesheet, the reason cited was ‘cases true but insufficient evidence, or untraced, or no clue’.  “Amongst other reasons, false reporting was the second most prominent reason for closure of Pocso cases. However closure of cases on this ground has reduced over the years from 40% in 2017 to 33% in 2019,” the report states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-child-victims-of-sexual-abuse-denied-justice/articleshow/81402517.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||In view of polls, Budget session likely to be curtailed||NEW DELHI: While normal Parliament proceedings are expected to resume from Tuesday after disruptions on Monday, the month-long second part of the Budget session, which was to conclude on April 8, will now be adjourned sine die on March 25. Official sources said the curtailment was discussed in the Lok Sabha business advisory committee meeting in which Speaker Om Birla is learnt to have said a decision should be taken as per the sentiments of MPs as a large number of them, mainly from poll-bound states, had written to him urging adjournment of the House earlier than scheduled. “Over 100 MPs from states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal wrote to the Speaker urging a shortened session so that they could contribute to their respective parties in the assembly polls,” a source said. The first phase of elections is on March 27 and the last of the eight phases in West Bengal is on April 29. The festival of Holi on March 29 was also taken into consideration as most MPs prefer staying in their respective constituencies for a longer duration during this time. Apart from these considerations, the Covid-19 situation, though vastly improved, continues to be a cause for worry. “Moreover, routine timings are being resumed, which will give enough time to complete the business as per the agenda,” the source said. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Birla also announced that the two Houses will resume their normal timing of 11am onwards from Tuesday. Due to social distancing norms in the wake of Covid-19, both Houses were meeting in two shifts since the monsoon session, with Rajya Sabha meeting in the first half and Lok Sabha in the second half. There was no winter session of Parliament. The move to return to normal timings was taken a day before the vaccination drive for MPs begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-view-of-polls-budget-session-likely-to-be-curtailed/articleshow/81402543.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||Iran warns against ‘efforts to destabilise’ ties with India||NEW DELHI: Amid speculation about the alleged role of Iranian agencies in the Israel embassy bomb attack, Iran on Monday warned against efforts to destabilise its growing ties with India. The Iranian embassy here said both countries won’t allow “third parties” to achieve their “sinister wishes”.  “While respecting the honourable government and authorities of India in their endeavour to thoroughly investigate and probe into the abovementioned incident in order to identify the orchestrators of such actions and to bring them to justice, this embassy strongly repudiates any unsubstantiated allegations or irresponsible comments in this regard and considers them as steps towards realising the sinister intentions of the enemies of Iran- India relations,” it said in a statement. Meanwhile, the statement added, the Iranian authorities have always expressed their readiness to cooperate “with the Indian friends in order to unravel the wicked intentions of the spoilers of bilateral relations”. “Emphasising on need to maintain these relations, Iran has always expressed its readiness to clarify the spoilers intentions,” tweeted the Iranian embassy. Without naming Israel, the Iranian embassy said Iran had itself been a victim of “terrorism waged by some terrorist governments and their agents”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iran-warns-against-efforts-to-destabilise-ties-with-india/articleshow/81402555.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||Madhya Pradesh passes ‘love jihad’ bill amid Shri Ram chants||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh assembly on Monday passed the MP Freedom of Religion Bill 2021 — the so-called ‘love jihad’ law — by voice vote amid chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’. The bill aims to check religious conversions through fraudulent means and contains provisions of 10 years of imprisonment and hefty fines. MP home minister Narottam Mishra hailed the passing of the bill and said the government was “not against love but jihad”. “We are against every such form of love that leads to ‘jihad’, hurts our sentiments and puts our daughters at risk. We are happy that the bill was cleared by the House on Women’s Day,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-passes-love-jihad-bill-amid-shri-ram-chants/articleshow/81402557.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||Bar body locks horns with apex court on limited physical hearing||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), with 13,000 advocate members, on Monday locked horns with the Supreme Court over the latter’s decision to begin hybrid hearing, a mix of physical and virtual proceedings, from March 15 and moved a petition seeking quashing of the standard operating procedures (SOPs) “unilaterally” issued by the court registry. The writ petition, under Article 32 of the Constitution claiming violation of the SCBA’s and its members’ fundamental right to carry out their profession, was filed by the association and its treasurer Meenesh Dubey demanding that the SOPs were unacceptable as it restricted physical hearing to three days a week, when the court takes up old matters. The SCBA said in the last couple of years, the court registry had developed a habit of issuing circulars without consulting the bar association, which it said was an equal partner with the court in justice delivery, and termed as unacceptable the registry’s decision to continue with virtual mode of hearing on Mondays and Fridays, when the court takes up fresh matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bar-body-locks-horns-with-apex-court-on-limited-physical-hearing/articleshow/81402560.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 9, 2021||World||UK MPs blast Indian government for failing to protect press freedom||LONDON: The Indian government came under fierce criticism in the House of Commons on Monday for allegedly violating the freedom of journalists to report on the farmer protests and the alleged use of brute force against protesters when British MPs debated a petition on the topic which has garnered over 115,000 signatures. Many MPs began by defending their right to debate issues of another sovereign country, saying many of their constituents had either farm land or relatives who worked on farm land in India and that human rights are universal. Most respected the fact India’s agricultural reforms were a domestic matter, but demanded that UK PM Boris Johnson raise their concerns with the Indian government, with some saying human rights were more important than any trade deal. Read AlsoIndia slams farm protest debate in House of Commons, says packed with false assertionsThe Indian government slammed a debate held in the House of Commons on press freedom and safety of farmer protesters in India, saying it was one-sided and packed with false assertions. The High Commission of India in London issued a statement immediately after the debate held in Westminster Hall atRead Also'Gross interference': India summons UK envoy, slams House debate on farm stirIndia on Tuesday summoned the British high commissioner and conveyed strong opposition to the "unwarranted" and "tendentious" debate on the farmer protests by a section of UK parliamentarians in the House of Commons.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told the UK high commissioner to India that“We regard India as a valuable friend and ally which makes it imperative we do not turn a blind eye,” said SNP MP Martyn Day, opening the debate on the petition titled ‘Urge the Indian Government to ensure safety of protestors & press freedom'..  “The petitions committee has always accepted petitions calling on the UK Government to engage with other Governments on human rights issues. “The petition was created by Gurch Singh whose family are from a farming background in Punjab after the distress he observed when he found his mother in tears watching Indian news channels coverage of protests. The escalation in violence and the press crackdown, including over social media accounts, cannot be ignored,” Day said. "The petition has been already signed by 115k people, which highlights the public interest and topicality of this issue." “The UK Tory Government, in their desperation to get a trade deal, are failing spectacularly to stand up for the human rights of the protesters,” claimed Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi MP. He then blasted “unscrupulous elements of the mainstream Indian media” for brandishing farmer protesters as “separatists and terrorists” because a significant number of them are Sikh. He said there were “millions of protesters” from across India of different faiths. “It is part of a pattern where Muslim Indians are labelled as Pakistanis, Christians as being under foreign influence, and Sikhs as Khalistani separatists,” he said. “As the granddaughter of Punjabi farmers, I am proud to speak in solidarity with the millions resisting Modi’s regime,” said Labour MP Nadia Whittome, who is of half Punjabi and half Anglo-Indian heritage. “It is not protesting farmers, Rihanna or Greta Thunberg who are dividing India; it is the BJP. This Conversative Government need to decide which side they are on: the side of farmers or the side of fascists," she declared. “The UK government values its trade relationship with India, but it must be broader and deeper than just trade, it must also be about joint promotion of democracy, human rights and upholding international law,” said Stephen Kinnock, Labour’s shadow minister for Asia. He said the fact that 11 Labour MPs had contributed to the debate showed how important issue is to Labour. “We are deeply concerned about reports of live ammunition being used by police,” he said. “Mr Modi does need to recognise the world is watching.” PoK-origin Labour MP Tahir Ali made a wild suggestion that the UK government should impose sanctions against India. “These sanctions should include banning Modi and other representatives of the BJP government from entering the UK and the seizure of any UK based assets belonging to Modi or BJP figures until these abuses stop,” he said. “The civil liberties of all Indians are being eroded by this extremist right-wing government. The UK should work alongside international organisations to protect human rights in India." It was not just Labour MPs lashing out. Even Conservative MP Paul Bristow said the actions of the Indian Government in response to the farmers’ protests had “crossed a line”. “Upholding the law should never be allowed to slide into authoritarian oppression,” he said. But Conservative MP Theresa Villiers, the lone voice defending India amongst the 20 odd MPs who took part in the debate, said: “Anywhere in the world agricultural reform is very, very difficult. It is always accompanied by division and controversy. Many of the laws governing India’s system of farm support date back to the ’50s and ’60s, a time when the country was sometimes on the edge of famine. Reform of farm subsidy and support has been under active and intensive discussion in India for 20 years, and international bodies such as the IMF have welcomed PM Modi’s attempt to take action on this challenge, which many of his predecessors have backed away from. He has repeatedly said that a core purpose of the reforms is to make farming more profitable.” “The UK government believes that freedom of speech, internet freedom alongside right to peaceful protest are vital to any democracy,” said Nigel Adams, minister for Asia at the foreign, commonwealth & development office, the government minster there to respond to the debate. “We look to the Indian government to uphold the freedoms guaranteed by its Constitution and international instruments to which India is party. Whilst this is an exciting time for the UK-India partnership it does not hinder us from raising difficult issues. Where we have serious and specific concerns, we will raise them directly with Indian government,” he said. The UK had not assessed India’s agricultural bills in relation to Article 9 of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture but “these reforms are domestic matter for India,” he added. Watch Farm protests: UK MP’s discuss press freedom and safety of protestors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-mps-blast-indian-government-for-failing-to-protect-press-freedom/articleshow/81402605.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 9, 2021||Business||Uber India not liable for TDS in earlier years: ITAT||Mumbai: A litigation that has been brewing for the past several years is now settled with the Mumbai bench of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) holding that Uber India is not liable to deduct tax at source (TDS) for payments made to the drivers. As reported earlier, routine TDS surveys have been carried out in the past in the office of Uber India in Mumbai. Uber India was regarded by the tax authorities as being the front face for Uber BV — the Netherlands-based company — and was treated as an ‘assessee-in-default’ for non-compliance with TDS obligations. While the case heard by the ITAT covers two consecutive years, the tribunal illustrates that for the financial year 2015-16, a tax demand of Rs 24.9 crore (including penal interest) had been raised on the Indian company for failure to deduct tax at source under section 194-C of the Income Tax (I-T) Act. This section casts obligations to deduct TDS on payments to contractors and sub-contractors. The ITAT pointed out that the transportation service is provided by the driver-partners to users (passengers) directly. It is the passengers who are responsible for making the payment. Neither Uber India nor Uber Netherlands are party to the ‘contract of transportation’ entered into between a user and the Uber driver. The drivers are at liberty to choose when to drive and when not to, and whether to accept or reject a request for the cab services received from a user via the Uber app. Uber BV is not the employer of the driver-partners, not the owner of the vehicles. It merely provides lead-generation services on a principal-to-principal basis via an app, for which a service fee (around 20% of the fare) is charged. Uber India merely acts as the remitter of payments (if non-cash) collected from passengers to the drivers on behalf of Uber BV and payment of the fee component to Uber BV. In August 2014, the Reserve Bank of India prohibited Uber BV from collecting payments on behalf of driver-partners in a bank account outside India (that is, in the Netherlands). Thereafter, Uber India was permitted to open a bank account in India to undertake collection and disbursement function on behalf of the Netherlands-based group company. For such service, it was paid a monthly fee of Rs 5 lakh.In its order dated March 4, the ITAT held that it can be safely concluded that the provisions of section 194-C do not apply as Uber India is not the person responsible for making the payments, it has not entered into any contract with the driver partners and, lastly, no work is carried out by the driver-partners for Uber India. However, after an amendment in the I-T Act, the scenario could be different. The ITAT also pointed out that clause (v) was inserted in section 204 of the I-T Act from the financial year 2019-20 onwards. It requires that any entity which is authorised to make payment on behalf of a non-resident will be required to deduct tax at source. However, this cannot apply to prior years, it noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uber-india-not-liable-for-tds-in-earlier-years-itat/articleshow/81401393.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||SSB DIG’s flat burgled in Patna||PATNA: Cash and valuables were stolen from the flat of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) DIG KC Vikram at Shanti Enclave apartment on Sharma Path under Rupaspur police station area in the state capital Sunday night. Vikram is currently posted at Tejpur in Assam. The incident came to light on Monday morning when some neighbours found the main gate of the flat on the fourth floor open. They informed the guard, who went inside and found clothes and other valuables scattered on the floor. The apartment secretary, Gautam, informed the DIG, who talked to the Patna police officers. Rupaspur SHO Madhusudan Kumar said the details of the valuables taken away by the thieves will be available only after arrival of the family. The family was expected to reach Patna either Monday night or on Tuesday morning, he said. Though there were two private security guards on duty at the apartment, no one noticed anything wrong. The police obtained the CCTV footage in which a youth is spotted entering the flat after breaking the locks open. The guards were also interrogated. The SHO said a complaint has been lodged on the statement of the apartment’s secretary. The neighbours told the police that the DIG’s family had shifted to Tejpur following the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19. His son is enrolled in a private school at Patna. “There is no night patrolling in the area despite repeated warnings by none other than CM Nitish Kumar to initiate disciplinary action against policemen for any lapses,” lamented a local resident, R B Pandey. He said the situation has deteriorated to such an extent that people are in a mood to sell off their property in the area. The incidents of theft in the area have alarmingly risen in recent months, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssb-digs-flat-burgled-in-patna/articleshow/81398132.cms||Ramashankar
March 9, 2021||Patna||Women auto drivers fight against all odds to make a living||PATNA: Back in 2013 when pink autos were launched in the city, nearly 50 women drivers hit the city roads. Their number, which went up to 150 in 2016, has drastically declined to only five because of the alleged lack of support from the state government. Women auto drivers — Kanchan Devi, Sangeeta Devi, Sushmita Kumari, Anita Devi and Sulekha Devi — are still fighting against all odds every day while becoming the butt of people’s crass jokes and facing disrespect. Bhoothnath Road resident Kanchan recalls that the Covid-19 lockdown dealt a crushing blow to her income and finances. The 38-year-old began driving an auto in 2013 to support herself and her three daughters after their “alcoholic” father died in 2012. Asked if her journey has been difficult, Kanchan answers, “We are often subjected to lewd comments and passersby often laugh at us. I, however, ignore such remarks because I am working only for my kids.” Other women have also faced similar disrespect and harassment. Sushmita says, “Men driving cabs and e-rickshaws often make fun of women auto drivers. Even my husband, Krishna Kumar, who is also an auto driver, was against my decision initially, but supported me when our family severed all ties with us and we were left with little money.” She claims that the new parking policy at the Patna airport has affected her income considerably. “Since no parking space has been allotted to the prepaid auto drivers, I have to wait outside the airport and often face harassment,” Sushmita rues. Another woman auto driver, Sangeeta, sold off her jewellery to buy an auto in 2016, but “did not receive a single penny from the government”. She alleges, “Most women left this job because they did not get any help. The government needs to recognise their hardships and promote pink auto drivers so that other women take up this profession proudly.” Anita, who also drives her auto on the airport route, is unhappy with the rise in fuel prices. “In 2020, the Covid-19 lockdown had disrupted our work completely. Now, it has become difficult to survive amid high fuel prices,” she rues. Sulekha, who works from 7am to 8pm and earns only Rs 500 every day, claims, “There are days when I do not earn any money.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-women-auto-drivers-fight-against-all-odds-to-make-a-living/articleshow/81399281.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||CISCE changes dates of some ICSE, ISC exams||Kolkata: The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations announced some changes in dates of ICSE and ISC examinations on Monday. In ICSE, economics and art scheduled on May 13 and 15 will be held on May 4 and 22 while for ISC, English literature will be held on May 4 instead of May 13 and the theory paper of home science is now scheduled for May 22 instead of May 15. The revised schedule, which follows close on the heels of the changes made by CBSE for the boards, has been sent to affiliated schools. Two more ICSE art papers have been rescheduled — from May 22 to 29 and from May 29 to June 5, according to a communication sent by Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the Council. The business studies paper in ISC has been shifted to June 18 while an art-and-craft paper will be held on May 5 and another on June 2. Hospitality management has moved up to June 5, biotechnology will be held on May 8 and the art paper on still life will be held on May 12. “The Council has not indicated any reason, but I think it is because of a combination wh-ere two subjects were scheduled the same day,” said Heritage School principal Seema Sapru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisce-changes-dates-of-some-icse-isc-exams/articleshow/81399014.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||N Chandrababu Naidu targets govt for dumping Amaravati, YSRC returns barb||GUNTUR: TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu on Monday asked the youth in Guntur city to revolt against the government for “killing the capital city of Amaravati”. Naidu, who was in the city to campaign for the municipal elections, said it was high time people teach YSRC a fitting lesson. Targeting the government for “shattering the dreams of youth in the state”, particularly of Guntur and Vijayawada, to get a world-class capital city, he said he had designed a world-class capital city to attract investments in the form of firms and industries, adding that a large number of youth would have gained from the entry of new industries had Amaravati been developed as per the master plan. “I am not coming to you to seek votes but to alert you about your own future,” he said, and asked locals if they had seen a single new project sanctioned to Guntur city in the last two years of YSRC. Meanwhile, YSRC general secretary and government advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy took strong objection to Naidu’s comments and accused him of trying to provoke people for political mileage. “His language clearly indicates he is full of frustration and is unable to digest the fact that chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy continues to enjoy public support,” Sajjala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-targets-govt-for-dumping-amaravati-ysrc-returns-barb/articleshow/81398277.cms||Samdani MN
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Five caught from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh in Thaltej elderly couple killings||AHMEDABAD: Three days after an elderly couple – Ashok Patel and Jyotsna Patel both residents of Thaltej — were killed, the city police have nabbed all the five accused from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. A city crime branch officer said that initial enquiry suggested that four men, aged around 30 and 35, had killed the couple to rob cash and valuables from their house in Shantivan Palace Bungalows near Hebatpur Crossroads in Thaltej. “The four accused who were seen in the CCTV camera got a tip from a person who was working as a painter at Patels’ house. He told the other four that the elderly couple’s son lives in Dubai and they must have huge money and valuables at their home,” said a senior crime branch officer. All five accused used to stay in Jantanagar in the city prior to the Covid pandemic and did masonry work. A city police officer said that on Sunday the man who had given the tip-off to the other robbers was the first to be nabbed. “Crime branch and city police were hunting for the accused for past two days in Malwa region in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The other four accused were nabbed on Sunday night,” said the officer. “They are all likely to be brought to the city on Tuesday,” he added. About the motive of the murders, the officer said, that the robbers killed the couple to silence them when they began screaming. The accused were in a hurry and scared as well, so they first tried to steal the couple’s car but could not drive, and later they fled on their motorcycles. Sources said that the four accused first went to the Chanakyapuri area and from there they crossed the state border on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-caught-from-raj-mp-in-thaltej-elderly-couple-killings/articleshow/81400367.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Seafood in Vizag gets dearer as catch dwindles||VISAKHAPATNAM: Popular varieties of sea fish such as silver pomfret, seer fish and tiger prawn have become an expensive buy due to dwindling catch. The ban on deep sea fishing will begin only on April 15, but already 40 per cent of mechanised boats in the Vizag region remain anchored at the harbour, citing losses. Usually, there is hectic activity at the Vizag harbour between November and March as the five months are considered peak fishing season. But an unusual decrease in the catch in the fishing zone in the Bay of Bengal has upset fishermen’s plans. With a low catch, consumers and hoteliers are having to shell out a hefty price for popular varieties of fish. Hoteliers in the city are struggling to get the required quantities of popular varieties of fish due to low availability in the market. Ch Satyanarayana Murthy, president, Dolphin Boat Operators’ Welfare Association, said the fishing season has not been encouraging compared to the previous season as most of the mechanised boat owners incurred losses due to low catch. Of the over 700 mechanised fishing boats in Vizag fishing harbour, more than 300 boats have remained at the jetties for the past few months. In the coming days more boats will be anchored as boat owners are not in a position to bear losses of Rs 1.2 lakh for each trip, Satyanarayana Murthy added. Silver pomfret or white pomfret costs around Rs 1,200 a kilo and the price of seer fish is Rs 800 a kilo. Tiger prawn is being sold for Rs 900 per kilo, up from Rs 700 a kilo, said Lakshman, a fish trader in Visakhapatnam. Compared to the previous year, seer fish, silver pomfret and a few other varieties have become dearer by 30 per cent. The price of silver pomfret ranges between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,200 while tiger prawn is sold between Rs 800 and Rs 900, said G Srinivas, a seafood lover in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/seafood-in-vizag-gets-dearer-as-catch-dwindles/articleshow/81398259.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 9, 2021||Bhopal||Future Congress CM is now a BJP back-bencher: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Urging Youth Congress workers to be consistent and focused in their activities, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is learnt to have cited Jyotiraditya Scindia’s decision to quit the party as a short-sighted move which had only diminished his political stature. Addressing the national executive meeting of the Youth Congress, sources said Rahul gave a pep talk to the young cadres from state and national units. He is learnt to have cited “patience” and “ideology” as important tools in the Congress and said that any worker heeding them can expect to grow in the organisation. In that context, the former Congress president mentioned Scindia, a former Union minister and Congress general secretary who last year crossed over to the BJP and is now a Rajya Sabha MP. Rahul said if Scindia had shown patience, he could have in future become the chief minister. He said the big leaders leaving the Congress were sitting in the back benches in the BJP, adding that they can never become the chief minister in the rival party. According to a participant, the Congress leader urged workers to focus on their organisational activities while asking them to ignore “who comes to the party and who leaves it”. This is the second time that Rahul has made such biting comments about turncoats in the meeting of the youth outfit, having made a similar remark — “whoever wants to leave can leave” — during the crisis in Rajasthan last year when Sachin Pilot rebelled with a group of party MLAs to threaten the survival of the Ashok Gehlot government. The remark also comes amid rumblings in the Congress with a group of senior members questioning the functioning of the party, with public comments that Congress was weakening by the day. In his address, Rahul Gandhi criticised the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and asked workers to hold steadfast to their values. He repeated his new attack line — that he was not afraid of the RSS or Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/future-cong-cm-is-now-a-bjp-back-bencher-rahul/articleshow/81400692.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Business||Pricol promoter family transfer shares to chairman and MD||Chennai: Auto parts maker Pricol has seen its promoter family transfer shares to chairman Vanitha Mohan and MD Vikram Mohan. According to a stock market notification, Pricol promoter Vijay Mohan, will give 940,270 shares (or 0.77% stake) of Re 1 each to his wife Vanitha Mohan who is also the chairman of the company. The share transfer will be in the form of a gift between family members. The transaction will happen between March 15-19, the company said in its stock exchange notification. Following the transfer, Vanitha Mohan's shareholding in the company will go up from 3.93% to 4.7% whereas Vijay Mohan's shareholding will come down from 9.64% to 8.87%. The share transfer is "without any consideration" said the company statement.The company also notified the exchange that Vikram Mohan, MD, Pricol and son of founder Vijay Mohan will be the beneficiary of a second tranche of share transfer. In the second transfer, Vijay Mohan will gift 1195879 shares of Re 1 each to Vikram Mohan while Viren Mohan will gift 1902402 shares of Pricol of Re 1 each also to Vikram Mohan. The first tranche comprises a stake of 0.98% while the second comprises a stake of 1.56%. This transaction will also happen at the same time as the first and also without any consideration.Around 10 members of the promoter group collectively control more than 36% stake in the company. There is no change in the collective ownership of Pricol due to this share transfer. Last month, Pricol saw some top level changes when its board accepted the resignation of independent director Suresh Jagannathan. The board also appointed P Krishnamoorthy as chief financial officer and key managerial personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pricol-promoter-family-transfer-shares-to-chairman-and-md/articleshow/81400660.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||Patna rolls out red carpet for women on their day||PATNA: The city rolled out the red carpet on International Women’s Day with felicitation events, seminars, free entry to parks, and the zoo as well as shopping discounts for women. Chief minister Nitish Kumar and other dignitaries extended their greetings. “The state government has constantly worked for women empowerment in Bihar. Today, women are playing an important role in the progress of the state. We should all pledge for the progressive development of women so that they can get a better and safer environment with social and economic development (sic),” the CM wrote on his Twitter account. From free access to the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park (Patna zoo) and parks across the state to felicitation by government departments and various associations to mark the occasion, women appreciated the gestures. “After a long time, we went to the zoo and enjoyed it a lot. It is good that the state government provide free entry of women at parks and zoo on this occasion,” said Nutan Singh of Patna Women’s College, who enjoyed the day with her friends. Patna zoo director, Satyajeet Kumar, told this newspaper that the total footfall was 6,552 including 3,700 female. Eco Park, Budha Smriti Park, Veer Kunwer Singh Park and SKPuri Park among other prominent parks in the city drew a huge crowd. Another student Jyoti Kumari of JD Women’s College said entry in other places such as museums and architectural sites should also be made free for woman visitors on this day. The transport department felicitated its women staffers besides, minister Sheela Kumari, secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal and transport commissioner Seema Tripathi honoured some women for safe driving. The Patna Municipal Corporation also felicitated its female sanitation workers and other staff and distributed sanitary napkins among girls in slum areas in association with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). Addressing a programme at the water resources department on the occasion, minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said CM Nitish Kumar has shown special attention towards the empowerment of women in Bihar. “He empowered women by giving reservation to women first in Panchayati Raj and then in government jobs. From the birth of girl child till their higher education, the state government provide incentives to pave way for them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-rolls-out-red-carpet-for-women-on-their-day/articleshow/81399172.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 9, 2021||Patna||Women preside over House proceedings||PATNA: Gayatri Devi of BJP and Jyoti Manjhi from the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), the two senior MLAs, functioned as presiding members in the post-lunch session of the House as part of the International Women’s Day celebrations on Monday. Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and RJD’s Bhai Birendra had separately pleaded for such a special gesture towards the women on the occasion. During the question hour, the House agreed to first take the questions of the woman members. Prior to that, some woman MLAs from across political lines pleaded for 33% reservation of seats – and some others for 50% quota -- for women in Parliament and state legislatures. Among those who spoke on the occasion were Shalini Mishra, Bhagirathi Devi, Pratima Kumari, Rekha Paswan and Sangeeta Devi. Rekha from RJD praised CM Nitish Kumar for facilitating 50% reservation for women in the panchayat and urban bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-preside-over-house-proceedings/articleshow/81399215.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Headless panel serves no purpose: HC to TTD||Vijayawada: The high court on Monday found fault with the TTD for not mentioning who is heading the committee constituted by the temple body to suggest measures for protection of its properties. The TTD had submitted an affidavit stating that an eight-member committee, including two retired high court judges, was constituted on December 9, 2020. Advocate Y Balaji told the court that the TTD did not mention who is heading its committee. Further, in its proceedings, the name of Gowri Shankar, CEO of Sringeri Sharada Peetham, was mentioned on the top and the two judges’ names came in next, which is nothing but insulting the judges, he said. The HC bench of Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C Praveen Kumar too observed that a committee without mentioning who is heading it will not serve any purpose. The bench also found that the serial number mentioned against the names of the judges was against the protocol. There were also mistakes in the designations given to the judges. As the counsel for TTD sought time to reply, the matter was posted to March 12 for further hearing. The HC bench of Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C Praveen Kumar observed that a committee without mentioning who is heading it serves no purpose||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/headless-panel-serves-no-purpose-hc-to-ttd/articleshow/81398221.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata gets another 24x7 vaccine site, more in offing||KOLKATA: On a day when the state recorded its highest community vaccination turnout till date and crossed the 1-lakh mark, another private hospital launched a 24x7 vaccination centre. Medica Superspecialty Hospital opened the round-the-clock facility on Monday, following Fortis. Hospitals like Apollo Gleneagles are also planning to open such a facility. On Monday, 1,29,424 people were vaccinated across Bengal at 1,780 sites. “With the portal issues getting resolved to an extent, we could cross the 1-lakh mark again. We hope to touch the 1.5-lakh mark soon,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services. At Medica, there are two counters for billing and registration of recipients between 8pm to 8am. People can walk in, register and take the jab. Those who had registered on Co-Win 2.0 are also being inoculated. “It’s a matter of pride for the team at Medica to shoulder our responsibility towards starting the round-the-clock drive,” said nuclear cardiologist Alok Roy, chairman of Medica Group of Hospitals. “We are now inoculating recipients from 8am to 6pm but have plans to start a 24x7 facility,” said Joy Basu, VP of Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-gets-another-24x7-vaccine-site-more-in-offing/articleshow/81399092.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 9, 2021||Patna||Patna bizman shot at in East Champaran||MOTIHARI: A Patna-based businessman, Vinay Kumar (40), was shot at in a suspected road rage case on NH28A near Chandrahiya village in East Champaran district Sunday night. “It seems to be a case of road rage because the attackers had neither the motive to kill nor loot him,” Motihari SDPO Arun Kumar Gupta said. Vinay was admitted to a private nursing home at Motihari. He received gunshot injuries on his hand and leg. His employee Nandan Kumar was also in the car with Vinay. Nandan said two persons on a motorcycle tried to overtake their car. Vinay failed to give them pass due to heavy traffic. “The motorcyclists finally overtook our car, opened fire and sped away laughing,” he said. They were yet to be identified as the registration number of their bike was not seen by either of the two persons in the car. The SDPO said the police were investigating the case after recording the statements of Vinay and Nandan. Police said Vinay owns a stationary shop in Khajanchi Road at Patna and had come to Motihari for business purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-bizman-shot-at-in-east-champaran/articleshow/81398168.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Curtains fall on high-voltage campaign for municipal polls||Vijayawada/Visakhapatnam/Tirupati: Campaigning for elections to the 11 municipal corporations and 75 municipalities and nagar panchayats in the state came to an end on Monday. Even though the elections were scheduled to be held on March 10 for 12 municipal corporations, the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday gave a stay on election in Eluru. The road shows, motorcycle rallies, campaigning vehicles with recorded speeches/messages, small public meetings and huge processions covered almost every part of their respective divisions on the last day of electioneering. Interestingly, family members and supporters of the contestants took the lead in canvassing on Monday as candidates alone could not handle the rigorous door-to-door campaigning with just a few hours left for the canvassing. All the streets were abuzz with political activity and party flags and colours as the contestants made a last ditch effort to woo over voters. All principal political parties said they are upbeat about their poll prospects. Minister Vellampalli Srinivas conducted a road show in the Vijayawada Old City area and asked the voters to support YSRC if they are happy with the government’s welfare schemes. TDP Vijayawada MP Kesineni Nani and MLC Budda Venkanna took out a huge rally in Vijayawada East constituency. Jana Sena candidates, meanwhile, participated in bike rallies with large cut-outs of party chief Pawan Kalyan and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Krishna Lanka, Ranigari Thota, Chittinagar, Gunadala and other areas in the city. Meanwhile, in Vizag city, YSRC, TDP, Jana Sena-BJP, Left parties and independents covered every nook and corner on Monday. State ministers Anil Kumar Yadav and Kurasala Kannababu rigorously campaigned for YSRC candidates. TDP Vizag city MLAs PVGR Naidu (Gana Babu), Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and Ganta Srinivasa Rao conducted door-to-door campaigning in their respective assembly constituency limits. Candidates in the municipal poll fray across the four districts of Rayalaseema made a final attempt to win over voters on the last day of electioneering. With the contest narrowing down between the ruling YSRC and TDP, elected representatives of both parties were seen campaigning for their official candidates. Campaigning on the final day was left to the candidates in Kurnool, Kadapa, Anantapur and Chittoor districts with senior party leaders turning their attention towards the Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada-Guntur regions. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, in a statement on Monday, asked the public to turn out in large numbers and exercise their franchise in urban local body elections. “The urban voters consider voting as a social responsibility,” said Ramesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/curtains-fall-on-high-voltage-campaign-for-municipal-polls/articleshow/81398170.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||Shot in arm for RLSP-JD(U) merger as Kushwaha, Basishtha get jabs together||PATNA: Amid the speculation over RLSP’s merger with JD(U), RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha and JD(U) Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narain Singh on Monday reached the IGIMS in Patna to get the first dose of the Covid vaccine together and later held a discussion. “Both leaders spent more than half an hour, which is required after taking the vaccine, in a separate room at the hospital and discussed certain political issues,” sources in the RLSP said on Monday. “The RLSP chief reached the IGIMS around 11 am. And within five minutes, the JD(U) leader reached the hospital. Both leaders took the vaccine together,” a political worker accompanying Kushwaha told TOI. Earlier on March 3, Kushwaha said he has called a meeting of his party’s senior leaders, including the national council and the state council, on March 13 and 14 here, to decide the RLSP’s “future”. “RLSP’s top leadership has made up its mind to merge the party with JD(U). Certain formalities will be completed at the party’s national and state council meeting on March 13 and 14. The party most likely would merge with JD(U) any time after March 14,” a senior RLSP leader close to Kushwaha told TOI on Monday. Singh, who was instrumental in organizing two meetings of Kushwaha with CM Nitish Kumar, told TOI on Monday, “My talks with Kushwaha were very positive. We foresee a good possibility of a merger. The possibility will soon be seen in an action plan.” Singh also said Kushwaha would be given “appropriate respect” in JD(U). RLSP’s state working president Santosh Kushwaha told TOI, “The party has called a meeting of all senior leaders on March 13 and 14 and their views would be taken on the party’s future course of action.” Santosh further said after taking the views of national and state-level office-bearers, the RLSP chief might decide to merge with JD(U). In an indication of the merger ahead, RLSP’s state general secretary and one of its founder members, Vinay Kushwaha, resigned on Sunday to protest over Upendra Kushwaha’s move. “The RLSP was founded to protest the wrong policies of Nitish Kumar. Now Upendra is going to join hands with the same Nitish Kumar. Most workers are not happy with this plan,” Vinay told TOI on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shot-in-arm-for-rlsp-jdu-merger-as-kushwaha-basishtha-get-jabs-together/articleshow/81397981.cms||Madan Kumar
March 9, 2021||Nashik||4 private hospitals in Nashik dist join vax drive||Nashik: Four private hospitals in the rural areas of the district have started administering vaccines to the senior citizens and people aged above 45 years who have comorbid conditions. “The four hospitals that have joined the vaccination are in Yeola, Manmad, Niphad and Igatpuri,” district health officer Dr Kapil Aher said on Monday. He added more private hospitals have shown interested in joining the vaccination drive The four hospitals took the vaccines from the district health office on Saturday, Dr Aher said and added that 13 other hospitals have also taken the doses. The private hospitals have to make the payment for the doses and place the demand for vaccines through the CoWIN portal. After the payment is realized, the vaccine doses are given by the DHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-private-hospitals-in-nashik-dist-join-vax-drive/articleshow/81397209.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Patna||Youth injured in firing in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF: One Ashish Kumar, 19, was shot at and injured when he was crossing the locality where two groups were clashing allegedly over cigarette smoking in Nalanda district Sunday night. The incident took place when Ashish was returning home at Jurarpur village under Deepnagar police station area after attending a function at a nearby village. However, local villagers said he was shot at after resisting their attempt to snatch his cellphone and cash. SHO Mushtaq Ahmed said a probe was on. Ashish was undergoing treatment. Earlier on Saturday evening, miscreants had shot dead one Chittaranjan Kumar (32) of Silao near Kundalpur gate under Deepnagar police station area. He was the husband of Biharsharif ward member Baby Devi. Meanwhile, hundreds of people took out a candle march Sunday night demanding arrest of the other criminals who had hacked to death LIC officer Praveen Krishna at Jheeng Nagar under Biharsharif Town police station area on February 28. Only prime accused and LJP worker Chhote Lal Yadav was arrested from New Delhi on March 5. The other six named and 15 unidentified accused were still at large. Sadar SDPO Dr Shibli Nomani said raids were being conducted to arrest the other accused on the basis of a video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-injured-in-firing-in-nalanda/articleshow/81398195.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Business||1,322 registered cos in TN struck off during 2020||Chennai: With 1,322 registered companies struck down since the country went under lockdown post the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, Tamil Nadu sees third highest number of companies who closed down and exited the business. The outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in March, 2020, was followed by a nationwide lockdown bringing business activities to a standstill and phased removal of the lockdown lasting for several months leading to uncertainty around resuming of businesses. Replying to a question raised in Lok Sabha, on Monday, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs said a total of 10,113 number of companies, during the year 2020-2021 (from April 2020 to February 2021), have been struck off under the Companies Act. The Ministry also said it has not run any drive to strike off companies suo moto during 2020-2021. Delhi topped the list with exit of 2,394 companies, followed by Uttar Pradesh in 1,936 and Tamil Nadu at 1,322 companies in the second and third place respectively. These states are majorly driven by the manufacturing business. Andaman & Nicobar and West Bengal were at the bottom of the list with two and four companies being struck or deregistered (closed) down. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) administers the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and maintains the registry of Companies on the basis of documents and applications filed. It does not maintain any record of the companies which have gone out of business. According to the monthly information bulletin on the Corporate Sector under the ministry, India has 19,79,469 companies registered in the country as on January 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/1322-registered-cos-in-tn-struck-off-during-2020/articleshow/81400590.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Business||Women get better returns on investments than men||Mumbai: Women investors were found to be more disciplined than their male counterparts in terms of following rules of investing, a survey by ETMoney has found. From adhering to asset allocation according to their age to sticking to a systematic investment plan (SIP) — women investors beat men. And this eventually helped the women record better returns over four years, the survey found. The results of the survey were released on Monday, which was International Women’s Day. In each of the years between 2017 and 2020, women as a group on ETMoney had earned better returns compared to male investors. This was true even for 2018, which showed marginally negative returns for both the groups. In 2020 too, the year that tested the mettle of all investors because of the Covid-induced global pandemic, women did better. The survey results showed that in 2020, while women recorded returns of nearly 14%, the male investors earned a little over 11%. ETMoney found that women were far more determined than men when investing as well. “Once they start an SIP, they tend to stay on the path far more often than men and, as a result, are more likely to meet their goals,” it said. The survey further revealed that women investors use tax-saving options more intelligently than men. An average 15% of women’s portfolio was in equity-linked savings schemes (ELSS), which helped them combine tax-saving with wealth-creation, as compared to 12% of men, the survey said. The survey noted that women investors have a near-optimal asset allocation for their age. The basic formula for investments is that the equity portion’s percentage should be 100 less the age of the investor. So, for a 30-year-old, 70% of the portfolio should be in equities (100-30). The survey found that women investors were more likely to adhere to this rule. “This shows their deep understanding of the risk of each asset class and the importance of asset allocation to have the optimal risk-reward mix,” the survey said. The ETMoney survey revealed that, unlike in the past, women from across India — from places like Jabalpur, Dehradun, Bhubaneswar and Mysore — were joining the investment bandwagon. These places figure in the top non-metro cities where women investors reside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/women-get-better-returns-on-investments-than-men/articleshow/81401968.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||22 ‘shobha yatras’ to mark Mahashivaratri in Patna||PATNA: With Mahashivaratri round the corner, devotees have started making preparations for the festival in the city. As the festival will be celebrated on Thursday, temples are being decorated across the city. Thousands of devotees visit Khajpura temple, Jaleshwar Mahadev temple in Kankarbagh and other temples on Mahashivaratri. Numerous ‘shobha yatras’ are also taken out on the day. Digha MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia said 22 ‘shobha yatras’ showcasing various aspects of Lord Shiva would be taken out by members of different puja committees in the city this year. These yatras will culminate at Khajpura Shiva temple where several programmes will be held. “We had organised a virtual ‘Shiva charcha’ on March 7. The programme was streamed live through a virtual platform in 45 temples across the city. All the arrangements have been made for March 11. CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CMs and various ministers will also participate in the event,” the MLA added. City-based priest Acharya Dines Pandey said Mahashivaratri literally means ‘the Great Night of Lord Shiva’. “According to Puranas, Shivaratri marks the night Lord Shiva saved the human kind by consuming a pot of poison during Samudra Manthan. On the day, we also celebrate the convergence of Lord Shiva and Goddess Shakti. People should worship Shivaling, an iconic representation of Shiva by, offering ‘bel’ leaves, honey, flowers, fruits and milk,” he added. Manish Kumar, a resident of Nala Road, said, “I have ultimate faith in Lord Shiva. The festival is most important for me. On this day, I observe a ‘nirjala’ fast, take a dip in the Ganga and visit Shiva temple.” Some devotees also perform rituals like ‘rudrabhishek’ on the occasion. Aditya Mishra, a resident of Kankarbagh, said, “We perform ‘rudrabhishek’ at home on Mahashivaratri every year. All our neighbours and relatives attend the rituals.” The festival has great significance for unmarried girls. Anita Verma, a homemaker, said, “I observe fast along with my daughters on the occasion. It is believed that worshipping Lord Shiva can fulfil our desires and wishes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22-shobha-yatras-to-mark-mahashivaratri-in-patna/articleshow/81398265.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Business||BPCL trust to sell at least 4% in block deals today||MUMBAI: About 8.7 crore shares, representing 4% of refining and oil marketing company Bharat Petroleum Corp (BPCL), are expected to be sold on the stock exchanges on Tuesday through block deals. The transaction, aggregating to at least Rs 3,774 crore (approximately $517 million) is part of the sale of the 15.9 crore BPCL shares, or 7.3%, that a trust managed by the company currently holds. At Rs 435 per share, the floor price for the deal is at a nearly 7% discount to BPCL’s Monday close of Rs 467 on the BSE. BPCL currently has a market capitalisation of more than Rs 1 lakh crore, BSE data showed. The full 7.3% stake is currently worth about Rs 7,400 crore — that’s a little over $1 billion. Although the company on Monday allowed the full 7.3% to be offloaded, market sources said that, in the first tranche, only about 4% is set to be sold. Till late Monday evening, the three brokers involved in the deal — arms of Citibank and Kotak Bank, as well as ICICI Securities — were selling it to institutional investors through the accelerated book-building process. Under this process, the brokers managing the deal, after the close of the day’s trading, send out the term sheet to large institutions to express their interest to buy shares from the block. Once the book is built, the shares are traded in blocks the next day on the bourses. In a communication to the BSE, BPCL said that a sub-committee of its board of directors had approved the sale of the company’s equity shares which are held by the BPCL Trust for Investment. The total number of equity shares being offered is nearly 15.9 crore shares as held by the trust, it said. The sale of the stake comes as the government is on course to offload its 53% in the country’s second-largest fuel retailer to a private buyer, domestic or global. Although initially planned for complete divestment by the end of current fiscal year, as things stand now, the stake sale is expected to spill into the next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bpcl-trust-to-sell-at-least-4-in-block-deals-today/articleshow/81401464.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||54 lakh girls given scholarships: WDC||PATNA: Women Development Corporation (WDC) managing director Harjot Kaur Bamhrah on Monday said 54 lakh girls studying in state government-run schools were given scholarships amounting to Rs 510 crore in 2020-21. Bamhrah was addressing a conference organised by International Growth Centre (IGC) and Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) in collaboration with the WDC to celebrate International Women’s Day on Monday. The theme of the conference was ‘Women empowerment: Issues, evidence and policy response’. It was jointly inaugurated by Bamhrah and state development commissioner Amir Subhani. Subhani said total fertility rate in Bihar has come down from 3.4 to 3. “However, there was a decline in the sex ratio at birth due to the mushrooming of illegal sex determination centres. The government is working towards raising awareness among people to end the menace of female foeticide,” he said. Anu Rammohan, professor of economics at University of Western Australia, said female labour force rate in India is declining. “It is now below 25% for women as compared to 82% for men,” she added. Devesh Sehra, secretary (SC/ST welfare department), said only 16% of the women in India could retain their jobs in the Covid era as compared to 60% of men due to higher costs for companies in keeping women in their jobs. Dr Ashmita Gupta, assistant professor, ADRI, said there is a need to re-examine the kind of growth people want in the country. “Earlier, there was jobless growth in India where a lot of women lost out in getting manufacturing jobs,” she said. N Vijaya Lakshmi, principal secretary (sugarcane industry department), shared initiatives of the state government, including Gram Varta and WDC intervention to sensitize the frontline workers. Prabhat Ghosh, member secretary, ADRI, said Bihar has had a mixed performance in closing gender gaps. “While gender gaps in elementary schooling have narrowed, maternal mortality has declined. Women and men have same types of jobs and child sex ratio has improved. Adult women in Bihar are twice as likely to be illiterate than adult men,” he said. Jyotsana Jha, director, Centre for Budget and Policy Studies, said there was a definite movement towards greater gender equality. She pointed out that there is less preference for boys in areas where the female labour force participation rate goes up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/54-lakh-girls-given-scholarships-wdc/articleshow/81399124.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Women stage protest at Prakasam barrage, police foil attempt to rally||Amaravati: Tension prevailed in the capital city area as women farmers from Amaravati held a rally on Monday. Police prevented the rally as they were proceeding to the Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada. The agitators squatted on Prakasam barrage resulting in commotion in the area. The protesters raised slogans against the government for trying to stifle voices supporting Amaravati. With police refusing to grant permission to the women to move ahead on Prakasam barrage, hundreds of farmers from neighbouring villages joined them to express solidarity. Police detained the protesters and shifted them to different police stations. All the protestors were sent home. — Samdani MN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/women-stage-protest-at-prakasam-barrage-police-foil-attempt-to-rally/articleshow/81398283.cms||Samdani MN
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||Schools tie up with hosps for group vax||Kolkata: Schools have started tying up with hospitals to send teachers above 45 with co-morbidities — and their families — for vaccination. Hospitals will provide fixed slots so that the process is efficient. Schools are in talks with hospitals about whether those who are months away from retirement and those serving on extension should be grouped in the senior citizens’ category and sent in a separate team. Most school managements have asked teachers to provide details of their co-morbidities. Teachers are happy because they are free to get family members who are above 60 or have co-morbidities registered for vaccination. La Martiniere schools, DPS Ruby Park (Newtown and Howrah) and Heritage are among those that have had talks with hospitals. “Belle Vue Clinic approached us and we are collecting details from our teachers,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of La Martiniere schools. DPS Ruby Park held a meeting with Medica Superspecialty Hospital on Saturday. “Many with aged family members feel the inclusion is helpful,” said VP Indrani Chattopadhyay. Heritage School, too, is in talks with Medica.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-tie-up-with-hosps-for-group-vax/articleshow/81399113.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 9, 2021||Patna||RJD MLC’s interruptions make CM angry in House||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar lost his cool when RJD MLC Subodh Rai raised a supplementary question and interrupted the rural works minister Jayant Raj during his reply to Mohammad Farooq’s question in the legislative council on Monday. “Sit down,” said Nitish when Subodh continued to speak. “Will you interrupt me when I am speaking? Is it the way. Will you not listen? Abide by the rules and regulations. I don’t have any problem with anyone, but when someone disobeys the rules, I do get up to correct him,” the CM said and asked senior RJD MLC Ram Chandra Purbey to guide new people around him. He even asked the acting chairperson to look into such matters. After his starred question, RJD MLC Farooq raised a supplementary query and the minister rose again to reply when Subodh stood up and started speaking. Nitish intervened at this stage and said, “You (Subodh) must wait for your turn when another member has raised a question and the reply is being given.” Subodh said even ruling party legislators ask four to five supplementary questions together. “It is wrong whoever does it,” replied Nitish. The CM had also lost his cool a few days back when RJD MLC Sunil Kumar Singh had interrupted him during his speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-mlcs-interruptions-make-cm-angry-in-house/articleshow/81397966.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||‘Kisan Chachi’ felicitated||PATNA: Women’s Day was celebrated in different districts of Bihar on Monday. The vice-chancellor of Chhapra-based Jai Prakash University, Faruque Ali, announced that he would start a childcare centre for the kids of his women employees soon. In Sitamarhi S R K Goenka College and IGNOU jointly organized an event in which the women staff made paintings and played games. Nearly 300 participants attended a seminar on ‘Women Empowerment, Rising Aspirations and Challenges’ organised by Seemanchal Minority BEd College in Katihar. Katihar district board chairperson Guddi Devi said, “Women are excelling in every sphere of life.” Meanwhile, the women wing of the BJP organized a meeting at the Motihari Town Hall on Monday. Padma Shri awardee Rajkumari Devi, popularly known as ‘Kisan Chachi’ was felicitated on the occasion. (With inputs from H K Verma, S K Singh, Sanjeev Mishra and C B Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kisan-chachi-felicitated-in-motihari/articleshow/81399410.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Business||New rules for pesky calls lead to SMS outages||New Delhi: Lakhs of consumers across the country faced mobile messaging outage for bank and payment OTPs, company service and promotional matters and even for aadhaar and Covid vaccination drive schedules (through CoWin platform) with telecom companies implementing Trai’s rules for registration and standardisation of customer communication to guard against pesky and fraudulent messages. The new standards, based on blockchain technology, have been pending since 2019, and telcos have finally implemented them amid rising instances of unsolicited commercial communication, pesky calls and even phishing attacks through mobile phones. Telecom companies such as Reliance Jio, Airtel and Vodafone Idea mandated the standards post Sunday midnight (0001 hours Monday) and this caught many companies, banks, and even government agencies by surprise. “The measure was taken as per Trai’s directive. While there were customer outages on Monday as the day started, we are hopeful that these would be sorted out soon as corporates, telemarketers, banks and payment companies and government agencies fall in line with the mandate,” top mobile industry officials told TOI. As per Trai’s mandate, companies, banks and payment companies, government agencies and telemarketers need to link themselves with telecom operators, and also register the messaging templates (mostly the content of communication) to get their messages through to the customers (the process is known as content scrubbing). Telecom industry officials claim that they had been prodding all of them to register at the earliest, but there have still been delays. “And with the Delhi high court recently seeking implementation of the guidelines, we had no option but to enforce the same,” a senior executive with a big telco said. Telecom industry officials said that after consumers started complaining about problems in banking and payment services, they gave leniency in some of the critical transactions. Even the Aadhaar and CoWin platform messaging was restored so that important transactional messaging could be carried out unhindered. “The relaxation was given with a clear understanding that all the necessary registrations would be completed over the next one or two days. Or else we will have no other option but to discontinue the messaging services of those left unregistered,” the official said. The implementation, however, had created problems for lakhs of customers who kept on waiting for OTPs and other crucial messages, but all in vain. Many of them complained to banks and payment companies about incomplete transactions but help was difficult to get. Trai had sought implementation of the measure was unsolicited commercial communication continued unabated and there was no respite even after the rollout of the do-not-disturb (DND) service. The government is also getting stricter on the menace and has decided to impose penalty on the tele-marketers, while disconnecting resources in case of repeat violations. Also, the Centre is setting up a Digital Intelligence Unit (DIU) to coordinate with various stakeholders when investigating fraudulent activities that are conducted using telecom resources, communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in the middle of last month. The minister directed telecom ministry officials to conduct a meeting with mobile operators and tele-marketers to apprise them of the seriousness of the issue and to ensure compliance with the laid-down rules and procedures. For effective handling of unsolicited commercial communication and also tackle financial frauds, it has been decided to develop a web/mobile application and SMS-based system for redressal mechanism. "This will enable telecom subscribers to lodge their complaints related to matters involving UCC," the government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-rules-for-pesky-calls-lead-to-sms-outages/articleshow/81400666.cms||Pankaj Doval
March 9, 2021||Business||Magicbricks ties up with Razorpay and HDFC Bank for credit card rent pay||Mumbai: Magicbricks has partnered with Razorpay and HDFC Bank to create a secure online solution for rent payments through credit cards with an eye on the 10-million rental residential household market. “The monthly rent is a huge chunk of the monthly expense of any household. In today’s challenging economic environment, tenants are looking for trusted, flexible, and rewarding ways to pay. We are delighted to partner with Razorpay and HDFC to offer a secured ‘Pay Rent’ feature. The deferment of a large spend which has a credit period of around 45 days also translates into a month’s interest of approximately 1%,” said Sudhir Pai, CEO, Magicbricks which is a part of TimesGroup. The feature also enables tenants to earn rewards points and offers available on credit card payments. The tenant needs to provide details of the landlord, make payments through credit cards and the landlord will receive the payment based on his bank details or UPI ID. The tenant will also be provided with a digital rent receipt. According to Pai, the market for online payment of rent through credit cards was estimated to be around Rs 3,000 crore but could be much larger. Magicbricks plans to leverage its position as a leading property portal to scale up this business. “While the current estimated market size of paying rent through credit card is around Rs 3,000 crore, the real size of the market is considerably larger. There are 10 million rental residential units in India. Of these, almost 75% are in the Rs 35,000 per month and less rent bracket,” said Pai. He added that within this segment, almost 50% of the properties are in the range of Rs 10,000-Rs 20,000 per month with premium properties in cities like Mumbai, New Delhi and Gurgaon pushing up average rentals. “The rent for premium properties are in the range of Rs 35,000-Rs 50,000 per month and luxury over Rs 50,000 per month. So this offers us a huge untapped market,” he said. To safeguard against any misuse, Magicbricks has activated security features and implemented Razorpay’s risk and fraud detection module on the backend for an additional layer of security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/magicbricks-ties-up-with-razorpay-and-hdfc-bank-for-credit-card-rent-pay/articleshow/81402023.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||Minister: Private investment to be promoted in industrial sector||PATNA: State industries minister Shahnawaz Hussain on Monday said relevant amendments had been made in the Bihar State Industrial Incentive Policy (SIIP), 2016, to make it compatible with the new demands and promote private investment in the industrial sector. Noting that the 2016 SIIP would be effective till March 31, 2025, Hussain said it had been duly amended to facilitate private investment in ethanol production, which, in turn, will boost sugarcane farming in the state. He said the agriculture department has also made relevant amendments to entice investment in the agro-processing units. “Incentives have also been provided for the establishment of private industrial parks,” he added. Hussain was giving replies to the question of BJP member Nitish Mishra in the state assembly. Mishra had sought to know if the provisions of the existing industrial incentive policy of the government were sufficient to entice investment from the entrepreneurs for the establishment of industries in the state. Besides, as part of special incentive package, 100% waiver has been provided on the payment of stamp duty, registration and land development fees. Interest and tax relief have also been provided, the minister said. Similarly, incentives have also been provided to entrepreneurs from scheduled caste, scheduled tribe, extremely backward caste, women, transgender and physically challenged sections. The minister said 1,686 applications had been received under single-window system for the clearance of incentives since the introduction of the SIIP. “Of them, 1,369 projects had been given first-stage clearance and 364 proposals were approved for financial incentives. At least 278 units have already been established in the state,” the minister added. ‘Work on four-lane bridge over Ganga to begin in April’: Work on construction of 14.5km-long four-lane bridge and its approach road parallel to the Mahatma Gandhi Setu is most likely to begin from April this year, Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari said in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. Gadkari was replying to a question raised by BJP MP Sushil Kumar Modi. The minister said the Rs 1,794-crore project had been awarded to the executing agency in September last year and the agreement regarding the start of the work was also signed next month. ‘The project, however, is running late due to the delay in environmental clearance,” he added. State’s 2nd zoo to come up in Araria: The government has decided to develop the state’s second zoo on 289 acre land in Raniganj block of Araria district, environment, forest and climate change minister Neeraj Kumar Singh Babloo said in the state assembly on Monday. The existing Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park is at Patna. A ‘Monkey House’ will also be developed on the 10 acre land near Raniganj. Babloo also said CM Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the zoo safari facility at Rajgir next month. The Monkey House will have fruit-bearing trees. The project has been conceived to reduce the menace caused by monkeys in parts of the state. Once fully developed, it will also become tourist attraction, he said. He said arrangements will be made to sterilize the ‘neelgaees’ (blue bulls) and shift them to the forest areas. The minister said decision has been taken to install 24 more ambient air quality monitoring systems will be installed in different towns across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-private-investment-to-be-promoted-in-industrial-sector/articleshow/81398045.cms||Abhay Singh
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro to start issuing tokens from next week||KOLKATA: Metro Railway will start issuing tokens from next Monday. Since tokens will bring in more commuters, there will be 252 services on weekdays from Wednesday instead of 244 and the Dakshineswar extension will get 12 more trains. Operation hours will also being extended. On Wednesday, the first trains will leave Dakshineswar and Dum Dum stations at 6.50am instead of 7am while the last trains from Dakshineswar will leave at 9.28pm instead of 9.18pm and leave Dum Dum at 9.40pm instead of 9.30pm. The last train from Kavi Subhas will leave at 9.40pm instead of 9.30pm. On Saturdays, there will be 232 services instead of 228 and Sundays will have 104 trains instead of 102. From next Monday, March 15, every station will have one booking counter exclusively for tokens. More will be added if there is a rush. Metro will gradually return to its pre-pandemic fleet of 288 services. Before being grounded on March 23, the daily footfall was more than six lakh. Currently, the footfall is around 2.7lakh and the main reason cited for the low number is the lack of tokens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-to-start-issuing-tokens-from-next-week/articleshow/81399070.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 9, 2021||Patna||Patna: QR code-enabled trash collection to begin this week||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) will begin QR code-based garbage collection in nine wards — 17, 18, 22A, 22B, 22C, 23, 26, 29 and 54 — this week. As part of the Intelligent Solid Waste Management Programme of the Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL), QR codes have been pasted outside 35,000 houses so far. Soon after collecting the garbage, the sanitation workers will scan the codes and automatically feed the information into the database of the civic body. According to PMC officials, QR codes are now being pasted outside houses in wards 2, 5, 6, 7, 14, 19, 22B, 30, 31, 35, 42, 48 and 54. A control room has been set up for monitoring the door-to-door waste collection work in the city and a mobile app is also being developed. “The residents will be able to keep tabs on the trash collection vehicles and register complaints on the app. This will ensure transparency and help us improve the quality of the garbage collection service,” PSCL’s public relations officer Harshita told this newspaper. As many as 2.5 lakh holdings are expected to be covered under the Intelligent Solid Waste Management Programme. Harshita added, “The enrolment of sanitation workers for biometric attendance is also being done under the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-qr-code-enabled-trash-collection-to-begin-this-week/articleshow/81398115.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Centre hands over SUV case to NIA, sparks fresh row with MVA||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The Union home ministry on Monday ordered a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the recovery of explosives from an SUV parked at Mumbai’s Carmichael Road near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. The decision sparked a fresh row between the Centre and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, with CM Uddhav Thackeray smelling “something fishy” and state home minister Anil Deshmukh terming the move “wrong”. Deshmukh said while the NIA had taken over the explosives case, the case pertaining to the death of Thane resident Mansukh Hiran (48), who had claimed the car belonged to him, will continue to be probed by the Anti-Terror Squad. Thackeray said the ATS was looking into the matter “but despite that, if the Centre hands it over to the NIA, it would mean something is fishy. We won’t give up till we expose it”. The NIA said it is in the process of re-registering the explosives case that was till now being probed by the ATS. The NIA is empowered by the NIA Act to probe cases related to explosives and IED/bomb blasts as the Explosive Substances Act is part of the NIA ‘schedule of offences.’ For this, consent of the state government concerned is not needed. All that is required is an MHA order entrusting the case to the NIA. Mumbai police were initially looking at the explosives angle while Mumbra police had registered an accidental death report after Hiran’s body was found in a Thane creek last Friday. The ATS took over the explosives probe after opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis made charges against assistant inspector Sachin Waze on the floor of the Assembly on Friday. After Hiran’s family said they suspected foul play, the ATS on Sunday took over that case as well and turned it into a murder investigation. A letter purportedly written by Hiran claiming harassment by the police has also surfaced. Deshmukh said on Monday, “The state home department has received a communication from MHA on the probe into recovery of explosives having been entrusted to NIA. In our opinion, this was a wrong decision particularly when state law-enforcing agencies were moving in the right direction. Mumbai police are highly competent and professional. But since the case has been given to NIA, we will cooperate with the Central agency.” The Explosive Substances Act was added to the NIA Schedule in 2019 through an amendment to the NIA Act. Recently, the NIA took up a case related to a blast in Murshidabad, West Bengal, in which state minister Jakir Hossain was injured. Soon after the Shiv Sena-led government assumed office, NIA had taken over the Elgar Parishad case about a Maoist conspiracy against the government. At the time, the MVA government had not objected to NIA taking over the investigation. An NIA official said the agency, as of now, was only entrusted with the case relating to recovery of the explosives-laden car outside the Ambanis’ residence Antilia. “The Mansukh Hiran case is not mentioned in the MHA order. We cannot say at this point what our investigation into the SUV case will lead us to in the future. Any leads or angles with a bearing on our case will be thoroughly followed,” the official told TOI. Deshmukh said that in the past, the Centre had entrusted the probe into sensitive cases either to the CBI or NIA but there had been no visible progress. “The offence in the Elgar Parishad case was registered on January 8, 2018 for objectionable speeches, while NIA took over the probe on January 24, 2020. We do not know the status of the case,” he said. In the case related to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death too, he added, “the CBI is yet to conclude the cause of death. We hope the CBI submits a report at the earliest.” Gelatin sticks and an anonymous note threatening harm to the Ambani family were recovered during a search of the Scorpio found parked near Antilia on February 25. Mumbai police had said, on the basis of Hiran’s statement that his car had developed a snag and that he had left it on the Eastern Express Highway, that the vehicle was stolen on February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-hands-over-suv-case-to-nia-sparks-fresh-row-with-mva/articleshow/81402413.cms||Bharti Jain
March 9, 2021||Amritsar||Women take centre stage to give new energy to farm struggle||BATHINDA: Tens of thousands of women from every nook and corner of Punjab roared at the protest sites on the borders of national capital while managing farmer protests on International Women Day on Monday. The women spoke about the role of women in the farm protests and pledged to continue fighting for the rights of farmers till the Central government does not agree to repeal the three contentious farm laws and give legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) on all crops and ensure state procurement. The women were made to control the stages at Pakora chowk at Bahadurgarh, Tikri border and Singhu border. Though many started returning after observing the day, many others decided to stay back and continue participating in the protests on the borders. Most of the women who addressed the protesters were enthused with Time magazine giving wide space to role of women in India’s historic farm struggle and stressed the need to contribute in such a big way that even the Central government recognises their role and also feels the heat. The women gave a call to strengthen the struggle to end the discrimination and inequality against women and proclaimed to be resolute in the struggle against the farm laws till they attain victory. They also discussed the role of women in different social and political struggles in the history of the country and stated the flood of women infused a new spirit in this farm struggle. Apart from the protests on Delhi borders, the women performed the lead role in the protests at several places across Punjab at toll plazas, outside railway stations or business establishments of some corporate houses. Most of the women wore basanti dupattas at Pakora chowk protest site of farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) whereas at Tikri and Singhu borders, many of the women wore green dupattas. Women farm activists of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Harinder Kaur Bindu and Paramjit Kaur Pitho said, “The participation by women in such a large scale turned the Women’s Day into a historic occasion and if even now the central government could not feel the pain the farmers, then this government will be known in the history as the government without a heart and soul. The farmers have faced harsh winters on the roads for three months and now are ready to face the onslaught of summer and government should show some sensitivity and come out of its arrogance.” Sanyukta Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal said no struggle can be successful without the participation of women. Their role needed not only to strengthen the struggles, but it is also essential to ensure gender equality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/women-take-centre-stage-to-give-new-energy-to-farm-struggle/articleshow/81401927.cms||Neel Kamal
March 9, 2021||Business||Women’s Day Offer: This Saas Startup offers Rs 50,000 joining bonus for women candidates||Chennai: In a unique hiring initiative on the occasion of Women’s Day, Kochi-based SaaS startup SurveySparrow announced on Monday a joining bonus of Rs 50,000 to women techies applying for product development, quality assurance and technical writer roles on or before March 15 and ready to join the firm by April 15. The company said the openings are based out of Kochi and the number of vacancies is up to 50 positions. “SurveySparrow, from the beginning, has always tried to bridge the gender gap. We hope with this initiative, we will make it to at least 50:50 ratio, from the current 30:70 female to male ratio we are at,” Shihab Muhammed, founder & CEO, SurveySparrow, said. Among other initiatives, the startup said it equipped employees to work from home by giving free furniture and paid their internet bills during the lockdown in addition to announcing up to a 30% hike.Ending the year by crossing 50,000 customers and 100 employees, SurveySparrow said it plans to double its workforce this year.In addition to the joining bonus announcement, the startup is also launching a virtual hackathon, HackerFlow, where the best all-women team is said to get a special prize while the overall winner takes home Rs 1,00,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/womens-day-offer-this-saas-startup-offers-rs-50000-joining-bonus-for-women-candidates/articleshow/81400523.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Patna||Campaign launched to bring all kids to school||PATNA: The state government on Monday launched a statewide campaign, ‘Praveshotsav- Vishesh Namankan Abhiyan’, to increase the enrolment of students in government schools and to cover up the academic loss due to Covid-19 lockdown. Prabhat pheris (procession) and rallies were organized by the education department to mark the campaign launch. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, principal secretary Sanjay Kumar and state programme officer of Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) Sanjay Kumar Singh took part in a procession from Middle School at Adalatganj to AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies near Gandhi Maidan. The minister said before the start of academic session 2021-22, all the children, including dropouts, should return to school. “The society should also cooperate in this campaign and helps in admission of kids. Teachers are the backbone of the education system. The department and the state government will take care of them. The teachers should also take care of the children by imparting quality education,” said Choudhary. Praveshotsav is to be conducted in collaboration with the rural development department and the social welfare department, with an aim to ensure that no child in Bihar remains deprived of school education. The campaign will conclude on March 20. “Our aim is to ensure that not a single child remains out of school. With this campaign, we need to push children back to schools. But the schools also must pull the kids. Children and parents need to see the value in learning outcomes,” the principal secretary said. BEPC’s Sanjay said the department would launch a catch-up course of three months to mitigate the current academic session losses of students of classes II to X. “The catch-up course will start from April and ends in June. Under this initiative, students will be taught the syllabus of their previous class. The syllabus of next class would begin from July,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/campaign-launched-to-bring-all-kids-to-school/articleshow/81398092.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation elections: Techies hope to make mark||VIJAYAWADA: Nalluri Ramakrishna, a techie with TCS, is looking forward to vote for his candidate in elections to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Wednesday. Like Ramakrishna, close to 18,000 techies who have been working from home since the Covid-19 outbreak will be casting their vote in municipal elections for the first time. Compared to general elections, the percentage of private employees casting their vote in municipal elections is low. Employed in metros and managing busy work schedules, most do not return for local bodies polls. This election looks to be different as thousands of professionals who have returned home are gearing up to elect their local representatives. “I love my city very much and I want it to grow as Bengaluru, where I work, has grown. My contribution to the city has been zero till now as I never cast my vote. But this time I have the chance to do so and I am excited about it,” said Bhavana Chandana, a techie from Patamata in Vijayawada. Another techie M Nagarjuna said, “A corporator is a local representative and we should elect someone who focuses on ground-level issues. Though I cast my vote in the 2014 and 2019 general elections, this will be the first time that I will vote in municipal elections. We will vote for the candidate who is aware of local issues and capable of raising issues in the council.” Meanwhile, political parties are busy strategising how to woo over young voters and techies in their respective divisions. Parties estimate that techies are likely to influence other voters in the family and are hoping to win their votes on promises of development of IT corridors in and around the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/techies-hope-to-make-mark-in-civic-polls/articleshow/81398243.cms||Venu Lanka
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Big consulting firms make big hires from IIM-Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: You would think that the economic downturn due to the coronavirus crisis will affect placements. Despite being in the shadow of a pandemic that has kept the markets on tenterhooks, the IIM Ahmedabad’s flagship PGP course has recorded the highest number of placement offers from consulting firms. While the three-day final placement process wrapped up on Monday evening, sources close to the IIM-A placement process said that 150-plus students have got offers from global consulting firms, one of the highest in the history of the B-school. “Three firms – Boston Consulting Group (BCG), McKinsey, and Bain & Co. — in total made 85 offers,” said Prof Amit Karna, chairperson of the placement committee at IIM-A. “The figure is significant as B-schools with much higher batch strength have not recorded such numbers,” he said. In 2020, McKinsey had extended 27 offers including pre-placement offers (PPOs), followed by 23 by Boston Consulting Group (BCG). In 2021, the numbers rose to 30 and 32 respectively. Accenture Strategy and Kearney completed the top five recruiters for consulting roles from the IIM-A campus. Officials said that the final figures will be consolidated after the placement as students who have received multiple offers will make their final choice. What does the surge – 9% rise compared to 2020 numbers, and 46% in five years – for consulting sector mean? Prof Karna said that IIM-A’s strength is general management. “If we look at the trend, whenever the economy is in motion – upwards or downwards – the industry requires consultants. They are flexible with deployment, where the students’ overall perspective comes in handy,” he said. Experts also said that be it acquisitions or takeovers, planning growth trajectory, or operations maximization, business consultants are in high demand. “It’s a human capital-intensive operation, and we see top firms compete in both talent and client markets. But we can surely see the surge in demand as a positive sign for the economy,” said a city-based expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/big-consulting-firms-make-big-hires-from-iim-a/articleshow/81405760.cms||Parth Shastri
March 9, 2021||Patna||Women in uniform smash stereotypes||PATNA: Women in Bihar Police challenge gender stereotypes and patriarchal mindset just by choosing to be in uniform. Then comes their demanding job schedule and the tightrope walk of balancing it with family responsibilities, including motherhood. But despite these challenges, the women in Bihar Police as a mother, daughter, wife and, most importantly, an essential service provider to the nation, are exemplary in wha t they do every day. At 25.3% of the force, the state police have the biggest strength of women personnel across all states in the country. Nitasha Guria, SSP, Bhagalpur, believes police officers should be professional irrespective of their gender. As far as balancing work and family life goes, a supportive family is important because women on the field don’t have flexible hours and have to adjust constantly. "When you are holding a position, people recognise you as just an administrator, not a male or female administrator. So as women we should not expect any added advantage," she said. IPS officer Sobha Ohatker, director-general of home guards and fire services, said women officers have to handle both professional and personal lives, which is tougher compared to their male counterparts. "It’s very challenging for a lady police officer to maintain a balance between career and family but gradually with experience, we learn that. Compartmentalizing and prioritizing your work is very important," Ohatker said. Women officers emphasize that departmental and family support both are essential for female officers to succeed. "As women officers, we are extended some support from the department like switching to desk work when we are pregnant and preference in posting after childbirth, which essential for us," said Poonam Kesri, DSP, Mahua block, Vaishali. She added, "The support of partner and in-laws at home is important. I have two daughters, and I strive to be a role model for them, one who balances all the aspects of her life." Life is a little more difficult for women in lower ranks. Constable Sweety Kumari, Bihar Military Police, said, "As a single woman, it is difficult to cope with a tight schedule and personal life. It’s difficult for us to get any leave from duty, but we need to compromise to fulfil our duties and responsibilities towards our state and nation". Traffic constables Ankita Verma and Swati Kumari posted at Hartali More said it becomes easier with experience to strike a balance between professional and personal responsibilities. Echoing similar views, Antima Kumari, a traffic constable at Dak Bungalow intersection, said, "I work in alternate 8-hour shifts, so I have to adjust all my familial engagements in my free time. My family and children support me and understand that I am working hard to provide a better living for them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-in-uniform-smash-stereotypes/articleshow/81398871.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Capital city not an election issue, say opposition parties||Vijayawada: Even though all opposition parties are against the state government’s three-capital proposal and have extended support to farmers’ agitations, they are not willing to make capital an issue in the ensuing municipal polls. While the ruling party has completely confined its campaign to its welfare driven agenda, opposition parties are focusing more on local issues. Historically, the ruling party of the state has an edge in the local body elections. This has already been reflected in the recent panchayat elections. “If the election is fought with the capital issue on forefront, a negative result will put us on the backfoot in future as the ruling party will bring in a narrative that people in Vijayawada and Guntur voted in favour of three capitals,” said a TDP contestant who did not wish to be named. “Instead, we have plenty of issues to fight the election which are more localised. Irrespective how big an issue is, local issues always decide municipal elections. We want to keep our options open with regard to the capital issue irrespective of the election result,” the TDP candidate added. TDP official spokesperson K Pattabhiram said that the capital issue cannot be confined to local body elections alone. “It is a state-level issue and our fight for Amaravati will continue even after the elections. Amaravati is definitely part of our agenda along with other impending issues,” added Pattabhiram. CPM capital region coordinator Ch Babu Rao said that though capital location is one of their issues, the party is focusing more on urban reforms in the local body elections. He said there is immense discontent among people over value-based property tax, incremental water and sewerage taxes and other user charges levied by the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/capital-city-not-an-election-issue-say-opposition-parties/articleshow/81398215.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 9, 2021||Patna||Four cadets of Sainik School qualify for VVM national camp||PATNA: Four cadets of Sainik School, Nalanda have brought laurels to the state by clearing Vidhyarthi Vigyan Manthan (VVM) State Level Camp, 2021 conducted by Vigyan Prasar, an autonomous organisation under the department of science and technology, and NCERT. Altogether 17 cadets of the school had participated in the online state level camp conducted on February 21. Those who achieved the feat were cadets Shyam Sunder (Class XI), Md Kaif Aslam (Class XI), Suhaan Singh (Class VII) and Avani Pandey (Class VI). They will now appear for VVM National Camp 2021 to be conducted in May-June at IIT-New Delhi. The meritorious cadets were felicitated by state environment, forest and climate change minister Neeraj Kumar Singh at a virtual function held on Sunday. Each meritorious cadet received a cash prize of Rs 5,000, a memento and a certificate from the chief guest. They will now get an opportunity to visit national-level research laboratories and interact with the scientists of national repute. VVM is a national programme for popularizing science among school students of standards VI to XI. It was conceptualised to identify the bright minds with a scientific aptitude. Congratulating the cadets Col Tamojeet Biswas, principal, Sainik School, Nalanda, said, “The cadets get hands-on-learning by participating in such activities. It promotes their critical thinking as advocated in the New Education Policy, 2020.” Dr Sangeeta Soni, member of academic council and Pramod Kumar, state co-ordinator of VVM, were also present at the felicitation ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-cadets-of-sainik-school-qualify-for-vvm-national-camp/articleshow/81398245.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||‘Identify land to develop parking facilities in Patna’||PATNA: Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Monday asked the officials concerned to identify land for developing parking facilities in order to end the menace of traffic congestion in the city. At a meeting held with the district authorities, Agarwal said roads experience bottlenecks due to illegal parking and inadequate parking facilities. “Some roads experience heavier traffic due to encroachments. We need to identify land in different areas to develop parking spaces, especially near market areas,” he said The meeting was attended by Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh, officials of Patna Municipal Corporation, traffic police and road construction department “Police personnel would be deployed at hotspot areas to manage traffic. Another round of meeting will be held soon to sort out the traffic congestion problem in the city,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/identify-land-to-develop-parking-facilities-in-patna/articleshow/81398716.cms||Faryal Rumi
March 9, 2021||Patna||Women staff take centre stage at airport, railway stations||PATNA: Women staff of Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport managed operations at the air traffic control (ATC) apart from handling communication, navigation and surveillance (CNS) on International Women’s Day on Monday. The women officers at ATC controlled the Patna airspace. Airport director Bhupesh C H Negi said Patna airspace facilitates more than 100 flights daily. Women CNS officers, on the other hand, ensured proper operations of airport’s technical infrastructure like automation system, RADAR units, localiser, glide path and DVOR equipment. These facilities guide the aircraft in the sky and help them land and take off safely. Women were at the forefront in managing the terminal building operations as well. “Patna airport salutes the indomitable spirit of all women. It is a time to call for change and celebrate the acts of courage and determination shown by women,” Negi said. Meanwhile, Gulzarbagh station under Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR) was operated by an all-woman team on Monday. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said while Sonam Kumari took charge as station master, Anjani Kumri and Ratna Kumari worked as the support staff to exchange all right signals with the loco pilots and guards of the passing passenger trains. Rani worked as ticket booking clerk. “These women staff handled traffic operations carefully,” the DRM said, adding the RPF post was also handled by women staff. At Patna Junction too, it was all-woman show. Amid huge applause, loco pilot Richa Kumari took command of the Patna-Buxar-Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction MEMU special from Patna Junction. The DRM said Anjali Kumari and Kanchan Kumari worked as station masters at the Patna Junction and handled traffic operations successfully. Seema Kumari worked as support staff and Kushboo Kumari took charge of the announcement counter at the Patna Junction. Vandana checked fitness of train coaches. At the railway superspecialty hospital at Karbighaiya, railway employees and their wives were vaccinated for Covid-19. Meanwhile, at a function held at Hajipur, ECR G M L C Trivedi and ECR Women Welfare Organization president Kaumudi Trivedi felicitated hundreds of women employees working in the five divisions of ECR. Altogether 34 talented daughters of the railway employees were honoured with cash rewards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-staff-take-centre-stage-at-airport-railway-stations/articleshow/81399263.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Business||Intellect launches AI-based Aadhaar processing solution||Chennai: Fintech enterprise Intellect Design Arena has launched ‘Magic Aadhaar’ an AI-powered Aadhaar processing solution to identify, extract, validate and mask Aadhaar details and aid in efficient digitisation of end-to-end Aadhaar-based processing. With the use of Aadhar growing, and more customers choosing to use it as a proof of identity with external entities like financial Institutions, telecom companies, etc, organisations need tools to protect the privacy and security of one’s Aadhar details while providing services seamlessly. Magic Aadhaar assesses the quality of input documents, extracts relevant information from Aadhaar, validates the Aadhaar details with external UIDAI Authentication API and also does a full or partial masking of the Aadhaar number, as needed for compliance. The solution masks the first eight digits of the Aadhaar Number, leaving the last 4 digits open and can also run as a real-time API or in bulk processing mode on the stored documents. Its benefits include an ability to scale to support real time and legacy backlog volumes, Intellect said. Built by a small team including data science talent, Intellect estimates that the market for such a solution could run into billions of dollars since the tech stack has the capability to extend beyond processing Aadhar numbers. tnn “Magic Aadhaar includes pipelines of computer vision, NLP, machine/deep learning and OCR. It can process over 500 document types in 87% less time and a 98% accuracy rate. The solution also identifies the Aadhaar Pattern across the document in a contextual way. With digital operations becoming more common after the pandemic, such hyper-automation products are in high demand, " Banesh Prabhu, C||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/intellect-launches-ai-based-aadhaar-processing-solution/articleshow/81400382.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Business||39% Indians take to caregiving roles for 1st time during Covid||Chennai: The pandemic has affected not only those diseased but also the wellbeing of caregivers with most number of Indians assuming care-giving responsibilities for the first time worldwide. Almost four in ten (39%) Indian millennials stepped into a caregiving role for the first time during Covid-19 pandemic- the highest proportion in the world and significantly higher as compared to the global average of 20%. The APAC region, with its ageing population, saw the highest addition of new carers, with nearly one in three (29%) carers in the region taking on new responsibilities, as per a global study conducted by pharma giant Merck. The study refers to someone who provides regular and ongoing unpaid care and support for someone with a long-term illness, physical disability, or cognitive/mental condition as carers. Indian caregivers, who spent around 12.6 hours per week of care before the pandemic, are now spending almost double the time in providing care, and providing 24.6 hours per week of unpaid or informal care to loved ones in need post Covid. The pandemic has created three pressure points for carers: emotional tools, technological challenges, and financial troubles, the study said. Indians clocked the highest increase in providing emotional support at 71% rise, and also reported greatest increase in managing technology needs relating to virtual medical appointments and to keep in touch with loved ones. 60% Indians (second highest worldwide) in the world also said that providing home care has emerged as a big responsibility.73% Indians (global average 76%) said caring for someone during the pandemic has caused them to feel more burnt out than ever before. While 58% Indians — highest in APAC region — are spending more money on technology needed to be a caregiver since the pandemic began, 85% of carers in India said they needed additional guidance to use tech tools for caregiving, higher than the 12-country global average of 68%. Globally, 62% of employed carers are concerned they will lose their job because of the added time commitment in caring for dependents. 58% said being a caregiver negatively impacted their mental health.The global survey, conducted in Sep-Oct 2020, surveyed a total of over 9,000 unpaid carers across US, Canada, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Australia, Brazil, Taiwan, India and China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/39-indians-take-to-caregiving-roles-for-1st-time-during-covid/articleshow/81400149.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
March 9, 2021||Business||Credit-wary women up home loan share||MUMBAI: Women have sharply increased their share of home loans, but have turned averse to personal loans and credit cards in the wake of the pandemic. Women are also more closely monitoring their credit scores, according to a study by TransUnion Cibil. A report released by the credit bureau on Women’s Day shows that in 2019, women accounted for 23% of consumer loans. This dipped by 400 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) to 19% in 2020. Similarly, credit card enquiries by women dipped from 13% to 12% during the same period. However, when it comes to home loans, women have increased their share to 11% from 9% in 2019. According to TU Cibil chief operating officer Harshala Chandorkar, this is because of factors like reduced stamp duty for women consumers on a home purchase in some states along with lenders offering better terms & conditions and a lower rate of interest for women borrowers. “Also, the fact that women have a higher average Cibil score than that of men indicates that women have a better credit history and therefore lesser probability of default, which makes them better customers for banks and credit institutions. Improved and easier access to economic opportunities have catalysed the financial inclusion of women in India,” she added. TU Cibil VP and head (DTC interactive) Sujata Ahlawat said, “With improved levels of education and employment of women across our country, their credit consciousness has also grown. This is corroborated by the fact that we have seen a significant surge in the number of women borrowers who monitor their Cibil score and report. This is a promising indicator of increased awareness and financial literacy among women.” This increased credit consciousness is also evident from data that shows women now constitute 12% of self-monitoring consumers — an increase from 10% in 2018. Women consumers also show better credit history as compared to men, with the average Cibil score of an Indian woman consumer being 719 — higher than that of an average male consumer at 709. Additionally, 61% of the women consumers in TU Cibil’s consumer credit bureau have a score greater than 720, whereas only 56% of male consumers have greater than or equal to that figure. “Increased credit consciousness leads to a positive credit behaviour as consumers understand the impact of their credit activity on their Cibil score and access to finance,” said Ahlawat. As women turn credit conscious, their overall share in retail loans is increasing too with 4.7 crore active women borrowers. Over the last six years, the share of women borrowers grew to around 28% in September 2020 — up from around 23% in September 2014, which is a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of around 16%. In terms of the sanctioned loan amount, women borrowers account for Rs 15.1 lakh crore of retail loans, which has grown at a 12% CAGR over the last six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/credit-wary-women-up-home-loan-share/articleshow/81401624.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||Patna: Man gets 20-year jail on sodomy charges||PATNA: One Kamal Kumar (25) has been awarded rigorous imprisonment for 20 years for committing unnatural sexual offence with his seven-year-old maternal nephew at Danapur in Patna four and a half years back. The special court (POCSO Act) of ADJ-VII Dhananjay Kumar Mishra also fined him Rs50,000 on Monday. Kumar was arrested after the minor’s mother lodged an FIR with Danapur police station on April 7, 2016. The minor had become physically and mentally unhealthy due to the unbearable pain after the incident. Additional public prosecutor Mohammad Gayasuddin said Kumar lived in front of the victim’s house on rent. “He had called the victim to watch TV in his room. However, he coerced the minor to get naked and committed unnatural sex while showing him pornographic material. He later sent the minor home with a threat to kill him if he dared tell anyone about the incident,” he said. Gayasuddin said Kumar was sentenced to ten years’ rigorous imprisonment with Rs25,000 fine under Section 377 (unnatural offences) of IPC and 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment with additional fine of Rs25,000 under Section 4 of POCSO Act. Both the sentences will run concurrently and the period already spent in jail would be counted in the imprisonment term. Kumar’s counsels Arun Kumar and Pankaj Kumar argued that there was a dispute between the informant and the accused and the FIR was lodged to harass him. However, the court relied on the evidence and statements of key witnesses, including the minor and two government doctors. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-gets-20-year-jail-on-sodomy-charges/articleshow/81398150.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 9, 2021||Patna||25 trained dogs now part of Bihar police force||PATNA: Simba, Pubji, Sheru, Duke and Teja and 20 other specially trained dogs were officially inducted in the state police force at a function held in the Mithilesh Stadium here on Monday. Among them, 23 are Labradors and two Belgian Milinois. The dogs were trained at IITA, Hyderabad, for eight months specially to trace illicit liquor, explosives, narcotics and other objectionable articles. Of the 25 dogs, 12 will be used for detecting explosives and five for tracing narcotics. The senior officials present at the induction ceremony said the two Belgian Milinois will be attached to the state police’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS). The state has at present 68 sniffer dogs in the squad. DGP SK Singhal said the induction of trained dogs would strengthen the state police force. He also highlighted the use of dog squad in the investigation of criminal cases and tracing liquor being smuggled to the state from outside. ADG (CID) Vinay Kumar said the state government had approved the state police headquarters’ proposal in 2014 to set up 50 dog units across the state. Each dog unit will have four dogs. A main handler and an assistant handler were deputed at each unit to take care of the dogs. The project was to be completed in three phases. In 2019, the state police got dogs trained at IITA, Hyderabad, for the first time. The dogs were useful in tracing smuggled liquor both at the border checkposts and inside the state. In the first phase, 17 dog units were to be set up, followed by 19 and 14. The government has sanctioned Rs29,76,224 for each kennel to accommodate dogs. Since 2014, altogether 105 dogs have been purchased and trained for the purpose. Dogs like Hunter and Maindi won accolades for their outstanding work in unearthing liquor. A show was also organised to see the performance of the dogs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/25-trained-dogs-now-part-of-police-force/articleshow/81398071.cms||Ramashankar
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad hospitals see record surge in Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: There has been a record rise of 81% in Covid bed occupancy in private hospitals in the past week. On March 1, the occupancy of beds for Covid-19 patients was 165. By March 8 morning, the occupancy skyrocketed to 300. The state is experiencing a third surge in Covid cases after the May to July and then in November last year. The daily Covid cases have increased by 35% between March 1 and 7. But the rise in hospital bed occupancy is attributed to the growing gap between the new and recovered patients. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), claimed that the member hospitals of the organization had recorded an addition of 100 cases – from 100 to 200 – in 15 days from February 16 to March 3. The next 100 patients were added in just five days. “The analysis of the bed occupancy also points at more than 85% of the cases from western city parts.” State health department figures reveal that out of 3,140 active cases in Gujarat, 721 or 23% were from Ahmedabad as of March 7. Experts attributed the surge to increased public movement, starting from the state-wide polls that got extended in the wedding season with gatherings sans masks or social distancing. Dr Maharshi Desai, a city-based critical care specialist and member of the state government-appointed Covid-19 task force, said that the rise is reported in several parts of the country and even some regions of the world due to multiple factors. “But if we compared the past two surge in the cases to the present one, the severity of the disease and mortality is very low. We are still to observe the impact of the new strains on the cases,” he said. “The pandemic is not over yet, and one must not lower their guards,” said Dr Amit Prajapati, a city-based critical care specialist. “Overall analysis of the current cases reveal that the patients are above 50 years of age and fewer patients require oxygen support. Fewer patients require multiple treatment protocols compared to earlier surge. But we must be on our guards,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-hosps-see-record-surge-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/81400349.cms||Parth Shastri
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government sets up call centre for farmers||AMARAVATI: The state government has set up an integrated call centre for agriculture and farmers in allied sectors to address their grievances. Experts would provide assistance to farmers on their farm-related issues over phone as well as via text messages. The centre will be available from 7am to 7pm on all working days. Agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu said that the farmers could seek guidance on all agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, sericulture and marketing issues from the call centre. “Experts in all the sectors would be available to share their knowledge and guide the farmers with the right inputs. The decision to open the dedicated call centre with experts is another step to take the government closer to the farmers,” said Kannababu. The minister said the experts would provide scientific advice within 24 hours if a particular query of a farmer requires more analysis and field-level study. He said the call centre would send detailed information required by the farmer via WhatsApp message or text. “Farmers could send their grievances and questions along with images right from the field to the dedicated numbers provided at the integrated call centre,” said Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) project director D Prameela. The call centre would contact top scientists at research stations depending on the requirement of farmers, Prameela said, adding that the farmers could also contact the 155251 toll-free number for assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-sets-up-call-centre-for-farmers/articleshow/81398307.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||1 lakh women vaccinated in Bihar||PATNA: Over one lakh women took Covid-19 vaccine shots across the state in a special drive on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday. While 85,652 women beneficiaries were the ones above 60 years of age, 14,557 others were in the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities. The health department had targeted to vaccinate one lakh women on Monday. Bhagyamani Mandal (98) was the eldest one to take the vaccine shot. She was vaccinated at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna at 4pm. “We should not be afraid of coronavirus. The need of the hour is to fight the pandemic,” said the nonagenarian after taking the vaccine. Doctors said she was completely fine with normal blood pressure after vaccination. “She is the oldest person to get vaccine shot in the state,” IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal, who is also the grandson of Bhagyamani, said. Meanwhile, Jeevika workers were roped in to bring women to the health centres for vaccination. At most session sites, special sitting arrangements were made for women beneficiaries. At some centres, all-woman staff gave vaccine shots to the beneficiaries. Meanwhile, health minister Mangal Pandey felicitated 371 women healthcare workers on Monday for their commendable services. While 22 from Patna were honoured with certificate of appreciation in person, those from other districts were felicitated virtually. Pandey appreciated the role women healthcare staff played in treating Covid patients and containing the spread of the virus in the state. Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said doctors, nursing staff, ANMs and others associated with the task did a great job and they deserved loud appreciation. Dr Anupma, a specialist medical officer of Fatuha community health centre, who received the appreciation certificate, said it would boost her morale. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said about 500 women underwent medical screening for breast and cervical cancer at the government hospitals in the state on Monday. 28 more test positive for Covid: Altogether 1,73,137 people, including 1,00,209 women, were given Covid-19 vaccine shots in the state on Monday, the highest in a day since the launch of the drive. Seeing the success of the drive on Monday, the health department is now planning to carry out vaccination of a particular group in a day. “This cohort mobilization process is like polio drive in which Jeevika, anganwadi and Asha workers are roped in to mobilise large number of beneficiaries,” health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said. Meanwhile, 28 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Monday. The state’s Covid tally has now touched 2,62,779. One more virus fatality on Monday took the state’s toll to 1547.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-lakh-women-vaccinated-in-bihar/articleshow/81399045.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Active cases in Andhra Pradesh cross 1,000-mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 74 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,90,766. The death toll increased to 7,166 as two more patients succumbed to the novel coronavirus—one each in Guntur and Nellore districts. Altogether 61 patients were declared cured. With the recent surge in daily case numbers, the active case load has moved past the 1,000-mark to reach 1,009. Chittoor alone accounts for 293 active cases, while the active case load is 120 in Krishna district. Vizianagaram has only eight active cases, the lowest among districts. Chittoor reported 29 new infections on Monday, followed by Kurnool (13). Anantapur, Vizianagaram and West Godavari did not record any new cases. The remaining eight districts posted single-digit case numbers. Andhra Pradesh tested 25,907 Covid-19 samples on Monday and detected 74 new cases, translating to a positivity rate of 0.3%. The overall positivity rate stood at 6.2%. Of the 18,599 cases reported in the last 24 hours, 86% of the infections came from six states. Maharashtra alone recorded 11,141 cases, followed by Kerala (2,100), Punjab (1,043), Karnataka (622), Gujarat (575) and Tamil Nadu (567).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/active-cases-in-ap-cross-1000-mark/articleshow/81398233.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Delhi CM honours elderly woman protester mocked by Kangana||Bathinda: Woman farmer Mohinder Kaur (75), who had hogged the limelight after actor Kangana Ranaut had called her Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh fame and claumed that she could be rented to protest for Rs 100 a day, was honoured by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at a function organised by Delhi Commission for Women to mark International Women’s Day on Monday. Kejriwal and commission chairperson paid respects to Mohinder. Earlier, Mohinder had filed a defamation suit against Kangana at a Bathinda court and had addressed the ongoing farmers protest at Tikri border from the stage of farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan). Belonging to Fatehgarh Jandia village, Mohinder was spotted in November 2020, while attending a farm protest at Sangat village in Bathinda. Kangana had later deleted the tweet, but still had an argument on Twitter with singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh over the issue. Mohinder, while addressing the protest at Tikri on January 6, had said the respect she got was unforgettable and this had made her struggle till her last breath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/delhi-cm-honours-elderly-woman-protester-mocked-by-kangana/articleshow/81401930.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two more flyers detected with UK Covid-19 strain||KOLKATA: Two flyers who arrived in Kolkata last month have tested positive to the UK strain of coronavirus. On Monday, they were admitted to the state-run Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General (ID&BG) Hospital, taking the number of those infected with the UK strain and admitted in hospital to seven. Another flyer was detected with the South African strain earlier. According to sources in the health department, the newly detected patients are men from different pockets of South 24 Parganas aged 24 and 46. The duo was among the 11 who had tested Covid positive on arrival. Though they were sent into home isolation, their positive reports were sent to National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG) in Kalyani for genome analysis for the mutant virus. Earlier, six of the samples had tested positive to the UK mutation while one was found carrying the South African strain. On Monday, the state health department launched the contact tracing of all eight persons. Sources said that most of them have been traced and their swab samples have undergone RT-PCR tests. “So far, no swab sample of their close contacts have tested positive. Though the new mutation is a concern, it should cause no panic. We are following all protocols and our team is working in coordination with airport officials,” said state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam. TimesViewThe entry of new variants has coincided with the small uptick in cases. This is the time to be careful and take macro decisions that can be preemptive in nature.On getting the genome sequencing report from NIBG on Monday, the health department officials made arrangements to bring the two to ID Hospital. “The general condition of all positive patients with the UK and South African strains is good. While few have mild symptoms, the rest are asymptomatic,” said ID Hospital medical superintendent and vice-principal Asis Manna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-more-flyers-detected-with-uk-cov-strain/articleshow/81399038.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 9, 2021||Kolhapur||25 new Covid cases, 2 deaths in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: As many as 25 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 16 from Kolhapur city, and two deaths were reported from Kolhapur district on Monday. Both the patients who succumbed to the viral infection were from Kolhapur city. The death toll in the district has reached 1,748. Of the 50,689 confimred Covid-19 cases registered in the district so far, 48,603 have been discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Currently, 338 patients are undergoing treatment in the district. Four private hospitals roped in for vaccinationThe Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has roped in four more private hospitals for administering the Covid-19 vaccine to targeted beneficiaries. The vaccination drive is already underway at five private hospitals and 12 urban health centres. So far, 3,665 citizens above 60 years have been vaccinated in these centres. Commissioner of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation Kadambinini Balkawade has slapped a fine of Rs 100 each on five civic staff for not wearing masks. She has ordered the teams to intensify the drive to fine those who violate the Covid safety protocols. On Monday, 20 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Sangli district. The total number of cases in the district has reached 48,723, of which 46,690 have been cured, 1,763 succumbed and 270 are currently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/25-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-kolhapur/articleshow/81397213.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||SGPC warns of disease spread if stir continues||AMBALA: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the erstwhile alliance partner of BJP, had always talked of the farmers’ interest, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Jagir Kaur claimed. “Hot and rainy weather is coming. If the movement is stretched further, there are apprehensions of spread of diseases, especially Covid-19. The PM should take care of this. The Akali Dal was part of NDA in the past and the government should have held discussions with us before going ahead with the laws. But the government did not listen to anyone, due to which this movement has stretched for so long,” she added. “The Centre government should accept the demands of the farmers and dedicate its decision to the upcoming 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur,” she added. Asked about the Haryana Sikh Gurdwaras Management Committee, the SGPC president said, “It hardly has any existence and the service and management of historic gurdwaras in Haryana will remain with the SGPC. Efforts are being made to defame SGPC.” On Sunday, she inaugurated a new building of langar hall and steam cooking system at Gurdwara Panjokhra Sahib in Ambala district. During her visit, she also initiated karsewa (voluntary service) to revamp the sarovar’s verandah from all sides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/if-govt-had-listened-farm-stir-would-not-have-stretched-sgpc-chief/articleshow/81401939.cms||JK Singh
March 9, 2021||Goa||Goa sets sight on Centre’s broadband network by 2025||PANAJI: The department of information and technology (DoIT) hopes to begin the transition of the state-wide area network from Goa Broadband Network (GBBN) to the Centre’s Bharat Broadband Network Limited (BharatNet) project by 2023 and has set a 2025 target for the change. The department which recently extended the contract with United Telecoms Limited (UTL) for GBBN till July 2021 is still in discussion with the Centre for sanctioning BharatNet. Government officials also said that DoIT is trying to move government services and websites from the state data centre to the cloud in order to improve efficiency and reliability of the government services. “It is the department’s endeavour to process the implementation of BharatNet project by 2023,” said a DoIT official. “The long-term goal, which has to be achieved by 2025 is to endeavor to complete the implementation of BharatNet project.” The state government hopes to replace GBBN with BharatNet to connect the village panchayats and over 200 government offices. DoIT has sought Rs 327.7 crore from the Centre’s department of telecommunications (DoT) to create the nationwide optical fibre network in Goa. With the tendering process for BharatNet expected to take more than a year, DoIT had no choice but to extend the contract with UTL. UTL is the private agency that has tied up with the government to implement GBBN, a 10-year public private partnership project. DoIT decided to exit GBBN as the equipment installed and deployed by UTL is at “end of life, end of warranty” and needs complete replacement. DoIT officials also said that following repeated complaints about the state data centre, downtime of government websites and other shortcomings, a move is on to shift services to the Centre’s secure scalable and Sugumaya website as a Service (S3WaaS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-sets-sight-on-centres-broadband-network-by-2025/articleshow/81400789.cms||Newton Sequeira
March 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Pawar assures funds for Kolhapur airport runway extension, night landing facilities||Kolhapur: Funds needed for the extension of the Kolhapur airport runway and developing night landing facilities will be sanctioned as and when the demand is placed, said Maharashtra finance minister Ajit Pawar while presenting of state’s budget. Pawar also announced that funds would be sanctioned to increase the capacity of the Solapur airport. The state government had sanctioned Rs 10 crore a year ago for the runway extension, developing terminal building and night facilities and other infrastructure at the Kolhapur airport. Almost 64 acres need to be acquired for the runway extension. Kolhapur district guardian minister Satej Patil said: “Currently, the airstrip is 1,370m long and it will be increased to 2,300m. More daily flight services to major cities will soon start. There will be no shortage of funds to develop the airport.” Rs 300 crore allotted for Satara Sainik School Pawar also announced the allocation of Rs 300 crore for the Satara Sainik School, the country’s first military school set up in 1961. The school management has always complained of a lack of funds to run the school and pay salaries and pensions. Satara MP Shrinivas Patil had raised the concern with the government. Pawar said Rs 100 crore will be immediately sanctioned for the year 2021-22. The finance minister announced a police training centre at Koyananagar in Phaltan taluka of Satara district. The training centre will also need 65 acres. Minister of state Shamburaje Desai had said the centre could be started in the abandoned irrigation department buildings. Pawar also okayed Rs 65 crore for works at the Sangli civil hospital and works required to upgrade the Atpadi taluka health centre into a sub-district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pawar-assures-funds-for-kolhapur-airport-runway-extension-night-landing-facilities/articleshow/81397221.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Charuni makes pitch for no-trust motion||KURUKSHETRA: Following the call of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana (Charuni) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni asked farmers in the state to protest and submit memoranda to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) or independent MLAs concerned on March 9, asking them to support the no-confidence motion against the coalition government on March 10. Charuni also called for social boycott of MLAs who do not support the motion. In a video released on Sunday night, Charuni said, “Haryana session is about to begin and this time, a no-confidence motion is being brought in Haryana Vidhan Sabha against the new farm laws. You should submit memoranda to all BJP, JJP and independent MLAs and organise one-day protest at their residences on March 9, asking them to support the no-confidence motion so that this government breaks and accepts farmers’ demands.” “Warnings should also be served to these MLAs that if they do not oppose farm laws, they will be boycotted everywhere, including socially and in the elections as well”, said Charuni in his video. When questioned why BKU Haryana (Charuni) is indulging in state politics despite being a farm union, especially when Congress has brought the no-confidence motion against BJP-JJP government in Haryana, union state general secretary Harpal Sudhal said this is not about politics. “It has nothing to do with Congress party only. On March 9, we are going to give memoranda even to MLAs from BJP, JJP and independents. Any party or leader who supports the farmers’ movement and takes a stand against the Centre government’s three agri-marketing laws is welcomed by our union. There is no influence of any particular political party or leaders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/charuni-solicits-support-for-no-confidence-motion-against-govt/articleshow/81401936.cms||JK Singh
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Waldhuni river water turns red due to pollution||ULHASNAGAR: An increase in pollution has led to the water in Waldhuni river turning red on Monday. This is due to the discharge of untreated industrial effluents from nearby companies. Residents suspect that the colour may be coming from the tie and dye industries in Ulhasnagar or pharmaceutical firms in Ambernath. Several complains have been made to the Maharashtra pollution control board and Central pollution control board as well. The issue was brought up during state assembly. Environment minister Aditya Thackeray said MPCB will look into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-waldhuni-river-water-turns-red-due-to-pollution/articleshow/81401946.cms||Pradeep Gupta
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Three fishermen die after drinking from container floating in sea off Tamil Nadu||NAGAPATTINAM: Three fishermen died after drinking from a container they found floating in the sea off the Vedaranyam coast on Sunday. The three were the only ones on the boat to drink what they hoped was liquor. Police quoted the two other fishermen on the boat as saying that the three had fished out the plastic vessel that contained a colourless liquid late on Saturday, about 15 nautical miles off Vedaranyam. They thought it was liquor, drank it and went to sleep. Early on Sunday, the others found one of the men dead and the other two unconscious. They rushed back to shore and took them to hospital. One of the men died on the way, while the other succumbed in hospital. Police identified the dead men as R Antony Christ Raj, 40, a native of Manthoppu, Thangatchi Madam, L Arockia Floris, 57, a resident of Fishermen Colony in Pamban, and M Vinod Kumar, 26, a native of Sudukattanpatti in Rameswaram. They had ventured into the sea on a mechanised boat (IND TN10 1872) owned by S John, 48, of Pamban, along with two others on March 1. Officials from the fisheries department and the Coastal Security Group conducted an inquiry. The postmortem examination report was awaited to ascertain what the chemical substance was, officials told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-fishermen-die-after-drinking-from-container-floating-in-sea-off-tn/articleshow/81400786.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Agra||13 police posts headed by women officers inaugurated in Agra zone on Women’s Day||Agra: With the view of enhancing women’s security, 13 police posts to be headed by women police officers were inaugurated on International Women’s Day on Monday. Besides, a day care centre for the children of the working women police personnel was also started at Mahila Thana here on Sunday. Divulging details, ADG (Agra zone) Rajeev Krishna told TOI that three police posts would be in Agra, while two posts each in Mathura, Aligarh and Firozabad and one each in Mainpuri, Etah, Hathras and Kasganj districts. “Women police officers will be heading these police posts for the ease and comfort of women complainants,” said the ADG. Welcoming the move, AMU women’s college principal Prof Naima Khatoon, who inaugurated one of the women police posts in Aligarh, said, “The initiative will give confidence to women complainants to share their plight with women police personnel.” “Women’s respect and their security are very important,” said BJP MLA from Agra’s Bah constituency Rani Pakshalika Singh while inaugurating one of the three reporting police posts dedicated to women in Agra. The MLA hailed the initiative as “another way of empowering women”. Inaugurating the day care centre — ‘Happy Kidz’ — here on Sunday, zonal president of Vama Saarthi, Uttar Pradesh Police Family Welfare Association, Minakshi Singh said, “The aim is to provide comfort to working mothers. They work as constables and also take care of their little ones. This will help them perform their duties with ease as their children will be in a safe and clean environment.”District president of the organisation Jyotsana said four police constables would take care of the children at Happy Kidz. “We are planning to start another day care centre at the police lines,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/13-police-posts-headed-by-women-officers-inaugurated-in-agra-zone-on-womens-day/articleshow/81396769.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami fires on all cylinders: Rs 1,500 for woman family head, free LPG||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday stepped on the populist gas, promising a monthly honorarium of Rs 1,500 to women heads of families and six domestic LPG cylinders per year free to every household in Tamil Nadu. He accused DMK president M K Stalin of hijacking this promise from the yet-to-be-released AIADMK manifesto. Stalin had, while unveiling the DMK’s vision statement in Trichy on Sunday, promised Rs 1,000 to the head woman of all families in the state. MNM president Kamal Haasan, too, had charged Stalin with stealing the idea, which he said was his. Stalin retorted that the idea was borrowed from a European model. EPS said the honorarium will bring income parity. “While our party’s manifesto was being prepared for the past 10 days, information about such an announcement seems to have been leaked to Stalin, enabling him to hurriedly announce a payment of Rs 1,000 per month for women,” he told reporters at the party headquarters along with deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The CM said while the party manifesto would have many more such announcements, he thought it fit to make the two announcements on International Women’s Day. “Our manifesto will meet the expectations and aspirations of all segments of people,” he said. Exuding confidence that the people would bring the AIADMK back to power, EPS said more parties would join the alliance. The party’s candidate list would be announced by March 12, he said.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-fires-on-all-cylinders-rs-1500-for-woman-family-head-free-lpg/articleshow/81405223.cms||---
March 9, 2021||---||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami fires on all cylinders: Rs 1,500 for woman family head, free LPG||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday stepped on the populist gas, promising a monthly honorarium of Rs 1,500 to women heads of families and six domestic LPG cylinders per year free to every household in Tamil Nadu. He accused DMK president M K Stalin of hijacking this promise from the yet-to-be-released AIADMK manifesto. Stalin had, while unveiling the DMK’s vision statement in Trichy on Sunday, promised Rs 1,000 to the head woman of all families in the state. MNM president Kamal Haasan, too, had charged Stalin with stealing the idea, which he said was his. Stalin retorted that the idea was borrowed from a European model. EPS said the honorarium will bring income parity. “While our party’s manifesto was being prepared for the past 10 days, information about such an announcement seems to have been leaked to Stalin, enabling him to hurriedly announce a payment of Rs 1,000 per month for women,” he told reporters at the party headquarters along with deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The CM said while the party manifesto would have many more such announcements, he thought it fit to make the two announcements on International Women’s Day. “Our manifesto will meet the expectations and aspirations of all segments of people,” he said. Exuding confidence that the people would bring the AIADMK back to power, EPS said more parties would join the alliance. The party’s candidate list would be announced by March 12, he said.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/eps-fires-on-all-cylinders-rs-1500-for-woman-family-head-free-lpg/articleshow/81400822.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Ludh bicycle makers organise expo in Delhi from March 19-21||Ludhiana: City’s bicycle and parts manufacturers are organising Ride Asia expo in New Delhi from March 19 till March 21. The exhibition will give an opportunity to buyers to get an idea of the latest technology, including electric versions. More than 300 stalls are being put up at the expo which will also feature fitness products. Ludhiana-based biggest cycle association of the country, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) has even announced free transportation to the expo for all its members. According to D S Chawla, president of UCPMA, “This expo is very important for the bicycle and parts manufacturers, as this is the biggest event for cycle industry post coronavirus outbreak. Keeping in view its importance and such large participation from Ludhiana, we have decided to provide special complimentary transportation arrangement for the members of UCPMA on March 19. We have arranged a luxury bus for ferrying the members and interested members can get their names registered with our project director Harsimarjit Singh Lucky.” Tejwinder Singh, leading bicycle parts manufacturer and exporter, said, “We are very excited about Ride Asia 2021, which will be India’s biggest bicycle and parts expo of 2020 and 2021 with focus on e-vehicles. This will provide a big platform to the manufacturers and suppliers of Ludhiana to connect with the buyers from ever nook and corner of India. Already lot of our existing customers have confirmed their visit to the expo to meet us and see the new products and launches. Moreover, as we have been unable to meet some of them for almost a year now, we are looking forward to this expo to meet our old associates.” According to G S Dhillon, organiser of the expo, “We have got huge response not only from exhibitors, but visitors too who have already started registering for the event. In another great news for all, we recently met health minister of Delhi, Satyendar Jain and invited him for the exhibition. He has accepted and the minister said there was no need for Covid-19 testing to attend the expo. We have already made arrangements at the expo to keep coronavirus at bay and we already have the experience of organising machine tool expo recently in which record number of visitors participated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludh-bicycle-makers-organise-expo-in-delhi-from-march-19-21/articleshow/81401953.cms||Mohit Behl
March 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Lockdown blues: Matrimonial disputes soar, finds police camp||Ludhiana: The lockdown not only affected people financially, but also hit their family lives. In a mega camp organised by the Ludhiana commissionerate at police lines on the occasion of International Women’s Day, the cops dealt with several cases in which disputes arose during the lockdown. The loss of job or pay cuts, leading to financial crisis, became one of the major triggers. But in some cases, spouses were blamed of spending more time on social media and giving insufficient money. Assistant commissioner of police, special crime, Randhir Singh said, “Majority of the matrimonial disputes started during the lockdown, when people faced job loss or pay cuts, which affected the financial condition of the house. In one case, a man used to earn over Rs 30,000 per month. He lost his job during the lockdown and then got another one but at a salary of Rs 7,000 per month. Therefore, he could not meet family needs, leading to disputes. There were many such complaints, which the police tried to resolve.” Inspector Sukhpal Kaur, in charge of the women police station, said, “Earlier women and men went out to work and met in the evening, so they had little time to fight. But pandemic locked them in the house, causing fights over petty issues, which snowballed. In a case that we disposed of, the husband had objected to his wife being too active on social media. We managed to bring them around and they went home amicably.” 4-yr-old girl separates, reunites with momA 22-year-old woman of Kundanpuri came to the camp with a complaint that her husband had left her and their three children and married another woman. The distressed woman was talking to the officials when her four-year-old daughter Sana walked out of the camp venue. Another visitor saw the girl walking alone, brought her to the camp, and informed the police. The scared child was not able to tell her name and address. The police then made announcements and traced her mother and handed over the girl to her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lockdown-blues-matrimonial-disputes-soar-finds-police-camp/articleshow/81397949.cms||Payal Dhawan
March 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Rs 101 cr for upkeep of 8 ancient temples||Aurangabad: The temples of Lord Khandoba in Aurangabad and Lord Purshottam in Beed district are among the eight ancient shrines across Maharashtra for which funds were announced in the state budget on Monday. For the year 2021-22, an outlay of Rs 101 crore has been proposed in the state budget. Gondeshawar temple of Nashik district and Kopeshwar temple in Kolhapur district, both shrines of Lord Shiva, along with Ekvira Devi temple near Lonavala are among these eight shrines. The Khandoba temple located in the Satara-Deolai area falls under the jurisdiction of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. Sominath Shirane, member of the erstwhile Satara gram panchayat, said, “A few years ago, the government had allotted Rs 1.17 crore for conservation of Khandoba temple. The money, however, lapsed in absence of restoration and conservation efforts,” he said. The Purushottam Puri temple located on the banks of Godavari river is revered as the only temple of Lord Vishnu in ‘Purushottam’ form. The Gondeshawar temple in Nashik is an 11-12th Century structure was built by Yadavas and has beautiful sculptures. The Kopeshwar temple in Kolhapur was built by the Shilahara king Gandaraditya, Vijayaditya and Bhoj-II between 1109 and 1178 AD. The state government has also announced funds for the development of pilgrimage centres at Trimbakeshwar temple, Sant Shrestha Nivurttinath Maharaj and Saptashrungi Gadh in Nashik district. Funds will be made available for Shri Hotra Narayan Gad, Shri Kshetra Gahininath Gad in Beed district, along with Jyotirlinga temples at Parli-Vaijnath (Beed ) and Aundha-Nagnath (Hingoli). Funds were announced for development of Biroba Devasthan, the presiding deity of the Dhangar community, at Kavathe Mahankal tehsil of Sangli district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rs-101-cr-for-upkeep-of-8-ancient-temples/articleshow/81397232.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Goa||Vedanta mine plant in Codli was operating without green nod: NGT||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT), in an appeal filed by Goa Foundation, has ruled that the mining plant in Vedanta lease area in Codli, Dharbandora, was operating without the necessary environmental clearance (EC). “The MoEF&CC and the Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB) may take further remedial action in accordance with this finding to enforce the rule of law. The application is disposed of,” NGT has said in its recent order. Goa Foundation’s appeal before NGT had questioned the legality of Vedanta plant’s functioning on a former mining lease area, which was subsequently made part of an amalgamated lease area without the requisite EC. Goa Foundation said that the plant was functioning on the strength of only a consent to operate granted by GSPCB on September 19, 2019. The appeal stated that after a Supreme Court judgement dated February 2, 2018, mining operations were halted which led to closure of the beneficiation plants in Codli. But GSPCB subsequently granted the consent to operate in September 2019 and the plant began operations again to process 2.1 million tonnes of ore per annum without the required EC, Goa Foundation told NGT. “Operation of plants 2A and 4A without EC, on untenable plea that they do not require EC, is illegal. This cannot be justified merely on the basis of the consent to operate dated September 19, 2019 granted by the GSPCB, as rightly submitted by the MoEF and GSPCB,” NGT order reads. GSPCB told the NGT that the plants were first started in 1997 and subsequently were reconstructed in 2012 without EC. The same were then again closed in the year 2018 in the light of the Supreme Court judgement. Thus, NGT found that the plea by the mine operators does not stand that since the plants were operating since 1997, no EC was required. “Even if the plants were of same capacity, they were shifted to another location in the year 2012 to which EIA notification dated September 14, 2006 applied. Further, after closure in 2019, they later commenced from December 1, 2019 which attracted EIA notification,” NGT has stated. As per the notification issued in September 2006, environment clearance was necessary in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vedanta-mine-plant-in-codli-was-operating-without-green-nod-ngt/articleshow/81400798.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ludhiana||40 teams to resolve 800 dispute cases||Ludhiana: Of the 800 complainants called to the mega camp at police lines on Monday, 171 couples agreed to live together. The cases of 81 couple, who were not ready for a compromise, were sent to court for divorce. Besides, orders of lodging FIRs were issued in 32 cases. In the rest of the cases, the couples have sought more time. The city police had formed 40 teams to resolve the 800 cases of matrimonial disputes. Additional deputy commissioners of police (ADCPs) were asked to monitor the cases.Manisha Gulati, chairperson of Punjab State Women Commission, inaugurated the camp. On the increasing incidents of sexual assault on minor girls in labour quarters, Gulati said, “The women commission, along with the police, is working on the issue. It will rope in factories to make a separate room on the premises for the children of labourers, so that they can stay there till their parents are working.” Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said they will rope in NGOs, who will provide education to these children. About the allegations made by a woman that police were not taking action against Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simrajit Singh Bains for allegedly raping her, the chairperson told the media that the matter is in her knowledge and that she has asked the police to provide all the details of the case.Ten sanitary napkin vending machines will be installed at 10 police stations of Ludhiana commissionerate. Gulati inaugurated the machines at the camp. Besides, a special medical check-up camp was organised for woman cops on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/40-teams-to-resolve-800-dispute-cases/articleshow/81397958.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra offers 1% stamp duty sop to women home buyers||MUMBAI: Its income eaten away by the pandemic, the state faces its highest ever debt of Rs 6 lakh crore in 2021-22 and a revenue deficit of Rs 46,178 crore that could shoot up to over Rs 70,000 crore if Central dues do not come in. Yet, the MVA government’s budget unveiled on International Women’s Day, has proposed innovative schemes for women, including a 1% concession in the stamp duty —from 5% to 4%—if the house is registered in a woman’s name, and relief for farmers with Rs 30,411 crore worth of waivers in power bill arrears. However, those expecting concessions in taxes on prices of petrol and diesel were left disappointed, with finance minister Ajit Pawar saying, “We do not have the money for this.” The state has also proposed raising VAT on liquor from the existing 60% to 65% and from 35% to 40%, which is expected to generate Rs 1,000 crore revenue. State excise duty on branded country liquor was hiked to 220%; it could generate funds worth Rs 800 crore. The stamp duty concession scheme for women-owned homes will be implemented from April 1. The budget also announced free transport for rural girl students on state transport buses and a fund for domestic workers. In order to support farmers, it has proposed interest-free crop loans till the limit of Rs 3 lakh for farmers who repay on time. Responding to protests over the drive to collect power dues from farmers, it proposed a waiver. Farmers currently have a 33% concession on pending power bills. If they pay 50% of the remaining arrears by March 2022, the rest will be waived off. The budget also boosts health infrastructure including rural services and proposes setting up post-Covid counselling and treatment centres in every district. It announces plans for road, rail and air infrastructure. Despite the state’s cash crunch, the budget proposes an outlay of Rs 400 crore for Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray’s memorial. In a Sena touch to the budget, Rs 101 crore are to be spent on the conservation of ancient temples in the state. Funds will also be given for the development of pilgrimage centres. Key leaders of the NCP and Congress will have schemes named after them. The Eastern Freeway will be named after Congress leader Vilasrao Deshmukh while the budget also introduces the Sharad Pawar Gram Samruddhi Yojana. The financial shock of the pandemic has left its mark on the budget. The debt projection of Rs 6.15 lakh crore for 2021-22 is 2.7 times the figure in 2011. Interest payments alone will amount to Rs 42,998 crore annually. One third of the debt or 2.1 lakh crore, are expenses on salaries and pensions of state employees. The extent of the pandemic’s impact on the economy is most evident from the hit to the state’s income through the 2020-21 financial year. Revenue was 16% lower than target and tax revenue was 20% lower than target, with a shortfall of Rs 54,918 crore. Borrowings and liabilities shot up by almost 60% from the target of Rs 54,721 crore to Rs 87,488 crore. The revenue deficit which was targeted at Rs 9,510 crore rose by a staggering 385% to Rs 46,177 crore. However, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said this was an under-estimation and the revenue deficit would cross Rs 70,000 crore if Central dues including GST compensation did not come in. “The Centre owes the state GST compensation worth over Rs 30,000 crore. Then Central tax transfers have been reduced by Rs 14,000 crore. Of the money we have to be paid in tax transfers, Rs 6,000 crore is yet to come in,” said a senior official. In tax collections, the state faced a major shortfall compared to all the targets. This included GST collections (-Rs 19,146 crore), stamp duty and registration fees (-Rs 8,000 crore), state excise dues (-Rs 4,225 crore), sales tax (-Rs 6,000 crore), vehicle tax (-Rs 3,300 crore), SGST (-Rs 3,849 crore), corporation tax (-Rs 5,114 crore), land revenue (-Rs 1,000 crore), customs (-Rs 757 crore) and Union excise duties (-Rs 760 crore). The Opposition was sharply critical of the budget. “Most of the infrastructure projects in the budget are old schemes which receive funding from the Centre. Why has the government not reduced its steep taxes worth Rs 27 per litre on petrol and diesel,” said BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis. He also said, “The budget offers nothing to labourers and daily wagers who were badly impacted by the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-offers-1-stamp-duty-sop-to-women-home-buyers/articleshow/81402427.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Capt tax evasion cases adjourned, next hearing March 22||Ludhiana: A local court on Monday adjourned the case of revision petition filed by chief minister Amarinder Singh and his son against lower court order allowing ED to inspect fresh records filed by income tax department in the alleged tax evasion cases against them. The next hearing of the case in the court of additional district and session judge, Justice Atul Kasana is on March 22. On September 18 last year, the court of judicial magistrate Jasbeer Singh, while allowing ED application, had allowed the investigating agency to inspect fresh income tax records related to the cases of Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh and had allowed ED to inspect those on September 28 last year. Later, the court of additional district and sessions judge, admitting two revised petition filed by the CM and his son Raninder against the September 18 order of lower court, had ordered stay on ED inspection of records related to the cases. Gurmukh Singh, counsel for Raninder, said case was adjourned on Monday and next date of hearing is March 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-tax-evasion-cases-adjourned-next-hearing-march-22/articleshow/81401958.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Agra||Minor girl & her mom killed, kin injured as spurned Agra youth goes on stabbing spree||Agra: A 20-year-old youth sneaked into his neighbour’s house on Monday morning and stabbed to death a girl and her 50-year-old mother while they were sleeping in Agra’s Jarar block. The girl’s sister-in-law, who tried to intervene, was also attacked by the youth. She is in hospital. Police said that the accused, Govinda, knew the girl and was angry since her marriage was fixed with someone else about 15 days ago. Kamini and her mother Sharda Devi were pronounced dead at a hospital. Her sister-in-law, Vimlesh, 32, was still recuperating there. Govinda, pursuing a science degree, fled from the house soon after the attack. Inspector general of police (IG) A Satish Ganesh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar rushed to the house to assess the situation. A forensic team and dog squad were also pressed into service to collect all the crucial evidence. IG Ganesh said, “During preliminary investigation it was found that Govinda knew the girl. Five teams have been formed to probe the case and arrest the accused.” Station house officer (SHO) of Bah, Vinod Kumar, said, “An FIR has been registered under section 302 (murder) of IPC against the suspect on the basis of a complaint filed by the victim’s family.” At least 12 people were detained for questioning, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/minor-girl-her-mom-killed-kin-injured-as-spurned-agra-youth-goes-on-stabbing-spree/articleshow/81396779.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court rejects bail plea of Khar teen murder accused||MUMBAI: Sessions court on Monday rejected a bail application of Diya Padalkar (18), accused in a case of murder of childhood friend, Jhanvi Kukreja (19). Prosecutor Pradeep Gharat opposed her plea as the crime was “premeditated” and “two accused helped one another”. “It cannot be considered an act of negligence or a sudden act that happened due to their fight,” the prosecution said. In her bail plea. Padalkar said she left the party so that she could use the washroom in the second floor flat of the host as she was feeling dizzy and nauseous. Padalkar’s counsel Niteen Pradhan argued for her release, citing her academic year too. Shree Jogdhankar’s (23) lawyer, Mahesh Vaswani, argued that his mid-term exams start from March 29. He cited medical records to show the student received “three grievous injuries, including a gash on his head, fractured ribs and dislocated spine’’ to argue the possibility of the presence of other assailants who attacked them. He sought bail on medical grounds. His plea will be decided on March 10. The court observed that investigations were on and considered PP’s submissions of possibility of accused tampering with witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-khar-teen-murder-accused/articleshow/81401972.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Varanasi||Five Ballia cops face action for nexus with liquor smugglers||VARANASI: Three days after action was taken against 22 policemen in Chandauli, two sub-inspectors and three constables in Ballia also came in the firing line for links with liquor smugglers. Senior officials got intelligence inputs of a nexus between local cops and smuggler for transporting liquor in bordering Bihar, a dry state following which strict vigil and tip-offs enabled seizure of two big liquor consignments in Ballia by a special team after which policemen posted at Haldi and Dubahar police stations came on radar of SP Vipin Tada On Sunday night, Tada ordered the attachment of sub-inspector Suryanath Yadav and constables Satish Yadav and Abhishek Yadav of Haldi police station, and SI Surjit Singh and constable Shivmangal Singh Yadav of Dubahar police station to police lines. SP Ballia told TOI on Monday, “On getting inputs, I sent special teams without informing Haldi and Dubahar police stations. The teams raided two locations and seized 765 boxes of Indian Made Foreign Liquor stocked for smuggling to Bihar and arrested the smugglers.” The role of outpost in-charges and some constables seems doubtful and a deputy SP has been assigned the probe, so the five cops have been attached with police lines to ensure fair investigation, the SP added. “Role of more policemen is also under scanner. Our move of sharing phone numbers of senior police officials with the public has started yielding results as we are getting inputs and information easily,” said Tada. Similarly, surveillance cell and Alinagar cops seized a truck and car carrying 1,750 litre of IMFL of some brands in 190 boxes in Chandauli. SP Chandauli Amit Kumar said on Monday, “We arrested three men from Haryana and recovered liquor worth Rs 20 lakh being smuggled to Bihar. A sticker mentioning ‘On Army Duty’ was pasted on the truck and liquor was being illegally transported on documents of animal fodder.” Chandauli SP Amit Kumar had swung into action after an audio clip of a conversation between a constable of Khandwa police station and smuggler went viral in which the cop was taking guarantee for safe passage for taking liquor consignments to Bihar. The action started yielding results as several liquor consignments were recovered in Chandauli between Saturday and Monday. Only on March 6, police had caught three smugglers trying to cross the border on foot and motorcycles with small liquor consignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/five-ballia-cops-face-action-for-nexus-with-liquor-smugglers/articleshow/81398636.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Allahabad||Three more state universities to come up in Uttar Pradesh||PRAYAGRAJ: Soon, three more state universities would be established in the state at Aligarh, Saharanpur and Azamgarh for which the state government has already commenced the process. Giving this information at the convocation function of Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) University in the city recently, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said, “Apart from this, a sports university, Ayush university and law university will also be set up in the state. A concrete action plan has been initiated and a 16-member task force has been formed by the government to establish UP as a centre of higher learning.” The deputy CM, who is also the education minister, said separate steering committees have been formed in the departments of higher education, secondary education, basic education, and technical education. “Through these steering committees, the direction of implementing the new National Education Policy-2020 is being taken forward,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/three-more-state-univs-to-come-up-in-up/articleshow/81398730.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kanpur||Naaz Fatima begins training, to be first Muslim female UPSRTC driver||KANPUR: A science graduate, 24-year-old Naaz Fatima is all set to breach a male bastion as the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) started training her as a bus driver on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday. Corporation officials told TOI that once inducted, Naaz will be the first female Muslim UPSRTC bus driver in the state. Naaz, who hails from Kamalganj town of Farrukhabad, has started training at Model Driving Training and Research Institute in Kanpur’s Vikas Nagar. A science graduate, Naaz was selected with 26 other women candidates, who had applied for the driver’s post in response to a SRTC advertisement. Sharing her story of grit, determination and struggle against odds, the newly-inducted woman trainee driver told mediapersons that after sudden demise of her father, and to support her family financially, she was in search of a job. “Through an advertisement, I came to know that SRTC is all set to start a heavy commercial driving training course for women to help them get jobs. I applied and after getting selected, I enrolled myself into their driving course,” she said and added, “This is indeed going to be a challenging task for me. I will try to become a responsible driver, and safety of passengers will be my top priority while driving on roads.” She was born in Kamalganj in Farrukhabad to Tasveerul Hasan and Hadeesa Bano. For pursuing a male-bastion profession, she said that she also received full support from her family besides friends and colleagues and has not experienced any discrimination as a woman. Busting stereotypes, today Naaz is a role model to many on this International Women’s Day. SP Singh, principal, Model Driving Training and Research Institute, Vikas Nagar, congratulated Naaz for her bold decision of opting for the male-bastion profession. “As far as I know, she would be the first woman driver who would encourage more women to come forward and join the SRTC’s fleet of buses,” Singh said. “It’s the first batch of 27 women, who will undergo training at the institute, which is the first of its kind in the region. We will soon make provision for imparting training to more such women,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/naaz-fatima-begins-training-to-befirst-muslim-female-upsrtc-driver/articleshow/81398795.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 9, 2021||Varanasi||BJP MLA threatened by party’s office bearer in Bhadohi||Times News Network Varanasi: A Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Aurai assembly area of Bhadohi district Dinanath Bhaskar on Monday received a call from his own party’s office-bearer, who threatened to shoot him. The audio clip of this call went viral on social media while Bhaskar alerted the party leadership as well as the police about this call. SP Bhadohi RB Singh said, “The MLA has not given any written complaint so far. But, as he has been threatened the police have started investigating the matter and will initiate further action on the basis of its outcomes.” Initial investigation revealed that one Dhirendra Dubey of BJP was upset after his 14-year-old son, who had left home on Sunday afternoon, did not return till Monday morning, said Singh. However, the boy returned home later in afternoon, but before that, Dubey, suspecting that the boy has been kidnapped, made a call to Bhaskar questioning him that why the latter did not pressurise the SP and other senior police officers for safe return of his son despite being the public representative. Dubey also threatened that if any unfortunate incidents occurs with his son then he would shoot the MLA. On being contacted, the MLA Bhaskar said, “The person who called me and threatened over phone is the general secretary in a divisional unit of the BJP in Bhadohi district. As the threat was given harshly I immediately reported the matter to the party high command apart from bringing it to the knowledge of the SP and other senior officials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjp-mla-threatened-by-partys-office-bearer-in-bhadohi/articleshow/81398646.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Lawyers take out mobike procession, to continue stir||Prayagraj: Lawyers of Allahabad High Court, under the aegis of High Court Bar Association (HCBA), took out a motorcycle procession in the city on Monday in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill, which proposes to set up principal seat of this tribunal at Lucknow instead of Prayagraj. The procession which started from high court at 12 noon passed through various parts of the city and came back to high court where the lawyers organized a meeting, where they resolved to make Allahabad bandh (closure) on March 9 on the same issue a success. The procession was welcomed by the citizens at several parts of the city who promised to stand by the lawyers in their fight. The procession was led by the president of HCBA, Amrendra Nath Singh, secretary Prabha Shankar Mishra and several trade and student leaders. In a meeting, the Allahabad High Court Bar Association has resolved to continue boycott of judicial work on Tuesday on the same issue. Earlier, one stage, the people from all walks of life have expressed their views and also promised to extend their full support to Prayagraj ‘bandh’ (closure) on March 9 in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill. Earlier, former city MLA, leaders of employees’ organizations, the leaders of trade organizations, student leaders and councillors of Nagar Nigam had promised to extend their wholehearted support to the bandh on March 9. HCBA had been protesting against the Bill. According to HCBA joint secretary (press) Rajendra Kumar Singh, in the general house meeting, it has been reiterated to intensify the agitation and make Allahabad bandh on March 9 a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lawyers-take-out-mobike-procession-to-continue-stir/articleshow/81398721.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Rain likely in Ludhiana till Friday, says Met dept||LUDHIANA: It drizzled in the city on Sunday night, bringing the pleasant weather back after days of heat. The met department predicts that weather might stay wet in Ludhiana for the next few days. According to the met department, rainfall in the city between 8.30am on Sunday and 8.30am on Monday was recorded as trace. The rainfall did have effect on weather in city on Monday as the maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at 31 degrees Celsius, which was four degree less than normal. On Sunday, Ludhiana had witnessed day temperature at 28.4 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees more than normal. Meanwhile, minimum (night) temperature in city on Monday was recorded at 18.2 degrees Celsius, which is 7 degrees more than normal and 0.4 degree more than a day before. A met department official at Chandigarh said weather forecast for Tuesday is, “Partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers.” This kind of weather is expected till Friday. He added that the day temperature is expected to witness a fall but night temperature may not fall significantly. The met department website meanwhile predicts fall in day temperature to 26 degrees till Saturday whereas night temperature is expected to rise to remain between 16 and 17 degrees till that day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rain-likely-in-ludhiana-till-friday-says-met-dept/articleshow/81401963.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Citrus Estate to up sweet lime output||Aurangabad: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has in his annual state budget announced the setting up of a ‘Citrus Estate’ on 62 acre of land at Paithan in Aurangabad district. The proposal will enhance the quality and production of citrus crop in Marathwada and adjoining areas. The proposed facility is expected to benefit sweet lime growers in the region, which is believed to have around 39,000 hectare land for the crop. Babasaheb Jawale, a farmer from Paithan taluka, said: “We hope the new facility will offer us scientific guidance facilitate market reach.” The budget has announced establishment of a Citrus Estate for orange growers in Vidarbha at Amravati also. Among other Aurangabad specific announcements, the budget has declared setting up of an egg production centre and ancillary facilities in the Chikalthana area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citrus-estate-to-up-sweet-lime-output/articleshow/81397238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Kochi||Covid-19 case fatality rate in T’puram double that of state||Kochi: The case fatality rate (CFR) in Thiruvananthapuram district is double that of the state. While Kerala’s CFR is 0.40%, in Thiruvananthapuram it is 0.82%. Even Kannur, Thrissur and Alappuzha have a CFR higher than the state average. While CFR in Kannur is 0.53%, it is 0.46% for Alappuzha and 0.45% for Thrissur. Idukki district, which has very little health facilities, has the lowest CFR — 0.13%.Incidentally, the number of Covid deaths in Thiruvananthapuram continues to be high even as the total number of Covid cases in the district is lesser than that of Ernakulam and Kozhikode districts.As per data from directorate of health services (DHS) as on Saturday, Ernakulam district has the highest caseload in the state – 1,25,374 cases — but the number of Covid deaths is 427. Kozhikode comes second with about 1,21,891 cases and the number of deaths in the district is 459. Malappuram stands at the third position with a caseload of 1,19,203 cases and 420 deaths. In contrast, Thiruvananthapuram district, which had seen a surge in cases post-Onam, has reported 1,03,432 Covid cases and 844 deaths.“The best of the government health facilities are in Thiruvananthapuram and yet the district has reported maximum Covid deaths. There is an urgent need to conduct a study as to why the district is seeing so many Covid deaths,” said internal medicine expert Dr Arun N M, who has been analyzing the Covid death trend in Kerala.In March first week also, Thiruvananthapuram district saw 14 deaths though active caseload had come down to 2,180. Kollam district, which has the highest number of active cases (4,931), saw eight deaths in the past one week. Kozhikode has the second highest number of active cases with 4,870. The district reported 12 deaths in the past one week. Thrissur reported the maximum number of deaths in March first week with 19 followed by Alappuzha – 16. “The probable reason for high CFR in Thiruvananthapuram is that the district authorities are trying to identify all deaths. Also the district has major government hospitals that treat a large number of persons across the state with comorbidities. Even the number of retired persons and old age homes are more in the district,” said Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) president Dr Vijayakrishnan G S.Majority of people who succumb to Covid-19 continue to be those above the age of 60 and are men. Obesity along with lifestyle diseases — uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension — besides smoking and pre-existing lung diseases continue to be a big risk factor that leads to health complications in a Covid patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-19-case-fatality-rate-in-tpuram-double-that-of-state/articleshow/81399117.cms||Preetu Nair
March 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Two booked for duping Ludhiana resident of Rs 37.12 lakh||LUDHIANA: The Sadar police have booked two men for duping a city resident of Rs 37.12 lakh on the pretext of investing it in a chit funds scheme. The accused in different instalments took the money and later on refused to pay back. The accused have been identified as Radhey Shyam and Bansi Lal, directors of Future Maker Life Care Private Limited, from Haryana. An FIR has been lodged against them on the complaint of Sunita Devi, 42, of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Dhandra Road. In her complaint to the police, Sunita stated that Sanjeev Sharma, a resident of Dhandra road, was their family friend and would often visit their house. In 2018, Sanjeev visited their house and told her husband Sandeep Kumar about the Future Maker Life Care company. He persuaded her and her husband to invest in the company for doubling the money. With the reference of Sanjeev, the victim’s family met the accused duo. The accused lured them with promises to provide financial benefits and made them invest Rs 37.12 lakh in the chit funds scheme from March 2018 to September 2019. Later when the woman asked the accused to return the money, they refused. The woman further alleged that the duo threatened to implicate them in a case. Meanwhile, they came to know that earlier also several people have lodged complaints against the respective company for duping their money. In September 2019, Sunita also lodged a complaint with the Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal and an enquiry was marked. Inspector Jagdev Singh, station house officer, at police station Sadar said following a long enquiry the police have registered a case against Radhey Shyam and Bansi Lal of Haryana under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust) IPC and Prize Chits and money circulation schemes act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-booked-for-duping-city-resident-of-37-12l/articleshow/81401970.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Killer’s landlord booked for ignoring police verification||DOUBLE MURDERLudhiana: Two days after a neighbour brutally murdered two children at their labour quarter in Focal Point, the police on Monday booked the quarter owner for not getting his killer tenant police verified.The FIR has been lodged against Inderjit Singh of Phase-I Urban Estate, Jamalpur Colony, under sections 188 (disobedience to the orders duly promulgated by the public servant) of the IPC. Focal Point SHO inspector Davinder Sharma said, “On March 6, 22-year-old factory worker Shailendra Kumar had killed two children, Rajnish, 8, and Manish, 6, by slitting their throats. After the killings, he had committed suicide.”“When the police approached Inderjit to get an ID proof of Shailendra, he had none. Inderjit had not got his tenants police verified. Therefore, a case has been registered against him,” the SHO added. During the case investigation, the cops found that Shailendra was an introvert. “He worked at a factory in the night shift. During the day, he stayed in his one-room accommodation and at times, went out. He had been living in the labour quarter for the past one year. During his stay here, he had only one fight —with the father of the two children three months ago,” he said. Shailendra was in a one-sided love with the mother of the children. However, the woman and her husband used to object to it. A night before the double murder, the father of the children had threatened to complain against Shailendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/killers-landlord-booked-for-ignoring-police-verification/articleshow/81397969.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Goa||‘Probe if govt, BJP coerced Kavlekar to quit Congress’||Panaji: In a fresh twist to the disqualification petition against the 10 former Congress MLAs, which is pending before the Supreme Court, an individual has filed an intervention application before speaker of Goa Legislative Assembly Rajesh Patnekar with claims that deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar has “suppressed crucial facts” that led to the merger. The applicant, Sushant Ray, has suggested that Kavlekar may have been under “psychological duress” when he decided to join the BJP along with nine other Congress MLAs. The intervention application also calls for a “detailed inquiry” to ascertain if the state government or BJP resorted to any “strong arm tactics” to compel Kavlekar to breakaway from the Congress. To substantiate his claims, Ray has referred to several affidavits filed by Kavlekar before the Goa Lokayukta and judiciary in Goa. In one such counter affidavit filed before Goa Lokayukta, the former opposition leader stated that the FIR filed against him under the Goa Gambling Act was politically motivated. Ray has now pleaded before the Supreme Court and the speaker to consider the possibility that Kavlekar may have been coerced by the BJP to break away from the Congress. Ray, a tax consultant, has pointed to Kavlekar’s sworn statement before the Lokayukta, where the former opposition leader said that “politically motivated” FIRs were being filed against him when he was a Congress MLA. “The FIR was lodged against me to target my political career,” Kavlekar had said in his counter affidavit before the Lokayukta much before he switched over to the BJP. “The learned authority and Supreme Court be pleased to seek inputs from anti-corruption bureau and crime branch to ascertain if the cases filed by them were done under political pressure as alleged,” said Ray in the intervention application. Ray has also informed the speaker that the October 5, 2018 order passed on an anticipatory bail application, notes Kavlekar’s claims that Goa Police was trying to arrest Kavlekar “only with the object of injuring and humiliating him because he is a politician and leader of opposition of the assembly, opposed to the ruling government” in Goa. “The Supreme Court needs to ascertain the actual reason for the ‘so called merger’ to take place. Kavlekar has suppressed this fact and painted a completely different picture about his intentions and aspirations for his ‘so called group’ merging with the BJP in Goa,” stated the application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/probe-if-govt-bjp-coerced-kavlekar-to-quit-congress/articleshow/81400867.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid claims 2 lives; 4 teachers, 3 students among 92 positive||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 92, including four teachers and three students, tested positive on Monday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 60-year-old woman of Samrala, who had asthma, and a 70-year-old man of Khud Mohalla.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll has risen to 1,038 and that of outsiders stood at 516.To date, 6,95,768 persons have been tested.Of the 92 new cases, 27 were from flu corner, 26 from OPD, 15 contacts of positive patients, 12 through tracing process, two health workers, one cop, one pre-operative case, and one severe acute respiratory infection case. Also, four teachers (one each of a college, a hospital and college, a private school in Fatehgarh, here, and a government school) and three students (one each of Gadvasu, a nursing college and a college in Sarabha) have contracted the disease. Eleven outsiders, too, have tested positive.The local health department officials said the district case count was 27,924 and that of outsiders 4,379.So far, 26,110 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.50% of the total cases.There are 776 active cases.Eleven patients, including nine Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-claims-2-lives-4-teachers-3-students-among-92-positive/articleshow/81397973.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Video of Jaipur gang rape goes viral; 3 arrested||JAIPUR: After a viral video of a 20-year-old woman being gang-raped surfaced, the Jaipur police on Monday arrested one of the accused, who is seen in the video, from Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Two others, the person who allegedly shot the video and the middleman, have also been arrested. Police said the woman, a sex worker, was raped by at least 10 persons in October last year in the Mansarovar police station area. They first identified the woman, who is from Uttar Pradesh, from the video and then took her statement to nail the culprits, including Abhishek Thakur from Indore. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ajay Pal Lamba said the video, which they received from some of their sources on March 6, indicated that it appeared to have happened in Jaipur. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/video-of-city-gang-rapegoes-viral-3-arrested/articleshow/81400884.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Drive at your risk on pothole-riddled Delhi highway||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana-Delhi national highway is emerging as a killer stretch with a number of potholes and cracks between the city and Khanna. The road has seen many fatal accidents in recent years.On the highway’s stretch from Ludhiana to Mandi Gobindgarh, The Times of India team found potholes near Sherpur Chowk, Gurdwara Manji Sahib, Kaddoon village, Kishangarh village, Daheru village, Khanna, Bulepur and Alaur. The road was pathetic on both sides and at many places, the potholes were so deep that a driver was bound to face difficulty in controlling the vehicle.Residents have another complaint too. “While carrying out repairs, they scarify a stretch and leave gravel behind. Vehicles come at high speed on such roads, whose poor condition and upkeep increase chances of accidents. Many who have died here were in the age of 25 to 45 years, and in various cases the only breadwinners of their families,” said Dr Amandeep Bains, a city-based social activist. Road safety expert and member of National Road Safety Council Kamaljit Soi said, “In a study done by the council on the national highway between Panipat and Jalandhar, 140 cracks and potholes on either side of the road on a one-kilometre stretch were found. At some places they have started repairs. NHAI is responsible for the condition of the road. Of the total accidents in a geographical area, 40% are on the highways.” The project director of NHAI for the road admitted that there are issues at certain spots, which have been identified and would be repaired. “Work is being done between Ludhiana and Jalandhar. After 10 to 15 days, necessary repairs will be carried out between Ludhiana and Rajpura,” he added.BLACK SPOTSBlack spot identification and rectification programme on various highways and roads began in 2019. Ninety-one black spots were identified by a team of researchers in the Ludhiana commissionerate. Traffic adviser to Punjab government Navdeep Asija, who headed the team, had said that of the 91 dark spots on Ludhiana roads, about half were on the NH-44 from Sahnewal to Jalandhar bypass. He said black spots that witnessed maximum fatalities in 2016, ’17, ’18 included Sahnewal Bridge (22), near Eastman Caste and Forge Limited Sahnewal (17), Dhandari Flyover (16) and Dhandari Kalan bus stop (14).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/drive-at-your-risk-on-pothole-riddled-delhi-highway/articleshow/81397964.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Alwar: 2 cops suspended on charges of raping woman inside police station||ALWAR: Two policemen, including a sub-inspector, were suspended by the Jaipur range police for allegedly raping a 26-year-old woman for three days at the Kherli police station in Alwar district on Monday. The sub-inspector, Bharat Singh (54), was arrested by the police late on Sunday. He was sent to judicial custody for 14 days by the Kathumer local court. Other than Singh, head constable Om Prakash has been suspended for maintaining silence about the incident and Laxmangarh deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ashok Kumar Chauhan put on awaiting posting order (APO) till the investigation is over by Jaipur IG Hawa Singh Ghumaria. According to police, the rape survivor had come to the station to register a case against her husband on March 2. “She was directed to Singh and a case was registered against her husband. She told the accused that her husband’s family wanted a divorce but she would like to continue with the marriage and sought his help in arranging a counsellor for the same,” said Tejaswini Gautam, SP Alwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-cops-suspended-on-charges-of-raping-woman-inside-ps-in-alwar/articleshow/81400907.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD sends CM ‘shame basket’ for not registering FIR against rape accused LIP chief||Ludhiana: Furious over inaction against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains in alleged rape case, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in a unique protest against the Ludhiana police and government of Punjab marched towards police commissioner officer Ludhiana to send “lahnat da tokra” (basket of shame) to the chief minister through Ludhiana police. The protestors were led by senior SAD leader Harish Rai Dhanda and district president of youth Akali Dal (YAD) Gurdeep Singh Gosha. The protestors also sat on the floor demanding registration of FIR against Bains. Speaking on the issue, Gosha said, “On the one hand, Punjab government is celebrating International Women’s Day, but on the other hand, the rights of a poor woman are being infringed by the same government. Moreover, the police which should play impartial role is also hand in glovs with the Congress high command, which is trying to save MLA Bains, who is nothing less than a criminal. The victim is struggling to get justice for the last three months and all her cries for help have gone unheard. It is shameful for Congress government that on International Women’s Day, such large number of women have protested against this government. Due to government shrugging off its duty of protecting the women of the state from crime, and instead shielding rapists, the womenfolk decided to send “lahnata da tokra” (Basket of shames) to chief minister” Dhanda, meanwhile, said the Ludhiana Police and Congress government have totally flouted the norms and ignored the Supreme Court guidelines in the complaint lodged by the woman against MLA Simarjit Singh Bains. The Police and government should be ashamed and feel sorry to all women on International Women’s Day. Women leaders, including Surinder Kaur Dyal, Rani Dhaliwal and Komal Sharma said they will struggle till the victim will gets justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-sends-cm-shame-basket-for-not-registering-fir-against-rape-accused-lip-chief/articleshow/81401975.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra budget mum on debt burden crossing Rs 6 lakh crore-mark||MUMBAI: When state finance minister Ajit Pawar presented a deficit budget for 2021-22 on Monday, he was silent on the debt burden which has crossed the Rs 6.15 lakh crore-mark, the second highest in the country after BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. A decade ago, Maharashtra’s debt burden was Rs 2.25 lakh crore. According to the documents tabled in both Houses of the state legislature, up to 53% of the budget outlay will be towards expenditure on salary of government and aided institution employees (25%), pension (9%), debt repayment (10%), and interest payment (9%). While expenditure on salaries stood at Rs 45,457 crore in 2011-12, it will be more than Rs 1.2 lakh crore in 2021-22; pension was Rs 11,682 crore in 2011-12 and is expected to be Rs 44,371 crore in 2021-22; and interest payment was Rs 17,505 crore in 2011-12 and will be Rs 42,998 crore in the next fiscal. Senior NCP leader and former finance minister Eknath Khadse said in view of poor resource mobilization and resource crunch, it is time the government fix the limit for borrowings. “...We are securing loan to pay salaries… In the days to come, the situation will be more bad owing to massive increase in non-planned expenditure,” he said. Veteran bureaucrat Mahesh Zagde said it was the government’s responsibility to explain to citizens the present status of ongoing projects. “We have taken huge loans, but most of the projects are yet to be completed even after the stipulated time,” he said. Another bureaucrat said that during the tenure of Devendra Fadnavis, Rs 2.08 lakh crore had been taken as loan for infrastructure projects. He said between 1999 and 2014, two white papers had been submitted on the measures to be taken for tackling the state’s financial situation. The highlight of both papers was to cut cost of establishment and wind up loss-making corporations, but the recommendations have been ignored, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-maha-budget-mum-on-debt-burden-crossing-rs-6l-cr-mark/articleshow/81401982.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
March 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Facilities will be restarted for patients with mild, moderate, severe symptoms||Ludhiana: With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing in the district, the health department is restarting the facilities for patients with mild, moderate and severe symptoms.Since the start of March, several days have seen the daily case count topping the 100-mark. In its wake, a high-level meeting of chief secretary with deputy commissioners, police chiefs and key officers of other stakeholder departments, like health, medical and education, was held on March 6 to effectively manage the looming second wave of the pandemic in the state and break the chain of transmission.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar says, “We have made preparations for checking and managing cases in the district. We are now again starting Level (L) 3 facility (for serious patients) at civil hospital, Ludhiana. It had been closed earlier. With the decrease in cases in the past, we had reduced the number of Level (L) 2 beds at civil hospital from around 150 to 20. Their number too will be increased as per the requirement. We have deputed staff for these facilities and written to the deputy commissioner to provide us 20 rural medical officers. Hopefully we will get the staff by Monday evening or Tuesday morning.” “If the number of cases increases further, we can start L 2 services at sub-divisional hospitals in Raikot, Jagraon and Khanna. Infection spike is due to people not following the pandemic guidelines and hesitancy to get vaccinated,” he adds.The health department says the situation is not alarming.“Even as the cases are increasing, we don’t think the second wave has arrived in Ludhiana. Things are likely to become clear by March-end. We were told that if the cases in Punjab reach 1,000 per day, then it is the second wave. By that estimate, the second wave in the district will be when the daily case count is 200,” says a health department officer involved in management of cases.“At present, we are seeing it as a momentary rise in cases, which is expected to fall. A reason for more positive reports is increased testing. We are collecting more than 4,000 samples a day. But, positivity rate remains 2.2 to 2.3,” he adds.IMA’s Ludhiana president Dr Saroj Aggarwal says, “The infection surge is a little scary. It is too early to say that the second wave is here, but the way cases are increasing, it may be around the corner.”Residents say the authorities should enforce the guidelines strictly.“If you visit any market, you will find majority of people without masks and in most of the shops, no social distancing is maintained. The authorities should act tough to contain the disease,” said a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/facilities-will-be-restarted-for-patients-with-mild-moderate-severe-symptoms/articleshow/81397979.cms||Shariq Majeed
March 9, 2021||Goa||In run-up to CCP polls, BJP reins in party dissidents||PANAJI: With the election to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) eleven days away, BJP seems to be leaving no stone unturned to neutralise the dissent that has been brewing within the party against the panel fielded by Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate. BJP is trying every bit to change people’s perception that their party leaders are against the candidates fielded by Monserrate. The Panaji MLA has vowed to get all his 30 candidates elected to the CCP. The party on Monday released a photograph of former MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker seated along with Monserrate and his panel. Obviously it was meant to indicate that all is well in Panaji for the party and that all are united to fight the CCP polls slated for March 20. This comes a few days after Kuncalienker was seen accompanying independent candidates who had filed nominations for the CCP election against the Monserrate panel. BJP’s state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade told TOI, “There are no differences. Party workers and we are all together and will work to take party ahead. I am confident that the party will win all 30 seats in the CCP elections.” “Even if BJP tried to neutralise party leaders for the CCP elections, still it faces some resentment from party karyakartas, who are basically hurt due to the party’s and Monserrate’s decision in selection of candidate for the CCP polls,” a political observer said. TOI had reported that ahead of the CCP elections scheduled for March 20, a fierce turf war had broken out between Monserrate and former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s son, Utpal, and Kuncalienker. Kuncalienker, speaking to TOI earlier had said that chief minister Pramod Sawant and Tanavade had clarified to him that the CCP elections are not fought on party lines or party panel. “The party has told me that good people should get elected. As a citizen of Panaji, it is my right to support good candidates for my future and that of the city,” the former Panaji MLA had said. Utpal too, who had claimed that many aspiring candidates who were denied ticket by Monserrate approached him and he was meeting them, three days ago addressed a press conference to deny that he was a BJP rebel for the CCP polls. He also said that he was merely supporting individual candidates in his personal capacity. To show that BJP would not tolerate any kind of sentiment against the party, BJP leadership dropped former BJP Taleigao candidate Dattaprasad Naik as party spokesperson after Naik lent his support to some independent candidates against the BJP Panaji panel floated by Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-run-up-to-ccp-polls-bjp-reins-in-party-dissidents/articleshow/81400904.cms||Murari Shetye
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD holds protests against Congress for not fulfilling promises||LUDHIANA: Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) Ludhiana unit on Monday staged a protest against the state government on rising prices of fuel and other issues. Protests were held across various constituencies in Ludhiana, which were led by the prominent Akali leaders. In Ludhiana east constituency, a dharna was held at Rahon Road, which was led by SAD district chief Ranjit Singh Dhillon. Addressing the gathering, Dhillon said, “During last few months there has been uncontrollable rise in the fuel prices and both the state and the central governments are responsible for this. Besides, Punjab government did not even fulfil a single promise made to people — whether it was commitment to give government job or waiving off bank loans. Congress had announced Shagan scheme of Rs 51,000 for eligible families, but forget the implementation of this scheme. They even scrapped the old scheme. They assumed power in Punjab by fooling the public and put huge load on them by hiking power rates, destroying industry, not uprooting spurious liquor trade from the state. These are some of the reasons why the need for staging these protests was felt by us all over the city,” he added. Dhillon said the residents of Rahon Road and nearby localities were being forced to live a difficult life, as the government has turned a blind eye to their woes and they are being deprived even of the basic amenities like roads, sewage and water. “Due to this, not only the livelihood of the shopkeepers and traders has been destroyed, but the day-to-day life of the locals has also been affected. We warn the state government that if within the next three months the pending works of repair and new infrastructure of this area are not completed, we will intensify our efforts,” he said. Another dharna was organised by Atam Nagar unit of SAD, which was led by constituency incharge Gurmeet Singh Kular. Several SAD workers shouting slogans and holding placards protested against Congress government in the state. Later on, the protestors sent a memorandum with their demands to chief minister Amarinder Singh through tehsildar Divya Singla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-holds-protests-against-cong-for-not-fulfilling-promises/articleshow/81401977.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Allahabad||UPPSC recruitment exam attracts over 6.5 lakh applicants||PRAYAGRAJ: A whopping number of over 6.88 lakh candidates have applied for the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission’s (UPPSC) most prestigious recruitment exam —Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services Examination-2021, commonly known as PCS-2021 and Assistant Conservator of Forest (ACF)/Range Forest Officer (RFO) Services Examination-2021. As per the annual calendar of recruitment exams issued by the commission for 2021, the PCS (Preliminary)-2021 is scheduled to be held on June 13. “Over 6.88 lakh candidates have applied for PCS-2021. Online applications for 400 posts of PCS-2021 and 16 posts of ACF/RFO Recruitment Exam-2021 were accepted from February 5 till March 5,” informed media in-charge of UPPSC Pushkar Srivastava. If competitive students and subject experts are to be believed, this is the first time that such a large number of candidates have applied for the PCS exams. Earlier, 5.95 lakh candidates had applied for 487 posts of PCS-2020. A total of 5,44,664 candidates had filled the form for the 453 posts that were on offer in PCS-2019 and 6,35,844 candidates had applied for 988 posts that were on the table for the taking in PCS-2018. For PCS-2017, a total of 4,55,297 candidates had entered the fray for 676 posts, they point out. As for the number of posts, the Commission has been informed about 400 vacant posts that are to be filled by PCS-2021. This includes 16 posts of deputy superintendent of police and a maximum of 292 posts of principal in Government Inter Colleges. There are also 4 posts of ARTO, 30 posts of Block Development Officer (BDO), 6 posts of Finance and Accounts office in Industrial Development Department. However, the number of posts can change as per the information regarding vacant posts made available to UPPSC by the government, officials say. UPPSC officials concede that this time the count of examination centres will also have to be increased following a large number of applicants and given the Covid-19 situation. The preliminary examination is to be held in Prayagraj, Lucknow, Agra, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Barabanki, Bareilly, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur, Jhansi, Kanpur Nagar, Mathura, Meerut, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Rae Bareli, Sitapur and Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/uppsc-recruitment-exam-attracts-over-6-5l-applicants/articleshow/81398712.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kochi||Migrant worker gets death for rape and murder||Kochi: A migrant worker, accused in the rape and murder of a 60-year-old woman at Puthenvelikara in 2018, was sentenced to death by additional district sessions court at Paravur near here on Monday, rural police said in a statement. Parimal Sahu, 27, of Assam was found guilty of raping and murdering Moly Padayattil, 60, at her house on March 19, 2018. Sahu was a tenant of Moly who was staying with her mentally challenged son. The accused was arrested soon after the murder. The court found that the case would fall in the category of rarest of the rare cases and ordered capital punishment to Sahu, who is called as Munna. Judge Murali Gopal Pandala pronounced the death sentence to the accused after finding him guilty under IPC Section 376 A (punishment for causing death or resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim). Also, the court ordered the accused to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh and in default of payment of fine to undergo simple imprisonment for one month. He was also awarded jail and penalties in varying terms after finding him guilty under various Sections of the IPC, including 449 (house-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death), 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender). The chargesheet was filed by the investigation team comprising SHO M R Murali, SI Sajeev, ASIs Sunil Kumar, Balakrishnan and Sunil Dath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/migrant-worker-gets-death-for-rape-and-murder/articleshow/81399126.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Rajkot||Man strangles 70-year-old father||Rajkot: A quarrel over a petty issue ended in a 40-year-old man allegedly murdering his aged father in Mota Gundala village of Jetpur taluka of Rajkot district late on Sunday night.Police have detained the accused identified as Rajesh Amipara for the murder of his 72-year-old father Mathur.Rajesh wanted to start renovation work of house and had brought construction material at home. However, when Mathur returned home from the farm, he got angry seeing sand heaped in their house. "This led to a verbal altercation with his son and Mathur asked him to remove the sand immediately. This angered Rajesh, who has been at loggerheads with his father for the past few years over the property and farm land. He brought a plastic rope and strangled Mathur on the spot,” said police, adding Mathur was declared dead on admission by doctors. Rajesh’s elder brother Vinu lodged a complaint against him at Jetpur taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-strangles-70-year-old-father/articleshow/81399170.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||51 women donate world||Ludhiana: As many as 51 women donated blood, out of which about 40 women donated blood for the first time, on International Women's Day. The event was organised by Gurunanak Charitable Hospital in collaboration with Sankalp Seva Society and Blood Seva Family. One of the blood donators, station house officer Jodhewal Arshpreet Kaur said it was her 12th blood donation. She appreciated the initiative of Blood Sewa Family. “I am a regular donor for more than two years. I am dealing with many NGOs and one such NGO is Blood Sewa Family. People often think women are weak so they cannot donate. They are wrong, women are quite strong. So come up for such social cause, as it is nothing to fear of,” said Sadhika, another donor. Renu Thapar, a first time donor, said she would now be donating regularly. Manisha Kapoor, president North Block-1 and principal of Harbans Vidhya Mandir School said it was her 19th donation and she would continue in future as well. Safety measures related to Covid-19 were taken during blood donation camp. The area was sanitised and the temperature of the donors was also checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/51-women-donate-world/articleshow/81401980.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Goa||Tejpal case: Court completes hearing final arguments||PANAJI: A local court on Monday finished hearing final arguments in the seven-year-old trial against Tehelka founder-editor Tarun Tejpal, accused of raping a woman at a starred hotel. Additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi has adjourned the matter till March 19, for clarification on CCTV footage, if required. Special public prosecutor Francisco Tavora and Tejpal’s counsel Rajeev Gomes both completed arguments. “Both sides’ arguments on the interpretation of CCTV footage and final arguments are concluded, and it has been kept for clarification of judge, if required, on March 19. After that, the day of final judgement will be announced,” Tavora told reporters outside court. The survivor has completed her deposition before the additional sessions judge. Tavora had concluded his arguments on Thursday, and replied to the rejoinder on Monday. Gomes had told TOI that they have completed the arguments on Saturday. In September 2017, a Mapusa court had framed charges against Tejpal for allegedly raping a junior colleague in November 2013. Tejpal had pleaded not guilty, paving the way for a trial. The cross-examination of the survivor began on October 21, 2019. Earlier, Tejpal had, through a criminal revision application, challenged the framing of charges by the additional district and sessions court. On December 20, 2017, the high court of Bombay at Goa had dismissed Tejpal’s application. He has been charged for offences under Sections 354 (assaulting or using criminal force on a woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 354-A (outraging modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongconfinement), 376 (rape), 376(2) (f) (person in position of trust or authority over women, committing rape of such women) and 376(2)(k) (rape of a woman by a person being in position of control or dominance over the woman).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tejpal-case-court-completes-hearing-final-arguments/articleshow/81400918.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kochi||Cops plan awareness events to prevent narcotics cases||Kochi: In the wake of rise in number of narcotics cases, Ernakulam Rural police are organizing a series of awareness programmes at police stations across the district. Munambam, Varapuzha, Angamaly, Binanipuram, Thadiyittaparambu, Kunnathunadu, Muvattupuzha, Kuttampuzha, Koothattukulam and Puthencruz stations will be covered in the first phase.Rural police said that the programme would deal with the negative impact of intoxicants in private, family and social lives. The programmes would include seminars, discussions and debates on the issue. Each station would conduct the programmes following Covid protocol and it would be coordinated by Janamaithri beat officers. An initial training camp was held at the district police headquarters on Monday. In the second phase, classes would be held exclusively for students. Debates and seminars would also be held for students. The programme is held in collaboration with the social justice department. Classes would be led by Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan district coordinator Francis Muthedan.“The aim is to prevent abuse of intoxicants by youth and to create a culture against drugs,” said district police chief (Ernakulam Rural) SP K Karthick. Rural police had seized 175kg of ganja in the past one year. Banned tobacco products worth lakhs were also seized over the year. Follow up investigations had also hinted that it was the youth who were exceedingly dependent on such intoxicants, police said.Meanwhile, the excise department on Monday seized prescription drugs from a 34-year old man at Tripunithura. The arrested person is Tinu Sunny of Nadama, Ernakulam. Excise seized 26g of Nitrazepam from the accused. The accused was presented in court and was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-plan-awareness-events-to-prevent-narcotics-cases/articleshow/81399154.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Goa||438 nominations filed for March 21 municipal polls||PANAJI: As many as 438 candidates filed nominations over the past few days for the March 21 elections to the municipal councils of Margao, Mapusa, Quepem, Sanguem and Mormugao. The Supreme Court is likely to hold the final hearing on the reservation of wards in five municipalities on Tuesday. The returning officers have received 97 nomination papers for Mapusa, Margao (111), Quepem (54), Sanguem (43) and Mormugao (133). On March 4, within hours of the Supreme Court staying the high court order cancelling elections to five municipalities over reservation of wards, the state election commission (SEC) rescheduled polling for the five civic councils to March 21, instead of March 20. Last week, 77 candidates withdrew their nominations, leaving 423 candidates in the fray for the March 20 elections to six municipal councils and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) as also byelections to some zilla panchayats and panchayats. Over 500 people had filed their nominations for seven municipalities, including the CCP. After withdrawal of 11 nominations, 97 candidates are in fray for the CCP elections. In total, 49 people withdrew their nominations, 13 nominations were withdrawn from byelections in panchayats, one from Sakhali municipal election and three for the Navelim zilla panchayat byelection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/438-nominations-filed-for-march-21-municipal-polls/articleshow/81400912.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand lost 670 ha forest land to 551 wildfires in last 5 months: Forest dept||Dehradun: There has been an unprecedented rise in wildfires from October 2020 onwards in Uttarakhand as the state lost over 670 hectares (ha) of forest land to 551 forest fire incidents, data compiled by the state forest department of Uttarakhand has said. On Tuesday for instance, the Himalayan state recorded nine forest fire incidents, whereas two were reported on Monday. This rise in incidents is in stark contrast to the last season when only 173 forest fires were recorded from October 2019 to June 2020. The state forest data says that around 36 hectares of plantation conducted by the forest department and around 9,000 trees have been gutted this season, resulting in a cumulative loss of Rs 24.50 lakh to the forest department. The data also shows further pointed out that out of 670 hectares of forest land that fell prey to the raging infernos, 413 hectares were of reserved forest (RF) area, whereas 255 hectares of land belonged to civil soyam forest and van panchayat area. Leading the tally of reported wildfires is Pauri district which had lost 211 hectares of land to 167 forest fire incidents, followed by Almora (111.5 hectares of land lost to 67 incidents), Bageshwar (71.36 hectares of land lost to 47 incidents), Pithoragarh (71.3 hectares of land gutted due to 49 incidents) and Rudraprayag (53.15 hectares of land gutted to 46 incidents). Even though fresh snowfall and rain were recorded on Sunday in high-altitude places like Uttarkashi and Chamoli, including Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath and Auli, providing relief to the forest officials, they claimed it didn’t make a difference. “The intensity of snowfall and rainfall is not much, unlike the previous years when the changing weather provided relief for a longer period” said Man Singh, nodal officer of forest fires, Uttarakhand forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-lost-670-ha-forest-land-to-551-wildfires-in-last-5-months-forest-dept/articleshow/81418062.cms||Shivani Azad
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand in turmoil, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat rushes to Delhi||DEHRADUN: The political turmoil which began in Uttarakhand on Saturday continued on Monday as chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat rushed to Delhi cancelling his previously-announced engagements in Gairsain and Dehradun. Highly placed sources told TOI that Rawat had been summoned to Delhi by the BJP’s central leadership after a report was submitted to party president JP Nadda by observer Raman Singh who had on Saturday met several MLAs in Dehradun and taken feedback from them on a possible leadership change. Till the time of filing this story late at night, Rawat had not met either Nadda or home minister Amit Shah although sources said that he was scheduled to meet both. However, he had a video conference with PM Narendra Modi. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, former state BJP president and Lok Sabha member Ajay Bhatt, former CM and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, minister of state for higher education Dhan Singh Rawat, Rajya Sabha member from Uttarakhand Anil Baluni and RSS state general secretary Suresh Bhatt are said to be among the contenders for the key post. Meanwhile, a BJP legislative party meeting has been called at the CM’s residence in Dehradun on Tuesday evening, sources said. Political observers said that holding a legislative party meeting in this scenario is significant as it is is usually held when the name of a new leader has to be announced to the MLAs. BJP state spokesperson Munna Singh Chauhan said, “There is no issue related to the CM’s post. It is a courtesy visit to meet seniors before March 18, when our party’s government completes four years in power.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-in-turmoil-cm-rushes-to-delhi/articleshow/81402686.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||Home isolation violators face FIR, 5k fine, 10-day quarantine||Nagpur: Following complaints of breach in home isolation norms by asymptomatic Covid-19 positive persons, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday issued a fresh order to register FIR against violators, impose a fine of Rs5,000 on them and send them to 10-day compulsory institutional quarantine.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has ordered forming two flying squads in each zone. Each squad shall comprise four members, including two from the Nuisance Detection Squad (NDS) apart from health workers and officials.NMC zones will also share a list of all home isolated persons with local police stations. NMC has already been stamping the left hand of home isolated persons.Though the civic body has also imposed several restrictions on functions and social activities besides weekend lockdown of non-essential establishments, people continue to come onto streets and move in crowds.Due to lack of manpower, rapid response teams (RRTs) are unable to monitor each positive patient under their zone as the city is recording over 1,000 cases daily now.It had come to the notice of civic officials that those stamped on their left hand are frequently seen moving outside.Yet, the civic body has not made compulsory stay in institutional quarantine for all asymptomatic patients. Public health officials said the civic body needs to restart quarantine facilities and make positive persons stay for at least a week.BoxOnline appointments fullThough the inoculation drive went smoothly, many age-appropriate persons were unable to book an appointment for the day as the limited number of slots were packed in no time. Many hospitals which started on Monday called up NMC to seek guidance on such queries. Centres complained that they had enough time but couldn’t fix an appointment for the beneficiary. Civic officials stated this was due to limited number of doses available. They said if the doses sufficient for at least three weeks are available, more slots can be made available and higher number of beneficiaries can be inoculated in private.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-isolation-violators-face-fir-5k-fine-10-day-quarantine/articleshow/81398017.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Helpline for women among 8 new schemes in district||Ludhiana: Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday launched eight pro-women schemes of the Punjab government to mark the International Women's Day on Monday in the district. Participating in a video-conference presided by chief minister Amarinder Singh, deputy commissioner said the new schemes include 181 Saanjh Shakti helpline and police help desks, which would be set up in the police stations for women and also to be operated by women for prompt and sensitive response to crimes against women. He said ]MOUs have been signed with UN Women, UNDP (United Nations Development Fund), UN Population Fund, J-PAL (Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab) and FUEL (Friends Union for Energizing Lives). The MoU with UN Women would initiate gender-focused projects, capacity building of the state on gender, economic empowerment of women and violence against women besides would begin a technical fest (Techshiksha) with UN body, under which the shortlisted girls will undergo a training programme besides providing placements to them, he said. The MoU with UN Population Fund aims for capacity building of government departments, besides elimination of gender-based harmful practices such as violence against women and girls, and gender-based sex selection, partnering with UNDP to eliminate anemia and malnutrition among women and children. Sharma also said MoU with J-PAL would further boost gender sensitisation curriculum programme in all government schools, while the MoU with FUEL will impart skills to the youth in line with the Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/helpline-for-women-among-8-new-schemes-in-district/articleshow/81401994.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||New directive in mangroves, highway case: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday directed that an NGO, Bombay Environmental Action Group (BEAG), now known as Conservation Action Trust (CAT), which is objecting to felling of mangroves, sans green nod, to pave way for Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, be made a party and sought its affidavit. The HC gave the National High Speed Rail Corporation to then file its response to the NGO’s claims and posted the matter to Friday. Removal of mangroves will have an adverse impact on Flamingo sanctuary, said CAT asking HC to ensure due compliance by corporation. The corporation has moved HC for permission to cut 21,997 mangroves in Thane, Mumbai, and Palghar for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-new-directive-in-mangroves-hway-case-hc/articleshow/81402008.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Education key to liberate, empower women’||Ludhiana: Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and municipal councillor Mamta Ashu said the quality of education is a key to empower the women in the state. Presiding over an event organised to celebrate International Women’s Day in Red Crosss Senior Citizen Home, they said by giving women education and equal participation in decision making, they can become the lighthouse of the society. Both of them stated that an educated woman leaves an indelible imprint on society and motivates others to follow her. They added that Punjab government is putting its best efforts for empowering the women through various programs including free education for girls and the opening of new government colleges fir girls, smart schools and skill centres. According to them, the state has been moving in the right direction with the more number of girl students getting an education. On the occasion, they also said the women have already proved their mettle in several fields, but still they needed to be given more opportunities so that they could further excel in life. DC Sharma and councillor Ashu said it was a momentous occasion for them to celebrate the day with senior citizens who are repository of experience of life. They also directed the authorities to ensure all elderly people living in the centre get vaccinated against Covid by tomorrow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/education-key-to-liberate-empower-women/articleshow/81401984.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||State gets more doses of vaccine from Centre||Thiruvananthapuram: To tide over the crisis faced by the state due to vaccine shortage, the Centre has allotted 48,960 doses of Covaxin for the state. Another consignment of 21 lakh doses of vaccine is expected on Tuesday. Of the consignment that reached on Monday, 16,640 doses have been given to Thiruvananthapuram region, 19,200 to Ernakulam region and 13,120 to Kozhikode region. The state had faced severe shortage of vaccines as many of the government officials, who are not on poll duty, had taken the vaccines. Several districts had stopped the registration on Sunday as there was not enough stock of vaccine. Now, the Centre has informed the state that more consignment of vaccines will be reaching the state in the coming days. Till date 10,19,525 people have been administered Covid-19 vaccine in the state. Among this, 3,65,942 are health workers and 1,86,421 of them have taken the second dose too. Among the frontline workers, 98,287 people, 2,15,297 polling officials and 1,53,578 people above 60 years of age have taken the vaccine. At present, almost thousand vaccine centres have been set up in the state, which include government and private hospitals and other mass vaccine centres. The health department has informed that there was no need to make rush for the vaccines as the state is having enough stock of the vaccines. Those who want to register can register at the portal www.cowin.gov.in or can contact the vaccine centres for spot registration. It has been decided to end the second dose vaccination of the health workers by March-end. Hence, more facilities will be arranged to inoculate those above the age of 60.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-gets-more-doses-of-vaccine-from-centre/articleshow/81399180.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Thane||New directive in mangroves, highway case: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday directed that an NGO, Bombay Environmental Action Group (BEAG), now known as Conservation Action Trust (CAT), which is objecting to felling of mangroves, sans green nod, to pave way for Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, be made a party and sought its affidavit. The HC gave the National High Speed Rail Corporation to then file its response to the NGO’s claims and posted the matter to Friday. Removal of mangroves will have an adverse impact on Flamingo sanctuary, said CAT asking HC to ensure due compliance by corporation. The corporation has moved HC for permission to cut 21,997 mangroves in Thane, Mumbai, and Palghar for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-new-directive-in-mangroves-hway-case-hc/articleshow/81404554.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Pandemic shock flattens Maharashtra kitty, numbers get crunched||MUMBAI: The financial shock of the pandemic has left its mark on the budget. The debt projection of Rs 6.15 lakh crore for 2021-22 is 2.7 times the figure in 2011. Interest payments alone will amount to Rs 42,998 crore annually. One third of the debt or 2.1 lakh crore, are expenses on salaries and pensions of state employees. The extent of the pandemic’s impact is evident from the hit to the state’s income in 2020-21. Revenue was 16% lower than target and tax revenue 20% lower, with a shortfall of Rs 54,918 crore. Borrowings and liabilities shot up almost 60% from a target of Rs 54,721 crore to Rs 87,488 crore. The revenue deficit which was targeted at Rs 9,510 crore rose by a staggering 385% to Rs 46,177 crore. However, finance minister Ajit Pawar said this was an under-estimation and the revenue deficit would cross Rs 70,000 crore if Central dues including GST compensation did not come in. “The Centre owes the state GST compensation of over Rs 30,000 crore. Then Central tax transfers have been reduced by Rs 14,000 crore. Of the money we have to be paid in tax transfers, Rs 6,000 crore is yet to come in,” said an official. In tax collections, the state faced a major shortfall against all targets: GST collections (-Rs 19,146 crore), stamp duty and registration fees (-Rs 8,000 crore), excise dues (-Rs 4,225 crore), sales tax (-Rs 6,000 crore), vehicle tax (-Rs 3,300 crore), SGST (-Rs 3,849 crore), corporation tax (-Rs 5,114 crore), land revenue (-Rs 1,000 crore), customs (-Rs 757 crore), Union excise duties (-Rs 760 crore). While there has been an uproar over power companies charging exorbitant bills, government’s collection from taxes and duties on electricity is up by Rs 1,700 crore. The budget estimate under this head was Rs 9,500 crore, but revised estimate is Rs 11,200 crore. Overall, government has cut back on expenditure on several fronts. For general education it was reduced by over Rs 6,000 crore, urban development Rs 5,974 crore, water supply and sanitation got Rs 800 crore less, roads and bridges were allocated Rs 2,325 crore less, compensation and assignment to local bodies was cut Rs 1,991 crore, and for industries, the cut is Rs 754 crore. But the budget boosts health infrastructure including rural services and proposes setting up post-Covid treatment centres in every district. Meanwhile, leaders of NCP and Congress will have schemes named after them. The Eastern Freeway will be named after Congress’s Vilasrao Deshmukh while the budget also unveils the Sharad Pawar Gram Samruddhi Yojana. The Opposition was sharply critical of the whole exercise. “Most of the infrastructure projects in the budget are old schemes which receive funding from the Centre. Why has the government not reduced its steep taxes worth Rs 27 per litre on petrol and diesel,” said BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis. He said, “The budget offers nothing to labourers and daily wagers who were badly impacted by the pandemic.” (With inputs from Clara Lewis)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pandemic-shock-flattens-maha-kitty-numbers-get-crunched/articleshow/81400960.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Jobs gone in Covid, rush for Telangana govt self-employment aid||HYDERABAD: A record 1.7 lakh applications seeking aid for self-employment schemes have flooded the Telangana Scheduled Caste Cooperative Development Corporation Limited, mostly from people who lost their jobs during the pandemic. Applications seeking funding to set up mini manufacturing units such as paper plates, turmeric powder machines, harvesters, laundry, footwear making units, band set, backyard poultry, tailoring, and readymade garments, among others, have poured in. The state government has allocated Rs 780 crore to the corporation for a self-employment scheme which would be sufficient to finance about 22,000 beneficiaries. TOI spoke with persons who applied for the scheme after the state government said it would extend financial support to all the eligible applicants, keeping in view the impact of Covid-19 on the livelihood of many people. Katam Naresh, a resident of Mittapalli village in Tallada Mandal of Khammam district, said he used to work in a tiffin centre which downed its shutters during lockdown and never reopened again. “I have passed Intermediate and used to do the billing. It is difficult to get a job now as the market has not revived totally. I want to start a mobile tiffin centre on my own and am confident of getting financial support from SC corporation,” he said. Byagari Surekha, who used to work in a cement brick kiln in Sanga Reddy, said after a large number of workers from Odisha went back to home due to the pandemic, the kiln shut down. “So, I have decided to start a business of my own and am seeking finance to set up a mini dairy. I will purchase four milch animals and supply milk to the state government undertaking Vijaya dairy,” Surekha said. Surekha has two children and her husband is a car driver who had gone without work during lockdown. Penki Venkatesh of Yerragunta village near Kothagudem wants to buy a car and turn it into a taxi. “If it does not work out in the district, I would come to Hyderabad and attach my car with private aggregators,” he said. Another youth wants to set up a mini dal and rice flour mill in Ankapur village of Adilabad district. Such has been the response that officials said they are planning to request an increase in the budget to cover more youth under self-employment schemes in rural areas. “The corporation extends a 60% loan subsidy. The SC corporation would require Rs 9,000 crore budget to extend financial assistance to each of the 1.71 lakh applicants,” a senior official said, adding that many applications will have to be rejected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jobs-gone-in-covid-rush-for-t-govt-self-employment-aid/articleshow/81402006.cms||Roushan Ali
March 9, 2021||Nashik||Burglar flees with articles worth Rs 5.4L||Nashik: An unidentified man broke into an apartment in the Bhabhanagar area of the city around 2am on Sunday and decamped with cash and jewellery worth Rs 5.4 lakh. Mumbai Naka police have rgistered a burglary case against the unidentified suspect. The man who lodged the complaint said he and his family members were sleeping inside the hall of their flat when some unidentified person entered their bedroom through the window. The person opened the steel cupboard in the bedroom and stole Rs 4.19 lakh cash in currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 100 and three jewellery articles worth Rs 1.25 lakh. On Sunday morning, when the flat owner realized that valuables were missing in his house, he lodged a complaint at Mumbai Naka police station. Last year, the city police registered 242 cases of house break-in and thefts, of which 199 thefts occured at night. Meanwhile, the detection rate of thefts, mainly house break-ins, has been a dismal 20-25%. The city police have also been appealing to citizens to appoint security guards in their respective residential buildings or colonies to prevent thefts and burglaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/burglar-flees-with-articles-worth-rs-5-4l/articleshow/81397314.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Surat||Teachers’ manual for child sex abuse released in Surat||Surat: A teachers’ manual for child sex abuse was released by education department in the city. The manual is claimed to be the first such booklet in Gujarati that helps teachers to create awareness among children.  The manual is authored by paediatricians Dr Ketan Bharadva and Dr Latika Shah. A drive to prevent sexual abuse among young children was started by the city police and welfare organisations after repeated cases of brutal sexual assaults with young girls in 2018. Police held a series of seminars and workshops in schools with support of volunteers including paediatricians and psychologists since 2018. “There is no book in Gujarat that trains a teacher to create awareness among children about sexual abuse. Over 1,000 books have already been distributed to teachers in Surat district,” said Dr Shah. “The book has been developed based on scientific research and guidelines that are internationally accepted. This book will add value to the ongoing campaign against the child abuse,” said Dr Bharadva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teachers-manual-for-child-sex-abuse-released-in-surat/articleshow/81398059.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Pune||Biosafety lab to diagnose bird flu in the pipeline||Pune: A state-of-the-art biosafety laboratory would be set up in the city for the diagnosis of diseases like bird flu (H5N1) and rabies, among others. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who also holds the finance portfolio, made the announcement while presenting the Maharashtra budget 2021-22 on Monday. State animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI, “The proposed lab, called biosafety lab (level III), will carry out testing of various diseases. The early diagnosis of any diseases is crucial to frame and implement preventive measures at an early stage.” Currently, the state animal husbandry department’s laboratory can only test the H5 strain. The samples of N1 strain are sent to the lab in Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh for testing. The department had faced issues when the results of the suspected bird flu samples were delayed last year and this year, too. “We could cull the affected birds only after two to three days as the confirmation of the diagnosis of the disease came late. This could have proven risky as the virus might have spread to other birds in the area. The newly proposed laboratory is the need of the hour, considering the state’s domestic animals’ numbers,” said a senior official from the department. Dhananjay Parkale, the state additional commissioner of the animal husbandry department, said, “We have identified the land for the laboratory on our campus in Aundh. The work will begin within a month. We shall soon finalise the work order of the project.” Parkale said, “This laboratory will help the state government achieve the objectives of ‘one health’ mission launched by the Union government to eradicate diseases originating from animals. Diseases originating from animals have posed threat to human beings as well. Hence, early diagnosis is the key.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biosafety-lab-to-diagnose-bird-flu-in-the-pipeline/articleshow/81399267.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 9, 2021||Pune||Pilgrim sites, temples to be developed||Pune: State finance minister Ajit Pawar announced on Monday that funds would be made available for the development of pilgrimage sites in Pune district. Bhimashankar — one of the Jyotirlingas in Pune district — would get funds, as would “Ashtavinayak Ganapati” temples, planned under the Ashtavinayak Temples Development Programme. Five of the eight temples would come up in Pune district. Two would be built in Raigad, while one would come up in Ahmednagar. Pilgrim hotspots Jejuri Gad in Purandar and Nira Nursinghpur in Indapur would also get development funds.The state has also set aside Rs 101 crore for the restoration of eight ancient temples, including Ekveira Devi temple in Maval tehsil. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pilgrim-sites-temples-to-be-developed/articleshow/81399248.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Baby girl dumped in garbage bin in Telangana, rescued||HYDERABAD: On a day that celebrates women, a newborn girl was found dumped in a garbage bin in Mahabubabad district’s Dornakal mandal. She was rescued by labourers of Burgampad heading to work who heard her cries and alerted cops. The baby, wrapped in a cloth, was taken to the house of one of the labourer’s living nearby. They took care of the infant until police arrived. Donakal sub-inspector V Bhadru Naik told TOI that the baby was first taken to the government area hospital in Dornakal and then later shifted to the district headquarters hospital in Mahabubabad. The baby had no injuries and was later handed over officials of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS). “The baby will be given the required care. The ICDS personnel will take care of her,” an official said. Police are in touch with Asha and anganwadi workers who monitor pregnant women to find out if any woman in Burgumpad village or nearby areas had delivered a baby recently. On Monday, though, no births were recorded at the government hospital located near Dornakal police station, officials said. A case has been booked under IPC sections 315 and 317. According to section 315, “Whoever before the birth of any child does any act with the intention of thereby preventing that child from being born alive or causing it to die after its birth and does by such act prevent that child from being born alive or causes it to die after its birth, shall, if such act be not caused in good faith for the purpose of saving the life of the mother, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 10 years or with fine or with both.” Section 317 reads: “Whoever being the father or mother of a child under the age of 12 years or having the care of such child shall expose or leave such child in any place with the intention of wholly abandoning such child, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years or with fine or with both.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/baby-girl-dumped-in-garbage-bin-rescued/articleshow/81402014.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 9, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Six get 3 years in jail for illegal lion show||RAJKOT: In a landmark judgement, a court in Gir-Somnath district on Monday convicted seven persons for harassing Asiatic lions and sentenced six of them to three years imprisonment and one person to one-year jail term. The court also ordered the district collector to take possession of the forest settlement village land of Ilyaas Hoth where the illegal lion show was organized on the night of May 18, 2018. Gujarat: A court in Gir-Somnath district convicted seven persons for organising lion show on May 18, 2018 and haras… https://t.co/0bIxcskeYW— TOIRajkot (@TOIRajkot) 1615266022000Hoth had called other accused persons to witness the lion show. Another person Abbas Ringbloch had arranged for the chickens to lure the lions. The video of this lion show went viral on social media. In the video, a man is seen seated on a chair and luring a lioness that is just a touch away. He dangles the chicken back and forth before allowing her to snatch the piece and run away into the wild. It had led to massive uproar among wildlife activists and raised concerns about the human-animal conflict in the region where lions are seen in big numbers close to human habitat. Judicial magistrate first-class Gir-Gadhada, Sunilkumar Dave, convicted Hoth a resident of Gir-Gadhada; Ravi Patadiya, Divyang Gajjar and Rathin Patel, all three residents of Ahmedabad; Abbas Ringbloch resident of Hadmatiya and Altaf Bloch of Talala under IPC sections 248 (2) and the Wildlife Protection Act. They were sentenced to three years imprisonment and asked to pay Rs 10,000 each. The court also sentenced another accused Mangilal Meena to one-year imprisonment with Rs 10,000 fine. While ordering the collector to take possession of the land, the court sought an action-taken report within one month. Of the total fine collected, the court ordered that Rs 35,000 be paid to the state government as a compensation and directed range forest officer of Babariya to deposit this money in lion welfare fund. A team of forest officials had found chicken feathers and bones while three lioness were also seen in close vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-get-3-years-in-jail-for-illegal-lion-show/articleshow/81399291.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||65-year-old Goregaon man collapses in chair, dies after vaccine 1st dose||MUMBAI: A 65-year-old Goregaon resident collapsed within minutes of receiving the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at Millat Nursing Home, Jogeshwari, on Monday and passed away one-and-half-hours later in ICU. This is the first post-vaccination death reported in the city, although civic authorities said it cannot be linked directly to vaccination till a review by an expert committee. The man was administered the vaccine at 3.37pm at the Jogeshwari centre, where he collapsed in a chair soon after. Civic officials said he reached the centre at 3.30pm and was injected with 0.5ml dose of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield intramuscularly. “He had several comorbidities, including dilated cardiomyopathy (heart’s pumping capacity reduces), severe left ventricular dysfunction, hypertension and diabetes mellitus,” BMC said in a statement. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, said the adverse event following immunisation committee (AEFI) will review the case. “We don’t know if it was a case of anaphylactic shock. The committee will opine after looking at all details,” she said. Another civic official said the man was administered injection Adrenaline that is given in cases of acute reaction following vaccination and immediately shifted to ICU, where he passed away at 5.05pm. His body was sent to RN Cooper Hospital for autopsy. Civic officials said he was on multiple heart medications. State officials did not comment but civic officials said nearly 4lakh people have been vaccinated in the city and a little over 400 suffered minor AEFIs. There have been few hospitalisations. Across India, over 40 deaths following immunisation have been reported, although according to the Centre, none was caused by the vaccine itself. Last week, a 40-year-old health worker from Bhiwandi died shortly after getting the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-65-yr-old-goregaon-man-collapses-in-chair-dies-after-vaccine-1st-dose/articleshow/81402017.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Pune||Real estate sector welcomes 1% stamp duty discount for women||Pune: The real estate sector in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Monday expressed optimism over finance minister Ajit Pawar’s announcement of a 1% concession of women homebuyers during his budget speech.Large real estate players and collectives in the region felt that the reduction in stamp duty would give a much-needed fillip to the sector, which went through a rough patch due to the pandemic last year.While the market enjoyed a purple patch of sorts in the last quarter of 2020, due in large part to the 3% reduction in the stamp duty, the rate was increased by 1% from January. The concession is to be phased altogether from March 31, an uneasy prospect for some in the real estate sector.In his budget speech on Monday, Pawar said the 1% concession — coinciding with International Women’s Day — was an empowerment measure. The move is expected to cost the exchequer Rs1,000 crore, and the government has raised taxes elsewhere, particularly on Indian-made foreign spirits, to make up for this.“This (the concession) will not only help the construction sector, but is also an important step towards women’s empowerment,” Poonam Gokhale, director of Gokhale Constructions, said.Credai-Pune Metro also lauded the proposal and noted that this had been a long-pending demand. “In fact, Credai-Pune Metro had earlier requested the state government to offer a discount on stamp duty if a flat is registered in the name of a woman. So, in a sense, our demand has been accepted,” Suhas Merchant, president of Credai-Pune Metro, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/real-estate-sector-welcomes-1-stamp-duty-discount-for-women/articleshow/81399275.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||IIIT-H, city defence unit on AI frontline to counter China threat||Hyderabad: The Chinese armed forces are as prepared in cyber warfare as they are in fighting pitched battles on the ground. This is a reality that the Indian government is grappling with after the Galwan valley clash last year. Reports that Chinese hackers had attacked India’s power grid immediately after the clash are an indication of how the nature of war is changing, say experts. The Union government has since decided to beef up its digital attack and defence capabilities by introducing artificial intelligence (AI) in everything, from missiles to surveillance to shipbuilding. It is taking the help of academic institutions, such as the International Institute of Information Technology at Hyderabad (IIIT-H) and defence institutions such as the Secunderabad-based Military College of Electrical & Mechanical Engineering (MCEME). “We are seeing a lot of AI-related requests coming in after the Chinese incursion last year. I think India has realised that China is way ahead when it comes to AI and is trying to bridge this gap,” said Yalla Veera Prakash, head of technology transfer and product labs, IIIT-H. IIIT-H has already been working with defence public sector enterprises (PSEs) like Bharat Dynamics Ltd (BDL), Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) and GRSE (Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers) to integrate AI into defence capabilities, added prof Ramesh Loganathan, head of research outreach. IIIT-H not only houses a Centre of Excellence (CoE) for AI in missile technology that was set up in mid-2019 along with BDL, it has also been selected for the 25 Technology Innovation Hubs (TIH) by the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems for developing and promoting data-driven technologies and AI & machine learning. Prakash said they are working on using computer vision and imaging to understand various battlefield scenarios with the help of data generated by surveillance cameras fitted onto tanks, warheads and drones. They are also looking at ways to autonomously detect mines and improve the ability to understand and detect targets, human or inanimate, using computer vision and machine learning. “They are now trying to garner an understanding of various objects, whether they are human or not, to figure out how far it is located, how fast its moving and how threatening or vulnerable it is,” he explained. They are also working on natural language processing and audio signal processing to decipher and translate eavesdropped radio signals of Chinese troops located 2 to 3 km away along the border. According to Prakash, the armed forces are also trying to add a lot of AI to the usage of night vision cameras and the data they generate. MCEME, which is a CoE for army equipment in AI and is also being developed as a hub of tech innovation for AI-related projects in the Indian army, too has been working on several projects using AI. These include AI-based accident prevention, automatically identifying humans from thermal camera feeds, automatically identifying targets from radar signals among other things, said MCEME officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-city-defence-unit-on-ai-frontline-to-counter-china-threat/articleshow/81402028.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: At 3.5%, healthcare outlay lower than 2020-21 spend||MUMBAI: Even as Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected by the pandemic, the budgetary allocation for health continues to be low, say experts. A total of Rs 16,839 crore has been budgeted for 2021-22, which is merely 3.5% of the total budget outlay. Though the allocation is higher than the previous year’s budget estimate of Rs 15,748 crore, it is lower than the Rs 18,096 crore revised estimate for 2020-21. Spending on health exceeded the budgetary allocation last year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. There were other heads from which too money was drawn to fight the pandemic. Health economist Dr Ravi Duggal said the health budget was disappointing. NGO Jan Swasthya Abhiyan had raised a slew of topics with health minister Rajesh Tope before the budget. “We had expected that in 2021-22 at least Rs 28,000 crore—or Rs 2,200 per capita—would be allocated to correct various shortages,” said Duggal. Meanwhile, the state has drawn up a Rs 7,500 crore proposal to complete construction of hospitals and upgrade facilities. The state will seek a loan from ADB for this. The government too will be making an investment to the tune of Rs 2,200 crore for this. The state has also announced setting up of an infectious diseases referral hospital at Aundh, Pune. Post Covid care clinics, too, will be set up in district hospitals and medical colleges as many complain of problems of the lungs, kidneys and stress.  The state, which has proposed medical colleges in seven districts, is working out a public-private partnership (PPP) model for it on the lines of guidelines issued by the Centre. “Since setting up of new government medical colleges requires a large amount of funds for land acquisition, construction, operation and maintenance, we are considering a PPP model. A policy will be soon drafted for it,” said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Due to upgrade of government medical colleges and addition of new ones, medical seats in the state will go up by 1,990 at the degree level, 1,000 for post-graduation and 200 specialisation.  The state proposes to convert 11 nursing schools into colleges. Physiotherapy and occupational therapy colleges will be set up in phases. Dr Avinash Bhodwe, immediate past president, Maharashtra Indian Medical Association, said though it is “welcome news” that the state has improved the outlay for certain health schemes, it must raise allocation for primary healthcare and sub-centres and district hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-at-3-5-healthcare-outlay-lower-than-2020-21-spend/articleshow/81401118.cms||Bhavika Jain
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur Metro gets Rs188 cr from state, Phase I nears completion||Nagpur: In some good news, the state government has allocated Rs188 crore for the on-going phase-1 of Nagpur Metro.The development was announced by state finance minister Ajit Pawar on Monday while presenting the state budget for financial year 2021-22. The state also allocated nearly Rs302 crore for Pune metro rail project. Collectively, the state has allocated Rs491 crore for both the projects.Though the sanctioned amount is about Rs1.5 crore less than that demanded by Nagpur MahaMetro, the agency is satisfied. “It is very close to the amount we needed. Already over 90% of the work of pahse-1 project is complete. Now with the sanctioned amount, we will finish the remaining work at a fast pace,” officials told TOI.While central government had paid its full share of the project, the state government has to pay Rs435.34 crore in total. It had earlier approved Rs184 crore and assured to make allocation for the same in the financial budget. However, as reported by TOI recently, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) have refused to pay their share, which totals over Rs550 crore.NIT and NMC both have 5% share in the Rs8,680 crore project. Their share is Rs434 crore each.NIT has to pay Rs191 crore to MahaMetro as rest of the amount has been paid in the form of land. NMC too has provided land and now has to pay Rs367 crore. Some days ago, the then NIT chairperson Sheetal Ugale had written to the state government asking it waive off its share in Nagpur Metro project. Ugale said NIT had been dissolved and hence had no source of revenue.NMC officials had earlier told TOI that NMC would not pay its share in cash as it had “given a lot of land to MahaMetro for commercial exploitation”.However, MahaMetro has set a target of completing the Nagpur Metro project by December 2021 and hence needs money in the next few months. “We are taking follow-ups from both NIT and NMC, and we are hoping to get the funds soon,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-metro-gets-rs188-cr-from-state-phase-i-nears-completion/articleshow/81398110.cms||Manka Behl
March 9, 2021||---||We give free rice, let Modi give free LPG: Mamata||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee hit the streets of Kolkata on International Women’s Day, walking from College Street to Esplanade and tugging at women voters’ heartstrings while urging them not to vote for a party that has made “managing household budgets so difficult”.  “How do you feel when you get food rations free but have to spend Rs 900 to cook that food?” she said after leading a women’s rally. “We give free rice. Let him (PM Narendra Modi) give free gas,” she added, tearing into Modi for starting his regular Bengal visits just before the election to vilify the state and “spread canards” about it. She appealed to Bengal’s “mothers and sisters” to give a befitting reply to the “pack of lies” being spread by “Modi babu” and “Shah-da” (Union home minister Amit Shah) on the safety and security of women in Bengal. “Jotoi koro jumla, jabab debe Bangla (Bengal will give an answer to your falsehoods),” Mamata said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/we-give-free-rice-let-modi-give-free-lpg-mamata/articleshow/81402803.cms||---
March 9, 2021||India||We give free rice, let Modi give free LPG: Mamata||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee hit the streets of Kolkata on International Women’s Day, walking from College Street to Esplanade and tugging at women voters’ heartstrings while urging them not to vote for a party that has made “managing household budgets so difficult”.  “How do you feel when you get food rations free but have to spend Rs 900 to cook that food?” she said after leading a women’s rally. “We give free rice. Let him (PM Narendra Modi) give free gas,” she added, tearing into Modi for starting his regular Bengal visits just before the election to vilify the state and “spread canards” about it. She appealed to Bengal’s “mothers and sisters” to give a befitting reply to the “pack of lies” being spread by “Modi babu” and “Shah-da” (Union home minister Amit Shah) on the safety and security of women in Bengal. “Jotoi koro jumla, jabab debe Bangla (Bengal will give an answer to your falsehoods),” Mamata said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-give-free-rice-let-modi-give-free-lpg-mamata/articleshow/81402837.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Over 1 lakh senior citizens get vaccinated but drive too slow||MUMBAI: The city on Monday completed vaccinating over a lakh senior citizens since the drive started on March 1, amid concerns that the drive was still too slow. A total of 40,502 people received the vaccine at Mumbai’s 65 centres, of which 29,502 were senior citizens and 3,212 above 45 years with comorbidities. In all,1,05,867 senior citizens and 11,395 from 45+ age groups have been vaccinated in the city since phase II started on March 1. It is estimated that there are nearly 23 lakh people who fall in these two categories. For the second day in a row, the state clocked over 1lakh vaccinations in a day. On Monday, 1,22,758 people got vaccinated in Maharashtra, including 76,223 senior citizens and 14,026 people with comorbidities. The state has finished vaccinating 19,05,388 till Monday. It includes10.31 lakh healthcare workers of which 7.7 lakh have received the first dose and 2.6 lakh the second dose. A little over 4.5 lakh frontliners have got the vaccine in the state so far. In Mumbai,1.6 lakh healthcare workers and 1.1 lakh frontline workers have got vaccinated. But experts at a meeting between Centre, state and civic authorities on Monday said vaccinations had to sped up in the light of rising cases. Dr Avinash Supe, member of the city’s Covid death audit committee, said there were suggestions to start mobile vans so that the drive is taken to the community rather than waiting for people to come to centres. “People from less affluent areas cannot be expected to spend an entire day standing in vaccination queues. Going forward, we may have to look at mobile vans reaching communities along with mobile ICUs to take care of adverse effects,” he said. Some experts felt that since less side-effects have been seen in those taking Covaxin, it could be the vaccine of choice should the drive be scaled up in a big way in communities. A member of the Covid task force said that at the current pace, the city would not be able to finish vaccinating the target group in six months. Supe also said the 24/7 vaccination centres could help increase coverage. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani had earlier said that while centres were ready to vaccinate for extended hours, the Co-Win software didn’t support vaccinations post 6pm at most centres. On Monday, though Co-Win’s performance was seamless for most part, said hospitals. “The Co-Win portal and application have been working fine and the speed was pretty good compared to the first day. We have progressed from 130+ jabs on the first day to 275 on Monday and the day’s vaccination is still not over,” said Dr Vispi Jokhi, CEO, Masina Hospital. Sneha Joseph, executive director of Holy Spirit Hospital, said they could vaccinate 372 people, out of which 305 were senior citizens. No adverse events were reported, she said. In Mumbai, eight adverse events following immunisation were reported on Monday and one death. R A Podar in Worli and Gurunanak Hospital in Bandra (E) will start vaccinating from Tuesday. To mark Women’s Day, five centres in each district catered only to women; 17,230 were vaccinated across 189 such centres. In Mumbai, five sessions were conducted at five centres, where 8,092 were vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-over-1-lakh-senior-citizens-get-vaccinated-but-drive-too-slow/articleshow/81402107.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Sangli-based businessman duped of Rs 20 lakh by 4 suspects||KOLHAPUR: Shahupuri police in Kolhapur are on the lookout for four unidentified people who allegedly duped a Sangli-based businessman of Rs 20 lakh by promising him a low-interest loan. According to the complaint lodged by the businessman, one of the suspects used to meet him frequently. The suspect came to know that the businessman needed a loan and promised to get him Rs 1 crore at 4% interest. Moreover, the businessman was told that he could return the loan amount within one year. The only rider was that he would need to put in Rs 20 lakh as a deposit. The businessman was called to a location near the Tawde hotel in Kolhapur on Sunday. The businessman met two of the suspects there and paid Rs 20 lakh. One of the suspects then left, purportedly to deposit the money and return with Rs 1crore. Once he left, two men came to the spot and introduced themselves as policemen. They claimed the suspect (who was still with the businessman) had been cheating people by making false loan promises. The two “cops” then arrested the suspect and left with him. After a few minutes, the businessman realised that he had been duped. Police are now trying to trace track down the cheats with technical assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-based-businessman-duped-of-rs-20l-by-4-suspects/articleshow/81401099.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Agra||Cop ‘kills self’ in Aligarh||Agra: A 25-year-old police constable Lokendra Singh allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in a hotel room in Aligarh on Monday. Singh hailed from Agra and was posted in Aligarh’s police control room. His body has been sent for postmortem. His family members, however, suspect foul play. The matter is being probed by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cop-kills-self-in-aligarh/articleshow/81398161.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||Projects stalled for want of civic admn help: Zalke||Nagpur: BJP corporator Vijay Zalke on Monday alleged non-cooperation from the civic administration which he said stalled many of the projects he had planned during his one-year tenure as standing committee chairman in 2020-21. Zalke said that several of his plans like opening of 10 mobile hospitals and morgue freezer at zonal offices could not be implemented. He was speaking while handing over the charge of standing committee chairman to first-time corporator Prakash Bhoyar at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) headquarters in Civil Lines. Admitting that the NMC’s financial status was very weak, the new standing committee chairman said his focus would be on working in coordination with the civic administration and improving NMC’s revenue. Speaking about his one-year tenure, Zalke said he presented the budget late due to the outbreak of Covid-19. “I tried to implement a few good schemes like mobile clinics which could have been useful in providing medical facilities to citizens at doorsteps during the Covid-19 crisis,” he said. Similarly, he had kept funds for procuring morgue freezers keeping in mind the number of deaths being reported during the pandemic. Considering the rising incidents of assaults on civic body team by encroachers and illegal water connection holders, Zalke had announced to set up an exclusive police station for the NMC. “Sadly it too remained only on paper,” said Zalke. He also alleged that despite efforts from elected representatives to increase NMC’s revenue, the civic administration did not take any initiative. Citing an example, Zalke said the amnesty scheme and one-time settlement schemes for property and water tax defaulters evoked poor response as NMC employees and officials made no extra efforts. According to him, the town planning department can generate handsome revenue for the civic body. “But due to the administration’s casual approach it could not achieve even one-fourth of its target this year. In the last financial year, it had earned Rs153.36 crore revenue, but this year it has not crossed even Rs40 crore against the target of Rs193.47 crore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/projects-stalled-for-want-of-civic-admn-help-zalke/articleshow/81401123.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Vadodara||Now, thrilling T20 matches to enthral Barodians||Vadodara: Cricket loving Barodians will soon get to watch thrilling encounters in their own city. The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA), for the first time, has organized a T20 tournament on the lines of the Indian Premier League (IPL). Dozens of cricket matches will be played by the best of Baroda cricketers on different grounds from April 5.“The idea is to give talented cricketers a platform to perform. We have a good pool of quality players but not everyone gets an opportunity to showcase their talent due to the limited number of tournaments. So we decided to organize a T20 tournament especially for BCA players,” said Pranav Amin, BCA president told TOI.The tournament that is to be played in league-cum-knock-out format will start from April 5 and end in May. BCA has tied up with Twenty First Century Media Pvt Ltd that will organize all the matches and sponsor all the cost of production, broadcasting, on ground facilities, players’ accommodation, post-match presentations and apparels for the players and match officials. A total of 90 cricketers including Ranji, Under-23 and Under-19 will be picked up for the tourney that will have eight boys teams. Four teams of women cricketers too will play in the tournament. BCA officials said that this tourney will prepare the cricketers for T20 cricket and their chances of getting into the IPL would go up.“Each team will have a mix of Ranji, Under-23 and Under-19 players so that they can put up a good contest against each other. Every team will get seven games to play. The players will be selected on the basis of their performance in the recent tournaments and future potential,” said Satyajit Gaekwad, chairman, BCA press and publicity committee.Interestingly, though the T20 tournament has IPL format, there will be no auction of players and no franchise run by owners. BCA officials said that the franchise model and players’ auctioning may compromise on the quality of the tournament and invite undue allegations. “This tournament will be organized every year,” Gaekwad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/now-thrilling-t20-matches-to-enthral-barodians/articleshow/81398212.cms||Tushar Tere
March 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Devane, others sneak into K’taka, hoist saffron flag||Kolhapur: Karnataka police stopped several Shiv Sena workers at the Kognoli checkpost on Monday morning to prevent them from entering the state. However, a few of them managed to enter the neighbouring state and hoist a saffron flag. The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, which has been demanding merger of Marathi-speaking areas along the Maharashtra border, had organised a massive rally demanding removal of a flag hoisted by the pro-Kannada groups outside the Belagavi City Corporation. Belagavi district administration had banned Shiv Sena’s Kolhapur district president Vijay Devane and his supporters from entering the district on Monday. The administration felt that Devane’s speech may cause unrest. Devane told TOI over phone, “We were obstructed by Karnataka police at the state border. However, some of us managed to escape. We hoisted a saffron flag at Hadnal village. Though it is illegal to hoist any flag other than the Tricolour, the Karnataka police allowed some outfits to hoist the Kannada flag outside city corporation. It has been there since past three months.” The Sena workers rode on bikes to reach Karnataka. Hadnal village is just a couple of kilometres from the Maharashtra border. Devane and others, who had reached Hadnal village, were detained and not allowed to reach Belagavi. The stoppage of the Shiv Sena workers at the border led to a traffic jam along the Pune-Bengaluru national highway. Some workers tried to enter without saffron flags, but they were asked to get a Covid negative test report to enter the state. Karnataka government has made it mandatory for people from Maharashtra to present a Covid negative report to enter the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/devane-others-sneak-into-ktaka-hoist-saffron-flag/articleshow/81401151.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Agra||Mathura court to decide on STF plea for police custody of PFI activists on March 9||Agra: A Mathura court on Monday sent two PFI activists — Ansad Badruddin and Firoz Khan — to a temporary jail for a day while keeping the decision on a plea of police custody remand of the accused sought by STF pending. The court fixed the next date of hearing on March 9. Both accused were produced before the court in connection with a conspiracy in which Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan and others were accused by Mathura police. The STF had sought a production warrant from the court. The duo were arrested in Lucknow around three weeks ago for allegedly planning a series of blasts across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-court-to-decide-on-stf-plea-for-police-custody-of-pfi-activists-on-march-9/articleshow/81398172.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Meerut||Shivlinga in ancient Meerut temple a broken piece of Ashokan pillar? ASI to probe||Meerut: Unlike the usual Shivalingas, the one in an ancient temple in a Meerut village has characters written around it in the Brahmi script. Besides, its head is not round but looks as if broken off from a larger piece. Historians believe it could be part of Emperor Ashoka's pillar.Pillars of Ashoka are a series of columns installed in various parts of Indian sub-continent inscribed with edicts by Mauryan Emperor Ashoka sometime in 250 BC. Notably, one of the pillars was installed in Meerut also.The shivalinga was recently noticed by Amit Rai Jain, a Baghpat resident and member of Culture & History Association, an organisation comprising historians in western Uttar Pradesh. “I happened to visit ancient Shiva Temple in Rasulpur Dhaulri village in Meerut. I was surprised to see this Shivalinga which I could immediately relate to the Ashokan pillar. Brahmi script was inscribed on the sides and the polish was still intact.”After Jain reported the matter, a team of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials from Meerut circle visited the site on Monday and inspected the Shivalinga. “It will be a bit too early to arrive at any conclusion. Once we go through the evidence and also the script is deciphered then only we can say anything with certainty,” said an official requesting anonymity.However, historians are quite upbeat with the development and link it to the Mauryan age.According to DP Sharma, retired professor and head of department, National Museum Institute, and author of Mauryan Art and Architecture, “It is unmistakably the top end portion of an Ashokan pillar. The groove on the upper portion was made to fix an animal's statue. It is most likely the broken piece of the pillar currently standing in front of Hindu Rao Hospital in Delhi. That pillar's head is also missing. Many such columns were taken from their original sites like Meerut, Prayagraj, etc. by Ferozshah Tuglaq and installed in Delhi in the 14th century. Contemporary literature of the Tughlaq era has detailed descriptions of their movement and damage caused in transit. Since the village is just around 10 km from the original site of the Ashokan column in Meerut, there is a high probability that the damaged portion was brought here.”Tughlaq-era historian Shams-i-Siraj in his Sirat-i-Firuz Shahi says that it was an elaborately planned transportation, from its original location, using a 42-wheeled cart to bring it up to the Yamuna river bank and then further transporting it by the river route using barges. William Finch, a historian chronicler, observed that the pillar had “a globe and half-moon at top and diverse inscription upon it”.Historian John Keay writes, “Silk cotton from the simal tree was gathered in large quantities to surround the pillar before it was lowered horizontally to the ground. The covering was then removed, and replaced by reeds and raw hide to protect the pillar. A 42-wheeled cart was used to transport it to the river bank, where it was loaded onto a large boat. The cart required 8,400 men to move it, 200 to each wheel.”A portion of the Delhi-Meerut pillar, as it is known, is also kept in the British Museum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/shivlinga-in-ancient-meerut-temple-a-broken-piece-of-ashokan-pillar-asi-to-probe/articleshow/81398179.cms||Sandeep Rai
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||DCP’s ice-cream trap ‘stings’ food delivery services working beyond 11pm||Nagpur: Zonal DCP Lohit Matani conducted a ‘sting operation’ in the small hours of Sunday, March 7, during night round and caught restaurants delivering food in violation of stipulated 11pm deadline to close kitchens. He laid a trap by placing an order for ice-cream from a Sadar outlet. The cops registered 12 offences against the restaurants and kitchens at different police stations following Matani’s action. Matani had placed an order for ice-cream through a food delivery app. He had sought delivery at Mayo Hospital after placing the order at around 12.30am. After receiving the ice-cream, Matani’s team took the delivery person along with them to visit the source from where he had picked up the order. The cops then registered offences against the outlet that supplied the food. Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) was invoked against 12 restaurants at different police stations. City police swung into action following complaints that many eateries, outlets, bars, and online food services were flouting NMC’s norms, which limit food delivery from online orders to 11 pm. The notification was issued by NMC following the state Covid guidelines. Matani said the entire operation across the city was planned following instruction from CP Amitesh Kumar, who had urged for a crackdown on violators after receiving complaints against them. “Many officers on night round at police stations had deployed patrolling cops to check kitchens and restaurants but most were closed from outside. Then we adopted a smarter tact by ordering food and initiating action,” said zonal DCP. “Though I had placed the order in my name, the online service provider had failed to notice it was an officer who was trying to catch him red-handed,” he said. Apart from the latest sting operation, DCP Matani had led a three-hour sweeping action in Central Nagpur on March 5 between 7am and 10pm during which 20 offences were registered and 41 preventive actions were initiated against goons and their illegal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dcps-ice-cream-trap-stings-food-delivery-services-working-beyond-11pm/articleshow/81401243.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 9, 2021||Meerut||UP girl, 20, with no speech, leaving people speechless with her badminton skills||Women’s DayStrap: Nisha Parveen has won national & international medal in events meant for hearing impaired players Meerut: Nisha Parveen, 20, lost her speech and hearing ability at the age of two year after a long spell of pneumonia. Her family was distraught. In a region obsessed with boys, they were really worried about the future of a deaf and speech-impaired girl.“Her mother cried for days. But, later, she started thinking about making her independent. At 12, she was enrolled for badminton classes at Kailash Prakash Stadium in Meerut. Ever since, there has been no looking back,” said Zameer Ahmed, maternal uncle of Nisha.She went on to win national as well as international medals in events held for hearing impaired people. She won a bronze medal in Asia Pacific Deaf Badminton Championships which was conducted in Malaysia. Nisha is now aiming for the Olympics.She talks in sign language and always has a smiling face.Nisha completed her Class XII from Meerut. The badminton training, which started at Kailash Prakash stadium in Meerut, slowly moved to the renowned Gopi Chand Academy in Noida. “Her mother used to stay with her and gave all the emotional support possible. She was instrumental in her daughter’s success,” said Ahmed.While Nisha’s father has dairy business in Meerut, her mother Parveen Fatima is a home maker.During her two-year stint at the Gopi Chand Academy, her fee for two years was also exempted due to her exemplary game. Currently, Nisha is pursuing BSc from Jamia Milia Islamia, Delhi.Nisha had secured a gold medal in her first stint in the 7th National Deaf Badminton Championship which was conducted in Meerut. Since then, she won nine gold medals, four silver medals and two bronze medals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-girl-20-with-no-speech-leaving-people-speechless-with-her-badminton-skills/articleshow/81398190.cms||Ishita Bhatia
March 9, 2021||Meerut||M'nagar gets its first Adarsh Mahila Barrack for women cops||Muzaffarnagar: As part of an effort to improve the living conditions of women police personnel, Muzaffarnagar police inaugurated the first Adarsh Mahila Barrack in the district. It has all the basic facilities and modern amenities for women - dressing room, lockers, attached washrooms - to ensure their privacy and safety.On the occasion of Women's Day on Monday, Muzaffarnagar's SSP, Abhishek Yadav, opened the barrack on the premises of Mahila police station. It was officially inaugurated by district magistrate Selva Kumari J.The modern facility for women cops in Muzaffarnagar has a two-storey bedside, special cupboards, dressing tables, attached washrooms, room heaters and TV sets.The DM and SSP also inaugurated three women police posts in the rural area of the district so that women in remote places can easily approach the cops."With all the modern facilities, the barrack was handed over to the women cops. We are trying to create more such barracks in every police station in the district," the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mnagar-gets-its-first-adarsh-mahila-barrack-for-women-cops/articleshow/81398176.cms||Mohd Dilshad
March 9, 2021||Meerut||3 of gang involved in stealing buses arrested||Meerut: Saharanpur police has arrested 3 members of a gang that used to steal buses, change their chassis and engine number along with number plate and sold them at a hefty price. Police have seized six buses with fake number plates. SP city Rajesh Kumar said, “These men changed particulars of a vehicle and sold them at a higher rate. They would, later, end up on rural routes with fake number plates. We have arrested three members of the gang. They have been identified as Mohd Ahmad, Bhupender and Gulnawaz. The Regional Transport Office (RTO) should have checked whether these vehicles were running illegally without paying the tax. The three men have been booked under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (fraud). All three have been sent to jail.” Police has also recovered equipment with which these men changed chassis and engine number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-of-gang-involved-in-stealing-buses-arrested/articleshow/81398173.cms||Sandeep Rai
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||‘Women are born leaders, they just need opportunity’||Lucknow: Women achievers shared their stories and were felicitated on International Women's day celebrated at higher education and scientific institutes of the city on Monday. At Lucknow University, a cake cutting ceremony was organized for female faculty in Malviya hall followed by cultural programmes. At another function, Small Industries Manufacturers’ Association and Bhaurao Devras Research Centre, Lucknow University, felicitated 30 women for their contribution in various fields. The women’s cell of Avadh Girls' Degree College organised a talk under ‘Mission Shakti’. Among the speakers, prof Rakesh Chandra from LU’s philosophy department discussed gender discrimination, while police officers Chiranjiv Sinha, Rashmi Srivastava and Raghvendra Kumar Mishra spoke about strengthening the bond between the public and police and making women empowered. AGDC principal Upma Chaturvedi, dean SS Katiyar and others were present at the event. At Lucknow Christian College the celebrations began with a dance performance by girl students on women empowerment songs which was followed by a talk by acid attack survivors Rupali and Rajnita of Sheroes Hangout who shared their struggle and how they never gave up their fighting spirit. Dr Ram Manohar Lohiya National Law University organized a webinar where Indian defence estate service officer Shilpa Gual and Maj Gunjjan Gupta, ex-Indian Army officer and President medal awardee, addressed the viewers. Gual highlighted how millions of women are deprived of their rights and are surviving as dictated by others, suffering silent abuse. She also suggested how one can improve lives of the girl child from the underprivileged sections. Discussing women in leadership roles, Maj Gupta said, “Women are born leaders, leading and managing their households. They just need opportunity,” she said. RMLNLU vice-chancellor Prof Subir Bhatnagar also shared his experiences. Assistant professor Alka Singh coordinated the programme. At the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, a lecture by the former director of Central Drugs Research Institute Prof Madhu Dixit was organized. National Botanical Research Institute organized a talk by the director of the Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences Vandana Prasad. She said that women face many challenges in society and have to prove themselves in different spheres of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/women-are-born-leaders-they-just-need-opportunity/articleshow/81402152.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Goa||Churchill Bros ready for test of title credentials||Panaji: Fernando Varela has not forgotten what boss Churchill Alemao told him when he signed for the club. At Churchill Brothers FC, only the title matters. There have been so many runners-up finishes for Churchill that they have lost count. It started in the first year of the National Football League (NFL) in 1997 when they surrendered the title on the final day, failing to edge past lowly-ranked Indian Bank. Churchill finally broke the duck in 2009, riding on the brilliance of Odafa Okolie, and then Sunil Chhetri and Beto combined to hand them the second title in 2013. Now, Varela is on the cusp of adding to that list, although the Spanish coach is not taking anything for granted. “I think we have dominated all matches we have played this season,” Varela told TOI on Tuesday. “A six-point lead is not massive in football, we have to focus on the next match. In my opinion, we are the best team in the I-League.” There’s little doubt that Churchill are the best team in the league. They top the table with 25 points after 11 games, a clear six-point lead. They are also the only unbeaten team, and with just four games left to be played, the title is theirs to lose. Much of how the title race will shape up will be clear on Wednesday as Churchill take on the might of second-placed Gokulam Kerala FC. A win for the league leaders will almost certainly guarantee them the title; a loss will provide their opponents with a glimmer of hope. Churchill won the first phase clash 3-2 and will continue with the same attacking philosophy that has taken them to the top of the table. “The approach will be similar to what we had when we faced them last time. We will look to take the ball and dominate the game. We need to be strong on the ball like we are and try to show good football,” said Varela. Varela spent the last season at Gokulam Kerala and couldn’t deliver the trophies that the club craves for. At Churchill, he has managed to get the best out of the squad with Fredsan Marshall – who scored a last-minute winner in the previous game against Real Kashmir FC – speaking in glowing terms. “Varela thinks out of the box,” said Marshall. “In Indian football, we need coaches who think out of the box to help the players. I have played under many foreign and Indian coaches, but Varela is special.” Gokulam Kerala kept themselves in the hunt with a solitary goal win against Punjab FC in the previous game and know they can stay in the title race, only if they manage full points against Churchill. Not surprisingly, coach Vincenzo Annese believes this is a final. “It is important to win this game not just for us but for the league to be open. Another win for Churchill will close the title race for us. “It is the most important game in the I-League for us and is like a final. I hope my guys will give an extra performance that will help us claim three points. A win against them will open the doors for all the teams,” said Annese.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-bros-ready-for-test-of-title-credentials/articleshow/81418382.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 5% rise in VAT to make 750ml liquor bottle at least Rs 6 costlier||MUMBAI: The state budget has hiked the value added tax (VAT) on liquor by 5%, making a 750ml bottle at least Rs 6 costlier. This includes Indian-made foreign, imported and country liquor, beer and wines. The budget proposals will make the state richer by Rs 1,800 crore in a year, say experts. The VAT of 30% or 60%, depending on the type of liquor, has been hiked to 35% and 65%, respectively. On the cheapest liquor, the 5% increase in VAT would mean a minimum increase of Rs 6 to Rs 7 per 750ml bottle. The charge will rise according to the liquor price. Also, excise duty on branded country liquor has been hiked to 220% or Rs 187 on a litre of pure spirit content, whichever is higher, thus raising the per bottle (750ml) cost by at least around Rs 30. The increase in excise duty on branded country liquor will add Rs 800 crore revenue annually while the hike in VAT will add Rs 1,000 crore to government kitty every year.  “Our business has halved because of the 50% cap on seating in restaurants and the work-from-home mode. Any increase in excise duty is likely to drag down sales,” said AHAR president Shivanand Shetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-5-rise-in-vat-to-make-750ml-liquor-bottle-at-least-rs-6-costlier/articleshow/81401234.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
March 9, 2021||Navi-mumbai||20-24% dip in cases in Maharashtra, Mumbai; 18 test +ve for Covid in Dharavi||MUMBAI: Thanks to the ‘weekend effect’ when fewer Covid-19 tests are conducted due to staff crunch, the number of positive cases detected in a 24-hour period in Maharashtra dropped by 20%. While 8,744 cases were registered on Monday, the state had registered 11,141 cases on Sunday. The number of deaths in a 24-hour period too dropped from 38 to 22, according to the state Covid-19 update on Monday. Case detection in Mumbai too fell by 24% in a 24-hour period, with 1,041 cases registered on Monday. Deaths remained constant at four on both the days. The lower registrations on Monday seem like an aberration as doctors in both public and private hospitals said cases were on the rise. “Daily admissions in our hospital had dropped to six a day in early February, but have more than doubled since,” said BMC-run Nair Hospital dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal. However, he said patients were not coming in with complications seen last year. Dharavi, one of the most dense slum sprawls in the country where daily detections had dropped to a single digit for months and even zero on a couple of days, registered 18 Covid-19 cases on Monday. The last time the slum cluster reported 18 cases was on October 23, 2020. So far, Dharavi has reported 4,166 Covid cases. Meanwhile, the Kalyan-Dombivli belt on Monday reported 198 Covid-19 positive cases, but recorded zero deaths, taking the Covid-19 tally to 64,855 and toll to 1,207 deaths. In Navi Mumbai, 109 cases were reported, taking the total Covid-19 count to 56,490 so far. One death was also reported, taking the toll to 1,130. PCMC areas reported 74 fresh cases on Monday, taking the total case tally to 30,689. With no death reported on Monday, the toll remained at 648. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that even though cases are on the rise, the BMC infrastructure is well-equipped to handle patients. “We have jumbo centres that have oxygen-supported beds and ICUs as well as adequate space,” he said. If additional beds are required, BMC hospitals too have been told to keep them ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-20-24-dip-in-cases-in-state-city-18-test-ve-for-covid-in-dharavi/articleshow/81404633.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chennai||PIL alleges bias against unrecognised parties||Chennai: Madras high court has ordered notice to Election Commission of India (ECI) on a PIL assailing the alleged ‘differential treatment’ meted out to recognised and unrecognised political parties by the ECI. The public interest writ petition of Tamizhaga Murpokku Makkal Katchi claims that the discrimination should be avoided and equal opportunity be given to both in allocating symbols. Admitting the plea on Monday, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the ECI to respond to the plea. According to the petitioner, allotment of reserved symbols to recognised parties amounts to interfering in the free and fair election which is violative of Articles 14 and 19 (1) (a) of the constitution. Reserved symbol is nothing but an undue influence which is a corrupt practice under section 123 (2) of the Representation of People Act. Right to get elected is a constitutional right as held in Rajbala and others Vs State of Haryana and thereby, there cannot be any discrimination among the political parties, the petitioner said. “Reserved symbols create an uneven level playing field and the same is against Article 14 of the Constitution. It is an arbitrary exercise of power and the same is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and Conduct of Election Rules which does not discriminate between candidates,” the petitioner added. Rule 5 and 10 of the Conduct of Election Rules merely mandates the ECI to specify the list of symbols and restrictions of their choice. But, the impugned clauses of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) order 1968, exceeds the powers under Rule 5 and 10 of the Conduct of Election Rules, the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pil-alleges-bias-against-unrecognised-parties/articleshow/81399613.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad civic body shuts Covid-unsafe eateries||AHMEDABAD: With the increase in Covid cases the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has begun a major drive to enforce Covid protocols in hotels and eateries especially in the western part of the city. Apart from sealing several eateries, the AMC solid waste department even ordered the eateries in Happy Street-Khau Gali in Law Garden and the Vastrapur Lake to close down. The officials said the staff and customers were standing close to each other at these eateries without wearing masks. The AMC on Monday began a widespread crackdown on eateries and restaurants. The crackdown began after the western part of the city reported a sharp rise in Covid cases. “We realized the eateries were not following the Covid protocol and had more than 50% occupancy. Neither staff nor customers were wearing masks,” said aHe added, “The cases have seen a steep increase, and mainly in areas of Bodakdev, Thaltej, Jodhpur, Gota, Naranpura, Paldi, Navrangpura and Maninagar among other areas. We have found eateries were open in Kankaria, Sindhu Bhavan, Vastrapur lake areas, and no social distancing was being followed.” The officials said that the number of Covid cases in these wards have almost doubled in the last fortnight. Municipal Commissioner Mukesh Kumar when contacted said, “We have begun a drive to enforce Covid protocols in the areas and ensure that eateries follow social distancing and do not violate the 50% occupancy guidelines. At present there is no move to enforce closure of such eateries. We are asking them to do their business following Covid protocols.” An officer said that at many of the restaurants it was notices that tables for four or six were fully occupied and when the officials asked the reason for not following social distancing, the groups which were mainly of youngsters said that they were all brothers and sisters and they all stayed together. Customers were sitting without mask and said that they had removed the mask to eat.” A trader at Law Garden said AMC JET teams came and asked them to follow Covid rules and warned against opening shops from Tuesday. The teams said that if the shops were opened they would be sealed permanently and a heavy fine will be imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-shuts-covid-unsafe-eateries/articleshow/81401365.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Agra||UP: For 30 years, this nurse walked 8km a day to vaccinate kids in remote areas||AGRA: Madhuri Mishra had defied her family and circumstances to become a health worker in 1983. It was just five years after the national immunization programme had been launched in the newly smallpox-free country. For 30 years since then, Madhuri, now 60, walked 8km every day to reach remote villages, immunise those most vulnerable and with the least access to healthcare. Even when they “banned” her from entering. “The first few years were very tough. People didn’t want to get immunised,” she told TOI on Monday. Myths and rumours about vaccines would reach these villages faster than she could. People were worried vaccines would cause infertility, fever or just make them sick with the disease the shot was meant to prevent. “But I’d keep walking, stopping at villages and vaccinating children. It had to be done. At times, people would misbehave. At others, they wouldn’t let me enter. I would keep going back, sometimes with others who had vaccinated their children, until I could convince them.” Her path to becoming an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) was also an interrupted one. While she was preparing, in 1978, her father died. No one else in her family wanted her to keep studying. So, she took up a job with a tailor to put together enough money for her ANM course while supporting her family. “After I got through, I served the Bah block for 10 years. Immunisation cover went up to 90% in my time. Then, I worked in the Fatehabad block for over 20 years. Here, too, I managed to take immunisation past the 90%-mark. Not for one day did I just sit in the office,” she said. Her work did not go unnoticed. “She has been a star immunisation campaigner. Wherever she worked saw a massive surge in immunisation. She barely ever took a day off,” said Agra chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey. It is the office of the chief medical officer to which she was attached in 2013 because of her work. “I was made a health visitor (registered nurse or midwife with additional training in community public health nursing). I vaccinated thousands of children,” she said. “I think of myself as a soldier. I can’t leave my post.” And she didn’t, when Covid-19 hit. “Even though her retirement was round the corner, she would work at the district hospital, sometimes for over 12 hours,” said district immunisation officer Dr Sanjeev Burman. “In the last three days at work, she administered Covid-19 vaccines to several frontline workers. It has been a pleasure working with her. Madhuri retired last week. Her husband was suffering from multiple ailments and died four years ago. Her two sons are now working. But she is far from done. “I miss going to work. I have asked the authorities to call me whenever they need my services. I am ready to keep going.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/for-30-years-nurse-60-walked-8km-a-day-to-vaccinate-kids-in-remote-areas/articleshow/81398216.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||20-24% dip in cases in Maharashtra, Mumbai; 18 test +ve for Covid in Dharavi||MUMBAI: Thanks to the ‘weekend effect’ when fewer Covid-19 tests are conducted due to staff crunch, the number of positive cases detected in a 24-hour period in Maharashtra dropped by 20%. While 8,744 cases were registered on Monday, the state had registered 11,141 cases on Sunday. The number of deaths in a 24-hour period too dropped from 38 to 22, according to the state Covid-19 update on Monday. Case detection in Mumbai too fell by 24% in a 24-hour period, with 1,041 cases registered on Monday. Deaths remained constant at four on both the days. The lower registrations on Monday seem like an aberration as doctors in both public and private hospitals said cases were on the rise. “Daily admissions in our hospital had dropped to six a day in early February, but have more than doubled since,” said BMC-run Nair Hospital dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal. However, he said patients were not coming in with complications seen last year. Dharavi, one of the most dense slum sprawls in the country where daily detections had dropped to a single digit for months and even zero on a couple of days, registered 18 Covid-19 cases on Monday. The last time the slum cluster reported 18 cases was on October 23, 2020. So far, Dharavi has reported 4,166 Covid cases. Meanwhile, the Kalyan-Dombivli belt on Monday reported 198 Covid-19 positive cases, but recorded zero deaths, taking the Covid-19 tally to 64,855 and toll to 1,207 deaths. In Navi Mumbai, 109 cases were reported, taking the total Covid-19 count to 56,490 so far. One death was also reported, taking the toll to 1,130. PCMC areas reported 74 fresh cases on Monday, taking the total case tally to 30,689. With no death reported on Monday, the toll remained at 648. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that even though cases are on the rise, the BMC infrastructure is well-equipped to handle patients. “We have jumbo centres that have oxygen-supported beds and ICUs as well as adequate space,” he said. If additional beds are required, BMC hospitals too have been told to keep them ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-20-24-dip-in-cases-in-state-city-18-test-ve-for-covid-in-dharavi/articleshow/81402159.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Meerut||Awareness drive on communicable diseases launched in Meerut, 2,000 teams formed||Meerut: Gearing up to prevent the spread of communicable diseases, Meerut health department is observing a ‘communicable diseases prevention month’ wherein they have launched a door-to-door campaign to spread awareness among people about such diseases. The department has roped in 2,000 teams comprising Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) and anganwadi workers to carry out the campaign about communicable diseases like tuberculosis, Covid-19, malaria, dengue and others ahead of the onset of summer when most of the mosquito-borne diseases are reported due to rapid mosquito breeding. “As many as 2,000 teams comprising Asha and anganwadi workers have been formed to conduct the awareness drive in Meerut so that people can take precautions beforehand,” said Dr Satya Prakash, Meerut district malaria officer.“Awareness is being spread about the mosquito-borne diseases by informing people do not let the water fill empty vessels kept in the open to avoid breeding of mosquitoes,” said Dr Prakash.As many as eight departments, including nagar nigam, zila panchayat and animal husbandry, are helping the health department in spreading awareness about communicable diseases. “Asha and anganwadi workers are visiting every household under ‘Dastak’ drive of the campaign and distributing pamphlets to spread awareness,” said Dr Prakash.Besides, special emphasis is being made on Covid-19 to encourage people to undergo tests and wear masks. “People are also being encouraged to take the Covid-19 vaccine to prevent the spread of the disease,” said Dr Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/awareness-drive-on-communicable-diseases-launched-in-meerut-2000-teams-formed/articleshow/81398227.cms||Ishita Bhatia
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad records 15% rise in active cases in March||Ahmedabad: Analysis of the active cases in districts of Gujarat reveal that Ahmedabad recorded a rise of 15.3% from February 28 to March 8 – from 632 to 729 cases. Among four major districts, Vadodara recorded the highest rise of 74.5% — from 310 to 541, followed by 49% in Surat (from 462 to 688) and 21% in Rajkot (from 196 to 237).Experts said that the active cases form the difference between the new cases and discharged cases during the pandemic. The continuous increase in cases and relatively stagnant numbers of discharge recorded the rise in active cases across Gujarat, they added.On Monday, the Civil Hospital added one new ward to existing treatment facilities due to addition of 10 to 20 cases daily. Senior hospital authorities said that the hospital had 67 patients admitted for Covid-19 treatment, out of which two were on ventilator, seven needed BiPAP support and 33 needed oxygen. “The figure is nearly double than what we had seen a month ago. But now we are more prepared in terms of knowledge, and thus mortality is very low,” said a senior official. On Monday, five districts - Botad, Dang, Banaskantha, Porbandar and Surendranagar - had not recorded any new case. With four major cities accounting for 61% of the cases, the other districts are recording rise,said state health department officials, as the percentage of cities four days back was 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-records-15-rise-in-active-cases-in-march/articleshow/81401353.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Contractor from Nashik booked for raping woman||AURANGABAD: A civic body contractor from Nashik district has been booked by the city police on the charges of stalking, rape, molestation and criminal intimidation. Inspector Vitthal Pote told TOI, “Our team is in Nashik to nab him. He has been booked for raping the woman during his visits to Aurangabad.” The police team, however, has not been able to find the man at any of his addresses, including the one on Malegaon. As per the complaint lodged by the woman, she received a friend request from the contractor on July 9, 2019, and accepted it. After chatting for a while, the man claimed that he was going on a professional trip to Aurangabad and requested the woman to meet him. After initial reluctance, when the woman agreed, the man went to her flat and allegedly raped her. “As per the woman’s account, the man raped her at least on four different occasions by threatening to commit suicide or by threatening her with dire consequences,” said Pote. When the alleged harassment became unbearable her,, she confided about it in her family members who supported her in lodging a complaint. The chats and interactions between the duo have been taken on record. The process of obtaining relevant data from the social networking sites will be initiated soon. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/contractor-booked-for-raping-woman/articleshow/81401239.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Covid-19: Chennai battle-ready, again||CHENNAI: After recording an increase in Covid-19 clusters in the city, health department officials are going all out in pushing the government to declare all streets/apartment complexes with more than three cases as containment zones. The present rules allow the Greater Chennai Corporation to enforce restrictions in streets/apartments only if there are three index cases families/household, who may not have direct contact with each other, developing the viral infection. “While doctors allow asymptomatic and young patients to quarantine themselves at home, we have been seeing gross violations in home quarantine,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan, who visited crowded places in the city to ensure people wear masks and follow social distancing. On Monday, officials tracked down nine cases from an apartment on Srinivasa Pillai Street in West Mambalam. Six of the eight family members in the family tested positive, along with three of their neighbours. Corporation health department officials have restricted entry or exit at the apartment. Health officials were also asked to cancel permission for patients if there is spread of infection in the area or if they see any violation in home quarantine rules. While the number of Covid-19 cases and hospital admissions are escalating on a daily basis, the city is seeing a dip in doubling time. There is also an increase in the test positivity rate - number of people tested positive over the total number of people being tested a sign that has worried epidemiologists and infectious disease experts. According to the Greater Chennai Corporation, the test positivity rate on Sunday went up to 2.2% from less than 2%. This was around 1.4% in the first week of February. It dropped to 1.3 in the second week and by the last week it was 1.7%. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash assured that the situation at present is “not alarming.” Data released by the civic agency shows that the maximum increase in cases happened in Teynampet and Kodambakkam zones. A week ago, the number of active cases in Teynampet and Kodambakkam was 174 and 198 respectively. On Monday, it rose to 235 and 228 respectively. These are the only two zones which have more than 200 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-city-battle-ready-again/articleshow/81399654.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Property tax pending, civic body seals 285 establishments||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Monday sealed 285 properties across the city. The civic body has now begun targeting properties that have defaulted amounts less than Rs 25k also. AMC officials said that the finance department, which is struggling hard to achieve the targets set in the budget estimates has now decided to target small property defaulters. The officials said that till mid-February the AMC was only targeting establishments that had defaulted over Rs 1 lakh. But on Monday, most of the defaulters of the the 285 properties sealed had less than Rs 50,000 dues outstanding. AMC officials said 177 of these 285 properties were from the areas of Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia Shilaj Road and SG Highway among others. In Ganesh Meridian a tenant had defaulted Rs 10.10 lakh. The tenant was the highest defaulter on Monday. The officials said that they were targeting the western part of the city as these areas were high-end societies. The drastic step was taken after a majority of the property units had failed to pay taxes ranging between Rs 50,000 and Rs 10 lakh. In Ganesh Meridian more than 40 properties were sealed by the AMC. The officials said that they are inspecting the properties again after sealing, as several property owners had tampered with the seals. The corporation has decided to file police complaints against those property owners who tampered with the seals and impose 10% administrative charges on them. AMC officials said that to take action against property tax defaulters, the AMC has gone on a major drive and has sealed around 600 properties so far this financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/property-tax-pending-civic-body-seals-285-establishments/articleshow/81401362.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||60% of quarantined societies lie in western A’bad||Ahmedabad: If you live in the western part of Ahmedabad, you better take thorough Covid precautions as almost 60% of societies that have been quarantined by AMC falls in this area. Even as the number of micro-contained societies in the city touched the half-century mark again, officials said that more than 30 societies in western Ahmedabad including areas like Bopal, Jodhpur, and Bodakdev are being put in micro-containment zones. On Monday, nine societies were added and four were removed from the micro-containment list. Of the nine societies that were quarantined on Monday, five were from the western part of the city including two from Thaltej, one each from Bopal, Sarkhej and Naranpura areas. Of the remaining four, two societies were from Ghodasar and one each from Maninagar and Khokhra. Officials said that the first case of micro-containment was reported on February 24, a day after counting for local body elections ended. Then, in just 13 days, the number shot up to 50. The city had been reporting zero micro-containment areas after January 15. AMC officials said that they expected cases to rise after elections, and have been proved right. “The coronavirus in the city is catching up in high-end societies in the city. Areas like Bopal, Jodhpur, Bodakdev in the west, as well as Khokhra and Maninagar in the east are seeing several micro-containment areas. The spike has been noticed in the western part of the city again. Even post-Diwali, these areas reported a rise in Covid cases,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/60-of-quarantined-societies-lie-in-western-abad/articleshow/81401339.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Woman holds mock RTI court on special day||Lucknow: On the occasion of the International Women’s Day, information commissioner (IC) Ajay Kumar Uprety made Devanshi Tiwari IC for a day. Devanshi disposed of some cases while reserved her judgement in others. The step has been introduced by Uprety to encourage women empowerment. This was the first occasion when a woman was symbolically appointed IC in the RTI court of UP. Sharing her experience, Devanshi said it was a thrilling experience to work as information commissioner. She added that for the first time she realised that the RTI Act is a powerful tool and can be utilised for betterment of the common man. Uprety said such out of the box steps are needed to spread awareness about the RTI Act among the masses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-holds-mock-rti-court-on-special-day/articleshow/81402156.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Vadodara||Watch a black panther growl from up close at Kevadiya||Vadodara: For years, you have een ‘Bagheera,’ the lovable black panther guarding Mowgli in Rudyard Kipling’s bestseller ‘The Jungle Book.’ Now, you can watch the growling black panther from up close right in your state. A young black panther has been recently brought in at the Jungle Safari near the Statue of Unity in Kevadia.  “We have got the black panther in exchange for lions from the Guwahati Zoo in Assam. Named ‘Kaali’, it is one-and-half years old and already kept in the enclosure for the tourists to view,,” said Dr Rajiv Gupta, managing director, Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd (SSNNL). He added that the black panther will be mated with a normal panther soon.  A black panther is a member of the big cat family and native to Asia and Africa. They are like normal panthers but melanistic as the black panther has excessive black pigments. It has a shiny coat of black fur and doesn’t have visible spots like leopards and jaguars. It is a swift climber and known to be a very good hunter.  Gupta said that plans are afoot to have many more animals in the Jungle Safari in the next few months. Recently a baby hippopotamus was also brought in at the safari that is attracting thousands of footfall every day..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/watch-a-black-panther-growl-from-up-close-at-kevadiya/articleshow/81399962.cms||Tushar Tere
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Power-packed women at the forefront||Hyderabad: There are fewer women in the political field as compared to fields like education, medicine and science, said Dr B Prabha Shankar, president, Economic Committee, Andhra Pradesh; and secretary, AIIE Society, Hyderabad, at a seminar held at Exhibition Grounds in Nampally on the occasion of International Women’s Day, on Monday. Speaking at the seminar, the topic of which was ‘Role of Graduates in Legislative Council’, Dr Shankar said: “There has been exponential increase in the role of women in all fields, from education to medicine, but there is still a lack of women in the political arena, which needs to be corrected.” He also said that the level of discussions in the country’s legislatures are not meeting the expectations of the educated people. “Now it is the time for the intelligent people to decide what we expect from our political representatives,” Dr Shankar said. “In my opinion, it is for the graduate MLCs to show the way. And it is for us to elect a person who meets the qualities. Not the pompous, cynical, misinformation campaigners of self-importance, not the intellectual with no solutions, but persons with practical knowledge, and a history of national service,” he added Meanwhile, the Institution of Engineers (IEI), Telangana State Centre also celebrated International Women’s Day at Visvesvaraya Bhavan in Khairatabad. Bharatheeyam G Satyavani, Indian public speaker, educator and social activist spoke about moral and traditional values. Professor Shantha Sinha, former chairperson, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and S Rajendra Kumar, chief postmaster general, Telangana Circle released a special postal cover at a programme held at Dak Sadan, Abids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-packed-women-at-the-forefront/articleshow/81401268.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Nashik||2 women robbed of gold chains||Nashik: Gold chains worth Rs 1.11 lakh were robbed from two women in separate cases of robbery in the city over Saturday and Sunday. While a chain robbery took place in the Panchavati area, the other robbery took place in the Upnagar area. A 38-year-old woman of the Omnagar area, in her complaint, said she was walking in front of her house at around 9.15 pm on Saturday when two people in their 20s on a bike came close to her and snatched two gold chains she was wearing. They fled the scene. While one gold chain weighed 23 gram including a 3 gram pendant worth Rs 60,000, the other gold chain weighed 10 gram. But she could save a part of the broken gold chain Panchavati police have registered an offence of robbery against the two unidentified people. In another incident, a 55-year-old woman of Govind Nagar, Ravishankar Marg, in her complaint said when she was returning home after buying vegetables, two people around 25 years of age riding a bike came close to her and snatched her gold chain worth Rs 36,000. The complainant said the suspects escaped towards the Wadalagaon area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-women-robbed-of-gold-chains/articleshow/81397377.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Fresh cases dip, but active cases spike||Chennai: Fresh cases of Covid-19 came down marginally to 556 on Monday from 567 on Sunday. Yet, the active cases, which went below the 4000-mark on March 2, went up to 4,018 on Monday. The cumulative Covid-19 case tally in the state rose to 8,55,667 cases. The three deaths took the total toll to 12,521. The city also reported a dip in new cases to 229 from 251 on Sunday, but with increasing clusters, Chennai continues to remain the worst affected, contributing nearly 40% of the fresh cases almost every day. On Monday, barring two districts – Kallakurichi and Perambalur – all districts reported new cases. Chennai (2) and Coimbatore (1) were the only two states to report deaths. After Chennai, the highest number of cases was from Coimbatore (48), Chengalpet (46) and Tiruvallur (29). While all other districts reported less than 20 new cases, at least 26 districts reported a single digit increase in cases. The northern districts together reported 342 cases, West had 108 and South had 49 – a dip from 378, 106 and 49 cases on Sunday. The Central districts, however, reported an increase to 56 from 34 cases. Five districts have less than 10 patients in the active cases list – three each in Perambalur and Kallakurichi, eight each in Thirupathur and Ariyalur and nine in Dharmapuri. Chennai had 1,866 patients still under treatment, followed by 353 in Coimbatore and 311 in Chengalpet. Four other districts – Tiruvallur (198), Thanjavur (120), Tiruppur (113) and Kancheepuram (112) – have more than 100 active cases. Meanwhile, 1,10,252 people including 47,535 people above 60 years and 26,787 people above the age of 45 years took the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday. In addition 12,487 frontline workers and 10,443 healthcare providers took the vaccine during the 2751 sessions. Until 7pm on Monday, 4,22,902 healthcare workers, 2,44,789 frontline workers, 1,06,187 people above 45 years with comorbidities and 1,84,449 senior citizens have received the vaccine, the directorate of public health said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fresh-cases-dip-but-active-cases-spike/articleshow/81399688.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt says not over-optimistic, experts see lack of reform||MUMBAI: The revenue estimate of Rs 3.7 lakh crore for 2021-22 is a conservative estimate and the state government is not over optimistic, said senior state government officials. “In 2020-21, estimate was Rs 3.5 lakh crore and it has been revised to Rs 2.9 lakh crore. The first few months from April to August were bad, when revenue collections were down to Rs 10,000-Rs 12,000 crore per month. In the second half, collections have looked up, going up to Rs 20,000 crore per month… the government has prepared a very conservative budget estimate for 2021-22,”said a senior official. Observers, however, said the budget lacked bold initiatives. “There are no reforms. The budget talks of a Rs 66,000-crore deficit when it should have focused on getting into productive assets and putting more money into people’s pockets,” said an economist, on condition of anonymity. Maharashtra’s budget, said the economist, is comparable to many countries, and to speak of allocations of Rs 1-5 crore was pointless. “Being an industrial state, the finance minister should have taken the lead in announcing measures to help Micro, Small, Medium enterprises rather than wait for the Centre to announce aid,” he said. The government should have leveraged land as a resource as it is a state subject, that’s the way to go, he added. The budget speaks of Public Private Partnership for hospitals but it would not be easy to implement, warned economists. The budget has also been criticised for treating cancer, cardiology as public health issues when in fact they are private health issues and taking focus away from maternal health, epidemics. Abhay Pethe, senior resident fellow, Mumbai School of Economics said, “I expected a bolder budget from Ajit Pawar. I wouldn’t mind if they had borrowed more and just spent as it would have a multiplier effect on the economy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-govt-says-not-over-optimistic-experts-see-lack-of-reform/articleshow/81401358.cms||Clara Lewis
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||NTA declares JEE (Main)-2021 (February Session) scores for Paper 1 (BE/BTech)||Nagpur: The National Testing Agency (NTA) on Monday night declared results for JEE (Main), in which over six lakh students appeared from February 24-26. The examination was conducted in 331 cities of which nine were outside India. Since the results came in late night, all Nagpur coaching centres will be ready with the toppers list by Tuesday afternoon. Starting this year, JEE will be held four times a year and students will have the option to appear in all of them. The best score will be taken as the final one. Also for the first time, this exam was held in 13 languages, including English. In a massive exam supervision exercise, over 50,000 CCTV cameras beamed live images from exam centres spread across the country. This was monitored at NTA’s control room in Delhi. To prevent technological malpractice, over 25,000 mobile jammers were installed at the exam centres. Exams were conducted as per Covid-19 protocols. Results of Paper 2A and 2B (BArch/BPlanning) will be released in next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nta-declares-jee-main-2021-february-session-scores-for-paper-1-be/btech/articleshow/81401288.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 9, 2021||Nashik||Highway officials told to fix Malegaon stretch||Nashik: In view of the frequent accidents on the stretch of the Mumbai-Agra highway that passes through Malegaon, the Nashik rural police and senior political leaders have suggested a slew of corrective measures to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI).Recently, the Malegaon police, MLA Mufti Mohammad Ismail Qasmi and NHAI officials conducted a joint survey of the stretch.The police said accidents are common on this 10km stretch — from Tehare Phata to Chalisgaon Phata — which comes under the jurisdictions of the Chhavani, Killa, Pawar Wadi and Malegaon taluka police stations. There have been 495 deaths here between 2015 and 2020. In these five years, the police have registered 428 accident cases and 1,265 people have escaped with grievous and minor injuries.Over the years, various political parties have staged agitations, rasta rokos and given memorandums. The police have suggested service roads on either side of the highway near the Tehare Phata as well as a subway and a flyover. “The section from Tehare junction to Chalisgaon Phata has a dense population on both sides. We have suggested that a flyover should be planned here,” said additional SP Chandrakant Khandvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/highway-officials-told-to-fix-malegaon-stretch/articleshow/81397386.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Falling gold price boosts demand for jewellery||Ahmedabad: Falling gold price after the basic customs duty (BCD) cut on gold and silver has left jewellers rejoicing as the business has begun to bounce back significantly with jewellery demand going up. Jewellers said that fresh gold purchases have begun taking place for weddings as well as routine purchases, thanks to the decline in the yellow metal price. “Gold jewellery demand has grown since Uttarayan and with each passing day, as prices went down, the demand only improved. As the government relaxed norms by increasing the cap on the number of guests allowed at weddings to 200, several weddings which had been deferred due to the pandemic are now taking place. This boost the confidence among gold jewellery buyers and as a consequence, gold demand has gone up,” said Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). Jewellers said that reduction in gold price below the Rs 50,000-mark had a psychological impact on gold buyers, and thus, it fuelled purchases too. The price of gold plunged to Rs 46,300 per10 gram on Monday, falling by Rs 200 against Saturday’s Rs 46,500 per 10 gram. This means yellow metal price has declined 13% from its peak price of Rs 54,300 per 10 gram on January 6, this year. The revival in gold demand is clearly evident with 3.78 metric tonnes of gold import in Gujarat in February 2021. Analysts attribute the steep decline in gold price to the cut in BCD on gold imports from 12.5% to 7.5%. That apart, global factors coupled with good returns in the Indian equity markets caused gold prices to decline significantly. Jewellers claim that along side buyers from urban areas even that in rural areas has improved. “The demand for both gold as well as silver in terms of bullion and jewellery has gone up significantly. In the run up to the wedding season next month, people are confidently making purchases,” said Manoj Soni, a city-based jeweller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/falling-gold-price-boosts-demand-for-jewellery/articleshow/81401331.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 9, 2021||Vadodara||Eight stealing electric wires for aluminium scrap caught||Vadodara: The prevention of crime branch (PCB) has busted a gang stealing electric wires of Gujarat Vikas Urja Nigam Ltd (GUVNL) and arrested eight persons from the city. The cops said that they had received tip-off about the gang following which they nabbed the accused from Tarsali area. According to police, the gang members used to steal aluminium wires from the sub-stations and then sell them off for earning quick money. Prize of scrap aluminium wire scrap recently went up from Rs 147 per kilogram to Rs 150 per kilogram, making it a lucrative material for the gang to steal.“We recently received information that the gang had stolen about 8,000 kilograms of 220 kilowatt old aluminium wires from a sub-station in Jambua,” said police.Acting on the tip-off, the cops tracked down the vehicle that was loaded with the stolen material on Sunday. They nabbed the gang members identified as Shubhrati Khan, Jagdish Nayak, Omprakash Badai, Ramratan Paswan, Anil Kumar Paswan, Sanjay Kumar Paasi, Rajesh Kumar Paswan and Virendra Yadav, all residents of Chhani.They all originally belong to Uttar Pradesh. “We detected four thefts that the gang had committed in the past. They had stolen aluminium wires from Makarpura area. About six months ago, the gang stole aluminium wires on Halol Road,” added a police official .The accused had also committed similar thefts at three places in Rajkot and one in Anand.Investigating officials said that the gang used to do recce of the spot before striking during night time. After selling off the stolen material, they used to divide the money among themselves. The cops are trying to ascertain if any more persons are involved in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/eight-stealing-electric-wires-for-aluminium-scrap-caught/articleshow/81398269.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad ZP member booked for violating norms||Aurangabad: The city police have booked a zilla parishad member and his associates, including a former sarpanch and incumbent gram panchayat members, after they gathered in large numbers for a birthday celebration. Eleven identified and some unidentified people, including the guests, have been booked under sections 51 (injury caused by unlawful assembly) and 135 (disobeying order lawfully issued under the Act) of the Maharashtra Police Act, and IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). MIDC Waluj inspector Madhukar Sawant said: “Despite there being restrictions on social, political, cultural and religious gatherings, a mega-event was held to celebrate the birthday of the ZP member.” There were, in fact, two events — one each at the new ZP primary school in Pandharpur and the Mohta Devi temple located in the Bajajnagar area of Waluj. As per the complaint lodged by police constable Dirajlal Kabliye, 11 identified and several unidentified people violated the directives issued by the state government as well as the Aurangabad commissioner of police. The police team clicked photographs of the gatherings and took them on the record before registering a case in this regard on Sunday night. When contacted, ZP member Ramesh Gaikwad said: “With my efforts, I had brought Rs 80 lakh funding for this ZP school. Accordingly, an event was held at the school by following all physical distancing norms.” He claimed the case is being blown out of proportion. He also said that it was his birthday on Sunday and some people had turned up at the venue on their own.Police said the sections imposed are bailable in nature and so no one has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-zp-member-booked-for-violating-norms/articleshow/81401283.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||Tricksters dupe job seekers of Rs57 lakh in Covid times||Nagpur: Tricksters duped 228 job aspirants, including many whose careers were jeopardized due to the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic, of around Rs 57 lakh last year by promising employment. Though the cyber cell of Nagpur city police has managed to retrieve the mony lost by some of the victims, many are yet to get relief. In the latest case, Myra, an accountant who had returned from Australia, was duped to the tune of over Rs1.53 lakh by racketeers posing as representatives of an online job search portal. Myra is yet to get any help from the police who have registered an offence. Cyber cell, which is working on details in Myra’s case under supervision of Addl CP Sunil Phulari and DCP Vivek Masaal, has managed to trace the callers to an undisclosed location in north India but the lost amount is yet to be retrieved. Senior inspector Ashok Bagul of cyber police station said prevention through awareness is the best solution. “Cyber cell tries to establish and identify the money trail. If the money is still in the digital wallet then there are chances we may retrieve it otherwise it becomes difficult once the amount is deposited in the account of the crook who may withdraw it,” said Bagul who has addressed several webinars for craeting awareness against cyber frauds. “Job frauds were rampant last year but cyber cell managed to help some victims,” he said. According to another cyber cell cop, the voice of the callers, who had a conversation with Myra, had north Indian accent and didn’t sound like a trained marketing executives. “The job sites are putting up warnings and disclaimers about tricksters asking for money in their name. No job sites ask for money,” said the experienced cop. Myra had returned to India in January this year following completion of her studies in Australia. She was lured with promose of a job in a reputed company with Rs10 lakh pay package per annum. She was initially made to transfer around Rs 12,000 for processing her documents and conducting a medical test. It’s learnt, the racketeers also got her Covid test done after receiving the money. The fraudsters later started asking Myra for Rs 85,000 as security bond for two years and later started pressing for another Rs55,000 for a management course which she was supposedly offered at a heavily discounted rate. After coughing up substantial amount, Myra approached the cyber cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tricksters-dupe-job-seekers-of-rs57-lakh-in-covid-times/articleshow/81401326.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Pedalling to gender equality||Hyderabad: Scores of girls and women participated in a cycle rally taken out from Charminar, to mark the International Women’s Day at old City in Hyderabad, on Monday. The rally was organised by the Shaheen Women Resource and Welfare Association, and the campaign sought gender equality. Earlier, prior to the rally, the participants had gathered at the Charminar holding placards & banners. “Today we have come here to celebrate International Women’s Day. The cycle rally is also honour to the female Covid-19 warriors, whose role can’t be ignored,” Jameela Nishat, chairman, Shaheen Women Welfare Organisation told TOI. Jameela Nishat added that the association engaged with women across all age groups and helped them break social barriers, gain control over their economic resources and exercise leadership at multiple levels. “The cycle rally’s message was clear: that we want to increase girls’ mobility. The girls are trained in a way that they know how to deal with challenges in life without fear. We want the girls to be confident enough to proceed in their life independently and they should be self reliant, going ahead,” Jameela Nishat added. The association works in around 20 slums in Old City area. It is also in a unique position to support Muslims, Dalits and OBCs alike. “I am really happy to see this fabulous support for women. We can do anything, and prove our capability to deal with certain challenges problems in life,” one participant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pedalling-to-gender-equality/articleshow/81401383.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: 176 DMK candidates, 11 from allies to contest on rising sun symbol||CHENNAI: The DMK on Monday finalised seat-sharing talks with the CPM by allotting six seats to the Left party. The front leader has so far allotted 57 seats to its allies and kept 177 seats for itself. Negotiations with Kongunadu Makkal Desia Katchi, led by E R Eswaran, is expected to be concluded on Monday and indications are that the DMK would give one seat to it. In all, 187 candidates (176 DMK candidates and 11 alliance party candidates) would be contesting in the rising sun symbol. Vaiko’s MDMK will field six candidates in the DMK symbol. The DMK had initially planned to field more than 190 candidates in its own symbol, however its allies, the VCK and the IUML, did not agree to the proposal. Overall, seat sharing talks went off smoothly. The alliance partners are happy that their strike rate would be higher this time as it happened in the 2019 LS elections, said DMK organising secretary and one of the members of the DMK’s negotiation team, R S Bharathi. After signing the agreement with DMK chief M K Stalin, state CPM secretary K Balakrishnan expressed his disappointment over getting only six seats, but went on to add that the party chose to compromise on seats to defeat the AIADMK-BJP combine. “There was a political compulsion,” he said when asked about agreeing to take six seats. Later in the day, the DMK firmed up pacts with smaller parties such as T Velmurugan’s Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi, Aathi Thamizhar Peravai and Makkal Viduthalai Katchi by allotting them one seat each. They too will contest in the DMK symbol. The deal with the Congress was protracted as the national party stuck to its demand for a higher number. Starting off with 41 seats when Congress leaders Oommen Chandy and Randeep Singh Surjewala called on the DMK leaders on February 25, the party scaled down its demand to 30 seats, but the DMK stuck to its stand and refused to offer more than 25 assembly seats and the Kanyakumari LS seat, which is facing byelection. Finally, the deal was sealed at 25 seats after a telephonic conversation betweenStalin and Congress leader Sonia Gandhi on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/176-dmk-candidates-11-from-allies-to-contest-on-rising-sun-symbol/articleshow/81401296.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 9, 2021||Chennai||NGT panel asks local bodies to plug sewage leak||CHENNAI: A National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel has directed Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), Pallavaram Municipality and St Thomas Mount panchayat to stop sewage overflow from underground network within the next six months. A TOI report of last February had highlighted the plight of Sunnambu-Kolathur residents, who had to battle the stench rising from Kilkattalai lake surplus channel for years. The report also brought to light how untreated sewage was discharged into the channel, thereby polluting the lake and affecting the ground water quality. As complaints from residents went unanswered, NGT took suo moto cognizance of this issue and constituted a panel to look into it. This panel, which had representatives from the three local bodies, pollution control board and Chengalpet district collectorate, inspected sewer networks, channels and collected water samples from Kilkattalai and Narayanapuram lakes. Lab Analysis of water samples suggested that chemical and bacterial levels were within the prescribed limit at both these lakes. Though the local bodies claimed that all household were provided with sewer connections or were equipped with septic tanks, the panel during inspection found sewage overflow at Nanmangalam, Moovarasampet, Kovilambakkam in St Thomas Mount Panchayat Union limit, Kelkattalai of Pallavaram Municipality area and from some areas of Madipakkam of Zone XII of GCC. Nanmangalam, Moovarasampet and Kovilambakkam did not have any solid waste processing facility to handle solid waste generated from houses, shops and other establishments over there, said the panel's report submitted with the tribunal. So the panel recommended all three local bodies to formulate necessary action plans to stop sewage out flow and submit a report before the next hearing of the case on April 27. Besides this, the Public Works Department (PWD) was also told to expedite the construction of retaining walls all along the surplus channel for strengthening the bund and avoid flow of sewage into the channel. PWD had proposed to construct retaining walls for a length of 1,778 metres. Out of this, it has completed construction of 520 metres of wall, according to official data. This included walls along a cut-and-cover type channel from Narayanapuram Lake to Pallikaranai Marsh Land. PWD officials said that the work is expected to be completed within six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-panel-asks-local-bodies-to-plug-sewage-leak/articleshow/81399710.cms||Ram Sundaram
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Year on, anxiety still lurks in minds of those who caught Covid early||MUMBAI: Much before words like ‘quarantine’ and ‘lockdown’ became part of people’s vocabulary, Pooja Shah from Nalasopara had got a glimpse of what isolation feels like. The 32-year-old entrepreneur was one of the first two placed under institutional quarantine in Maharashtra and likely in India last January. The state detected its first confirmed case of coronavirus on March 9, but preparations to battle a pandemic had begun since Shah and her colleague were admitted to Kasturba Hospital on January 23, 2020. As the state completed a year of living with the pandemic, Shah told TOI that after a week in isolation at Kasturba Hospital for Infectious Diseases, away from family and friends, she understood the world was staring at something deadly. “I became extremely cautious and didn’t allow my family to drop their guard at any point,” she said, adding that she feels they were lucky to have survived the year without anyone in the family contracting the virus. Shah had stayed in China’s Foshan city for six days before arriving in Mumbai on January 22. As she complained of bodyache and cold, health officials advised quarantine at Kasturba, the only dedicated Covid centre in the city then. Within four walls, she recalls reading about the pandemic unfolding all over the world. “I was anxious and confused. We were tested three to four times. Every time, they came with reports, my heart would skip a beat,” she recalled. She went home after seven days, but life has never been the same since the lockdown began. Her company, a stainless steel manufacturer, shut down in December. “The only silver lining was that it has allowed me to focus on my own business venture,” she said. However, many families in the city have seen the deadlier side of the pandemic. June was a “painful” month for Vasai resident Rakesh’s family. “Even remembering those days makes me anxious,” said the 35-year-old engineer. A few days after he lost his oldest uncle to heart attack in the first week of June, his younger uncle showed signs of Covid. “He died within a few days of diagnosis in hospital when my father, maternal grandmother and I tested positive for Covid,” he said. While he and his father were discharged after 15 days, his grandmother spent 46 days in hospital. “We didn’t tell her of her second son’s death till August as we were worried about her health,” he said. While family members have healed physically from the Covid toll, “we haven't emotionally healed. We keep thinking about those whom we lost,” he added. For this 28-year-old medical student of BYL Nair Hospital, it is still painful to talk about his 65-year-old father’s demise after days of struggling with coronavirus. “His last few days were spent in the intensive care unit of KEM Hospital. I was next to him in a PPE suit, but others couldn’t even catch a last glimpse,” he said. “I had to seek professional help to cope with his death as every time I saw a patient deteriorating, I would imagine that it was my father,” he said, adding that the pandemic has disrupted scores of lives and also destroyed families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-year-on-anxiety-still-lurks-in-minds-of-those-who-caught-covid-early/articleshow/81402205.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Women shooting stars aim for the sky||Fazal Khan Lucknow: For homemaker Archana Gupta, life is not just confined to performing daily chores and looking after her family. Passionately chasing her dreams, she never lets her focus go off the bulls-eye, quite literally. A national level shooter, Archana is not only making a mark for her but is also grooming her son, who has already started participating in shooting events. “I participated in the national shooting championship in 2016 in the .22 pistol event. I have also been winning first or second spot in state-level events since 2007. My son is also interested in shooting and I hope he does well too,” says Archana, wife of IAS officer Ravi Shankar Gupta. Shalu Goyal, a homemaker, started off as a tennis player but also developed interest in shooting. Shalu participated in ITF Singles (senior 35+) International Tennis Tournament in 2019 in which she finished second runner-up. After playing tennis for nearly eight years, she started dabbling in air pistol shooting. She has been participating in district-level championships. “My message to all women is that they should never give up their hobbies or passion,” says Shalu, who also offers online classes in French to students. Shazia Tamanna, a teacher at a private school, is also a district-level shooter. Her husband, Jamal Asghar Rana is the joint secretary of Awadh Rifles Shooting Academy. “I am lucky to have the support of my husband and family. My 10-year-old son, Azlan, also accompanies me to shooting range for practice. He is also preparing for the Under-14 category,” says Shazia. After completing her PhD from Lucknow University, Vinni Singh Harish started working as a consultant in waste management but her heart lies in shooting, which she has been pursuing for the last 10 years. “My family encouraged me to take up shooting and I instantly fell in love with it. I have participated in district-level events. My husband, Siddharth Harish, is a big support,” says Vinni, whose 11-year-old son is also trying to participate in Under-14 category events. “Some people get surprised and say, ‘Dekho ladki bandook chala rahi hai’. I feel women should follow their heart and continue to do what they believe in,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/women-shooting-stars-aim-for-the-sky/articleshow/81402177.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Karunaas, MJK leader Ansari back DMK front||Chennai: Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi (MJK) leader Thamimun Ansari and Mukkulathor Pulipadai leader Karunaas, who had contested and won in the AIADMK symbol in 2016, extended their support to the DMK on Monday. Both had come out of the AIADMK alliance recently. Sources in the DMK said representatives of Ansari and Karunaas called on DMK organising secretary R S Bharathi at Anna Arivalayam separately and submitted letters, extending their support to the DMK alliance. Sources said both the leaders sought tickets from the DMK, but Ansari faced strong opposition from other Muslim parties in the alliance – IUML and MMK. The DMK is yet to take a decision on Karunaas’ request for ticket. Karunaas has vehemently opposed chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for providing 10.5% internal quota for vanniyars in the MBC. It would harm the interests of other sub-sections in the MBC, he charged, adding that the sub-quota was created on the eve of polls with the sole aim of appeasing vanniyars. Ansari had opposed the AIADMK for supporting the CAA bill in the Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/karunaas-mjk-leader-ansari-back-dmk-front/articleshow/81401327.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Tips for keeping common women ailments at bay||Lucknow: If you are above 20 years of age, then conducting a thorough self-examination of your breasts should be a regular habit to keep breast cancer away. If you have rheumatoid arthritis, avoid squatting, using stairs, jogging and jumping, and to prevent cervix cancer in the early stages, regular check-ups should be done. These helpful tips and many more preventive routines for keeping a check on common ailments among women were shared during a special talk organised by the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) on the International Women’s Day. Experts of thyroid, cervix and breast cancer and arthritis from SGPGI spoke at length in the online seminar which was attended by several faculty members of other medical colleges. “Self-examination of the breast to check for pain-free lumps, puckering or discoloration of the skin and distortion of any kind away from the normal, is the single and most easy method to check breast cancer in the early stage. Mammography done once every two years has also been found very helpful,” said Prof Gaurav Agarwal, a faculty of endocrine and breast surgery department. Gynaecologist Prof Anju Rani emphasised on the need for HPV vaccination to prevent cervix cancer. “WHO also recommends HPV vaccination for girls between 9 to 14 years of age. Cervical screening can also check the cancer much before it starts because it takes about 10 years or more for this cancer to manifest itself,” she said. Head of clinical immunology Prof Amita Aggarwal advised regular exercise and keeping check on weight as preventive measures against osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Prof Preeti Dabadghao of the endocrinology department stressed on the importance of iodine in diet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tips-for-keeping-common-women-ailments-at-bay/articleshow/81402210.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kochi||No mineral rights in land bought from farmer: HC||Kochi: A person or entity who acquired land from a cultivating tenant as per Kerala Land Reforms Act does not have subsoil rights (rights over mineral wealth), said the high court. The ruling was given by Justice PB Suresh Kumar after considering a petition (WP-C No 26990/2020) filed by Peter John, managing director of J and P Sand and Aggregates International Pvt Ltd based at Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam. Land measuring 2.2 hectares in Nediyenga village in Kannur, which was under erstwhile Malabar district, is owned by the petitioner. An ordinance [Kerala Minerals (Vesting of Rights) Ordinance, 2019] brought in by the government to overcome a 2013 Supreme Court judgment (Thressiama Jacob and Others Vs. Geologist, Department of Mining and Geology and Others) was challenged by the petitioner. In the 2013 judgment, the apex court had held that subsoil rights in the lands held by ‘jenmies’ (landlords) in the erstwhile Malabar district were vested in the ‘jenmies’ themselves. Cultivating tenants in erstwhile Travancore and Cochin states could not claim rights over subsoil as they stood vested in the erstwhile states even before the Act, by virtue of Travancore Proclamation of 1881 and Cochin Proclamation of 1905. On December 29, 2019, an ordinance was promulgated by the state government that vested all rights in the minerals in the soil and subsoil of all lands of whatever ownership to the government. In the judgment, the high court said, “The fact that the Act is one introduced for agrarian reforms cannot be doubted by anyone. If that be so, the assignment of the land in favour of the cultivating tenant can only be for making use of the land for agricultural purposes. There are no words in the Act or in the grant, from which the grant of subsoil rights to the cultivating tenants could be inferred.” “Having regard to the object of the Act, it cannot be said that the legislature has contemplated the grant of subsoil rights to the cultivating tenants. As evident from Section 72D of the Act, even the purchase price payable by the cultivating tenant for the assignment has been fixed without taking into account the subsoil rights in the land. In the said circumstances, in the light of the decisions aforesaid, I am of the view that it would be wholly unrealistic to hold that a cultivating tenant in terms of the provisions of the Act would acquire subsoil rights in the land in terms of the certificate of purchase,” stated the judgment. The court also said granting subsoil rights to cultivating tenants in erstwhile Malabar district but denying it to those in erstwhile Travancore and Cochin states would make the statute violative of right to equality (Article 14). Further, the court dismissed the petition challenging the ordinance as the petitioner did not have locus standi in respect of subsoil rights in the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-mineral-rights-in-land-bought-from-farmer-hc/articleshow/81398261.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Puducherry||Puducherry: AINRC patches up with BJP, N Rangasamy to be CM candidate||PUDUCHERRY: The All-India NR Congress (AINRC) has sealed a deal with the BJP in Puducherry, though a formal announcement that N Rangasamy will be the CM candidate will take a day or two. AINRC sources said party founder Rangasamy told close aides that the BJP had also agreed to their contesting 17 seats, leaving 13 to be shared by the saffron party, the AIADMK and possibly the PMK, which unilaterally announced it was going to contest five seats under the NDA alliance. Neither the BJP nor the PMK won a single seat in 2016 contesting on their own. The alliance talks between AINRC and the BJP, which hit a deadlock after five rounds of negotiations over naming Rangasamy as the CM candidate and his demand for at least 17 seats, resumed on a positive note on Monday. The two parties arrived at a consensus after discussions for more than four hours. They also identified the constituencies they propose to contest. AINRC had threatened to go it alone irked by the BJP’s reluctance to endorse Rangasamy’s leadership. The AINRC had ignored overtures from the DMK to lead a grand alliance of secular parties including the Congress. In the rival camp, the second round of seat-sharing talks between the Congress and the DMK on Monday concluded without arriving at a consensus. Former chief minister V Narayanasamy later told reporters that AICC general secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao will call on DMK president M K Stalin in Chennai to finalize sharing of seats. Unlike in Tamil Nadu where the DMK is the alliance leader, Congress is the alliance leader in Puducherry. The two parties faced the last assembly polls together. Congress contested 21 seats and won 15, while the DMK contested nine seats and won two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/ainrc-patches-up-with-bjp-rangasamy-to-be-cm-candidate/articleshow/81401368.cms||Bosco Dominique
March 9, 2021||Nashik||BJP retains standing panel chairperson’s post in NMC||Nashik: With BJP’s Ganesh Gite being the lone candidate to file his nomination for the Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) standing committee chairperson on Monday, the saffron party has managed to retain the post.The election for NMC’s standing panel head is slated to be held on Tuesday and the last day of filing nomination was Monday — between 11am and 1pm.As no other candidate came forward to contest the elections, Gite got elected unopposed and he will be officially declared as the standing committee chairperson on Tuesday. Leader of opposition in the NMC and senior Shiv Sena corporator Ajay Boraste said the party had decided not to contest the elections. “There was a shortfall in the strength of standing committee members. Hence, we decided to stay away from the election and did not field any candidate,” he said.“This is the last year for the five-year term of the current civic body and fresh civic elections will be held next year. Shiv Sena will win the civic elections and come to the power. Hence, we did not want to resort to any other ways of winning the election and malign the party’s image,” he added. In the 16-member standing committee, BJP has eight members, Shiv Sena has five while MNS, Congress and NCP have one member each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjp-retains-standing-panel-chairpersons-post-in-nmc/articleshow/81397398.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 9, 2021||Vadodara||New cases cross 50, one more dies||Vadodara: For the first time since February 2, the number of Covid-19 cases reported in a day crossed 50 in the city and district. As many as 52 persons tested positive out of 2,391 samples that were tested in the 24hours ending on Monday evening even as one more death took place due to Covid-19 for the first time after January 15. Data furnished by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation reveals that on February 2, 52 persons had tested positive in the city and district out of 2,602 who had got themselves tested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-cases-cross-50-one-more-dies/articleshow/81399896.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kochi||Thrissur boy is state’s JEE Main topper||Kochi: The National Testing Agency (NTA) announced the results of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2021 February session exam on Monday. Faiz Hashim, a candidate from Thrissur, is the state topper in Kerala with the NTA score of 99.9874647. Six candidates have received 100 NTA score in the exam but none of the candidates from Kerala featured among them. Faiz, son of Razia Hashim, a homemaker, and Hashim Valiyil an expatriate engineer, is a Class XII student of Devamatha CMI Public School. “Though he wrote the exam well, securing first rank in the state was not expected. Faiz wants to study computer science engineering in IIT Bombay and he is now preparing for JEE Advanced,” said Razia. The agency had conducted the JEE main examination from February 23 to 26, 2021, and more than six lakh candidates had registered for it. On Sunday, NTA released the final answer key of the exam that was conducted for the first time in 13 languages. The examination was conducted completely in computer-based test (CBT) mode and the candidates have the choice to appear in all the four sessions of JEE Main for improving the performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thrissur-boy-is-states-jee-main-topper/articleshow/81398272.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Nashik||State to give funds for Nashik metro||Nashik: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar announced that adequate financial provisions would be made in the state budget for the Nashik Metro Neo project, which has been planned at a cost of Rs 2,092 crore. Brajesh Dixit, the managing director of Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha Metro), said that they were yet to know the exact provision for the metro project but would not face any issue regarding funding. “Now, we are waiting for sanction from the central government for the project, which is expected by May. The actual work for the project will begin within four months after the sanctioning of the project,” said Dixit. The tyre-based Nashik metro project is to be partially funded by the state government. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced funds for the Nashik metro project while presenting the Union Budget for the next FY 2021-22. The rubber-tyred AC electric coaches with a capacity to carry around 300 passengers will ply on two elevated corridors, stretching 32km. One elevated corridor of 22 km will be from Gangapur to Nashik railway station with 19 stations. Another elevated corridor will be of 10 km between Gangapur and Mumbai Naka with 10 stations. Apart from the two elevated corridors, there will be two feeder routes with a total length of 24km. Battery-powered feeder buses will run on the feeder routes and also on the elevated wires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-to-give-funds-for-nashik-metro/articleshow/81397408.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||Man held for objectionable post against Patole||Nagpur: A 34-year-old man, identified as Krunal Dahiwale, was arrested by Rana Pratap Nagar police on Monday for allegedly posting objectionable remarks against state Congress president Nana Patole. According to police, Dahiwale had posted the remarks between February 20 and 27. An offence has been registered following a complaint lodged by Akash Taywade, senior office-bearer of Congress’s social media cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-held-for-objectionable-post-against-patole/articleshow/81401367.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 9, 2021||Chennai||HC refuses to stop Tangedco’s coal tender||Chennai: Madras high court has refused to set aside Rs 1,330 crore coal import tender floated by Tangedco. Refusing to intervene in the order passed by a single judge dated February 24, upholding the tender process, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy dismissed the plea moved by Ind Vigo Coal Pvt Ltd, on Monday. On February 24, a single judge of the court rejected the plea moved by the petitioner challenging the tender. The court, however, directed the power distribution corporation to extend the last date to submit bids by 15 days and publish the same in the Indian Trade Journal. The issue pertains to a notification issued by Tangedco dated February 8 calling for bids within 15 days from domestic bidders on payment of Rs 13 crore by foreign bidders, towards earnest money deposit. According to the petitioner, 30 days’ time must be provided to submit bids in such high value tenders as per rules. As per the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tender Rules, a minimum of 30 days is to be given for submission of bids for tenders valued over Rs 2 crore. The rule had not been followed in letter and spirit by Tangedco despite calling for a Rs 1,330 crore tender, the petitioner said. Alleging that Tangedco was showing undue haste in finalising the tenders, without even calling for a pre-bid meeting, the petitioner questioned the necessity for importing coal in the month of May when wind energy production would be at its peak.  Opposing the same, Tangedco questioned the maintainability of the plea when the petitioner was not even qualified to participate in the bidding process.Tangedco further submitted that only companies with a turnover of Rs 335 crore in any one of the financial years between 2017-18 and 2019-20 and those that had supplied five lakh tonnes of imported steam coal to public sector undertakings or private power utilities in any of those three years were eligible to submit their bids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-refuses-to-stop-tangedcos-coal-tender/articleshow/81399734.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Samples doubled to 12,000 for Mumbai’s 3rd sero survey||MUMBAI: A third sero survey is underway to estimate the proportion of Mumbaikars infected by Covid-19 in the past year. “We are in the process of collecting 500 samples from each of the 24 wards,” said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The survey started on March 1 and should be completed within another 7-10 days. “We decided to carry out the third sero survey to understand the level of antibodies in the population. The information will help us decide on our future Covid vaccination policy,” said Kakani. In 2020, the BMC conducted two sero surveys in three municipal wards —F North (Matunga), R North (Dahisar) and M West (Chembur) —in July and August 2020. The surveys revealed the city’s dense slums pockets had higher proportion of people with antibodies as compared to people living in buildings. The July survey found that 57% of the slum residents and 16% of the building residents had antibodies, and the corresponding numbers for August were 45% and 18% respectively. While the earlier two sero prevalence surveys collected around 6,000 samples each, the target for the third survey is 12,000 samples. The earlier surveys were a joint effort of BMC, Niti Aayog and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), while the municipal corporation is doing the present survey on its own. BMC’s deputy executive health officer Dr Daksha Shah and Nair Hospital’s head of microbiology Dr Jayanti Shastri are part of the special civic team handling the third survey. The methodology of the third survey is also quite different from the earlier ones in which BMC staff collected samples from various colonies after taking informed consent from patients. For the third survey, it is only looking at samples of patients testing positive in public as well as private laboratories in each ward. “Some private laboratories are assigned to collect samples as part of BMC’s ‘aapli chikitsa’ diagnostic service. This is a free service for the patients,” said a civic official. A few samples will be collected from private hospitals where paying patients get tested. The study would thus get a good representation from various sections of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-samples-doubled-to-12k-for-citys-3rd-sero-survey/articleshow/81402240.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Over 450 objects excavated from Manikarnika Kund||Kolhapur: The Paschim Maharashtra Devasthan Samiti (PMDS) recovered 457 objects, some centuries-old antiques and others roughly 70 years old, during the excavation of the Manikarnika Kund located on the premises of the Mahalaxmi temple of Kolhapur. Over a year ago, historians had found a well, called the Manikarnika Kund, on the premises of the temple. The only other such well, of the same name, is in Varanasi. Historians believe the kund was built with the temple and, therefore, could be centuries old. They think the Kolhapur well had slowly started getting buried many years back. Nearly 70 years ago, it had completely been covered. Earlier, it was used for holy baths. The tirth and bathwater from the Mahalaxmi temple’s sanctum sanctorum used to be released into this kund. Mahesh Jadhav, the chairman of the Paschim Maharashtra Devasthan Samiti, while presenting the excavated objects, said: “We have found copper utensils, stone structures of deities, old coins and even barrel and bullets from the excavation site. As per the Archeological Survey of India guidelines, we are manually carrying out the excavation. So far, we have reached a depth of 11m. The original structures of the kund will be visible properly once the work in done in two weeks.” The excavation work is being recorded by the PMDS. The sand dug out is being preserved and will be sieved for other items. Jadhav said once the excavation is done, the restoration work of the kund will be carried out under the guidance of experts. The archaeology department had advised against the use of heavy machinery. Therefore, the work started eight months ago and is taking so long to complate, said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-450-objects-excavated-from-manikarnika-kund/articleshow/81401370.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: IM man convicted of killing cop during Batla encounter||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Monday held Ariz Khan, an alleged Indian Mujahideen operative, guilty of the murder of a decorated police officer during the Batla House encounter in city’s Jamia Nagar in September 19, 2008. Khan’s conviction by additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav was based on the finding that he along with his associates “intentionally and knowingly committed the murder” of inspector Mohan Chand Sharma by a firearm. They were slapped with a raft of criminal charges, including several sections of IPC and Arms Act. The court will hear the arguments on the quantum of punishment on March 15. The high-profile shootout also resulted in the deaths of alleged terrorists Atif Ameen and Md Sajid and the subsequent arrest of Shahzad Ahmad, who was awarded life imprisonment and fined Rs 50,000 on July 30, 2013 in the same case. Another accused, Md Saif, had already surrendered before police. Additional public prosecutor A T Ansari examined 100 witnesses to substantiate the charges framed against the accused, whereas only one defense witness was examined. The ballistics report placed on record stated all bullets and empty cartridges recovered from the place of incident matched with the arms used by the terrorists and cops. The 105-page conviction judgment on Monday stated that in furtherance of their common intention, all of them fired gunshots by firearm on head constable Balwant with .30 bore pistol and head constable Rajbir, who had worn a bullet-proof jacket and left unhurt, Besides, the firing caused grievous injury to Balwant with an intention or knowledge that if the two policemen had died, they all would have been liable for murder. These charges slapped on the accused relate to obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions, proclaimed offender, voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty, assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, attempt to murder and common intention besides using firearms. As Khan was on the run, he was declared a proclaimed offender, and when arrested on February 14, 2018, police alleged he was involved in six other cases. When defense counsel M S Khan argued that no person could have escaped from the building as there was only one common entry and exit in the building, the court held, “The court can presume that the accused escaped through the staircase. It is probable because the person who escaped was not an ordinary person, he was a trained criminal and he could have easily managed anyone who might have encountered him in the staircase.” “It clearly emerged from the depositions of witnesses that accused Ariz Khan along with his associates fired at the police party as soon as the police team entered the flat and in the process fatally injured Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma and HC Balwant. Inspector Sharma succumbed to injuries in the hospital,” the court noted. According to the post-mortem, Sharma had suffered two injuries – one in abdomen and the other in his shoulder. “Accused Ariz Khan @ Junaid along with his associates, is responsible for fatally injuring head constable (HC) Balwant and for killing inspector Mohan Chand Sharma,” held judge Yadav. The defense counsel said it was not clear which bullet had hit inspector Sharma, and therefore, charge of murder has not been proved. The court noted that the “highly mutilated bullet” mentioned in the ballistic report could not be matched with any of the weapons, and therefore, it was possible that the bullet was fired by accused Ariz Khan. “In any case, it has been proved on record that accused Ariz Khan along with his associates resorted to fire on police party in furtherance of their common intention and in the process inspector Mohan Chand Sharma and HC Balwant were injured. Therefore, the accused can be said to have entertained common intention of killing and injuring police officials...,” the court added. The arguments on the quantum of punishment to be awarded to Khan will be heard on March 15. Watch Batla House verdict: Court holds Ariz Khan guilty; sentence to be pronounced on March 10||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/im-man-convicted-of-killing-cop-during-batla-encounter/articleshow/81402889.cms||Aamir Khan
March 9, 2021||Nashik||State budget announces 430-bed GMCH for Nashik on PPP model||Nashik: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday announced the setting up of a Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Nashik. Presenting the budget for the state, Pawar said that as per central government guidelines a public-private-partnership (PPP) model will be followed for setting up the medical college.“It has been decided that a GMCH will be set up in Nashik, Sindhudurg, Osmanabad, Raigad and Satara. Large amount of funds are required for establishing these facilities for which we will opt for the PPP model,” the minister said. It should be noted that district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had been rigorously following up with the state government about setting up of the GMCH in Nashik — under the aegis of the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS). Accordingly, the state cabinet that met on February 10 gave its nod for setting up of the 430-bed GMCH at the cost of over Rs 627crore. The GMCH will impart education for both undergraduate and post-graduate courses.The GMCH would be set up on the MUHS campus and the district administration recently decided to hand over the 14-hectare land so that in future more colleges related to the various streams also could be set up there. Meanwhile, Bhujbal has lauded the budget saying, “It is an all-inclusive budget with every department and region getting what it wanted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-budget-announces-430-bed-gmch-for-nashik-on-ppp-model/articleshow/81397410.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kochi||‘After Bengal, BJP’s special focus on Kerala’||Thiruvananthapuram: It’s official now. BJP is going to shift its focus heavily on Kerala. The party leadership is just waiting for the election in West Bengal to be over. To achieve the political target, the party would draw new strategies to confront the CPM head on. The efforts would be to hold the CPM responsible for the economic crisis and development stagnation the state encounters, said Gopal Krishna Agarwal, BJP national spokesperson in-charge of Kerala and a chartered accountant by profession. “We have stopped the practice of contesting elections for the sake of it in Kerala. After West Bengal, BJP’s political focus is largely on Kerala. It’s only bound to increase in the future,” said Agarwal who is in the state in connection with the assembly election. The party, he said, is confident of winning the hearts of Kerala voters and form the government in a matter of a few years. “This is not a pipe dream. We just need to explain our development agenda to the people and convince them. If a state like UP can achieve tremendous strides in terms of economic development in a span of a few years, Kerala with its intellectual capital, spices and tourism potential, can do wonders,” Agarwal said, adding that governments that always fight with the Centre won’t be able to make major developmental strides. Agarwal, who had earlier been attached to the West Bengal election, said it was the prominent presence of Marxists that scares investors away from Kerala. “The basic concept and attitude of Marxists towards wealth creation is flawed. They talk about distribution of wealth. For that the basic requisite is creation of wealth. But unfortunately, Marxists wont address the aspect of wealth creation. Private capital is still an anathema for them. They can’t perform the role of a facilitator,” he said. Good economics is good politics, he said and claimed that the economic policies of the BJP government under the leadership of Narendra Modi are focused on long-term development and growth. The new amendments brought in by the Centre on agriculture laws, he claimed, would benefit lakhs of farmers while they would go against the interest of a few others. “Our reform initiatives focus on long-term agenda. It is this point we want to reiterate in Kerala. Once in power, BJP would show the dogged and proven commitment towards the infrastructure and industrial development of Kerala. Establishment of waterways, food processing units, value addition of spices, rubber and agriculture produce would be our focus. Once an investment-friendly ecosystem is established, economic growth and employment opportunities would follow. These are not claims. We have practised and proven it in the states we are in power,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/after-bengal-bjps-special-focus-on-kerala/articleshow/81393954.cms||B S Anilkumar
March 9, 2021||Kochi||Fair pay: Govt docs to hold candlelight vigil tomorrow||Kochi: Government medical college doctors plan to hold a candlelight vigil in front of their respective medical college campuses on Wednesday evening. They are upset with the government’s alleged failure in rectifying anomalies in the pay revision. Earlier, the protesting doctors had planned to organize a candle light march to the Secretariat in the evening on March 10. However, at the request of the health minister this has been postponed to March 17. Protests will follow all Covid protocols. “Doctors in government medical colleges have worked hard to curb the spread of Covid in Kerala. However, when it came to salary revision, we were paid a meagre amount. We were not paid the full arrears of salary and allowances,” alleged Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) While the government claimed all promises have been met, the KGMCTA said the government has betrayed them by not meeting the assurance given during the talks. While implementing the pay revision with retrospective effect from January 1, 2016, the government was silent on paying the arrears. If the government fails to consider their demands, then the doctors have decided to boycott the OP (out patient) duty for 24 hours on March17. The doctors will boycott all elective surgeries and also teaching that day. However, the strike will not affect emergency services and the functioning of the casualty department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fair-pay-govt-docs-to-hold-candlelight-vigil-tomorrow/articleshow/81398278.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Real dharmayudham has just begun among cadres: T T V Dhinakaran||CHENNAI: Declaring that the real ‘dharmayudham’ has just begun among the cadres, general secretary of AMMK T T V Dhinakaran on Monday reiterated that the real followers of Amma (former chief minister J Jayalalithaa) would extend their support to him to bring back Amma’s government. He later took to social media and tweeted that AMMK has joined hands with Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and the latter had been allotted three seats - Vaniyambadi, Krishnagiri and Sankarapuram constituencies. Dhinakaran said the alliance led by his party would be the leading alliance in the state. “It is the victorious alliance,” said Dhinakaran, addressing party poll aspirants at the AMMK headquarters here. He added that he would contest in two constituencies. The party’s candidate list will be released on March 10. Denying alliance talks with actor Kamal Haasan’s MNM, Dhinakaran said the party has been in talks with a few other political parties to form a formidable alliance. The announcement would be made soon, he said. “We will not split AIADMK votes. Those who are faithful to Amma will vote for us,” he said. He continued in the same vein that the real dharmayudham against the forces of evil and betrayers has just begun. “AMMK would bring back Amma’s real government,” he said. AMMK commenced interviews for prospective candidates. The leaders of AMMK, preferring anonymity, said the decision of former CM Jayalalithaa’s aide V K Sasikala, who was famously known as ‘chinnamma’, was a setback for their party in the forthcoming polls. But they opined that there was a larger perspective behind her decision as she wanted to retrieve the party from Edappadi K Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam and their sycophants after the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/real-dharmayudham-has-just-begun-among-cadres-dhinakaran/articleshow/81401402.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
March 9, 2021||Chennai||JEE Mains Result: Chennai student is topper in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Thiruvarul P from Chennai has scored 99.9 percentile in JEE (Main) exam paper 1 and bagged the top rank among candidates who took the exam from Tamil Nadu. The National Testing Agency (NTA) declared the results of the first session conducted from February 24 to 26 on Monday. A total of 6.52 lakh candidates registered for BE/BTech (paper 1) examination. Six students scored 100 percentile in the exam in the first session. In a press release issued on Monday, NTA announced that Thiruvarul P has topped among the candidates who appeared for the exam from the state. Thiruvarul P said he would concentrate on the JEE (Advanced) exam following the good performance in JEE (Main) exam. “I wanted to study computer science in IIT-Bombay. I will focus on JEE (Advanced)," Thiruvarul told TOI. He has been preparing for the JEE in the last few years. Both his parents S Prakash and V Sutha Jothi are doctors and he is studying at Narayana Olympiad School in Gopalapuram. The top 2.5 lakh candidates in JEE (Main) exam will qualify for JEE (Advanced) exam. JEE (Main) exam was based on the NCERT syllabus and JEE (Advanced) exam will have a higher difficulty level. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the NTA is planning to conduct the exam in four sessions this year. “Tamil Nadu students have done reasonably well in the first test. JEE (Main) exam scores will be finalised only after four sessions. Due to the pandemic, many students are taking JEE (Main) multiple times," said B Pavan Kumar, deputy director, FIITJEE Chennai. The next three sessions will be held from March 15 to 18, April 27 to 30, and May 24 to 28. In view of CBSE board biology exam on May 24, The National Testing Agency (NTA) has announced that it will allow candidates to select exam dates from May 3 to 12 if their JEE (Main) exam and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class XII board exam dates clash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-student-is-state-topper-in-jee-main/articleshow/81404629.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Field shrinks, but farm loans up to Rs 3 lakh at zero interest||MUMBAI: Despite an increasing debt burden and drop in earnings, the state on Monday announced a scheme for interest-free crop loans of up to Rs 3 lakh to farmers. The scheme will be implemented from the upcoming kharif season, said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in his budget speech. Budgetary allocation for the agriculture and allied sector for 2021-22 is lower than last year though. The total allocation is Rs 20,058 crore, down from Rs 23,862 crore budgeted last year. The loan scheme is a modification to the existing Panjabrao Deshmukh Interest Concession Scheme. Under the scheme, farmers will get waiver of 3% interest on up to Rs 3 lakh loans for paying principal amount in time. Nearly 30% farmers in the state seek loans less than Rs 3 lakh, but many are not able to avail of the scheme as they do not pay the principal amount in time, said officials. “This is a government for the farmers. So even in the current financial situation, we have decided to extend this relief to small and marginal farmers,” said Pawar. Farmer leaders are not happy though. Ajit Navale of the Kisan Sabha said interest-free schemes do help, but “we were expecting concessions for regular loan-paying farmers and a loan waiver scheme for those with an outstanding of over Rs 2 lakh which the initial scheme did not cover”. He said the state had implemented the Maharashtra Jyotirao Phule farm loan waiver, under which Rs 19,929 crore has been credited to the accounts of 31.3 lakh farmers. The state has set aside Rs 2,000 crore towards strengthening APMCs. A lab to test bird flu will be set up in Pune. Farmers protesting the new farm laws also found a mention. “We stand firmly behind the farmers for their fair demands,” said Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-field-shrinks-but-farm-loans-up-to-rs-3-lakh-at-zero-interest/articleshow/81401453.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Loco pilots, Gandhi Covid warriors feted||Hyderabad: The two women who once feared even riding a bicycle are now piloting the Hyderabad Metro trains. Supriya and Avani, the first loco pilots of Hyderabad Metro, along with scores of other inspiring women from various fields were felicitated at the city civil court on Monday for rendering yeoman service to the society. The felicitation function was held as part of International Women’s Day celebrations to salute the inner beauty and grit of these brave women. Gandhi Hospital’s Covid-19 warriors — Dr Sangeetha Shah, professor of gynaecology, and Dr Uma Devi Malladi, professor of gastroenterology — spoke about the many challenges they faced and overcame successfully while ensuring safe deliveries of Covid-affected pregnant women without allowing the infants to be affected by the virus. Covid-19 frontline workers — Sister Bennet and Sister Florence — were lauded for their selfless service to patients during the peak of Covid-19 surge. Colonel B Santhosh Babu, who laid down his life while fighting Chinese aggressors at Galwan Valley, was fondly remembered and his mother Manjula and wife Santhoshi were felicitated at the function. City civil court’s first chief judge M Vijayalakshmi, first aeroplane pilot from Telugu states, Mamatha, and other women warriors were honoured on the occasion. City civil court’s chief judge C Suma Latha, legal services authority secretary K Murali Mohan and others organised the event. A huge cycle rally was held to coincinde with the function. The rally was flagged from the court premises and culminated at Charminar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loco-pilots-gandhi-covid-warriors-feted/articleshow/81401407.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Vadodara||VMC deploys cops at vaccination centres||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) sought police security at vaccination centres in the western part of the city as rush increased there for Covid-19 vaccination. As the vaccination drive progresses, more people are gaining confidence and turning up for taking the jabs.On Monday, 6,772 persons above the age of 60 years took the jab in the city. As many as 703 persons who were between 45 and 60 years of age and had comorbidities also took the vaccine. These were the highest number of people vaccinated in both the categories on a single day in the city since the drive began. The vaccine is being provided at government and VMC facilities as well as select private hospitals.Sources said that while there were no untoward incidents,the help of police was sought as the VMC had not staff at its disposal to maintain order at the vaccination sites. The role of the police is largely limited to maintaining social distance and avoid crowding or chaos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-deploys-cops-at-vaccination-centres/articleshow/81399781.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Race walker Priyanka Goswami honoured||Lucknow: UP athlete and this year’s Rani Laxmi Bai award winner Priyanka Goswami, who recently shattered national record in 20-km walk in 8th open national and 4th international race walking championship in Ranchi, was on Monday given away the statue of Rani Laxmi Bai, a scroll and a award of Rs 3.11 lakh by principal secretary, sports, Kalpana Awasthi. Director, sports, RP Singh was also present on the occasion. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had felicitated the winners of Laxmi Bai award during UP Diwas celebrations on January 24. Priyanka, however, could not attend the function as she was attending trials for Olympics. Priyanka will participate in Tokyo Olympics and World Athletics Championship in Oregon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/race-walker-priyanka-goswami-honoured/articleshow/81402246.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||2 duped of Rs 82k in SIM swap fraud||Kolkata: A woman, working as a senior executive at a firm in Sector V and residing at FD Block in Salt Lake, became the latest victim of SIM swap fraud and lost around Rs 42,000. The first such fraud was reported in the city almost four years ago. The woman lodged a complaint with Bidhannagar South police station, alleging that her SIM cards became “inactive” for over two hours between noon and 3pm on March 4. When the cards became active, she failed to book her flight. On March 5, she called her private bank and got to know about the fraud. There were total 13 transactions — 11 “fraudulent, unauthorized, international transactions,” and the other two declined — from her credit card during the period when her SIM cards became inactive. All the transactions took place with the help of an app cab wallet. The fraudsters had planned to siphon off Rs 55,000, said cops. On the same day, another resident of Narendrapur, who works in Sector V, was offered an upgrade of her mobile’s SIM and duped of Rs 40,000. The victim, also a woman, was asked to share her 20-digit SIM card number and Aadhaar number. As she did accordingly, her bank details were accessed and the money was stolen within 72 hours. Cops said senior citizens mostly fall into the trap of SIM swap fraud that can be traced back to the US and Europe. “On the pretext of upgrading SIM, fraudsters gain access to the transactions done by the victims through phone,” said a police officer. Initially, the fraudsters send a phishing e-mail to get the victim’s banking details that can also be stolen by using trojans or malware. They also create fake identity documents for the fraud. In order to use all such tricks, the fraudsters need access to the victim’s mobile messages, hence the SIM is swapped. “The fraudsters make people apply for a new SIM card and the victims unknowingly accept the requests. The numbers used for the fraud are registered mostly in Jharkhand and Bihar. However, of late, a gang from Bengal-Bihar border with strong links to Asansol is coming in our radar,” said the officer. “We have got a few cases where the SIM has been changed, but no financial frauds have been carried out yet. We are investigating these cases as well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-duped-of-rs-82k-in-sim-swap-fraud/articleshow/81399780.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 9, 2021||Nashik||Nashik-Pune semi-highspeed rail project gets green light||Nashik: Conceived nearly two decades ago, the ambitious Rs 16,039crore Nashik-Pune semi-highspeed rail corridor Greenfield project is finally on track. “The state government has approved the construction of the project,” announced Maharashtra finance minister Ajit Pawar while presenting the state budget on Monday.Pawar said the 235km corridor will have 24 stations in Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik. With trains of 200 km/hr speed, the travel time between Nashik and Pune would be less than two hours. The trains will originate and terminate at the Nashik Road station and Pune junction.Railways had approved the project in June 2020 and the state government’s nod was required. Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (MRIDC), the JV between the Maharashtra government and Railways, will be the implementing agency. MRIDC MD Rajesh Kumar Jaiswal said: “This unique project would be the first broad gauge semi-highspeed rail track in the world. It is designed in such a manner that goods trains, conventional passenger trains and highspeed trains can run on the same track,” he said.Nashik city MP Hemant Godse called it a game-changer. “This project had been pending for over 20 years. But after the MRIDC took over and project, things were put on the fast track,” he said.Railways had done two feasibility studies in 2012-13. A DPR was prepared in 2015, which was altered in 2018. MRIDC prepared a fresh DPR, which got the nod from the Railways and Maharashtra government.MIRDC has planned logistic facilities for transportation for various industries, establish private freight terminal, dry port, multimodal and commercial hubs, warehouses. Industrial hubs of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Nashik will benefit.The agency has set a deadline of 1,200 days for project completion from the date of financial closure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-pune-semi-highspeed-rail-project-gets-green-light/articleshow/81397430.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
March 9, 2021||Nashik||State women commission divisional office starts in Nashik||Nashik: The Nashik divisional office of the state commission for women — which will cater to the problems of women in Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon districts — became operational on Monday.Inaugurating the office, Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare said the office would ensure speedier justice to women in distress.The Nashik office is located on the premises of the Social Justice Bhavan at Nasardi Bridge. Chandrashekhar Pagare, the deputy commissioner of women and child welfare, will head the office.“Earlier, women had to go to the state-level office in Mumbai. Since it required travelling, many women avoided filing their cases. The division-level office will encourage them to seek justice,” said Pagare.The office will not only help in the registration of cases but also provide immediate security and legal aid to the women in distress. Women would also be provided counsellors.The state commission for women has planned offices in each of the state’s six divisions — Nashik, Aurangabad, Pune, Konkan, Amravati and Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-women-commission-divisional-office-starts-in-nashik/articleshow/81397417.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Vadodara||Kesar mango may hit markets after mid-May||Rajkot: The luscious kesar mango is likely hit the markets a tad late this season.Farmers claim prolonged monsoon and bouts of unseasonal rain has delayed the ripening of the fruits. Mango growers and agriculture experts said that quality kesar mangoes are expected to arrive in the market after May 15.Farmers are also praying there is no cyclonic condition in April-May which could potentially harm the fruit. Usually, Kesar mango is cultivated on 20,000 hectares of land in Gir-Somnath, Junagadh and Amreli districts. The average crop per season is two lakh metric tonne. This year, looking at the flowering, it’s believed that production is expected to be around two lakh tonne subject to no extreme weather conditions in next four to five months. Professor DK Varu, head of department of fruit science at Junagadh Agriculture University (JAU) said, “This year, the rain was late. As the flowering starts in October-November, there was a 25-day cold wave which affected the flowering. The gap between day and night temperature was more than 20 degrees Celsius, and sometimes the night temperature fell as low as six degrees. Looking at all these factors, the good quality mango is expected to arrive in the market after May 15.”According to farmers, 10-15% of early mango crop may start pouring into the market by April 20 but the taste won’t be the same as the actual kesar mango.D K Gandecha, a mango orchard owner in Talala of Junagadh district, said. “We expect mangoes to start ripening in April but the taste won’t be as good and 25-30% will be rotten.Gaffor Qureshi, another farmer in Talala said, “If there is no unseasonal cyclonic condition like previous year, this year’s mango production is expected to be the same as last year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kesar-mango-may-hit-markets-after-mid-may/articleshow/81398325.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Bareilly||Women prisoners trained on psychological wellbeing||Pilibhit: Women inmates at Pilibhit district jail were trained on how to spend time in a meaningful way while reflecting and fostering their psychological wellbeing at an hour-long virtual workshop on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday. Besides, 22 women prisoners were administered the Covishield vaccine at the district women hospital. The workshop — titled ‘Abhinandan Naari Shakti’ — was addressed by three professors of Ghaziabad-based CHRIST (Deemed to be University). According to deputy jailor Vikram Singh Yadav, the workshop — first-of-its-kind — was addressed by two psychologists — professor Kavan and assistant professor Dr Akancha Srivastava — and chief counsellor Dr Swati Pathak. The experts told the women prisoners to break away from their monotonous routines and come up with a positive perspective on life. They instilled in them the impetus of enhancing their mindset with concepts of growth and creativity, said Yadav. The women inmates were given the morale boost to foster the need for positive mental, physical and emotional health and wellbeing. The inmates were also given lessons on how to help themselves in strengthening their social skills of appreciating each other and expressing gratitude through the team-building exercise, said Yadav. Yadav said of the total 48 women prisoners lodged at the Pilibhit jail, 22 — aged between 45 and 60 years — were vaccinated for the novel coronavirus. Chief medical superintendent, district women hospital, Dr Anita Chaurasia said the beneficiaries did not complain about any side effect of the vaccine or physical complication during their half-hour observation period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/women-prisoners-trained-on-psychological-wellbeing/articleshow/81397436.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Businessman fires at wife, son in Hyderabad; arrested||HYDERABAD: A businessman allegedly made an attempt to kill his wife and son by opening fire on them with his revolver at Kalapathar on Monday. Police said the accused, Syed Habeeb Hashmi, whipped out his licensed revolver and fired at his wife Tahera Begum and son Omar. Though he shot three rounds of bullets, the mother-son duo escaped unhurt. The accused was taken into custody by Kalapathar police and booked under the Arms Act and IPC section of attempt to murder. At around 4.45 pm, Hashmi was involved in a heated argument and was furious after his wife refused to give him the property documents. He took out his revolver and aimed at his wife. Omar tried to stop his father and as a result, he missed his aim and Tahera escaped. Hashmi again aimed his weapon at his son for holding his hand. Omar escaped by running out of the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-fires-at-wife-son-arrested/articleshow/81401489.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||Hirekhan’s appointment as NU registrar challenged in HC||Nagpur: A teacher has moved the judiciary challenging Maharashtra government’s decision to appoint Anil Hirekhan as Nagpur University’s registrar. The appointment was made without seeking the university’s nod. Justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor at the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday issued notices to the State Higher and Technical Education Department along with the university and Hirekhan, asking them to reply within two weeks. TOI on January 12 had reported how Hirekhan’s appointment had taken NU officials, including vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari, by surprise. On January 22, HC’s principal seat in Mumbai had stayed the government resolution (GR) appointing Ramdas Atram on deputation as Mumbai University’s (MU) registrar. On January 8, Hirekhan was appointed on one year deputation on the same lines as Atram who is currently director of Government Institute of Science in the city. Petitioner Ashok Kumar Khobragade through his counsel Anand Parchure questioned “malafide intention” of appointing Hirekhan on ad-hoc basis when the process of registrar’s appointment was completed as per process defined under the ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’. A college librarian (professor grade), the petitioner was shorlisted for the registrar’s post. Before Hirekhan, Neeraj Khaty was handed over the additional charge of registrar from June 30, 2018. Khobragade alleged that the temporary post can’t be filled up by another ad-hoc person and it was in violation of rules. According to him, NU had scheduled registrar’s interviews on May 4 last year, but couldn’t proceed due to Covid-19 pandemic. After the government relaxed conditions under the ‘Mission Begin Again’, NU dispatched a letter to the higher education director regarding approval for filling up the registrar's post. It had explained the process of appointment and sought clearance for conducting interviews. However, Hirekhan was appointed through a January 8 GR without consulting the VC, who has final say in any such postings as per the Act. The petitioner contended that Hirekhan’s appointment is nothing but promotion without following due process. Hirekhan had tried for over two and half years to get the registrar’s post after Puran Meshram’s term ended on June 30, 2018. However, former VC SP Kane ruled him out citing “lack of experience” and preferred handing over additional charge to Khaty, who was also looking after the Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director’s duties at that time. NU had twice published advertisements and conducted interviews for the registrar’s post, but couldn’t fill it up owing to one or other controversies and alleged pressure from the political outfits to have their candidate on the post, as per NU officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hirekhans-appointment-as-nu-registrar-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/81399786.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Appointment not needed for 2nd vax shot, say officials||The second dose of Covid-19 vaccine can be taken at the same centre as the first without prior appointment, health officials said, adding that beneficiaries will be automatically given a scheduled appointment for follow-up shot at the centre. “This automated system of intimation is effective,” said state immunisation officer D N Patil. If the beneficiary is in another city at the time of the second dose, she/he can get the shot at the nearest site in that city, after showing the beneficiary ID and phone number. A beneficiary can pick the timeline for second dose between 29th and 42nd day after the first jab. Health officials said it was advisable to go to the same centre as it limits confusion. “Also, those who have received Covaxin should ideally ensure they go to the same site as the vaccine is not as widely available as Covishield,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle. He said every centre is supposed to make separate slots for those receiving their first dose, second dose and walk-in registrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-prior-appointment-needed-again-for-second-dose-officials/articleshow/81402253.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: In daring heist, jeweller, son held hostage||LUCKNOW: In another daring crime in a residential area of the state capital within a week, three armed miscreants stormed into a jewellery store in Aashiana in broad daylight on Monday, held the jeweller and his 12-year-old son hostage at gunpoint and fled with 500 gram gold ornaments and 10 kg silver ornaments. The robbers stayed in the store for around 40 minutes. DCP East Sanjeev Suman and other senior police officials reached the spot to investigate on being informed about the incident. This is the second robbery in Lucknow in a week after dacoits struck at a courier company’s office in Ravindrapalli area under Ghazipur police station on March 2. Police officials said Deepak Rastogi, a resident of sector H, Aashiana, runs a jewellery shop on the ground floor of his house. Rastogi told police that three men came at around 3.10 pm, and one of them wearing a helmet asked him to show some ornaments. Suddenly, the two others, who had covered their faces with masks, also entered the shop and trained their pistols at him. “In the meantime, my son also returned from school and came to meet me as he does every day on reaching home. The robbers held my son also hostage and threatened to shoot him before they started rummaging for valuables,” said Rastogi. The robbers kept threatening to shoot the jeweler and his son while they kept collecting the ornaments and valuables and then sped away with the booty. A team led by inspector Aashiana reached the spot on getting information about the dacoity. Police got CCTV footage in which the robbers were seen entering the shop and training pistols at the jeweller. Rastogi said the robbers took away 500 gram of gold ornaments and 10 kg of silver ornaments from the shop and was compiling a list of the items looted from his shop. DCP East Sanjeev Suman told reporters that the shop is in a residential locality and countered allegations of slack policing in the area. “The jeweller’s son returned from the school and was held hostage by the robbers. Five teams have been constituted to crack the case. We are tracking the miscreants through the footage of CCTVs installed in the area. We hope to crack the case soon,” he said. Recalling the timing and sequence of incidents, owner of the jewellery shop Deepak Rastogi told TOI that the assailants had struck around 3.11pm and stayed till 3.50pm in the shop. “I thought the three were genuine customers who had come to purchase jewellery. I sit in the shop alone as we don’t have much rush of customers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-daring-heist-jeweller-son-held-hostage/articleshow/81402250.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Rs 101 crore for revamp of temples adds lustre to Shiv Sena’s Hindutva||MUMBAI: Maha Vikas Aghadi government's second budget made an effort to burnish the Shiv Sena’s Hindutva credentials by allocating a large sum for conservation of temples. Finance minister Ajit Pawar allotted Rs 101 crore for works relating to preservation of ancient temples. He listed out eight to be taken up in the first phase including the Adishakti Ekvira Mata Mandir in Maval Taluka in Pune district. Ekvira is the family deity of the Thackerays. The CM along with his legislators and MPs had visited the temple near the hill station of Lonavala after coming to power. “It is our duty to protect and conserve our traditions, places of worship and culture. Our government has taken up work of conservation and preservation of ancient temples which are hundreds of years old and famous for their architectural style,” said Pawar while presenting the budget. When he was later asked why the budget bore the stamp of Hindutva, Pawar replied, “No no… we have allocated funds for development of Miraj Dargah (also). So it depends on the spectacles you wear.” The Sena has asserted its Hindutva identity since coming to power, trying to find a balance between the compulsions of heading a professedly secular coalition and the needs of appeasing its right-wing base. Last week, Thackeray again recalled the Babri Masjid demolition on the floor of the house and said party chief Balasaheb Thackeray had stood firm behind Shiv Sainiks involved in the demolition. Samajwadi Party MLA Abu Azmi had expressed displeasure in the house over the statement. Congressman Sanjay Nirupam had also questioned his party’s silence on the issue. Earlier, when Thackeray onTwitter described Aurangabad as ‘Sambhaji Nagar’, Congress had objected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-rs-101-cr-for-revamp-of-temples-adds-lustre-to-senas-hindutva/articleshow/81401549.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 9, 2021||Rajkot||Murder executed to avenge brother, sister’s suicide||Rajkot: The murder of a 33-year-old man, who was stoned to death near Rajkot city, has turned out to be revenge killing executed by two persons who wanted to avenge the suicide of their brother and sister. On Monday, the detection of crime branch (DCB) of Rajkot police, arrested Gopal Solanki (20) and Kamlesh Vadodariya (21), both residents of Navagam, for the murder of Mukesh Solanki. His face brutally disfigured and police could establish his identity only from a note found in his pocket. A native of Porbandar, Mukesh had been living in Navagam for the past few months. “During questioning, it was revealed that Gopal and Kamlesh wanted to take revenge for their brother and sister's suicide, respectively. Gopal’s brother Dinesh and his wife Kanchan, who was Kamlesh’s sister, had committed suicide five years ago after they were arrested by Porbandar police in theft cases. Kanchan had ended her life in police custody while Dinesh committed suicide in Navagam village a few days later,” said a senior police official. Ever since their suicides, Gopal and Kamlesh believed that Mukesh was responsible for their suicides as he had got them arrested in a theft case. Police sources Mukesh too had been arrested in theft cases in the past. “When duo came to know that Mukesh had come to Navagam, they decided to eliminate him,” the official said. Police scanned CCTV footages and with the help of a roadside vendor who was a witness to the murder, cops prepared sketches of the two suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/murder-executed-to-avenge-brother-sisters-suicide/articleshow/81399804.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University admission process for UG courses begins today||LUCKNOW: Online application forms for admission to undergraduate (UG) courses of Lucknow University will be available on the university’s website from Tuesday. The entire admission process will be online. LU has decided to continue with the centralised admission process introduced last year under which admissions to associated colleges are also done through the same application process. However, the list of colleges which have opted for the centralised process was not ready till Tuesday evening. A few prominent colleges which had opted out of the process last year have decided to go about their own way this year as well. It is to be seen whether colleges which were part of the centralised admission process last year will opt for it again this year. In fact, the situation is more complicated this year because now LU’s jurisdiction has expanded to four more districts: Hardoi, Rae Bareli, Sitapur and Lakhimpur. There are 180 colleges in Lucknow and 344 in these four districts which offer UG courses. “The centralised system was introduced with the objective to save time and money of a candidate who can apply for courses in LU and colleges through a single form. However, when candidates will fill forms from Tuesday, they will not be aware of the college options, which will lead to confusion,” said a senior faculty member. However, LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava allayed all apprehensions. “We will upload the brochure with names of UG courses on Tuesday and make available list of colleges under the centralised system in the coming days,” he said. “The last date for filling the application form is April 20 without late fees and April 27 with late fees. Candidates can fill the forms online now and upload their 10+2 marksheets after results of various board examinations are declared,” he added. “LU will conduct entrance test in June and merit list will be declared. After that, candidates will be required to opt for the colleges,” he said. Online admission forms for PhD courses will also be available from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-admission-process-for-ug-courses-begins-today/articleshow/81402259.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chennai||State of paradox: Missing women in Tamil Nadu’s political landscape||By Tara Krishnaswamy Tamil Nadu has given India its first woman legislator as far back as 1926 — Dr Muthulakshmi Reddy. She became the first woman deputy president of the Madras Legislative Council. In her tenure, she helped draft, table, persuade and pass, what were then deemed heterodox bills. The Devadasi Abolition Act was one she had to fight tooth and nail for, despite Gandhi’s endorsement. It was unsupported by Rajaji and opposed by S Satyamurthy, claiming to "protect" Hindu culture. It was only after she ran ground-campaigns, wrote extensively in the Press, and Periyar publicly supported her. As she said, "women have grievances of some kind or other and suffer persecution, injustice and inequality of treatment ... women’s interests are different from that of men whose selfishness and claim to superiority inflict many hardships on women. Men being the source of women’s problems, women’s participation in public life alone could serve their interests." Women in Tamil Nadu have come a long way in the socio-economic realm. Five decades of Dravidian welfare politics has resulted in cut-above-the-rest female development indices. With 1,757 PhD holders, Tamil Nadu has triple the number of all-India doctorates per crore for women and at 39,794 per crore for women, the state has double the number for postgraduates. The participation of TN women in the workforce is 10% points higher than the national average, with the state also topping the nation in the percentage of women police officers, and features among the top three states in the higher judiciary. Transitioning into the political landscape, the Special Summary Revision-2021 from the Election Commission shows there are 10 lakh more female (3,18,28,727) than male (3,08,38,473) voters in Tamil Nadu. If the trend of the past continues, women may vote in greater numbers than men, indicating their vigorous political participation. However, political representation of women in the state assembly is woefully short. While rural and urban local governments have 50% women due to reservation of seats, the state has only ever had a single digit percentage of female MLAs since 1962, except in two assemblies — 1991 (14%) and 2001 (11%.) It also bears the infamy of zero women elected in 1971. This is despite data evidencing that victory rates of female candidates have been higher than their male counterparts, except on two occasions. Female candidates have also been more viable, forfeiting their deposits far less. Nevertheless, the Dravidian parties who have dually pioneered policy positions yielding tremendous socio-economic outcomes for women, have denied them the ballot. The AIADMK fielded 12%-16% female candidates in 1991, 2001, 2006, and 2016 and, 6%-7% in 1996 and 2011. The DMK fielded 11% female candidates in 2016, 9% in the elections from 2001-2011, and 3%-4% in 1991 and 1996. It is evident that the AIADMK under former chief minister J Jayalalithaa was placing more women on the ballot than before, and much more compared to the DMK. This reflects as a clear uptick in the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly, male/female statistics. In spite of nearly five decades of existence, the AIADMK today has no female leaders of national standing, not one Member of Parliament of either House, and no national spokeswoman. For the DMK, while Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi leads mammoth election rallies, a feat that very few female leaders are allowed to accomplish in electoral politics except when they are the candidate or chief of the party, the party projects hardly any female leaders. Ultimately though, what counts is not the one or two larger-than-life female political leaders but the sheer count of women on the ballot. A critical mass of female lawmakers alone can lead to more robust laws and policies, crafted with the diversity of inputs from women’s lived experiences. If anything, the egregious GST of 16% on sanitary napkins compared to soft drinks, is an extant reminder of the bizarre impacts of a low threshold of women in policy making. In Tamil Nadu, political inclusiveness has historically defaulted to caste representation and gender blindness. Even though it pioneered women’s suffrage, inheritance laws, induction into the police forces and government jobs, it is telling that the ultimate frontier of political power has been denied to women. Without a minimum of one-third or 40% presence in the assembly, the diversity of women’s opinions is drowned out by male majority. This results in policies that lack imagination and the destiny of the state becomes masculine in shape. It is no surprise then, that aspirational women in politics, disappointed time and again from rejection by their parties, believe that the Women’s Reservation Bill alone is salvation. While candidates-lists for the 2021 assembly elections from the Dravidian siblings are yet to bee disclosed, what both legatees of social justice need to realise is that gender justice is an intrinsic and inviolable part of political justice. The leapfrogging of Tamil Nadu’s development is not coming any more from just redeeming men across caste lines; indeed, it is impossible without women political leaders of all castes holding up half of Fort St George. (The author is co-founder of Political Shakti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-of-paradox-missing-women-in-tamil-nadus-political-landscape/articleshow/81399790.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Bareilly||Man, 42, gets life term for raping 13-year-old daughter in UP||Bareilly: A 42-year-old man, who had allegedly raped his 13-year-old daughter on multiple occasions when she used to be alone with him in 2018, has been pronounced guilty and given life sentence by a special Pocso court in Uttar Pradesh. The court has also slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 against the accused dad. The girl’s mother had passed away in 2010 and she is the only child. They belong to a village in Lakhimpur Kheri district. The man is currently lodged in the district jail. The girl's ordeal began in August, 2018, when she was allegedly sexually assaulted for the first time by her alcoholic father who worked as a farm labourer. She, however, remained quiet then. Her father raped her again on September 22. This time, the traumatised girl ran away from her house and narrated her ordeal to her late mother’s brother. The girl was taken to a police station and an FIR was registered against her father under IPC sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) along with the provisions of the Pocso Act at Mailani police station on September 24, 2018. The medical examination confirmed rape and the accused father was immediately arrested. A charge-sheet was then filed by police in the court. Police said the man had committed the heinous crime in an inebriated state and had even threatened to kill his daughter. During the subsequent trial, the girl gave a statement against her father and on the basis of a medical report and corroborative evidence collected by police, the court pronounced her father guilty. On Monday, additional district government (ADG) counsel Sanjay Singh said, “The court of additional district and sessions judge Rajesh Kumar Mishra found the accused guilty of raping his minor daughter. The statements of the investigating officer (IO) Brajesh Mishra, girl’s uncle, aunt and the doctor who conducted the medical examination were recorded before the court." The accused has been sent to jail for life and has also been asked to pay||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-42-gets-life-term-for-raping-13-year-old-daughter-in-up/articleshow/81397453.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 9, 2021||Kanpur||On Women’s Day, Naaz Fatima drives home the message||KANPUR: Forced to become the family breadwinner after her father’s sudden demise, a 24-year-old science graduate from UP breached a male bastion on International Women’s Day by training to be the first female Muslim bus driver of the state road transport corporation. Naaz Fatima, who hails from Kamalganj, Farrukhabad, on Monday joined Kanpur’s Model Driving Training and Research Institute as part of abatch of 27 women selected to steer the stateowned bus service into new territory. Corporation officials confirmed that once inducted, Naaz would be the first woman from her community to officially become a bus driver in UP. Sharing her story of struggle against odds, Naaz said she had received support from her family, friends and colleagues all the way and not experienced any discrimination as a woman. “This job is a challenging one. I will try to become a responsible driver, with safety of passengers as my top priority,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/on-womens-day-naaz-fatima-drives-home-the-message/articleshow/81402895.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||Students meet CU authorities for admit cards||Kolkata: Several undergraduate students from several colleges, who have not received their admit cards, met the authorities of Calcutta University on Monday. After an interaction between the college officials and CU authorities, some students were allowed to take the fifth semester exam without the admit cards. But the rest of the students were refused as their college officials did not endorse the documents demanded by the university. The students, who met the CU authorities, were from the Netaji Nagar College for Women, Surendranath Evening College and other colleges. CU officials, however, said that they were not aware of this.  One of the students, a Sonarpur resident, said, “On Monday, several students, accompanied by the faculty members of their colleges met the CU officials.” Some college principals blamed the students for overlooking the last date to fill up the forms, despite CU extending the deadline. The administrator of Netaji Nagar College for Women , whose phone was switched off, could not be contacted for a comment on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-meet-cu-authorities-for-admit-cards/articleshow/81399806.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Vasai archbishop takes vaccine||MUMBAI: Vasai Archbishop Dr Felix Machado (72) on Monday took the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The archbishop urged people from Vasai region to come forward and get vaccinated. He requested the Catholic community to keep celebrations, including weddings, low key in view of the pandemic. Covid cases in Vasai-Virar have touched over 30,500. The death toll till Sunday was 899.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-vasai-archbishop-takes-vaccine/articleshow/81402275.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Rajkot||Kutch farmers oppose laying of HT power line||Rajkot: Scores of farmers from a few villages of Nakhatrana taluka in Kutch on Monday opposed the laying of high tension (HT) power transmission lines and blocked the highway to Lakhpat and Naliya for several hours. Police had to use light force to control the farmers, who were preventing the officials of the public sector company Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd (PGCIL) from conducting the survey for the laying the HT power lines.Kutch district administration said that PGCIL has been assigned the task of laying 66KV HT power transmission line for evacuation of electricity from the upcoming renewable energy park there. Sources said that PGCIL had been trying to conduct a survey of land required to erect transmission towers in Kotda and Jadodar villages since last one year, but the farmers there have been opposing the move. In all nearly 86 farmers from the two villages are against the laying of transmission lines.Farmers alleged that if the transmission towers are erected on their land it will become difficult to tilt the land.The PGCIL Kutch district co-ordinator Subramanian could not be reached for the comments despite several attempts. Suresh Velani, a farmer leader said “We had three meetings with the collector and had suggested using the village wasteland to lay the transmission lines. This will save our fertile land. But the company officials are not ready to listen. We don’t want any compensation. We won’t give up our fertile land.” Another farmer Sangeeta Velani alleged, “They were silent (company officials) for last one month because of the (local body) elections. After the results, their team came to our farmland to conduct a survey with police protection. Over 60 farmers were detained by the police and they also used force against us.”However, Kutch (west) SP Saurabh Singh denied allegations of cops using force on farmers. “Our role was limited to maintain law and order. We did not use force. We just helped clear the highway by convincing the farmers,” he said. A villager said that they had submitted a memorandum to the district administration but when nobody paid heed to them. When contacted Kutch collector Praveena D K said, “The villagers were resisting the PGCIL people who wanted to survey the land to lay the transmission line to evacuate power from the upcoming renewable energy park. Only 3-4 villages are opposing the work. Other villages have agreed to the laying of transmission lines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-farmers-oppose-laying-of-ht-power-line/articleshow/81399805.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Goa||Saligao plant to process 250 tonne waste by Aug||Panaji: The Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) expects to complete construction of the additional waste treatment facility at Saligao by April-end after which, new machinery will be installed and tested for a three month period. GSIDC officials said the new machinery that will enable the solid waste treatment plant to increase its capacity to 250 tonne per day, will arrive by May. They expect the plant to begin processing 250 tonne of dry and wet waste per day by August.  A similar plant at Cacora, that is being built along the lines of the solid waste management facility at Saligao, will be completed and commissioned by the end of 2021, GSIDC officials said. Currently, the facility at Saligao handles waste generated by 27 coastal village panchayats. The state government has issued the work order to Hindustan Waste Treatment Pvt Ltd in mid-2020 to expand the plant from 100 tonne per day to 250 tonne per day at a cost of over Rs 100 crore. The waste treatment plant at Cacora is being set up by Vasudha Waste Treatment Pvt Ltd at a cost of Rs 173.9 crore. “All civil work at Cacora will be completed two months later so say by June or July the machinery will be installed and trials will begin,” the GSIDC official said. The foundation stone for the plant at Cacora was laid in December 2019. The facility will have the capacity to treat 100 tonnes of garbage per day with the ability to handle an additional 25% on peak days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saligao-plant-to-process-250-tonne-waste-by-aug/articleshow/81399816.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Exclusive centres for women’s vaccination prove a major hit||Lucknow: For Kiran Manojchand (71), the jab was a birthday gift. "The vaccine came as a surprise gift by my husband who planned everything and brought me here. The fact that I got vaccinated on Women's Day has made it more memorable," said Kiran, who came to the SPM Civil Hospital. The three all-women-staff vaccination centres set up for women on the occasion of International Women's Day were welcomed by the women beneficiaries on Monday. Another beneficiary at SMP Civil Hospital,Mita Bose (72), said, "We didn't have to wait in long queues and there was no overcrowding in the observation room" This spirit was the same at Veerangana Avanti Bai Women Hospital. Vidya Devi (71), who arrived in a wheelchair, said, "My daughter, who is the present matron at a hospital, convinced me to take the shot by saying that I am a warrior just like Avanti Bai and I should take the jab without any hesitation" Some male members of the family who escorted women were also vaccinated at these centres. At RSM Hospital, a beneficiary, Sakal Nath Tiwari (80) who took the jab with wife, Saraswati Tripathi (75) said, "I was more excited to get my wife vaccinated because if she is protected against the virus, there will be no tension in my mind related to her health Meanwhile, UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh also inspected the vaccination drive at SPM Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/exclusive-centres-for-womens-vaccination-prove-a-major-hit/articleshow/81402290.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||High-speed rail corridor through Maratha country gets Rs 16,000 crore||MUMBAI: The state government is betting big on infrastructure projects across Maharashtra by giving a push to rail, air and water connectivity to revive fiscal prospects that have been hit hard by Covid-19. The highlight is cabinet approval for the Pune-Nashik semi-high-speed rail corridor, which promises to bring down travel time between the two cities from the current six hours to one hour and forty-five minutes. The project is expected to boost passenger and freight movement and facilitate the emergence of the Mumbai-Pune-Nashik “golden triangle” as an economic hub. Other highlights include a 540km marine highway proposal as an alternative to the Mumbai-Goa highway, and e-vehicle charging stations on highways going out of Mumbai. The proposed length of the Pune-Nashik corridor is 235km. “Twenty-four stations are proposed on this route. The speed of the train will be 200km per hour. The expected cost of the project is Rs 16,039 crore,” said deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar. The allocation for the marine highway is Rs 9,573 crore in comparison. The Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (MRIDC), an equal joint venture between the state and the railways, will execute the project. The state has begun the process of acquiring 1,470 hectares of land for the project, which was conceived by the state government in 2017; in-principal approval was granted by the railways in June 2020. The state and the railways shall each contribute 20% equity towards the project cost. The remaining 60% will be raised from domestic financial institutions. Among other projects are Metro rail projects in Vidarbha, Nashik and other parts of the state, a Jalna-Nanded express connector along the Bal Thackeray Samruddhi Highway for Rs 7,000 crore, a new international airport at Pune (out of an outlay of Rs 575 crore for aviation) and a Vasai-Kalyan water transport service as part of a waterways push. Also being planned is a Financial Development Corporation under the PWD to raise funds for roads improvement. Roads for an estimated Rs 5,000 crore will be built through external assistance. For 2021-22, an outlay of Rs 12,950 crore has been proposed for the PWD for road development. Meanwhile, the Freeway, which connects south Mumbai to Ghatkopar, has been renamed Vilasrao Deshmukh Freeway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-high-speed-rail-corridor-through-maratha-country-gets-rs-16k-crore/articleshow/81401605.cms||Manthank Mehta
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Rush of recipients at centres eases as jab facility ambit widens||LUCKNOW: The rush among elderly and people with comorbidities for Covid vaccination eased on Monday since jabs are now available in both government and private hospitals on all working days in a week. On Monday, the drive was carried out at 96 centres — 51 government and 45 private and saw 9,533 persons getting their first shot of the two-dose vaccination course given four weeks apart. Of them, 5,744 beneficiaries were 60 years and above, while 1,451 persons were in the 45-59 age group with comorbidities. Besides, 1,475 heath workers and 863 frontline workers were also inoculated. District immunisation officer Dr MK Singh said that beneficiaries have two options: one, walk-in at centres with required documents or pre-register at Co-WIN 2.0 portal, and two, go to the scheduled place at the allotted time. “At every centre, vaccination slots have been divided between pre-registered and walk-in in a 60:40 ratio,” he added. On Friday last, there were 66 vaccination centres but over 14,200 people got the jabs. In comparison, on Monday, centres were more but beneficiaries less. This, said officers, was because people now know that vaccination is easily accessible, hence they are not rushing for it. Drive at 9 govt hospitals today : On Tuesday, the vaccine drive will be carried out at nine government hospitals and 38 community and primary health centres in the district. It will not take place at three government-aided super-speciality medical education centres — KGMU, SGPGIMS and RMLIMS. All the 137 private hospitals empanelled under Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) can provide jabs, provided they have procured vaccine vials in advance, have cold chain facilities and put a display board outside premises about the vaccination facility, said CMO office spokesperson Yogesh Raghuvanshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rush-of-recipients-at-centres-eases-as-jab-facility-ambit-widens/articleshow/81402271.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Manuu holds film festival on women empowerment||Hyderabad: Maulana Azad National Urdu University’s (Manuu) Instructional Media Centre (IMC) organised a thematic film festive on women empowerment on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday. It collaborated with Mobile Film Festival, Paris that provided 60 films of one minute duration each from 25 countries on women empowerment. “The idea was to screen powerful short duration films, shot on mobile from different countries, for the audience,” said Rizwan Ahmed, IMC director, Manuu. The programme was viewed by more than 400 people on YouTube channel of IMC, Manuu. “Almost 57% of these films screened are made by women, which is very encouraging,” said Bruno Smadja, founder, Mobile Film Festival. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/manuu-holds-film-festival-on-women-empowerment/articleshow/81401582.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||38cr saplings planted in T in 2019-20||Hyderabad: Union minister of environment and forest Babul Supriyo informed the Rajya Sabha on Monday that Telangana had planted 3,817.61 lakh saplings in 2019-20, far ahead of other states in the green initiative. The minister was replying to a question by Congress MP GC Chandrashekhar who sought state-wise details of actual number of trees planted during 2019-20. After Telangana is Madhya Pradesh with 3,454.71 lakh saplings planted, followed by Uttar Pradesh. Responding to the Centre’s acknowledgement, forest minister A Indrakaran Reddy complimented the forest and other departments in the state. “With the same spirit, I appeal to you to make the seventh edition of Haritha Haram, which will commence in the next season, a grand success,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/38cr-saplings-planted-in-t-in-2019-20/articleshow/81401575.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||Fresh spell of rain, snowfall lash parts of Uttarakhand||Dehradun: After witnessing prolonged dry weather, a fresh spell of rain and snowfall lashed parts of Uttarakhand late on Sunday night. High altitude places in Uttarkashi and Chamoli — including Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath and Auli — received snowfall, causing a dip in the temperature levels, especially in the hills. The regional meteorological centre claimed that places situated at an altitude of 2,500-3,000 metre and above witnessed snowfall, while the foothills, including Dehradun, were lashed by rainfall. Also, thunderstorms were witnessed at several places in Dehradun, Mussoorie and Tehri. According to the rain data released by the Met office, Joshimath received 30 mm rainfall, followed by Jakholi (20 mm), Ukhimath (20 mm), Dhanaulti (10 mm), Tehri (10 mm), Munsyari (10 mm), and Uttarkashi (10 mm). Despite rain and thunderstorm activity, the temperature levels remained appreciably above normal in the plains and foothills. In Dehradun, for instance, the maximum temperature was recorded at 31.3 degree Celsius, five notches above normal. Meanwhile, very light-to-light rain and thunderstorm activity is likely to occur at isolated places in Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Dehradun, Nainital and Pithoragarh districts on Tuesday as well. Dry weather will prevail in remaining districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fresh-spell-of-rain-snowfall-lash-parts-of-uttarakhand/articleshow/81398577.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 9, 2021||Rajkot||Kutch farmers oppose laying of HT power line||Rajkot: Scores of farmers from a few villages of Nakhatrana taluka in Kutch on Monday opposed the laying of high tension (HT) power transmission lines and blocked the highway to Lakhpat and Naliya for several hours. Police had to use light force to control the farmers, who were preventing the officials of the public sector company Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd (PGCIL) from conducting the survey for the laying the HT power lines.Kutch district administration said that PGCIL has been assigned the task of laying 66KV HT power transmission line for evacuation of electricity from the upcoming renewable energy park there. Sources said that PGCIL had been trying to conduct a survey of land required to erect transmission towers in Kotda and Jadodar villages since last one year, but the farmers there have been opposing the move. In all nearly 86 farmers from the two villages are against the laying of transmission lines.Farmers alleged that if the transmission towers are erected on their land it will become difficult to tilt the land.The PGCIL Kutch district co-ordinator Subramanian could not be reached for the comments despite several attempts. Suresh Velani, a farmer leader said “We had three meetings with the collector and had suggested using the village wasteland to lay the transmission lines. This will save our fertile land. But the company officials are not ready to listen. We don’t want any compensation. We won’t give up our fertile land.” Another farmer Sangeeta Velani alleged, “They were silent (company officials) for last one month because of the (local body) elections. After the results, their team came to our farmland to conduct a survey with police protection. Over 60 farmers were detained by the police and they also used force against us.”However, Kutch (west) SP Saurabh Singh denied allegations of cops using force on farmers. “Our role was limited to maintain law and order. We did not use force. We just helped clear the highway by convincing the farmers,” he said. A villager said that they had submitted a memorandum to the district administration but when nobody paid heed to them. When contacted Kutch collector Praveena D K said, “The villagers were resisting the PGCIL people who wanted to survey the land to lay the transmission line to evacuate power from the upcoming renewable energy park. Only 3-4 villages are opposing the work. Other villages have agreed to the laying of transmission lines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-farmers-oppose-laying-of-ht-power-line/articleshow/81399821.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||UP BJP drive to promote Covid vaccination||LUCKNOW: The UP BJP will launch a campaign to exhort people to get vaccinated against Covid-19 to arrest the chances of a surge in the cases as being witnessed in some states. Making this announcement on Monday, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said the campaign will be carried out with the help of party organisational leaders, MLAs and MPs. “Vaccination is one of the key steps in mitigating the pandemic completely,” he told reporters after visiting SPM Civil Hospital to meet the people who had come for the vaccination. Singh underscored that national welfare and service to the people is the core ‘dharma’ of the party. The move is also being seen as party’s effort to reach out to the people in the run up to the panchayat elections and next year’s assembly elections. Singh said BJP under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath has proved to be an ideal party. “The party workers have worked in tandem with the state government machinery in helping people when pandemic was at its peak. Be it providing ration to the needy or helping the migrants, party workers did their best,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-bjp-drive-to-promote-vaccination/articleshow/81402303.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||TDP leader Ashok Gajapathi Raju condemns allegations of manhandling woman party worker||VISAKHAPATNAM: TDP leader Ashok Gajapathi Raju allegedly pushed a woman party worker while campaigning for a party candidate in Vizianagaram on Monday. A video that went viral on social media shows the former Union minister rushing towards the party worker, identified as Hema Latha, who is seen carrying a plate of flowers, sindoor and camphor. The incident happened in Phool Bagh area in the town’s 14th ward when Gajapathi Raju was campaigning for TDP candidate Maddala Naga Kumari. When contacted, the TDP leader dismissed the allegations and said some people are trying to spread false news. “Can someone beat a woman in today’s civilised society? Everyone knows I give utmost respect to woman. Women in any party give harathi to leaders during rallies and meetings. But burning of camphor can cause burn injuries and fire accidents in large gatherings. I noticed it and tapped the plate to douse the fire,” he explained. Hema Latha too condemned the allegations. “He is a fatherly figure for us. He only tried to douse the camphor fire by tapping the plate when it was lit. He feared my sari may catch fire. He did not even touch me, but only hit the plate in an attempt to douse the fire. How can people spread such false news?” she asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gajapathi-raju-condemns-allegations-of-manhandling-woman-party-worker/articleshow/81398643.cms||Siva G
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Orders reserved on probe into MPTC, ZPTC polls||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday reserved orders on a batch of petitions challenging proceedings issued by state election commission directing district election authorities to conduct enquiries into complaints received with regard to preventing intending contestants from filing nominations and forceful withdrawals of nominations in MPTC and ZPTC elections. A batch of petitions challenging the SEC’s orders were filed in the high court, contending that it has no jurisdiction to conduct such enquiries. The petitioners argued that any grievance with regard to election process has to be raised before the election tribunal and the SEC cannot act as a super tribunal. The SEC argued that it has wide range of powers under article 243K of the Constitution, including ordering an enquiry. It further said that the order was not intended to take away the right of the unanimously elected candidate but to find facts in the allegations made by the complainants. Relying upon various judgements of the Supreme Court, SEC’s standing counsel N Ashwani Kumar said the election body seeks to establish the veracity of the claims of failure of law and order situation at places where MPTC and ZPTC elections are being held. After hearing arguments, Justice DVSS Somayajulu reserved his orders. He also posted hearing of the petition filed by Jana Sena, seeking fresh notification for MPTC and ZPTC elections, to next Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/orders-reserved-on-probe-into-mptc-zptc-polls/articleshow/81398829.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||JEE Mains: 4 out of 6 national toppers studied in Kota||Jaipur: Four students out of six who received 100 percentile in JEE-Mains have studied in Kota. In the results declared on Monday night, Saket Jha was declared as the Rajasthan topper. Saket, who hails from Bokaro city in Jharkhand, had been studying since class IX in ALLEN Career Institute in Kota. For the last four years, his focus has been to crack JEE and with the full percentile, one of his life’s biggest aim has now become successful. Talking to TOI Saket said, “I have been studying in Kota for the last four years and just followed the guidance of my teachers in coaching. I am aiming to get selected for IIT-Bombay but everything depends on my JEE-Advance paper. I have filed for another attempt of JEE-Mains, but I am yet to decide whether to take that attempt as I have already got 100 percentile.”Other students from Kota are – Siddhant Mukherjee, Guramrit Singh and Anant Krishnan Kidambi. They have filed domicile from other states, but have studied from ALLEN Career Institute, Kota. Along with 100 percentile, Siddhant Mukherjee is said to have scored 300 out of 300. The JEE-Mains for B.E./B.Tech. was conducted by NTA from February 24 to 26. A total of 6.52 lakh candidates registered for the examination. The examination was conducted in 331 cities [including 9 cities outside India in Colombo, Doha, Dubai, Kathmandu, Muscat, Riyadh, Sharjah, Singapore and Kuwait] in 828 centres.Due to pandemic, JEE-Mains will be conducted four times and students will have a leverage to give any number of attempts and can use their best score to sit for JEE-Advance. This exams will be held in March, April and May, the results of which will be released a month later. A total number of 742 observers, 261 city coordinators, 19 regional coordinators, 06 special coordinators and 02 national coordinators were deployed at these centres to oversee the smooth and fair conduct of the examination. The examination for Paper 1 (B.E. /B. Tech.) was conducted in a total of 6 shifts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jee-mains-4-out-of-6-national-toppers-studied-in-kota/articleshow/81399830.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Farmers, drivers, students, labourers in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation contest||VISAKHAPATNAM: After the withdrawal of nominations, 566 candidates are in the fray for the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) elections to be held on March 10.  Based on the nomination papers submitted by the candidates, these 566 contestants constitute people belonging to diverse backgrounds from across Vizag city. With 49 wards, of the 98-ward council, have been reserved for women, hundreds of housewives have taken a political plunge. Of the nearly 300 women candidates vying for the corporator posts, 188 women are housewives of whom several have a scarce political background. Various political parties had to scout for willing women candidates as 50% seats have been reserved for women in the GVMC polls. Nearly 110 businessmen across various sectors of the economy are also in the running for positions in the civic body. Interestingly, seven students, nine lawyers, five farmers, two auto-rickshaw drivers, nine labourers, 12 contractors and seven social workers are also in the race for GVMC polls. Several seasoned politicians, who are contesting the GVMC polls and said to be the prime contenders for the mayor post, have made their presence felt in the campaigning for the last two weeks. The senior leaders and locals MLAs/MPs of various parties helped the political newbies in campaigning. Speaking to TOI, Professor V Haribabu from Andhra University’s political sciences department, said that women are generally under-represented in politics. “However this time, it seems to be different in Vizag municipal polls, which is a welcome change. A council of people from all walks of life may provide equal representation to all sections and classes. People should turn up in large numbers for voting on March 10. Otherwise the very purpose of these elections will be defeated,” the professor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/farmers-drivers-students-labourers-in-gvmc-contest/articleshow/81398714.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 9, 2021||Bareilly||Women’s Day: UP’s 8th airport gets off to a flying start as maiden flight with all-woman crew lands in Bareilly||Bareilly: When an ATR-72 aircraft touched down at newly-constructed Bareilly airport on Monday morning, the people of one of the most populous cities of Uttar Pradesh witnessed two historic events in one go. It was for the first time that any commercial flight had landed in the city and that too commanded by an all-woman crew.Union minister Santosh Gangwar was on-board the Alliance Air flight which took off from Delhi at 9AM and landed in Bareilly in less than 60 minutes.Later, UP’s civil aviation minister Nand Gopal Nandi and Gangwar -- who is also the local MP -- handed over the boarding passes to passengers for the first flight to Delhi which took off at 11:20AM. People of the city were waiting for the moment for over two decades. Now they will be able to reach Delhi in just one hour. It takes more than seven hours to reach Delhi from Bareilly through land route. The foundation of the airport was laid by former chief minister Mayawati about 24 years ago.The arrival and the departure flights were operated by an all-woman crew including the pilot, engineers and security personnel. The airport authorities have also put up ‘jhumka’ (ear rings) and fabrics with embroidery work to promote the city's handicraft and for tourist attraction.Nandi said, “The project of Bareilly Airport was pending for a long time. But today, on the occasion of International Women’s Day, it has finally kicked-off. The inaugural flight had an all-woman crew. It is a matter of extreme pride for the city. It has become the eighth airport across the state to have air-connectivity.” Nandi and Gangwar also cut a cake to mark the event.The Airport Authority of India (AAI) earlier this week officially announced that flights run by the Alliance Air will operate on Bareilly-Delhi route from March 10 onwards, on every Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.The departing time from Bareilly will be 9:00AM. From Delhi, the flight will depart at 10:30AM. The fare for the route is Rs 1,956. The airline has deployed its ATR-72 aircraft with a seating capacity of 70 passengers for the route. The Bareilly Airport has been upgraded for commercial flight operations under the Regional Connectivity Scheme, ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik’ (RCS-UDAN) of the government of India.Airport director of Bareilly, Rajeev Kulsrestha told TOI, “The operations on Bareilly-Delhi route have successfully commenced. People had started booking their tickets a few days in advance as soon they learnt that an inaugural flight will be operated on March 8. Bareilly residents are very happy.”He added, “Plans are afoot to provide air connectivity from Bareilly to Bengaluru and Bareilly to Mumbai as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/womens-day-ups-8th-airport-gets-off-to-a-flying-start-as-maiden-flight-with-all-woman-crew-lands-in-bareilly/articleshow/81397471.cms||Maria Khan
March 9, 2021||Rajkot||Banas Dairy’s buttermilk packaging plant starts||Palanpur: A buttermilk packaging plant of Banaskantha District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited (BDCMPUL) popularly known as Banas Dairy was inaugurated on Monday.Banas Dairy’s chairman Shankar Chaudhary inaugurated the buttermilk packaging plant set up with an investment of Rs 10.30 crore.“Now, Amul’s famous Masti Masala Buttermilk will be packaged at Banas Dairy,” said Chaudhary, adding that the plant has capacity to package two lakh litres buttermilk.“In normal atmosphere, buttermilk can be preserved for 180 days. Earlier, only milk could be packaged by UHT Tetra Pak system. With advancement of technology, we can package even buttermilk in such packages,” he said, adding that buttermilk is considered a much better and hygienic drink compared to carbonated drinks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/banas-dairys-buttermilk-packaging-plant-starts/articleshow/81399831.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Meet the minor girl who became mayor for a day||JAIPUR: On International Women’s Day, JMC-Heritage mayor Munesh Gurjar took the innovative initiative of assigning her responsibilities to eight-year-old Ishita for a day. The girl, who became the city’s first citizen for a day, issued a note stating the cleanliness of the city was her primary responsibility and goal. The minor, who hails from a poor family, can’t speak and is suffering from various rare ailments. The note stated that the civic body has chalked out a special action plan under which a government hooper will be deployed in every ward and two compactors will be placed in each zone in the coming week. . It was also decided to deploy a mechanized road sweeper in every zone of the city so that the roads can be cleaned regularly. All these arrangements will see a complete change in the cleaning system. Whos is Ishita? It all started in December last year when Gurjar had arrived to inspect Ramrajpura colony, when she was informed by one Banwari Lal belonging to a Scheduled Caste family that her 8-year-old girl was suffering from a rare disease. Due to their weak economic condition, they were not able to treat her and the condition of her family was constantly getting miserable. On this, the mayor called the family to her house on December 31 and decided to take full responsibility of Ishita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/meet-the-minor-girl-who-became-mayor-for-a-day/articleshow/81399828.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||In freak accident, AP cop falls from building and dies trying to chase away a lizard||VIJAYAWADA: In a freak accident, a circle inspector attached to Guntur police department died when he fell off a staircase while trying to scare away a lizard at a residence in Guntur city on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Sesha Rao, currently awaiting posting in vacancy reserve. According to police, the incident happened at around 7.30 pm. Police said that Rao had taken a broom to chase away a lizard in the corridor. He climbed up two steps along the staircase and tried to chase it away when he slipped and fell out of the adjacent retaining wall to the ground from two storeys. The circle inspector was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to his fatal head injury, sustained as a result of the fall, while receiving treatment. Initially, family members had raised suspicions over the reasons behind his death. Eventually, investigating personnel found the decisive CCTV footage in the corridor which showed the circle inspector trying to chase a lizard which resulted in his fall. Cops have registered a case under section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-freak-accident-cop-falls-from-bldg-and-dies-trying-to-chase-away-a-lizard/articleshow/81398687.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Vijayawada||All norms followed in withdrawal process: Andhra Pradesh state election commission||VIJAYAWADA: The state election commission informed the high court on Monday that withdrawal of nominations by TDP contestants was done as per procedure. The SEC submitted a signed report by the Chittoor collector to the court, which stated the withdrawals were done adhering to prescribed norms and winners were declared wherever single nomination was filed. The SEC also told the court that there is no need for intervention of the court at this stage as the election process is in motion and form-10 proceedings have been given to successful candidates.  “Any grievances after declaration of results will have to be raised through an election petition before the tribunal and there is no need for high court to intervene,” standing counsel for the SEC, N Ashwani Kumar told the court. As many as 18 intended contestants of the TDP from Chittoor municipal corporation had moved a house motion before the high court on Sunday, alleging that their nominations were announced as withdrawn without their knowledge by forging their signatures.  After considering the collector’s report and the SEC’s submission, Justice DVSS Somayajulu declined to pass any interim order as sought and asked the respondents to file counter-affidavits. The matter has been posted to March 22 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/all-norms-followed-in-withdrawal-process-sec/articleshow/81398728.cms||Srikanth Aluri
March 9, 2021||Goa||Aquarium fish find their way into Cansaulim pond||PANAJI: A good population of janitor fish, known for its attractive rows of armour plating on its body and reared in aquariums, was found in a fresh water catch in Cansaulim, triggering concern about yet another invasive species encroaching into Goan waters. Local fishermen casting their net in the pond at Cuelim drew a sizeable catch of sucker fish. Also called sailfin armoured catfish (Pterygoplichthys), the species which is native to South America has already invaded water bodies in Kerala, affecting native fishes and ecosystems. “I saw a good habitated number, more than 100, of suckers in the catch of Rohu, Tilapia and catfish that were dumped during segregation of the catch,” Stephen Johnson, domestic and wild animal rescuer, said. While the fishermen were still harvesting the fish, the rescuer’s posts about the fish rejects on social media sparked interest. There is speculation that the catch of invasive species could be more. “The suckers are hardy and can survive without water for over a day. They compete with natural fish populations and create their own territories in water bodies,” G B Sreekanth, fisheries scientist, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Old Goa, said. Goa’s fresh water bodies have already been impacted by fast growing populations of African catfish (Clarias gariepinus), posing a threat to local species of ‘tigur’ (Clarias batrachus). While Tilapia (Oreochromis Mossambicus) has established itself in Goan waters over the last few decades, it is another invasive species. Ignoring the price of a fresh water fish vantto (parcel), Goan fish eaters prefer species from ponds, but the catch is on the decline. “Fresh water biodiversity has been adversely affected by upsurge in Tillapia and African catfish populations,” Sreekanth said. ICAR had recently conducted a study on local fish species, as they compete with invasive species for survival. Being bottom feeding species, the suckers attack even aquatic vegetation, thereby adversely impacting the ecosystem. “Awareness needs to be created among the people who keep aquariums as a hobby not to release the sucker fish in wells and ponds,” director of fisheries Shamila Monteiro said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aquarium-fish-find-their-way-into-cansaulim-pond/articleshow/81399840.cms||Paul Fernandes
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Notices issued to people spreading garbage on roads||Jaipur: Throwing garbage on road proved expensive for a real estate agent as he was caught in the act by the JMC, Greater commissioner who was passing through the Vishwakarma Industrial Area intersection.Commissioner Yajna Mitra Singh Dev called the person out of his office and asked him to pick up the garbage that he had thrown on the road and also directed the vigilance officials to impose a fine on him. He commissioner was inspecting the waste collection and cleaning system on Monday as part of an awareness drive for Swachh Survekshan 2021.The commissioner started the tour from Chomu Pulia intersection with top officials of the corporation. He distributed pamphlets on corona awareness to people standing at bus stands, nearby houses and establishments and urged people to wear masks. He expressed displeasure over the piles of garbage near Balaji and other places on Sikar Road. He reprimanded the corporation officials and representatives of the private company responsible for garbage collection.The commissioner told people, “If someone puts garbage in front of you, then click a photo and send it to us, we will take action against the person. No one will be spared.”He further directed to issue notices to zone deputy commissioners, chief health inspectors, health inspectors of Murlipura and Vidyadhar Nagar areas over the piles of garbage. He instructed the zone deputy commissioners to check the attendance of at least two wards daily and send a report to the headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/swachh-survekshan-2021-notices-issued-to-people-spreading-garbage-on-roads/articleshow/81399834.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||Leopard kills elderly in Ranikhet||Almora: A 60-year-old man was killed by a leopard in the Chamkhan area of Ranikhet. The attack took place when the victim, Ramesh Pant, was headed towards the market with his elder son, Prakash Pant, on Sunday evening. The leopard, hiding in the bushes, pounced on the victim. Caught off guard, Prakash screamed for help. Hearing his screams, several people gathered. When locals tried to shoo away the big cat, it ran into the forest. However, the man succumbed to his injuries. Later in the night, forest officer Harish Tamta and revenue sub-inspector Pradeep Kumar reached the spot to pacify the locals who were demanding to catch the leopard. Notably, the big cat has also killed several cattle in the area. Locals also say that the forest department was already informed about the leopard on prowl and the possibility of a human-animal conflict incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-kills-elderly-in-ranikhet/articleshow/81398464.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19 cases breach the three lakh mark in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 cases breached the 3 lakh mark in the state on Monday, in a little over a year. The first case in the state was reported on March 2 last year. Of the 3 lakh cases, 1.4 lakh are among patients in the age group 21-40 years. Majority of the people in this age group were asymptomatic and were able to fight back. Those with comorbidities were the ones who were badly affected, say experts. Of the total number of Covid-19 deaths, 55 per cent of the patients had comorbidities and were across age groups, while 45 per cent did not have any other health issue except having contracted the virus. “It has been seen that people in this age group ventured out most and were the ones who were most affected. They have carried the virus to others in their families. There have been several cases where even though some members of the family never ventured out throughout the pandemic, they got infected,” said a senior official from the state health department. With 111 new cases reported on Monday, the total count of cases stood at 3,000,11. With one death over the last 24 hours, the death toll stands at 1,642. The recovery rate is 98.85 per cent in the state. Total number of patients who have recovered is only slightly lower than the total number of cases at 2,96,562. The number of active cases which reached 1,500 a month back is currently 1,807 in the state. Telangana has so far completed testing 89.8 lakh samples, including 19,929 samples that were tested on Monday. Meanwhile, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has remained the epicentre of the pandemic in the state, having recorded nearly 40 per cent of total cases, while neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy recorded the second and third highest number of cases. On Monday, GHMC recorded 27 cases, Medchal-Malkajiri 9 and Rangareddy recorded 10 new cases, while all other districts recorded less than 10 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-cases-breach-the-three-lakh-mark-in-telangana/articleshow/81399839.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||First woman e-rickshaw driver of Ajmer wants best edu for kids||Ajmer: Monday was just like any other day for 45-year-old Madina, the first woman e-rickshaw driver of Ajmer, even as the city celebrated International Women’s Day. Madina has been operating the e-rickshaw for five years now so that her children can get good education. Many a time Madina has to work late nights to bring devotees from bus stand to the dargah.One can often see her waiting for passengers near Phuwara Circle. “I aim to earn Rs 500 everyday so that my family can live decently. I have three children who study in private schools,” said Madina.She came to Ajmer about 10 years ago with her husband Azam Sheikh from West Bengal. Azam was an artisan. However, tragedy struck the family five years ago when Azam died, leaving behind Madina to fend for the family. “There was no hope left in life,” said Madina. She began working as a helper in construction work but that was not enough for her family.“Then one day I saw an e-rickshaw and I thought that this is the future of Ajmer,” added Madina. Initially when she approached some drivers to help her drive e-rickshaw she was ridiculed. However, she did not give up and slowly began to drive one. When she was confident enough that she could manage one, Madina took one on rent and started driving it professionally. “Now I am my own boss,” she said. She wants to see her children complete college and live a good life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/first-woman-e-rickshaw-driver-of-ajmer-wants-best-edu-for-kids/articleshow/81399836.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Woman, 27, onboard public transport raped by driver||PILIBHIT: A 27-year-old dalit woman of a village under Puranpur kotwali onboard a Tata pickup passenger vehicle was allegedly raped by the driver after she was left alone in the vehicle.  The crime took place on December 23, but an FIR was registered on Sunday night, following the order by superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav. In her complaint, the woman stated that she had boarded the passenger vehicle near her village around 10am on December 23 after noting down its registration number. Besides her, there were another woman and her child sitting in the vehicle and they got off at their destination midway, following which she was left alone in the vehicle, she said. “The driver halted the vehicle at a tea stall near a petrol pump on Pilibhit-Basti national highway (NH-730) and forced me to have tea after which I turned unconscious. When I regained around 11 am, I found myself lying nude at the roadside near Assam road crossing on the outskirts of Pilibhit city. My clothes were lying beside me,” alleged the woman. “Following the incident, I approached Sungarhi police station to lodge an FIR, but they denied. An FIR was registered after I lodged a written complaint with the SP,” alleged the woman. SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the accused was booked under sections 376 (rape) and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, intoxication etc., with intent to commit an offence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-woman-27-onboard-public-transport-raped-by-driver-case-registered-over-two-months-after-crime/articleshow/81397475.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||State govt invested Rs 3,489 cr in 3 state owned power companies, yet they lost over Rs 2k cr: CAG||Nainital: In what amounted to over 85% of its investment in public sector undertakings (PSUs), the state government invested Rs 3,489 crore – through equity and long-term loans – in three state-owned power companies since Uttarakhand’s formation in 2000 till March 2019. Despite the massive investment, the three PSUs - Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL), Uttarakhand Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (UJVNL) and Power Transmission Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited (PTCUL) – showed negative earnings in all but four of the 18 years since FY 2001-02. The total loss incurred by the firms amounted to over Rs 2,200 crore. The findings were made by the Comptroller Auditor General (CAG) in its report tabled before the Uttarakhand assembly on Saturday. The report says that in total, these PSUs had received an investment of Rs 6,049 crore, of which Rs 3,489 crore came from the Government of Uttarakhand and the rest came as loans from Government of India and other financial institutions. “It could be seen that total earnings of these PSUs was negative during 2001-02 to 2018-19, except during the financial years 2011-12, 2012-13, 2013-14 and 2015-16, which indicates that instead of generating returns on the invested funds, the government could not recover its cost of funds. The positive total earnings for the years 2011-12, 2012-13 and 2015-16 also remained substantially below the minimum expected returns towards the investment made in these companies,” read the report. According to the CAG, the present value of the money invested in the three PSUs by the government of Uttarakhand amounted to Rs 6,282 crore till March 2019. The report also states that these losses were not carried from Uttar Pradesh but incurred after the formation of Uttarakhand. The state government made an initial equity investment of Rs 10 crore in the year 2001-02 and since then, the companies have been losing money even though equity investment from Uttarakhand government has touched Rs 3,140 crore. The biggest loss came in the year 2009-10, when the companies lost over Rs 540 crore. Meanwhile the report adds that though UJVNL and PTCUL showed positive returns, it was UPCL that incurred most of the losses, which finally resulted in total erosion of its net worth. UPCL’s worth is now in the negative. “Despite investment of Rs 1,428.91 crore in UPCL, the accumulated losses of UPCL increased from Rs 1,955.09 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 3,121.95 crore in 2018-19, which resulted in a negative net worth of Rs 1,693.04 crore,” read the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-govt-invested-rs-3489-cr-in-3-state-owned-power-companies-yet-they-lost-over-rs-2k-cr-cag/articleshow/81398435.cms||Prashant Jha
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana among 3 states with woman forest head: Javadekar||Hyderabad: Telangana is among the three states -- apart from Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh -- in the country with women as the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF). Prakash Javadekar, union minister of environment, forest and climate change applauded the interest of the forest women officers on the occasion of International Women’s day. At present, there are 284 women (total IFS officer's 2,343) officers serving the nation in all parts of India. While he aspired to see a ratio 33% of women staff in the forest in the near future across the country, he applauded when Telangana PCCF R Sobha brought to the notice that 30% of women strength is serving in Telangana. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-among-3-states-with-woman-forest-head-javadekar/articleshow/81401660.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Nehru Centre and Thackeray memorial in Mumbai get Rs 410 crore||While finance minister Ajit Pawar read out a long list of projects currently underway or to be taken up in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the budget sanctioned Rs 410 crore. Pawar in his speech said, "Hindu-Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Smarak costing Rs 400 crore is sanctioned. Nehru Centre, Mumbai, will be provided Rs 10 crore for the purchase of state-of-the-art equipment, modernization and renovation.” The budget also mentions the rejuvenation of Mumbai's rivers, sewage plants, and a bridge to connect BKC garden to Mahim Nature Park, but there are no specific allocations.  The Metro rail projects, coastal road, and Goregaon-Mulund Link Road too were mentioned by Pawar. It is clear that all these allocations are being made by either BMC or MMRDA. While BMC has budgeted for projects by relying on internal loans, MMRDA is borrowing from various international banks to execute the Metro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-nehru-centre-and-thackeray-memorial-in-city-get-rs-410cr/articleshow/81401683.cms||Clara Lewis
March 9, 2021||India||If men can fly Rafales, woman can steer fast trains: Loco pilots||When the Pushpak Express left Mumbai’s CST on Monday for Lucknow on its 1,400-km journey, at the wheel was India’s first woman loco pilot. Assisting her was India’s youngest woman loco pilot and an all-woman crew, right from AC attendants to TTEs, to mark International Women’s Day. “Men fly Rafales, women crew take Air India Boeings to the US. There is honour in what we do as well,” said Surekha Yadav, 55, India’s first and oldest woman loco pilot. It has not always been easy in the 32 years she has been at it. “When I first started, the biggest challenge would be unmanned railway crossings. Cattle would be standing in the way and I just would not know what to do and how to get them off the tracks. Sometimes, even people would not leave the tracks,” she said. “In fact, in the initial days, women would not be assigned duties for stretches longer than 30-40km. That has changed now though we did practise a lot before today’s long run.” Next to her, Manjula Inamdar joined the conversation. “No job is menial. More women should take this up,” she said. The 31-year-old has recently graduated from goods trains to mail and express trains. “I have faced many dangerous situations but today’s was a different challenge. All eyes were on us. We had to show the world we are up for anything,” she said. “In real terms, the challenge in steering something like this is knowing when to gain speed, when to look sideways and when to look straight.” Surekha Yadav,55, India’s first female loco pilot seen with Manjula Inamdar(31) as they steered Pushpak Express from Mumbai towards Lucknow on International Women’s Day on Monday. And she has a wishlist. “I want to run the Vande Bharat. Imagine going at 180 kmph. Isn’t it fun?” When out for work, like on Monday, she misses her kids. “If a journey is longer than 100km, sometimes we have to stay the night. I really miss my children then,” she said. But the women band together. As the train changes zones and divisions, other women from other states would take over. On Monday’s journey, the attendants and technicians were from Lucknow, Bhopal and Jhansi. “With women around, it feels safe. There’s also an added personal touch in coaches when families or solo women are travelling,” said Geeta, a railway attendant from Jhansi. Railways officials said there are around 1,500 women loco pilots, like Surekha and Manjula, across the divisions. “We recruited 33 assistant loco pilots in the south western railway zone last year alone,” a senior railways official said. UP topped the list last year, hiring 216 women as assistant loco pilots, followed by Kerala (145), West Bengal (110), Andhra Pradesh (131), Bihar (122) and Maharashtra (117), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wasnt-easy-but-1st-woman-loco-pilot-stayed-on-track/articleshow/81402897.cms||Rohan Dua
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Lady who took on criminals in Dholpur appointed police sub-inspector||JAIPUR: The state government on Monday offered the post of police sub-inspector to Vasundhara Chauhan (25) for showing exemplary courage by engaging in a daring fight against armed goons who attacked a public transport bus to free their accomplice, a hardcore criminal, in Dholpur on March 3. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot took the decision of direct appointment offer to Chauhan as a step towards promoting women empowerment on the International Women’s Day. Earlier this month, five armed goons intercepted a roadways bus midway from Dholpur to Bharatpur and attacked police guards carrying convicted criminal Dharmendra alia Lukka. They stormed into the bus, fired in the air and threw chilli powder in the eyes of police guards. As the criminals attempted to snatch away firearms of the policemen, Vasundhara and another RAC constable Kamar Singh, who was also travelling in bus, gathered courage and took on the criminals head on. She caught hold of two of them and pushed them in the bus one by one. Her direct fight encouraged other passengers, crew members and the police guards – to take on the criminals, who then escaped. Previously, the state government gave a Letter of Appreciation to Vasundhara and declared an ‘out-of-turn’ promotion to RAC personnel Shri Kamar Singh as head constable for their show of bravery. Now, CM Gehlot has decided to honour the Dholpur girl by offering her the post of sub inspector in Rajasthan Police. The 25-year-old has studied criminology during her post-graduation and is an NCC ‘C’ certificate holder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-offers-si-post-to-lady-who-took-on-criminals/articleshow/81399844.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar’s 2nd zoo to come up in Araria||PATNA: The government has decided to develop the state’s second zoo on 289 acre land in Raniganj block of Araria district, environment, forest and climate change minister Neeraj Kumar Singh Babloo said in the state assembly on Monday. The existing Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park is at Patna. A ‘Monkey House’ will also be developed on the 10 acre land near Raniganj. Babloo also said CM Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the zoo safari facility at Rajgir next month. The Monkey House will have fruit-bearing trees. The project has been conceived to reduce the menace caused by monkeys in parts of the state. Once fully developed, it will also become tourist attraction, he said. He said arrangements will be made to sterilize the ‘neelgaees’ (blue bulls) and shift them to the forest areas. The minister said decision has been taken to install 24 more ambient air quality monitoring systems will be installed in different towns across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-2nd-zoo-to-come-up-in-araria/articleshow/81398557.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||15,000 women in UP get jabs at exclusive centres||LUCKNOW: To mark International Women’s Day, UP government on Monday had organised women-only vaccination centres in all 75 districts of the state. Each district had three centres exclusively for women, totalling to 225 across the state. All the health staff administering the vaccine also comprised women. A total of 15,710 women were vaccinated at these special booths. Overall, 3,378 vaccination centres administered Covishield and Covaxin shots to 1,82,676 beneficiaries in UP, as per data available till 8pm. Those vaccinated were either aged 60 years and above or were between 45 and 59 years of age with comorbidity. Their second dose of the vaccine will be given on April 5. ACS home Amit Mohan Prasad said that 103 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 1,634. Two people, one each from Kanpur and Agra, also lost their lives to Covid-19 in this period. Most positive cases were reported from Lucknow (16) followed by Ghaziabad (9) and Gautam Budhh Nagar (9). Overall, 113 people were discharged from hospital after having recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours. “Cases in UP are in a controlled state, but in several other states, the rate of infection is increasing and is higher than in March 1 last year. It is important that we don’t drop our guard and follow social distancing, hand hygiene and take all precautions against Covid-19,” said Prasad. He also stressed on the need for vaccination. “Do not procrastinate vaccination. We are also scaling up the vaccination process constantly. To break the chain of infection, vaccination and precautions against the disease are pertinent steps,” he added. Ex-governor dies : Former governor of Rajasthan and retired judge of high court Anshuman Singh (86) breathed his last due to Covid-19 complications at SGPGI early on Monday. The octogenarian was admitted to Rajdhani Covid hospital on February 8 with severe Covid pneumonia and was shifted out to non-Covid ICU after 10 days. However, his condition worsened, leading to multi-organ failure requiring life saving supportive therapy. He succumbed to his illness at 4.30am on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/15k-women-get-jabs-at-exclusive-centres/articleshow/81402309.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chennai||2,000-yr-old slab with Tamil Brahmi script gives glimpse of past||By the side of the Madurai-Kochi national highway at Kongapatti in Madurai district an inconspicuous stone slab, found recently, opened a portal to the past. The inscription on it engraved in Tamil Brahmi script, dating back 2,000 years, revealed that it was a memorial stone for a local hero. The place where the stone was found, is on the ancient route linking the Chera and Pandya kingdoms. A choultry where travellers rested, had existed on this route till about two decades ago, said historians. Mayil Meena, a villager had chanced upon the stone slab when the road widening work was taken up about two months ago. The strange inscription on it had piqued his interest and he had contacted the experts. Archaeological researcher K T Gandhirajan and his team had gone to the village to inspect the stone, which is 6.5ft in length, 3.5ft in width and 9cm thick. There were inscriptions in three rows, and as it had become damaged, many attempts were made including by state archaeology department, ASI, Mysore and epigraphist V Vedachalam to estampage the block. Gandhirajan said that the top and bottom lines of the inscription had been damaged. "From what we could decipher, it said that the stone had been erected for a local hero called Ilank Kannan by Pathan Paraban, thathanthai," he said. The Tamil Brahmi is similar to 2,000-year-old inscriptions found in memorial stones in Kinnimangalam, Pulliman Kombai and Thathapatti in Usilampatti region, which are about 20km from Kongapatti, said Gandhirajan. Curator of the Madurai government museum M Marudhupandian said the term "Ilank" is in Sangam period and pertains to the period between 3rd to 1st century BC. "The place where it was found was the ancient trade route of the Romans. It should be taken over by the archaeology department, but the people of the village want it to remain in its place," he said. Unlike the Tamil-Brahmi inscriptions usually found in caves and near sites of religious significance, the present discovery of the script at a public place, hints at the fact that the common man of the time used the script and that it was not just the medium of communication for the elite. "This particular stone was kept at a common place, to glorify the hero among the people who travelled through the region. This memory stone is a contemporary of the Keeladi civilization, and does not have any religious symbols or references," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2000-yr-old-slab-with-tamil-brahmi-script-gives-glimpse-of-past/articleshow/81399847.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Cases up, Telangana health department focus back on UK strain||HYDERABAD: With six more cases of the UK strain of Covid-19 being detected in Telangana, the focus of state health authorities is back on this new strain. “Including the new cases, we have 18 cases of the UK strain so far in the state. We are closely monitoring the latest cases and will be sequencing them,” said an official from the health department. Experts, meanwhile, stress the need for an increase in genome surveillance, as a strategy, at this point in time. “Genome surveillance is required for three different purposes. One for those returning from international travel; they should be screened. Nobody should be allowed to get in without the RT-PCR test. Whoever tests positive should be sequenced for the genome and if they carrying a notorious variant of the genome, they should be quarantined for 14 days in an isolation room. Others positive with normal variant can quarantine at home,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad. This apart, he recommended genome sequencing whenever there is sudden outburst of cases and also routinely among the general population. This, he said, will ensure that the newer and notorious variants of the virus are kept in check. Putting curbs on movement, to the extent possible, while opting for the vaccine is strongly recommended by all experts. “Moving around without a mask and not following Covid appropriate behaviour will lead to paying a heavy price later. The vaccine is now available for all the vulnerable categories of patients. They should make full use of it and also others should take it when it’s available,” said a senior official of the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cases-up-health-dept-focus-back-on-uk-strain/articleshow/81399846.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Women commission board still to see light of the day||Jaipur: While the state government celebrated International Women’s Day on Monday, it was yet to form a commission to look after the welfare of women despite being in power for over two years. During these years, the government had repeatedly assured all that the board for women commission would be formed soon, but it was yet to be done. State officials say there are no obstacles and they will speak to chief minister Ashok Gehlot about it.Congress minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, talking about the delay in the formation of the commission board said, “The board will be constituted soon and we will speak to the CM also regarding the same. There are absolutely no issues in the formation of the board.”The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2019 paints a dismal picture of the condition of women in Rajasthan with the state topping the list when it comes to cases of assault on women, domestic violence as well as attempt to rape. While 6,977 cases of assault were registered, the highest in the country, Rajasthan had 18,432 cases of domestic violence. While Rajasthan is leading in the number of rape cases with 5,997 incidents, it is also on top with 1,019 attempt to rape cases.“The commission is especially important now as due to lockdown domestic violence cases have gone up. At times women are not comfortable in approaching the police directly and rather take the middle path so that things can be resolved as well as get police help if required. The government’s delay in constituting this crucial board is beyond comprehension,” said a former board member of the women commission.The state government, however, claimed that crime against women is above any political party and must be dealt with strictly by the law to curb it at grassroot level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/women-commission-board-still-to-see-light-of-the-day/articleshow/81399858.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||Inter-state auto-lifter gang busted, 4 held||Roorkee: Four members of an inter-state auto-lifting gang were held from Haridwar on Monday. The local police also recovered three stolen tractors from their possession. All four auto-lifters are reported to be the residents of Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh. According to SP (rural) Pramendra Singh Dobal, the police examined the footage of more than 100 CCTVs to find those who stole a tractor parked on the Laksar-Khanpur road. “The four wrongdoers have been identified as Rafiq Rahishuddin, Amjad Sharif, Sameer Dana, and Shamim Hafizuddin. All four accused, who are in their forties, are history sheeters and various cases are registered in their names in different police stations of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh,” said Dobal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/inter-state-auto-lifter-gang-busted-4-held/articleshow/81398490.cms||Tapan Susheel
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Army recruitment rally commences in Jaipur||Jaipur: The first day of the Army recruitment rally saw over 1,500 candidates appearing in the physical test in Jaipur on Monday.Approximately, 72,000 aspirants, who have registered for this rally for the categories of soldier (general duty), soldier (technical), soldier clerk/SKT, tradesman, religious teacher and sepoy pharma, will be appearing for the recruitment in the next 20 days.“On the first day, for the soldier (technical) candidates, a total of 1,803 aspirants appeared for the physical test and it went off smoothly. A higher strength is expected in the coming days as the candidates will come for the tradesmen category for the next four consecutive days,” said an Army official.The rally is being conducted at the ground of 8th Battalion CISF, Amber, Kunda which will continue till March 31. The rally will cover the districts of Jaipur, Sikar and Tonk,” an Army official said.Aspirants have to undergo a physical test following which they will have to sit for a written exam. Once the written test is cleared, the certificates submitted will be sent to the respective districts for verification.The candidates have been asked to present a Covid negative certificate which should not be less than 72 hours old. Sources said many candidates may pass the physical test, they might not make it past the medical examination as well as the written examination which follows suit. Rajasthan has many personnel both retired and serving in the Indian armed forces, especially from the Shekhawati belt. This includes both officers and other ranks personnel. The rallies are divided into zones which allow candidates from multiple districts to appear for recruitment at a central point. Last month the rally was held in Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-recruitment-rally-commences-in-jaipur/articleshow/81399842.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||After BJP plaint, EC likely to shift out IPS officer as wife set to contest election||Kolkata/New Delhi: The  Commission is likely to transfer Howrah (Rural) police superintendent Saumya Roy, a 2012 batch IPS officer, after his wife, Lovely Maitra, an actor, was fielded by Trinamool Congress as its candidate in Sonarpur (South) in South 24 Parganas. BJP MP Arjun Singh had moved the EC, questioning Roy’s “neutrality” after his wife was declared an election candidate. The EC also directed that civic volunteers or green police in Bengal would not be engaged in any election duty or any duty in uniform for 72 hours prior to polling. In a letter to the chief electoral officer of Bengal, the EC stated, “No person from the civic police or green police or student police shall be engaged in any election-related duty. Further they shall not be allowed to perform any duty in uniform P-3 days till P+1 day.” “P” stands for polling day. EC officials did not elaborate whether Howrah (Rural) SP’s transfer was a one-off move, specific to the BJP complaint, or part of a larger chain of transfers to move out all officers on poll duty, whose kin were election candidates. EC sources said Roy would be transferred as his wife was a candidate. But no formal order was issued till reports last came in. The sources indicated the orders would be issued so that “no such officers” could be part of “active poll duty”. Sources also indicated that other poll officers, whose kin might be a candidate, were also likely to be shifted out of the poll process. But sources did not clarify whether “kin” meant immediate family members, including parents, husbands and children, or other relatives as well. EC sources indicated they would take a decision based partly on specific complaints and partly on their “information network”. Sources also said they had had no “major complaint” on this issue till now. In an interview to TOI on Sunday, Maitra had argued, “Saumya has a responsibility, which he is carrying out in one district, while I am contesting the polls from another. I do not see any clash of interest here.” Singh, a Barrackpore MP, had countered her point, saying, “Her husband is an IPS officer. As he is posted in the same state, this particular constituency’s voters can be influenced.” The SP, however, did not comment. Roy took over as the Howrah (Rural) SP on April 4, 2020.  Sources also indicated that EC would launch a campaign to enable the common man to meet Bengal special observer Ajay Nayek and special police observer Vivek Dubey with appointments. The two senior EC officers had indicated they would like to interact with the public. EC sources said all booths in Bengal were “vulnerable” and would have central forces, the number of which would depend on local factors. The EC pointed out there had been some violence “which was not conducive”. It also said all bars and restaurants would be under scanner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-bjp-plaint-ec-likely-to-shift-out-ips-officer-as-wife-set-to-contest-election/articleshow/81399885.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Rising fuel prices slam breaks on dreams of cabbies||Hyderabad: The fuel prices, which are heading north, have crashed the dreams of people who once bought four-wheelers, hoping to earn a livelihood by using them to provide cab services. On Monday, stating that there is an urgent need to revise the minimum fare from Rs 17 per km to Rs 22 per km, thousands of cab drivers held a black flag rally in different parts of the city. Urging the government to resolve the issue, the cab drivers association said around 40,000 of them will take part in the rally for the next two days.  The rise in diesel price is also forcing people who owned multiple cabs in the city to either sell their vehicles or return them to financers. In some cases, the financiers are taking the cabs back from cab drivers because most of them are unable to pay the monthly equated monthly instalments. In one such incident, M Somesh, an app-based cab driver from the city, was forced to handover his cab to his financier as he was unable to pay his EMIs for last few months. “I had no other option, but to return my vehicle to the financier. I used to earn 1,500 or 2,000 per day before the lockdown, but now I don’t get more than 800 even after working for eight hours straight,” Somesh added. Stating that the number of cabs in the city has come down from 1.25 lakh to 40,000 post lockdown, the cab and auto drivers’ bodies have submitted a representation to the aggregators demanding an increase in fare prices. The Telangana State Taxi and Drivers’ JAC members argued that they were paying higher prices for fuel even as their earnings remained the same. JAC chairman Shaik Salauddin said, “Per km fare must be increased to 17-22 to improve income of drivers after recent fuel hike. We urge aggregators to implement fare hike soon.” The affected cab owners say that driving one’s own cab is no more a viable option. Within three months, the diesel prices in the state have gone up from Rs 80.60 in January to Rs 88.86 in March||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rising-fuel-prices-slam-breaks-on-dreams-of-cabbies/articleshow/81399879.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Pal, Namrata bag top ranks in JEE (Mains) across UP||Lucknow: Pal Aggarwal emerged as the state topper by scoring 99.988 percentile in the JEE (Mains) conducted in February session. Namrata Jha became the female topper of UP by scoring 99.985 percentile. No one from Uttar Pradesh made it to the top six candidates scoring 100 percentile in the Paper 1 (BE/BTech) of JEE-Mains. Among the six, two are from Delhi, one each from Rajasthan, Gujarat, Chandigarh and Maharashtra. In the Scheduled Caste category, the top two slots were acquired by UP children. While Aryansh Kumar Singh with 99.958 percentile stood first in the SC category, Nikhil Verma was second with 99.953. On Monday, the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced the results of JEE (Mains) held in February. The final ranks will be released taking the best of four scores. In order to reduce stress, the Union ministry of education decided to give the option to appear one/two/three or four times in computer-based competitive exam — JEE (Mains) 2021 — for admission. The exam was held once every month, starting from February, March April and May. The NTA stated that the final ranks will be released after considering the best of NTA scores. However, 95% candidates appeared in exam from February 24 to 26. In all, 71,676 candidates took the exam in UP. The exam was conducted with due Covid-19 precautions. The Paper 1 is for admission to BTech/ BE programmes in IITs, NITs and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs). Based on the results of JEE-Mains Paper 1 and Paper 2 (architecture courses), the top 2.45 lakh candidates will be eligible to appear in the JEE-Advanced exam scheduled on July 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pal-namrata-bag-top-ranks-in-jee-mains-across-up/articleshow/81402314.cms||Isha Jain
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Covid hotspots identified in state amid slight spike in cases||JAIPUR: Small pockets of Covid hotspots have been identified in different parts of the state amid a spike in cases in the last 10 days. Pockets in Dungarpur, Banswara, Bhilwara and Barmer have reported cases and in some places containment zones have been created. Dungarpur’s Sagwara, New Colony in Banswara, Atoon in Bhilwara and Balotra in Barmer have witnessed spike in cases due to which the administration and health department is taking measures to prevent the spread of the virus. “We have created a containment zone in a colony developed recently, where people are quite social and maintain strong bonding and eat together. We have taken measures in preventing their movement and also asking the suspected and Covid patients with mild symptoms to remain under home quarantine. In the past two days, 21 cases have been reported,” said Dr HL Tabiyar, chief medical health officer (Banswara). Barmer’s Balotra, where a refinery is situated, has also reported jump in cases. “In Balotra, we have reported 11 cases in 24 hours and out of those 3 are from the refinery. We are taking samples from the refinery. Besides, eight scattered cases were reported from city areas. We are conducting contact tracing in the affected areas,” said Dr BL Vishnoi, chief medical health officer (Barmer). Besides, Sagwara of Dungarpur area, where containment zone has already been created, has reported cases and it has crossed the 100 mark now. In Atoon area of Bhilwara, a girls’ hostel of a school has reported more than 15 students testing positive in three days ago. The health authorities conducted screening more than 350 girls. Health department officials that checkposts have been created in each district especially along the bordering areas of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab to ensure that only those who have negative report should enter the state. BOX:JAIPUR: The state reported 179 Covid cases on Monday taking its overall tally to 3,21,711. With no fresh deaths, the state’s toll stood at 2,789.Districts which reported new cases are Dungarpur (31), Jaipur (29), Barmer (16), Udaipur(16), Banswara (13), Ajmer (11), Jodhpur (11), Kota (10), Bhilwara (9),Rajsamand (6), Hanumangarh (4), Bundi (3), Chittorgarh (3), Jhunjhunu (3),Sikar (2), Tonk (2), Jhalawar (2), Bikaner (2), Pali (2), Sriganganagar (2),Alwar (1) and Baran (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-hotspots-identified-in-state-amid-slight-spike-in-cases/articleshow/81399887.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||JEE (Main): None from T & AP in 100 percentile club||Hyderabad: None of the aspirants from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh (AP) secured 100 percentile in the Joint Entrance Examination Main (JEE Main) February session, results of which were declared on Monday. All India girl topper Komma Sharanya, who secured 99.9990421 percentile (National Testing Agency score), however, is from Telangana. Sharanya and Challa Vishwanath, who secured the same score, were declared toppers of Telangana by NTA. In AP, Pothamsetty Chethan Manogna Sai, who secured 99.99 NTA score, was declared topper of that state. It was a new low for the Telugu states in JEE mains in the past three years. In 2020, eight students from Telangana and three from AP had secured 100 percentile marks in JEE Mains, while in 2019 and 2018, five students had secured perfect scores. In 2017 and 2016, the count was two and three respectively. The students, however, have three more shots at JEE —March, April, and May sessions —to secure a perfect score as NTA has decided to conduct JEE Main exam four times in view of the pandemic. Both AP and Telangana, however, have category toppers. While ST topper—Islavath Nithin— is from Telangana, Gen-EWS topper —Anumula VenkataJaya Chaitanya is from AP. Academics from the state said students missed out on a chance to secure 100 NTA score because of several key changes and deletion of questions. “Before deletion of questions and key changes, our highest score was 296. After changes, it was 291 and because of these deletions, students, who gave wrong answers to these questions, got an undue advantage and our students missed out,” Narayana Group academic dean P Prameela said. She said no one from the state raised objections to these deleted questions and added that NTA did not give any explanation for removing them. The JEE (Main) Exam for BE/BTech was conducted by NTA between February 24 and February 26 and 6.52 lakh candidates registered for the examinations. While 73,782 students registered from Telangana, 87,797candidates took the exam in AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jee-main-none-from-t-ap-in-100-percentile-club/articleshow/81399865.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||More than 200 women patwaris observe fast in city||Jaipur: On the International Women’s Day, 214 women patwaris of Jaipur and Udaipur divisions observed fast at Shaheed Smarak on MI Road in protest against the state government’s delay in increasing their paygrade to 3,600. The Rajasthan patwar sangh, comprising nearly 8,000 patwaris, are protesting over the matter for the past one month. “We have not received any call from the government yet for a meeting. In other divisions, the women patwaris observed fast at the district headquarters. About 2,000 patwaris are protested in Jaipur on Monday and we’ll will continue are agitation till the state government concedes to our demands, even if it takes more than six months,” said Rajendra Nimmiwal, president of Rajasthan Patwar Sangh.Our first demand is that our grade pay should be increased to 3,600 (i.e. from Rs 20,800 to Rs 33,000 for L-5 patwaris). The second demand is that on completion of services for 7, 14, 21, 28 and 32 years, the patwaris should be upgraded to the next payscale. The patwaris are not working in those patwar mandals, where they have been assigned additional duty,” he added. There are 12,264 sanctioned posts of patwaris under revenue department and 7,500 posts are filed. Under the irrigation department, there are474 sanctioned posts of patwaris and 83 posts are filled; there are 160 under colonization and 59 posts are filled; under settlement there are 713 sanctioned posts of patwaris and 113 posts are filled. The Samyunkt Kisan Morcha on Monday observed international women’s day at Alwar’s Sahajahanpur border where the farmers’ agitation is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-than-200-women-patwaris-observe-fast-in-city/articleshow/81399871.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Student in Hyderabad posts obscene pics of girl, held||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police arrested a 21-year-old student for uploading semi-nude photos of his classmate on social media platforms. The accused and the victim are classmates at an engineering college in the city. In the beginning of 2020, the accused had sent morphed obscene photos to the victim. Threatening to upload the morphed photos on social media platforms, the accused blackmailed her for a nude video call. Fearing that the accused might upload the morphed photos on social media, the victim video called him and the offender recorded the calls and also took screenshots, Rachakonda cyber crime police said. In October 2020, the accused found out that the victim was moving closely with another student and confronted her. The victim clearly told the accused that she did not like him. To take revenge, the accused uploaded her semi-nude photos on Telegram groups along with her phone number. When he found out that the victim lodged a police complaint, he deleted the photos and Telegram app from his phone. However, police analysed the details and arrested the accused on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-posts-obscene-pics-of-girl-held/articleshow/81399898.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||‘After Bengal, BJP’s special focus on Kerala’||Thiruvananthapuram: It’s official now. BJP is going to shift its focus heavily on Kerala. The party leadership is just waiting for the election in West Bengal to be over. To achieve the political target, the party would draw new strategies to confront the CPM head on. The efforts would be to hold the CPM responsible for the economic crisis and development stagnation the state encounters, said Gopal Krishna Agarwal, BJP national spokesperson in-charge of Kerala and a chartered accountant by profession. “We have stopped the practice of contesting elections for the sake of it in Kerala. After West Bengal, BJP’s political focus is largely on Kerala. It’s only bound to increase in the future,” said Agarwal who is in the state in connection with the assembly election. The party, he said, is confident of winning the hearts of Kerala voters and form the government in a matter of a few years. “This is not a pipe dream. We just need to explain our development agenda to the people and convince them. If a state like UP can achieve tremendous strides in terms of economic development in a span of a few years, Kerala with its intellectual capital, spices and tourism potential, can do wonders,” Agarwal said, adding that governments that always fight with the Centre won’t be able to make major developmental strides. Agarwal, who had earlier been attached to the West Bengal election, said it was the prominent presence of Marxists that scares investors away from Kerala. “The basic concept and attitude of Marxists towards wealth creation is flawed. They talk about distribution of wealth. For that the basic requisite is creation of wealth. But unfortunately, Marxists wont address the aspect of wealth creation. Private capital is still an anathema for them. They can’t perform the role of a facilitator,” he said. Good economics is good politics, he said and claimed that the economic policies of the BJP government under the leadership of Narendra Modi are focused on long-term development and growth. The new amendments brought in by the Centre on agriculture laws, he claimed, would benefit lakhs of farmers while they would go against the interest of a few others. “Our reform initiatives focus on long-term agenda. It is this point we want to reiterate in Kerala. Once in power, BJP would show the dogged and proven commitment towards the infrastructure and industrial development of Kerala. Establishment of waterways, food processing units, value addition of spices, rubber and agriculture produce would be our focus. Once an investment-friendly ecosystem is established, economic growth and employment opportunities would follow. These are not claims. We have practised and proven it in the states we are in power,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/after-bengal-bjps-special-focus-on-kerala/articleshow/81394108.cms||B S Anilkumar
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||Bumper potato yield gives price stability hope||Kolkata: Retail prices of potatoes have risen marginally owing to a gap in demand and supply, given that farmers have been scrambling to stock up on the harvest, which has had a bumper production this year. This very bounty and the stockpiling is expected to keep potato prices stable over the next season. Last year, consumers had to pay as high as Rs 50 a kg for potatoes. This year, traders said, people would not face such a price shocker, due to the bumper production and well-planned stocking. According to the initial estimate, there will be 120 lakh tonnes-130 lakh tonnes of potatoes, exceeding previous records. The bounty has also led the Bengal government to offer a procurement price of Rs 6 per kg so that hoarders can’t force farmers to go in for distress sale. The government was particularly alert given the new farm law allowed unlimited hoarding of farm produces. The agriculture and agri-marketing department was quick to offer a procurement rate, when wholesale potato prices in rural Bengal slid below Rs 4 a kg. It later stabilized at Rs 6.5-7 a kg. “We were careful that farmers don’t suffer for bumper yield and traders cannot hoard and force farmers to sell potatoes at insignificant rates. The state’s timely intervention prevented potato prices from sliding beyond a point,” said agri advisor to Bengal government Pradeep Mazumdar. Kolkata retail markets saw a sudden slump in supply of the Jyoti variety, which sold for Rs 10 per kg till recently. The demand-supply gap pushed up the price to Rs 14/kg and hybrid varieties Super S1, Super 6 and Pokhraj replaced Jyoti. Hybrid potatoes are selling at Rs8-10/kg. “Jyoti supply has dropped due to stocking. But graded Super potatoes are selling well. Chandramukhi prices remain Rs16-18 a kg,” said Bhola Das, a potato trader at Lake Market. Gautam Sinha, a Posta wholesale potato trader, said, “Cold storages are letting Jyoti to be kept at Rs 900/quintal and Super Rs 650/quintal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bumper-potato-yield-gives-price-stability-hope/articleshow/81399944.cms||Falguni Banerjee
March 9, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan first to vaccinate 1 million senior citizens||JAIPUR: Rajasthan became the first state in the country to vaccinate over 1 million senior citizens. Out of the 2 million doses that the state has administered, more than half are people over 60 years of age. Due to shortage of doses in some districts, the health department will give the second dose to those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receiving the first. Health department sources said though the state received Covaxin doses on Monday from the Centre, the health department is still facing the shortage as the pace at which the vaccination has been progressing, the state requires more doses. In the last eight days, the health department has vaccinated 10,51,391 senior citizens and 88,758 doses were given to people above 45 years with specified co-morbid conditions. In districts where the vaccine is in short supply, the health department has decided to discourage the 1stdose so that the beneficiaries who have already got the first shot get the second one. Those districts which have sufficient vaccines are administering both the doses. The overall tally of those got the first dose rose to 19,79,962 and the second dose vaccination has reached 3,47,013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-first-to-vaccinate-1-million-senior-citizens/articleshow/81406480.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan first to vaccinate 1 million senior citizens||JAIPUR: Rajasthan became the first state in the country to vaccinate over 1 million senior citizens. Out of the 2 million doses that the state has administered, more than half are people over 60 years of age. Due to shortage of doses in some districts, the health department will give the second dose to those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receiving the first. Health department sources said though the state received Covaxin doses on Monday from the Centre, the health department is still facing the shortage as the pace at which the vaccination has been progressing, the state requires more doses. In the last eight days, the health department has vaccinated 10,51,391 senior citizens and 88,758 doses were given to people above 45 years with specified co-morbid conditions. In districts where the vaccine is in short supply, the health department has decided to discourage the 1stdose so that the beneficiaries who have already got the first shot get the second one. Those districts which have sufficient vaccines are administering both the doses. The overall tally of those got the first dose rose to 19,79,962 and the second dose vaccination has reached 3,47,013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-first-to-vaccinate-1-million-senior-citizens/articleshow/81406479.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan first to vaccinate 1 million senior citizens||JAIPUR: Rajasthan became the first state in the country to vaccinate over 1 million senior citizens. Out of the 2 million doses that the state has administered, more than half are people over 60 years of age. Due to shortage of doses in some districts, the health department will give the second dose to those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receiving the first. Health department sources said though the state received Covaxin doses on Monday from the Centre, the health department is still facing the shortage as the pace at which the vaccination has been progressing, the state requires more doses. In the last eight days, the health department has vaccinated 10,51,391 senior citizens and 88,758 doses were given to people above 45 years with specified co-morbid conditions. In districts where the vaccine is in short supply, the health department has decided to discourage the 1stdose so that the beneficiaries who have already got the first shot get the second one. Those districts which have sufficient vaccines are administering both the doses. The overall tally of those got the first dose rose to 19,79,962 and the second dose vaccination has reached 3,47,013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-first-to-vaccinate-1-million-senior-citizens/articleshow/81399907.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan first to vaccinate 1 million senior citizens||JAIPUR: Rajasthan became the first state in the country to vaccinate over 1 million senior citizens. Out of the 2 million doses that the state has administered, more than half are people over 60 years of age. Due to shortage of doses in some districts, the health department will give the second dose to those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receiving the first. Health department sources said though the state received Covaxin doses on Monday from the Centre, the health department is still facing the shortage as the pace at which the vaccination has been progressing, the state requires more doses. In the last eight days, the health department has vaccinated 10,51,391 senior citizens and 88,758 doses were given to people above 45 years with specified co-morbid conditions. In districts where the vaccine is in short supply, the health department has decided to discourage the 1stdose so that the beneficiaries who have already got the first shot get the second one. Those districts which have sufficient vaccines are administering both the doses. The overall tally of those got the first dose rose to 19,79,962 and the second dose vaccination has reached 3,47,013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-first-to-vaccinate-1-million-senior-citizens/articleshow/81406481.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||CM Rawat’s fate continues to hang in balance||Dehradun: The political turmoil which began in Uttarakhand on Saturday continued on Monday as chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat rushed to Delhi cancelling his previously-announced engagements in Gairsain and Dehradun. Highly placed sources told TOI that Rawat had been summoned to Delhi by the BJP’s central leadership after a report was submitted to party president JP Nadda by observer Raman Singh who had on Saturday met several MLAs in Dehradun and taken feedback from them on a possible leadership change. Till the time of filing this story late at night, Rawat had not met either Nadda or home minister Amit Shah although sources said that he was scheduled to meet both. However, he had a video conference with PM Narendra Modi. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, former state BJP president and Lok Sabha member Ajay Bhatt, former CM and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, minister of state for higher education Dhan Singh Rawat, Rajya Sabha member from Uttarakhand Anil Baluni and RSS state general secretary Suresh Bhatt are said to be among the contenders for the key post. Meanwhile, a BJP legislative party meeting has been called at the chief minister’s residence in Dehradun on Tuesday evening, highly placed sources said, adding that the meeting is likely to begin at 6 pm. Political observers said that holding a legislative party meeting in this scenario is significant as it is is usually held when the name of a new leader has to be announced to the MLAs. Senior BJP leaders remained tight-lipped over the developments. Dushyant Kumar Gautam, BJP’s state in-charge for Uttarakhand who had come to Dehradun along with Raman Singh on Saturday to take feedback from MLAs, told TOI that he “wasn’t aware of any change of CM or a legislative party meeting being called.” BJP state spokesperson Munna Singh Chauhan said, “After presenting the budget, the CM coming to Delhi to meet senior leaders is nothing new. There is no issue related to the CM’s post. It is a courtesy visit to meet seniors before March 18, when our party’s government completes four years in power.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawats-fate-continues-to-hang-in-balance/articleshow/81398586.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ATS quizzes API Waze over team’s probe into SUV case||Mumbai: The Anti-Terror Squad on Monday recorded the statement of assistant inspector of police Sachin Waze as part of its probe into the alleged murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran whose SUV was found with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s bungalow on February 25. Waze was part of the initial crime branch team that probed the explosives case. An ATS official confirmed questioning Waze. Sources said that the ATS want to find out details of the probe carried out by his team. “We had to clarify with Waze about certain aspects of the probe, the leads they were working on, about Hiran’s questioning, the police harassment Hiran spoke about in his letter of March 2.” Waze was not available for comment.Meanwhile, the ATS is trying to find out if it was the same person who stole the SUV, planted the explosives and was also responsible for Hiran’s death. “There appears to be a common link,” an officer said. Hiran’s body was found floating in a creek in Mumbra on Friday. ATS recreated the scene on Monday by doing a dummy body test. “We suspect the killer/s had thrown Mansukh’s body from Kalwa bridge hoping that it would get carried away into the Arabian Sea, but the body got stuck because of some ongoing bridge work and was washed ashore,” said a source.The team also examined the Scorpio car to ascertain if it was recently repaired. Hiran had claimed that the vehicle developed a snag, prompting him to park it on the Mulund-Airoli Road. The killers may have travelled to Vasai with Hiran’s mobile phone on and later switched it off after 11.30 pm to mislead the police. “It could also be possible that he was killed in a moving car and the body was thrown into the creek,” the source said.Hiran had stepped out of his home at around 8 pm on Thursday saying he was heading to Ghodbunder Road to meet one Tawde.Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis had alleged that Waze had known Hiran and had been in touch with him in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ats-quizzes-api-waze-over-teams-probe-into-suv-case/articleshow/81401704.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 9, 2021||Vadodara||New cases cross 50, one more dies||Vadodara: For the first time since February 2, the number of Covid-19 cases reported in a day crossed 50 in the city and district. As many as 52 persons tested positive out of 2,391 samples that were tested in the 24hours ending on Monday evening even as one more death took place due to Covid-19 for the first time after January 15. Data furnished by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation reveals that on February 2, 52 persons had tested positive in the city and district out of 2,602 who had got themselves tested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-cases-cross-50-one-more-dies/articleshow/81399911.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||CM announces Rs 10,000 each for anganwadi, ASHA volunteers who worked during Covid-19||Dehradun: On the occasion of International Women’s Day, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday announced Rs 10,000 each for ASHA and Aaganwadi volunteers, who worked during the Covid-19 phase. CM Rawat also announced Rs 15,000 for each of the Mahila Mangal Dal and women self help groups. In a function at Gairsain, minister of state for higher education Dhan Singh Rawat under the Pandit Deen Dayal Kisan Kalyan Yojana distributed interest-free loans of Rs 5.27 crore to 156 self help groups of Uttarakhand. CM Rawat, who was in Delhi on the day, virtually attended the event and addressed the gathering at Kisan Mela Maidan in Gairsain. The CM said that “for the all-round development of the society and the state, empowerment of women is extremely important. The greater the participation of women, the faster would be the pace of development.” He added, “We will be completing four years in power on March 18 and in this period, we have taken several steps for the welfare of women. We have given co-ownership rights to women in ancestral property to help them loan for various projects,” he said. Rawat pointed out that under the Ghasyari Yojana, a provision of Rs 25 crore has been made in the budget of 2021-22. “While bringing back leaves, wood and fodder from the jungles, several women have met with accidents. The project will help women and prevent such accidents,” said the CM. During the event, minister of state for higher education Dhan Singh Rawat distributed checks to 11 women self-help groups associated with vegetable and milk production, goat husbandry, jangora and rice packaging, juice and pickle packaging in Chamoli district. He said that a major initiative has been taken to give interest-free loans of up to Rs 5 lakh to women self-help groups in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-announces-rs-10000-each-for-anganwadi-asha-volunteers-who-worked-during-covid-19/articleshow/81398590.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||One in five complain of ‘long Covid’: Docs||Hyderabad: A year into the pandemic, many people who had recovered from Covid-19 continue to complain of ill health in what doctors term as ‘long Covid’. Doctors say they have been receiving post-Covid complaints from many patients, ranging from bouts of nightmares, lack of sleep, incoherence to body pains and fatigue. In a few cases post-Covid symptoms persist as long as six months after recovery. However, only those ‘long Covid’ cases with severe respiratory issues need hospitalisation. March 11 marks first anniversary of the declaration of Covid as a pandemic by WHO. Since its recognition as a pandemic, Hyderabad witnessed thousands of cases of sequalae or ‘long Covid’, necessitating opening of post-Covid care centres in the city. City doctors estimate that one in five people suffer from post-Covid symptoms even after three weeks of recovery. According to Center for Disease Control and Prevention of the USA, an estimated 50 lakh people suffer from ‘long Covid’ worldwide. WHO has recognised ‘long Covid’ as many recovered patients the worldover experienced the long-term effects of the pandemic. “Post Covid syndrome, also called ‘long Covid’, is persistence of symptoms after recovery. Patients may complain of fatigue, breathlessness, anxiety, palpitations, chest discomfort and some times brain fog. These symptoms may last for a few days or months,” said Dr Aftab Ahmed, general medicine specialist, Apollo Hospitals, Secunderabad. What exactly causes ‘long Covid’ is not clear. Researchers believe that it could be either due to relapse or failure of immune system to respond to infection. A survey of Helping Hand Foundation, which set up Covid sequalae centre for post Covid complications, revealed about 20% patients had to undergo Covid rehabilitation while 30 per cent needed neuro and ortho rehabilitation, said its managing trustee Mujtaba Hasan Askari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-in-five-complain-of-long-covid-docs/articleshow/81399943.cms||Syed Akbar
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Majority of Covid warriors in T women, says Eatala||Hyderabad: Recalling how women Covid warriors in the state had worked tirelessly and against all odds during the pandemic, state health minister Eatala Rajender said majority of the Covid warriors in the state are women. "ANMs and Asha Workers were serving suspected patients even before diagnosis was made. They had left their families and children behind to work at remote villages, PHCs and hospitals," he said speaking at a felicitation ceremony for Covid warriors held at Continental Hospitals. In total, 30 doctors working at various healthcare institutions, 15 staff members of Continental Hospitals, five police officers, three district medical officers were felicitated on the occasion. In addition, three staff members from Mahaprasthanam and ESI graveyards who aided in disposing bodies of patients who died of Covid-19 virus were also felicitated.  Speaking on the occasion, Dr Riyaz Khan, CEO, Continental Hospitals said, “Ours is a small effort to recognize their efforts and eulogize the heroes who went beyond their duties and strived to upkeep the spirit of humanity alive. This is a simple gesture of gratitude shown against the immense, tireless and matchless efforts put in by all the frontline warriors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/majority-of-covid-warriors-in-t-women-says-eatala/articleshow/81399947.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||Centre’s Kumbh SOP to remain applicable at Haridwar on Mahashivratri||Dehradun: The Union government’s SOP for the Haridwar Maha Kumbh would remain applicable in the mela area for the Shahi Snan of Mahashivratri on March 11. A letter written by chief Secretary Om Prakash — dated March 8 – confirms that the Centre’s SOP would remain applicable in Haridwar from March 10 to March 12. According to the SOP, people coming to Haridwar on the occasion of Mahashivratri would have to bring their negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test report. Besides, pilgrims would also have to adhere to the social distancing norms during this period. Additionally, children less than 10 years of age and elderly above 65 years would be discouraged to go to ghats or crowded places. The one-month-long curtailed Kumbh festival is scheduled to start from April 1. The first ‘shahi snan’ on the occasion of Mahashivratri is scheduled for March 11 and the remaining three ‘shahi snans’ are in the month of April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centres-kumbh-sop-to-remain-applicable-at-haridwar-on-mahashivratri/articleshow/81398592.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Higher mortality in lions than tigers||AHMEDABAD: The mortality rate of Asiatic lions is much higher than that of another big wildcat found in India – the tiger. While the mortality rate of lions is as high as 23% of the total recorded population, it is much higher as compared to 5% yearly deaths in the case of tigers. According to the numbers released by state forest minister Ganpat Vasava in the state assembly recently, 313 lions, including 152 cubs, have died in two years span from 2019 and 2020 in the state considered to be the last abode of this critically endangered sub-specie. Of these total deaths, 23 fatalities were from unnatural causes, according to Vasava. As per estimates by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the mortality rate in past two years is about 200. This includes 95 deaths in 2019 and 105 deaths in 2020. The total tiger population as per the latest census is 2,967 across the country. Gujarat has close to 674 lions as per the latest population census conducted last year by the state forest department. Many experts and forest department officials firmly believe that the population of lions could be as high as 1,200 in the state. Mortalities are cause-specific and comparisons across species and that too in different geographical areas is not seen as the best option. “But, from a conservation evaluation point of view we can look at how two species are faring given the management efforts, especially in relation to aspects like accidents, disease etc,” said a wildlife researcher who has for long studied the two species. Tigers across India with a mortality rate of 200 as compared to the single population of lions in Gujarat is worrying, according to the researcher. With nearly 50% of the Asiatic lion population spilling out of the protected areas after a rise in their population, there have been talks of finding an alternative home for them. “We don’t know the exact population of Asiatic lions and hence it is difficult to find out their mortality rate. Having said this, the 313 lion deaths figure over a span of two years looks very high and dangerous given the presence of Canine Distemper Virus (CDV) has been detected in the past,” said Y V Jhala, senior scientist at Wildlife Institute of India. He said the lion deaths outside Gir would be accurately recorded but inside the sanctuary area reporting such deaths is a big challenge. The mortality data as per NTCA indicates that out of total 750 tiger mortality events between 2012-2019, 52.4% (393 tiger deaths) of all the mortality events took place inside the tiger reserves, and 33.8% (254 tiger deaths) of tiger mortalities were recorded outside the boundary of tiger reserves and 13.7% (103) were seizures. On the lines of Project Tiger, the central government along with Gujarat forest department is soon planning to roll out Project Lion for protection and conservation of Asiatic lions in Gir National Park and Sanctuary in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/higher-mortality-in-lions-than-tigers/articleshow/81399971.cms||Maulik Pathak
March 9, 2021||India||Google to back 1 million women entrepreneurs||Google will support one million rural women entrepreneurs in India with training, mentorship and accelerator programmes, the tech giant announced on Monday during an event that also commemorated International Women’s Day. It will also train over one lakh women farmers in digital literacy. The event, #WomenWill, recognised the disproportionate burden of the pandemic on women, with Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai asserting the importance of providing opportunities for women. “Women are almost twice as likely to lose jobs during the pandemic and an estimated 20 million girls are at risk of not returning to school. We have the opportunity to build a future that is more inclusive—and we must take it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/google-to-back-1-million-women-entrepreneurs/articleshow/81402899.cms||Anam Ajmal
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||HEPA-powered mask by former T MP makes debut in Parliament||Hyderabad: A high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) mask with the second highest level of filter in the world (99.997% efficiency), developed by former Chevella MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, made it to Parliament with Rajya Sabha MP Dr Narendra Jadhav wearing it. Though the N-95 mask provides 95% efficiency, which can reduce drastically due to the open spaces around the nose, the HEPA variant cuts out any chances of infection due to Covid-19 or similar air-borne infections. “This has the second highest level of air filter with 99.997% efficiency,” the former MP said. “HEPA filters used in the mask are approved by FDA (US) and European regulators,” he admitted. The special mask, developed over 7-8 months, is now ready to go into production. “I had wanted to meet Jadhavji in Delhi, but he was apprehensive being at a high risk for Covid-19. So, when I went to meet him, I took the mask with me and he was happy that now he could attend Parliament with this,” the engineer-turned-politician said. Although there is an estimated six-month window for the mask to be sold in the market with vaccine coming into the picture, around 80 masks are currently being produced for various industrialists. Once available in open market, it might be priced around Rs 6,000. “In case of any future pandemics, we are ready with HEPA mask,” he added. While the advanced powered air purifying respirator masks are like an astronaut’s suit, the HEPA mask is a more user-friendly version of it . We started making these for air travellers, as it is a confined space||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hepa-powered-mask-by-former-t-mp-makes-debut-in-parliament/articleshow/81399975.cms||Amrita Didyala
March 9, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Watch a black panther growl from up close at Kevadiya||VADODARA: For years, you have een ‘Bagheera,’ the lovable black panther guarding Mowgli in Rudyard Kipling’s bestseller ‘The Jungle Book.’ Now, you can watch the growling black panther from up close right in your state. A young black panther has been recently brought in at the Jungle Safari near the Statue of Unity in Kevadia.  “We have got the black panther in exchange for lions from the Guwahati Zoo in Assam. Named ‘Kaali’, it is one-and-half years old and already kept in the enclosure for the tourists to view,,” said Dr Rajiv Gupta, managing director, Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd (SSNNL). He added that the black panther will be mated with a normal panther soon.  A black panther is a member of the big cat family and native to Asia and Africa. They are like normal panthers but melanistic as the black panther has excessive black pigments. It has a shiny coat of black fur and doesn’t have visible spots like leopards and jaguars. It is a swift climber and known to be a very good hunter.  Gupta said that plans are afoot to have many more animals in the Jungle Safari in the next few months. Recently a baby hippopotamus was also brought in at the safari that is attracting thousands of footfall every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/watch-a-black-panther-growl-from-up-close-at-kevadiya/articleshow/81399979.cms||Tushar Tere
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Probe cop role in Mansukh Hiran death, demands Opposition||MUMBAI: Opposition leader in the legislative council Pravin Darekar demanded an investigation into the role of police officer Sachin Waze in the alleged murder of Mansukh Hiran whose vehicle was found loaded with explosives near businessman Mukesh Ambani’s residence. Hiran’s body was found at Reti Bunder creek in Thane last week. Darekar made the demand in the legislative council on Monday after state home minister Anil Deshmukh read out a statement that the ATS had registered an FIR for murder on the complaint of Hiran’s wife Vimla. Vimla, in her complaint, said she suspected her husband had been murdered. The FIR has been registered under section 302, 201 and 120B of the IPC. Darekar said Waze has been associated with Dhananjay Gawde, a known extortionist. Deshmukh said the guilty will not be spared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-probe-cop-role-in-hiran-death-demands-oppn/articleshow/81401731.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Min Satyavathi tests positive for Covid-19||Hyderabad: Minister for women and child welfare Satyavathi Rathod became the first woman minister to test positive for Covid-19 on Monday. She is also the first minister to have been infected with the virus in the second wave. Official sources said the minister was busy attending the graduates MLC constituencies’ campaigning meetings in Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat in the last two weeks. Two TRS MLAs — Gandra Venkata Ramana Reddy and Rajender Reddy — had tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-satyavathi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/81399964.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Man hides identity, marries Hindu girl in temple, arrested in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: One Moinudddin was arrested by police in Gorakhpur for concealing his religious identity and marrying a Hindu girl a month ago and then forcing her to convert. His cousin Rehman Ali was also arrested on Monday for helping him in concealing his religious identity. Moinuddin, 28, a businessman identified himself as Munnu Singh and married a Hindu girl. A month after the marriage, he told the girl that he was a Muslim and started forcing her to convert as well. Shocked to know the reality, the girl refused to convert. She alleged in her complaint that Moinuddin then started threatening and blackmailing her for divorce. SHO, Harpur Budhat, Devendra Singh, said, “Moinuddin, a businessman, met the woman on a social networking site. He claimed to be a Hindu and married her as per Hindu customs and rituals at a temple and started living in a rented accommodation. However, when the girl asked Moinuddin about his parents and family, he got annoyed and revealed his true identity and started forcing her to convert. The accused misbehaved with her and threatened to marry another girl of his own religion if she didn’t adopt his religion, said police. The girl went to live with her parents and recently on coming to know that Moinuddin was going to marry another woman of his religion next week, she filed a complaint with police. Police booked Moinuddin under anti-conversion law and arrested him. “The complainant showed photographs of her wedding ceremony as per Hindu customs,” said Singh. “We arrested Moinuddin and booked him under anti-conversion law, voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation, punishment, cheating by personation, criminal conspiracy,” the SHO added. Moinuddin’s cousin Rehman Ali was arrested on Monday for conspiring with him and helping him conceal his religious identity, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-conceals-identity-marries-hindu-girl-in-temple-arrested/articleshow/81402328.cms||Arjumand Bano
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||Can return Saradha money: Kunal||Kolkata: Trinamool leader Kunal Ghosh will return the entire money he was paid by Saradha Group while he worked for the media company of the ponzi group. After being questioned for seven hours by the Enforcement Directorate on Monday, Ghosh claimed the agency had accepted his plea. “I have been cooperating with ED and will do so in future,” he said. While he was the CEO of the media group of Saradha, Ghosh used to draw his remuneration and was also paid from the ad revenue. While income tax was deducted from his earnings, Ghosh loaned Rs 50 lakh to the group. Ghosh had requested ED that he be allowed to pay back the money but after considering the tax and the loan he gave the group. The agency on Monday agreed to his plea, Ghosh claimed. EC will calculate and fix the amount that has to be returned. Ghosh has been told to appear again at the agency’s CGO Complex office on March 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/can-return-saradha-money-kunal/articleshow/81399967.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Goa||FC Goa wins hearts, but then came the tiebreaker||Panaji: For 120 minutes, it all seemed to go according to plan for FC Goa against Mumbai City FC in the second leg semifinal of the Indian Super League. Coach Juan Ferrando left star striker Igor Angulo on the bench and started with a new formation. To leave out someone who has scored 14 goals, the highest in the league, that was a brave decision. Ferrando introduced Ishan Pandita after just 45 minutes when, for the whole season, he had taken the field for just 26 minutes and scored four goals. For 90 minutes of regulation time and 30 extra, Goa seemed to be the better team. But despite testing Mumbai goalkeeper Amrinder Singh on several occasions, they failed to score. After 210 minutes of play spread over two legs, there was no clear winner. FC Goa had battled it out against a superior team and won the hearts with its beautiful game. But then came the tiebreaker. Asked during the pre-match press conference, Ferrando had told TOI that the team had been practicing for penalties. “But I hope it doesn’t come down to it,” he said. It wasn’t in his hands. The introduction of goalkeeper Naveen Kumar with a minute left on the clock appeared to be part of the tiebreaker plan. But how do you even prepare for something like this? How do you react when you miss the first two penalties, taken by your more confident penalty takers? Naveen did measure up to the challenge, making three saves. But Goa were trumped in the end with Mumbai goalkeeper Phurba Lachenpa, who had not played a single minute this season—not even in the second leg semi-final—turning out to be the hero. Lachenpa made four saves as Mumbai won 6-5 via sudden death tiebreaker, while Goa were left to wonder what may have been a night to remember at the GMC Athletic Stadium at Bambolim. “Mumbai were very difficult opponents. In the first and second game, we had chances, but we didn’t score. Then in penalties, it’s like Bingo. Sometimes you win, sometimes no,” Ferrando said after the game. Mumbai, at least on paper and earlier performances, were indeed a stronger team. They won the League Winners Shield, finishing nine points ahead of Goa. With star foreign players, they were expected to make it to the final for the first time. But Goa took them by surprise. In the first leg, the two-time finalists didn’t hold on to the lead, twice. In the second leg on Monday, they just didn’t find the final touch that translates good moves into a goal. “My players did a great job. But maybe in the end it was the pressure. When you go for penalties, there is a lot of stress. It’s now necessary to go to the dressing room and handle the emotions,” said Ferrando. This is Ferrando’s first year with Goa and he has managed to keep the team competitive, despite plenty of star departures, incidentally all to Mumbai, following in the footsteps of former coach Sergio Lobera. “I’ll give the team a three-day break and then we have to start preparing for the (AFC) Champions League,” said Ferrando. The AFC Champions League takes place next month and Goa will be the first team from India to take part in the group stages of Asian football’s top-tier club competition. Goa, just like the ISL, will again start as underdogs against some of the best teams in Asia, including last year’s finalists, Persepolis FC from Iran, who are in the same group. On the evidence of what Goa did in this season’s ISL—and this includes a record 15-match unbeaten run—they won’t go down without a fight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-wins-hearts-but-then-came-the-tiebreaker/articleshow/81401750.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||IPS officers grilled over cattle theft||Kolkata: The CBI, which is investigating the cross-border cattle smuggling case in Bengal, questioned two senior IPS officers on Monday. The two officers, who were posted at the border earlier, were asked about the measures they had taken to put a check on the smuggling. The two IPS officers had earlier moved Calcutta High Court, challenging the summons by the central investigation agency. They contended that the CBI had no authority to summon IPS officers without the consent of the state government. They also pleaded that the state had withdrawn the general section—earlier granted to the CBI—in 2018. They pleaded that these summons should be quashed by the court. The court, however, did not stay the CBI summons and the agency sent the duo another notice earlier last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ips-officers-grilled-over-cattle-theft/articleshow/81399985.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Lucknow||Congress sees UP panchayat polls as a chance to revive party||LUCKNOW: Seeing the impending panchayat elections as an opportunity to re-build party’s base, the Congress leadership has put their heart and soul in the preparation for it even as the announcement of the schedule remains awaited. The party had launched the grass-root election plan way back in December while its implementation is being monitored at every step by in-charge of UP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Insiders revealed that the task which began with the appointment of Nyay Panchayat functionaries is now in the phase of appointment of village leadership. At the same time, a committee to screen candidates willing to contest panchayat elections with the support of Congress Party is collecting applications and conducting interviews. The profile of selected candidates is being forwarded to the panchayat election task force in Priyanka Gandhi’s office.  Insiders revealed that the ongoing farmer’s agitation has given the party a place to stand and present itself as an option against the ruling BJP. It is for this that Priyanka Gandhi’s movement in the state has increased while UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu is moving in the villages for the past four months now. In addition to this, party leaders, including former MPs, MLAs and members of the AICC and UPCC, have been asked to hold activities in the rural areas and increase public interaction with groups like pradhans, farmers, SHGs etc. “Performance in panchayat election would help the party in strengthening its negotiation capacity in the 2022 assembly election,” said a member of the strategy team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-sees-panchayat-polls-as-a-chance-to-revive-party/articleshow/81402330.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Frauds pose as representatives of NGO run by Sonu Sood, dupe Hyderabad-based man||HYDERABAD: Posing as representatives of an NGO run by actor Sonu Sood to provide financial assistance to the poor, cyber frauds duped a city-based man of Rs 60,000. On March 3, Cyberabad police received a complaint from the victim mentioning that he was duped by Pankaj Singh and Baliram for Rs 60,000. The victim found a cell phone number of the fraudsters on the internet when he searched for the actor’s NGO. The victim contacted the fraudsters and asked for Rs 10,000 financial help. The fraudsters initially offered him Rs 50,000 after collecting the details of his Aadhaar card and bank account. On March 1, the fraudsters asked him to pay Rs 8,300 as registration fee to secure Rs 50,000 financial help. When the victim transferred the amount to the fraudsters, they offered to increase the financial help to Rs 3.6 lakh and made him transfer Rs 51,700 to their bank account as processing fee, Cyberabad police said. As the fraudsters continued to ask for more money, the victim lodged a complaint with the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/frauds-pose-as-representatives-of-ngo-run-by-sood-dupe-man/articleshow/81399984.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Lion’s jump raises question on fencing||Ahmedabad/Rajkot: The high-level committee formed to inquiry into the death of a lion in a railway accident near Ucchaya village in Amreli district was surprised when they were shown a video of a lion jumping over a six feet high fence along the railway track.The video raised questions on the fencing project. The incident of lion being run over on February 16 despite the fencing led to the argument that the project was not designed considering the lion behaviour.According to a forest department official, in 2018-19, six lions were run over by goods trains. At least 60 incidents of lions moving on to railway tracks were reported.Six lion deaths in 2014-15 had led to the fencing of the 40km line in the Rajula area at the project cost of Rs 32 crore. Though the members of the team that went to the area refused to comment on the incident and their visit, officials in Gandhinagar said that the team visited the area to take stock of the situation.CCF D T Vasavada said the fencing along the track is eight feet high and there is no question of the lion jumping the fence. The only possibility seems is that the gates, which are used by the farmers to pass through, was left open allowing the movement of the lion.Officials in the department said that there is plan to increase the height of the fence to 10 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lions-jump-raises-question-on-fencing/articleshow/81400022.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Public health director suffers chest pain, stable||Hyderabad: After developing chest pain on Sunday, Dr G Srinivas Rao, director public health, Telangana was rushed to a private hospital in the city. The official who had been working round the clock throughout the pandemic is being evaluated for cardiac problems. “He was admitted at Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills, for cardiac evaluation this morning. He is stable and undergoing investigations and treatment. He will be discharged in a day or two,” read an official statement from Apollo Hospitals. Sources close to the official say that he had worked for 18-20 hours daily on an average during the peak of the pandemic. “Stress could be a reason,” said an insider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/public-health-director-suffers-chest-pain-stable/articleshow/81400026.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Guv conferred with Top-20 Global Women of Excellence Award||Hyderabad: Telangana governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday was conferred with the Top-20 Global Women of Excellence-2021 award through virtual mode from Illinois, United States. The award was presented to the governor as part of the ninth Annual Congressional International Women’s Day Gala at Naperville, Chicago. The governor called for sustained efforts to create the gender equal world and promote the role of women in decision-making at all levels from local to global arena. She emphasised that gender parity was vital for the creation of gender equal, equitable, and inclusive world. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-conferred-with-top-20-global-women-of-excellence-award/articleshow/81401788.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Under Explosives Act, NIA doesn’t need state consent to take over case||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The Union home ministry on Monday ordered a probe by NIA into the recovery of explosives from an SUV parked near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Mumbai police were initially looking at the explosives angle while Mumbra police had registered an accidental death report after Hiran’s body was found in a Thane creek last Friday. The ATS took over the explosives probe after opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis made charges against assistant inspector Sachin Waze on the floor of the Assembly on Friday. After Hiran’s family said they suspected foul play, the ATS on Sunday took over that case as well and turned it into a murder investigation. A letter purportedly written by Hiran claiming harassment by the police has also surfaced. Deshmukh said on Monday, “The state home department has received a communication from MHA on the probe into recovery of explosives having been entrusted to NIA. In our opinion, this was a wrong decision particularly when state law-enforcing agencies were moving in the right direction. Mumbai police are highly competent and professional. But since the case has been given to NIA, we will cooperate with the Central agency.” The Explosive Substances Act was added to the NIA Schedule in 2019 through an amendment to the NIA Act. Recently, the NIA took up a case related to a blast in Murshidabad, West Bengal, in which state minister Jakir Hossain was injured. Soon after the Shiv Sena-led government assumed office, NIA had taken over the Elgar Parishad case about a Maoist conspiracy against the government. At the time, the MVA government had not objected to NIA taking over the investigation. An NIA official said the agency, as of now, was only entrusted with the case relating to recovery of the explosives-laden car outside the Ambanis’ residence Antilia. “The Mansukh Hiran case is not mentioned in the MHA order. We cannot say at this point what our investigation into the SUV case will lead us to in the future. Any leads or angles with a bearing on our case will be thoroughly followed,” the official told TOI. Deshmukh said that in the past, the Centre had entrusted the probe into sensitive cases either to the CBI or NIA but there had been no visible progress. “The offence in the Elgar Parishad case was registered on January 8, 2018 for objectionable speeches, while NIA took over the probe on January 24, 2020. We do not know the status of the case,” he said. In the case related to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death too, he added, “the CBI is yet to conclude the cause of death. We hope the CBI submits a report at the earliest.” Gelatin sticks and an anonymous note threatening harm to the Ambani family were recovered during a search of the Scorpio found parked near Antilia on February 25. Mumbai police had said, on the basis of Hiran’s statement that his car had developed a snag and he had left it on the Eastern Express Highway, that the vehicle was stolen on February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/under-explosives-act-nia-doesnt-need-state-consent-to-take-over-case/articleshow/81401807.cms||Bharti Jain
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs payout to 6,000 small depositors in NSEL scam case||MUMBAI: Allowing an appeal by the state government, Bombay HC on Monday set aside two orders of a special MPID trial court and directed payout to 6,445 depositors whose outstanding is within Rs 2 lakh-Rs10 lakh in the Rs 5,600-crore payment default case of 2013 involving the National Spot Exchange Ltd (NSEL). “The beneficial nature of legislation to protect the interest of small investors has to be taken into consideration because it is generally small depositors who are at the receiving end in such scams,” a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale held. The state had sought equitable distribution of amounts from seized assets to small depositors. The special court hearing the case for offences under Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act (MPID) had in October 2018 and April 2019 rejected the state’s plea. Hence, it appealed before the HC. Another small depositor, Rabibai Ismail, from Pune, had also appealed against the trial court order of November 2020, denying her permission to intervene. The state through special public prosecutor Avinash Avhad and assistant public prosecutor JP Yagnik as well as Ismail’s counsel Chetan Kapadia said paying off the 6,445 depositors or investors would be ‘just and fair’ and, hence, sought an ‘equitable distribution’ as contemplated by the MPID Act. The NSEL Investors Action Group whose members comprise those whose deposits are over Rs 10 lakh argued through their counsel Venkatesh Dhond that equitable distribution meant equal distribution of available money among all depositors and any artificial classification or graded distribution cannot be permitted. Contending that “all depositors who were duped deserved repayment of amounts due to them”, Dhond said the trial court had rightly held that graded payout was not permitted. The HC, however, held that ‘equitable’ is not the same as ‘equal’. It said in some cases ‘equitable’ would mean equal, depending on facts of that case, but the trial court must apply its mind to facts and circumstance and can “use its discretion” while issuing directions for distribution of funds among depositors. In 2018, all the depositors had received a paltry sum of .75% of their dues. Dhond said the state’s submission was a “populist” one and not what the law intended. The HC disagreed. The state said the trial court “failed to appreciate” the true scope of the word ‘equitable’ and the scheme of the MPID Act as small investors who had lost their entire savings need to be protected first. “The expression ‘equitable distribution’ has to be interpreted” in terms of what the law was enacted for. The HC also referred to Black’s Law Dictionary to state ‘equitable’ is consistent with “principles of justice and right”. The HC has made it clear that “amounts already distributed shall not be reopened.” The HC has kept its order in abeyance for a week on a request by NSEL Investors Action Group which wishes to go in appeal before the SC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hc-directs-payout-to-6k-small-depositors-in-nsel-scam-case/articleshow/81400104.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 9, 2021||Goa||Record 10 from Goa breach 99 percentile at JEE (Main)||PANAJI: In a record for the state, ten students from Goa — all from the same institute — have scored over 99 percentile at the JEE (Main) so far. This is the highest number since the new format for the exam was introduced by the national testing agency (NTA) three years ago. Caranzalem boy Ratan Doddalingannavar was declared the state topper with 99.89 percentile. Close behind him was Porvorim resident Agrajah Bhobe, with 99.83 percentile. Manali Manjrekar, also from Porvorim, has emerged as the highest female scorer so far, with 99.73 percentile. All students said they are now focused on answering the upcoming JEE (Advanced), to get into one of the older IITs.. “I aim to join IIT-Bombay and so am focused right now on answering JEE (Advanced),” said Ratan, the son of civil engineer Manohar and former public sector employee Shobha. The results for JEE (Main) 2021 for the February session were declared by the NTA late on Monday evening. “When I got the answer key, I was expecting around 99 percentile, but 99.83 was quite special,” said Agrajah, the son of surgeon Dr Vardhan and anesthetist Dr Ananya. All ten students are from Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School, Cujira. With their exceptional scores, the ten to have attained over 99 percentile already qualify for a seat of their preference at any of the NITs and IIITs of their choice. However, they are aiming to replicate their performance at the JEE (Advanced) for one of the top preferred stream seats at the IITs. “I want to pursue either mechanical or computer engineering, whichever one I can get. I am focusing on getting into one of the old IITs like those in Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai,” said Agrajah. The daughter of engineers Mandar and Yogita, Manali said she has her sights set on pursuing programmes in pure sciences or engineering. “It is unpredictable with JEE, and this year, fewer answered. I had expected around 99 percentile, and according to last year’s trends, it was achievable. Our school teachers were there for us at all times even though it was online learning,” she said. Director of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School, Vynkatesh Prabhudesai, said that online learning worked to the students’ advantage. “This performance is a new record in Goa. Five students scoring above 99.5 percentile, especially with online classes, proves online teaching can be made super effective. We have proven this. There was no time limitation and we could be with the students any time of the day, even during very late hours,” he said. “Learning online was actually better than regular school as we did not have to travel a lot and could save on time,” said Agrajah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/record-10-from-goa-breach-99-percentile-at-jee-main/articleshow/81401796.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Wildlife disease research centre for Gujarat||Ahmedabad: In its first major announcement made under Project Lion, the Centre has decided to set up a National Wildlife Disease Diagnostic Research and Referral Centre in Gujarat. The proposal is part of the document for Project Lion drafted in consultation with the Gujarat government and Wildlife Institute of India. This was stated by Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Babul Supriyo in the Rajya Sabha in response to a question asked by RS Member of Parliament Parimal Nathwani. Project Lion was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15 last year. Nathwani wanted to know whether the government has prepared a road map for implementation of the proposed Project Lion. The minister, in his statement, said, “Project Lion seeks action aimed at averting risk of extinction of Asiatic lion and ensuring their population for generations to come by sustaining the scientific conservation management of Asiatic lions. The project also aims to ensure that local communities are the main stakeholders and benefit from lion conservation.” In response to a question on available health infrastructure in Gir to treat sick or injured lions, Supriyo said that two hospitals and seven rescue centres are available as health infrastructure in Gir. Meanwhile, in another question, Nathwani sought to know what steps are being taken by the government to maintain balanced bio-diversity in national parks and sanctuaries in Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. Sources said that apart from having these centres and other small measures, the Centre also plans to ask the Gujarat Forest department to increase the size of the national park from 250 sq km to 1,000 sq km or declare the entire Gir sanctuary as a national park. However, the Gujarat government is yet to be consulted, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wildlife-disease-research-centre-for-gujarat/articleshow/81400085.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Cabbie in Hyderabad collects excess food from functions to feed the poor||HYDERABAD: It’s been more than five years since, Shaik Salauddin, working as a cab driver in Hyderabad, began serving food to the needy. While he ferries people back and forth during the day, at night his cab doubles up as a vehicle that picks up excess food from parties and functions to distribute it to the homeless across the city. Since 2017, Salauddin has distributed food to thousands of homeless people and to those who come for medical treatment to the city from far off places. One among them is P Anjamma. On Monday, when Salauddin gave her a bag full of food near Nallakunta, when he found her sitting on a footpath, Anjamma said, “I had no energy even to walk a little distance to beg for food or money. A lot of people passed by but did not think of giving me something to eat. There are very few people like him (Salauddin) who care for people like us.” The 35-year-old, has made it his life’s mission to reach out to people and provide them with free food every day. On days when he doesn’t receive calls about excess food that is available at a particular party or a function, Salauddin spends part of his daily earnings to buy food for at least a few people before he calls it a day. “When I used to attend functions or weddings, I used to feel very bad looking at the amount of food that is wasted. There are several people in our city who cannot afford two square meals a day. This thought was bothering me for a very long time,” said Salauddin. “One day, when I dropped a customer and was returning home late at night, I noticed that there were several people waiting outside the cancer hospital near Banjara Hills. All these people come from districts for free medical treatment either for themselves or their family members and have no shelter or money to eat. It is since that day, I decided how to make sure that this excess food in functions does not go waste,” he said adding that he will continue to serve the needy till his last breath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cabbie-collects-excess-food-from-functions-to-feed-the-poor/articleshow/81400058.cms||Moulika.KV
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||T movement activist passes away||Hyderabad: Kolluri Chiranjeevi, the first separate Telangana statehood activist, passed away on Monday. The 74-year-old MBBS graduate died due to illness at a private hospital. The Telangana government had sanctioned Rs 10 lakh last week for his treatment. Chiranjeevi was associated with naxal movement and dalit movements in Telangana. He was a close associate of BSP founder Kanshi Ram and was editor of Bahujana Patrika. As the convenor of Telangana Movement Founders’ Forum, he took the initiative and along with the Deccan Archeological and Cultural Research Institute published the controversial book titled ‘Tragedy of Hyderabad’ authored by the last Prime Minister of Hyderabad State Mir Laiq Ali, which was published in 1962 and banned by the Indian government. Chief minister Sri K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed his condolences over the death of Dr Kolluri Chiranjeevi. The CM said that Chiranjeevi’s life is an ideal for society, as he, who was a qualified doctor, lived for the well-being of the society. The CM conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-movement-activist-passes-away/articleshow/81400095.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cumin production may decline 13%: FISS||Ahmedabad: Cumin (jeera) production in Gujarat is estimated to decline this year on account of reduction in acreage and lower yield. The state’s cumin production, according to the Federation of Indian Spice Stakeholders (FISS), is expected to drop 13% in 2021.The production is estimated at 2.07 lakh tonnes in this year as compared to 2.39 lakh tonnes in 2020, shows crop estimates released by the trade body on Sunday.The reduction in output is attributed to a dip in the area under cumin cultivation and its yield. The cumin acreage in Gujarat, the largest producer of the spice in India, came down 10% to 3.95 lakh hectares in 2021from 4.40 lakh hectares in the previous year. The per hectare yield, too, is likely to decline about 3% to 526 kg per hectare from 544 kg per hectare during the same period, show estimates by FISS.“The area under cumin declined as some farmers turned to crops such as coriander, gram and mustard. Higher prices of these commodities prompted farmers to take up these crops,” said Ashwin Nayak, founder chairman, FISS. The cumin acreage, according to the data compiled by the state agriculture department, shows a 4% decline to 4.69 lakh hectares from 4.88 lakh hectares last year.Rajasthan, another major cumin growing state in India, is going to witness about 10% drop in production to 2.70 lakh metric tonnes in 2021 from 2.96 lakh metric tonnes in 2020 due to the same factors, FISS further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cumin-production-may-decline-13-fiss/articleshow/81400142.cms||Kalpesh Damor
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Regularisation of many illegal colonies may take time||Edited - 360 Jaipur: As the proposal to seek nod for regularising many illegal colonies was excluded from the recent empowered committee agenda, the wait of plot owners to procure lease deeds is growing longer. In the absence of lease deeds (patta), the developmental work in colonies would suffer. As per records, there are 63 colonies falling under the Prithvi Raj Nagar (PRN) scheme. Similarly, the JDA is also waiting to seek directions to regularise colonies situated on ‘mandir mafi’ land. There are over 75 colonies in PRN scheme which are developed on this land. An official said, in many colonies, the housing societies have illegally developed plots on the facility area (open spaces, parks, stadiums). An official said, “Before regularising, the JDA has to seek guidance. As per the mandatory rule, a society owner has to develop a society in 60:40 ratio. While, plotting should be done on 60%, remaining 40% should be reserved for roads, parks, open space to develop water tank, etc.” The housing society owners have developed plots on the area which was earmarked to develop facilities in Master Plan 2011. Residents of these schemes will remain deprived of facilities even after regularisation of the schemes due to unequal development as no land is left to develop the facility. A writ petition, 1554/2000 on this matter was also filed in the high court. Likewise, after the Supreme Court had issued many orders regarding regularisation of colonies on ‘mandir mafi’ land. A proposal was forwarded to seek legal opinion and after examining all the orders, lease deeds will be given to the plot owners. “Earlier, we were thinking to table the proposal in empowered committee meeting. Now, the meeting will not be held in near future, we will send it to the state government directly,” the official said. The JDA will also seek directions on regularisation of residential plots situated on 80-feet wide roads in PRN scheme. Recently, the civic body has decided to give only commercial lease deeds on plots on 80-feet road. However, there are many owners who are utilising the plots for residential purpose and do not want to spend extra to seek commercial lease deeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/regularisation-of-many-illegal-colonies-may-take-time/articleshow/81400125.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Goa||All opportunities were given for CZMP hearing, says Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant, reacting to the protests outside the venues of the public hearing for the coastal zone management plan (CZMP), said on Monday that “all opportunities were given to the people” to raise their objections and suggestions on the right platform, but they were only speaking outside the venue. Sawant said that he has sought reports on the public hearing from both district collectors. Reacting to the claim by members of the public that the public hearing was illegal, Sawant said that “I was monitoring everything, and I was continuously in touch with both the collectors”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-opportunities-were-given-for-czmp-hearing-says-sawant/articleshow/81401810.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||NIA probe would mean there’s ‘something fishy,’ says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Monday criticised the Centre’s decision to hand over probe into recovery of explosives outside Antilia to the NIA. He said the Anti-Terror Squad was looking into that and the case related to Mansukh Hirans’ death, “but if the Centre intends to hand over the case to the NIA, it would mean there is something fishy, but we will expose it soon.” He said the ATS would continue its probe (into Hiran’s death) as the state government has full faith in its investigating agencies. Thackeray pointed out that MP Mohan Delkar from Dadra and Nagar Haveli who recently committed suicide in a Mumbai hotel had named a few persons. The state government would carry out an investigation and “punish” those responsible, he said. Thackeray criticised opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis for having demanded an NIA probe into the recovery of explosives in the first place. Referring to the Delkar case, he said, “Delkar’s family met me and asked me to probe the matter in detail. Delkar, who was from a Union Territory, had faith that the Maharashtra government would probe his death thoroughly, but our opposition leader is maligning the image of the state investigating agencies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-nia-probe-would-mean-theres-something-fishy-says-uddhav/articleshow/81401828.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: No site appointment needed again for second dose, say officials||PUNE: The second dose of the Covid vaccine can be taken at the same site as the first without prior appointment, health officials have said, adding that beneficiaries will be automatically given a scheduled appointment for the follow-up shot, at the same centre. “This automated system is effective. There will be no need to book an appointment for the second dose again,” said state immunisation officer, DN Patil. Also, if the beneficiary is in another city at the time of the second dose, she/he can get the shot at the nearest site in that city after showing the beneficiary ID and phone number. But health officials said it is advisable to go to the same centre as it limits confusion. “Those who have received Covaxin should ideally ensure they go to the same site as the vaccine is not as widely available as Covishield,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle. He said every centre is supposed to make separate slots for those receiving their first dose, second dose and walk-in registrations. A slot for every 100 beneficiaries covers 50 registered beneficiaries, 30 spot-registrations and 20 second-dose beneficiaries. “These numbers can be changed according to the availability of doses and the number of sessions planned by the district administration,” Deshmukh said. A beneficiary also has the option to pick the timeline for the second dose — between the 29th and 42nd day after the first jab, central health officials said. “This option is available on two conditions: The first dose has to be administered. And if so, it’s only for centres where the vaccine type is the same as the first dose,” an official said. Last week, the state’s vaccination coverage (till Saturday) touched a total of 17.44 lakh beneficiaries, including citizens and health and frontline workers. State officials said they are now preparing to increase the number of vaccination sites to 2,000, from the current 1,127.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-site-appointment-needed-again-for-2nd-dose-officials/articleshow/81409519.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Baby with congenital defects rescued from dustbin||Coimbatore: A male baby with multiple congenital defects was found abandoned in a dustbin in Palladam early Sunday morning. The baby did not have an anus or anal opening and a portion of his brain tissue had come out into a sac that was protruding out of his spine.The infant was rushed to Palladam GH, where first aid was provided, and then shifted to the pediatric surgery unit at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. CMCH authorities said the baby will require multiple surgeries before he becomes viable and normal, after which they will follow protocols to hand him over for adoption.Manickavalli, 25, an employee of a private knitting company at Arulpuram, Palladam, heard some sound coming from a dustbin when she stepped out of her house at 5.30am to perform morning rituals.When she went to check, she saw a newborn male baby lying inside the dustbin. She immediately alerted neighbours and police who handed the baby over to Palladam GH.Doctors at the GH said the baby was born without an anus, a condition called imperforate anus, and an issue in his spine. The baby was to CMCH on Sunday afternoon.CMCH dean Dr A Nirmala said the 2.5kg-baby has multiple issues. “The baby has an imperforate anus and a portion of the brain tissue has come out in sac from his spine, a form of condition called meningocele. The baby will require multiple sittings to correct all the above issues. Even after we correct, we can’t assure that he will become fully normal,” she said. “Only once we correct all the issues, can we hand him over for adoption,” she added.Police suspect that the parents could have abandoned the baby after learning about the congenital defects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/baby-with-congenital-defects-rescued-from-dustbin/articleshow/81400136.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Goa||Two senior citizens brutally murdered at home in Goa's Fatorda||MARGAO: Two senior citizens — Miguel Miranda, 62, and his mother-in-law, Catarina Pinto, 85 — were brutally killed by unidentified persons in their house at Ambaji, Fatorda, on Monday. Police have booked a case of murder against the unknown assailants. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh told reporters that police were informed about the incident by Miranda’s son, Valentino, who said that his father was murdered by labourers who were staying in a room behind their house. The police found both Miranda and Pinto lying in a pool of blood in their house’s storeroom. All three labourers who were living in the room behind the house have since gone missing, police said. Also missing was a two-wheeler belonging to Miranda, although it was later traced near the Vasco railway station. Investigations are underway to track down the person who reached Vasco by the two-wheeler. DIG Paramaditya and SP (crime branch) Shobit Saxena also visited the scene of the crime and guided the investigations. Paramaditya told reporters from the crime spot that police were probing the case through all angles. “Right now we can’t say if robbery was the motive, or if there was any previous enmity between the deceased and the culprits,” he said, adding that police were in the process of establishing the identity of the accused. He said that the bodies had stab injuries as well as blunt impact marks, and that the post-mortem examination would reveal the cause of death. “We are looking into more clues,” he said. Police have attached several items, some bearing blood stains, from the house, which the police surmise may have been used by the accused to commit the crime. Further investigation is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-sr-citizens-brutally-murdered-at-home-in-fatorda/articleshow/81401820.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: No site appointment needed again for second dose, say officials||PUNE: The second dose of the Covid vaccine can be taken at the same site as the first without prior appointment, health officials have said, adding that beneficiaries will be automatically given a scheduled appointment for the follow-up shot, at the same centre. “This automated system is effective. There will be no need to book an appointment for the second dose again,” said state immunisation officer, DN Patil. Also, if the beneficiary is in another city at the time of the second dose, she/he can get the shot at the nearest site in that city after showing the beneficiary ID and phone number. But health officials said it is advisable to go to the same centre as it limits confusion. “Those who have received Covaxin should ideally ensure they go to the same site as the vaccine is not as widely available as Covishield,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle. He said every centre is supposed to make separate slots for those receiving their first dose, second dose and walk-in registrations. A slot for every 100 beneficiaries covers 50 registered beneficiaries, 30 spot-registrations and 20 second-dose beneficiaries. “These numbers can be changed according to the availability of doses and the number of sessions planned by the district administration,” Deshmukh said. A beneficiary also has the option to pick the timeline for the second dose — between the 29th and 42nd day after the first jab, central health officials said. “This option is available on two conditions: The first dose has to be administered. And if so, it’s only for centres where the vaccine type is the same as the first dose,” an official said. Last week, the state’s vaccination coverage (till Saturday) touched a total of 17.44 lakh beneficiaries, including citizens and health and frontline workers. State officials said they are now preparing to increase the number of vaccination sites to 2,000, from the current 1,127.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-site-appointment-needed-again-for-2nd-dose-officials/articleshow/81400161.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls: NTK fields 234 candidates, 50% women||COIMBATORE: Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) on Sunday introduced its candidates in Chennai for the 234 assembly constituencies in the state for the April 6 election. The party has given 50% seats to women candidates. The party is contesting alone in the election. Addressing cadres, NTK coordinator Seeman said his party would provide pension to farmers who are above 60 years if the party comes to power. Seeman said politics has become like corporate companies whereas it should be for public service. “All political parties are focusing on earning their investment in politics. But NTK has been travelling in the opposite direction,” he said. He said agriculture will become a government enterprise and farmers will be government employees if NTK comes to power. “Youngsters from most villages have migrated to cities to get good education and medical facilities. That will change and youths from villages will get better education and medical facilities. It will prevent migration from villages to cities,” Seeman said. He will contest from Thiruvottriyur in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ntk-fields-234-candidates-50-women/articleshow/81400148.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||QR-based complaint & feedback system for women safety||Hyderabad: The Telangana state police launched a QR-based complaint and feedback system for women’s safety. Scanning of the QR codes will enable users to register complaints against harassment including in public places and online. Users can also give feedback to assess women’s safety in urban places. The Telangana state police partnered with urban self-help groups, women safety wing and Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas. Week-long programmes were conducted by the Telangana police ahead of International Women’s Day. “It’s not about celebrating just one day but ensuring everyone becomes part of these efforts on the long term,” said DGP Mahender Reddy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/qr-based-complaint-feedback-system-for-women-safety/articleshow/81401824.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: No site appointment needed again for second dose, say officials||PUNE: The second dose of the Covid vaccine can be taken at the same site as the first without prior appointment, health officials have said, adding that beneficiaries will be automatically given a scheduled appointment for the follow-up shot, at the same centre. “This automated system is effective. There will be no need to book an appointment for the second dose again,” said state immunisation officer, DN Patil. Also, if the beneficiary is in another city at the time of the second dose, she/he can get the shot at the nearest site in that city after showing the beneficiary ID and phone number. But health officials said it is advisable to go to the same centre as it limits confusion. “Those who have received Covaxin should ideally ensure they go to the same site as the vaccine is not as widely available as Covishield,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle. He said every centre is supposed to make separate slots for those receiving their first dose, second dose and walk-in registrations. A slot for every 100 beneficiaries covers 50 registered beneficiaries, 30 spot-registrations and 20 second-dose beneficiaries. “These numbers can be changed according to the availability of doses and the number of sessions planned by the district administration,” Deshmukh said. A beneficiary also has the option to pick the timeline for the second dose — between the 29th and 42nd day after the first jab, central health officials said. “This option is available on two conditions: The first dose has to be administered. And if so, it’s only for centres where the vaccine type is the same as the first dose,” an official said. Last week, the state’s vaccination coverage (till Saturday) touched a total of 17.44 lakh beneficiaries, including citizens and health and frontline workers. State officials said they are now preparing to increase the number of vaccination sites to 2,000, from the current 1,127.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-site-appointment-needed-again-for-2nd-dose-officials/articleshow/81409523.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Temple built on lake bed to open new gopuram||CHENNAI: Defying several Madras high court orders on removal of encroachment in water bodies and the state government’s Protection of Tanks and Eviction of Encroachment Act, 2007, a temple trust is all set to conduct ‘kumbabishekam’ of a new gopuram of the Shanthi Durgai Amman temple constructed inside Sembakkam lake in Chennai. The trust is also collecting donation for the event in violation of the poll code. Protests and petitions from residents have yielded no result as temple authorities have completed construction of the gopuram and put up posters across the panchayat inviting people for the inauguration. Rajan Subramanian of Sarvamangala Association, who has been fighting against the encroachment since 2009, said he informed public works department officials several times in the past week but no action was taken. “It is not just temples. There are more than 200 houses across three wards of the panchayat. We want them removed. In 2007, after the state government passed the act, it had asked PWD to remove encroachments from 29 tanks in and around Chennai. Encroachments were removed only from seven tanks that included Annai Eri in Pallikaranai, Pudhuthangal in Tambaram and Narayanapuram Eri. Lakes such as Chitlapakkam and Sembakkam were part of the list but the encroachments were never removed,” he said. According to documents accessed by TOI, survey of encroachments was completed in 2009 but no action was taken. When questioned, a senior PWD official said, post the 2015 floods, focus shifted to removal of encroachments from Cooum and Adyar. “We have been working on removing encroachments but we need coordination from all line agencies. We have asked for a joint inspection this week based on a complaint against the temple function and post elections we will remove the encroachment,” said the official. Sunil Jayaram, co-founder of Chitlapakkam Rising, a citizen’s movement, said in 2017 several encroachments by temples were removed. “After the floods, there was some action. But the authorities have slowed the process,” he said. S Pandian, of SVV Trust which is in charge of the temple, told TOI he was aware that it was a violation. “A temple is constructed for people and by the people. We didn’t do it alone. It was built with donation from the people. If they want to remove the temple, they should first remove all the houses,” he said, adding that the government could demolish the temple if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/temple-inside-lake-to-open-new-gopuram/articleshow/81400154.cms||Komal Gautham
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: No site appointment needed again for second dose, say officials||PUNE: The second dose of the Covid vaccine can be taken at the same site as the first without prior appointment, health officials have said, adding that beneficiaries will be automatically given a scheduled appointment for the follow-up shot, at the same centre. “This automated system is effective. There will be no need to book an appointment for the second dose again,” said state immunisation officer, DN Patil. Also, if the beneficiary is in another city at the time of the second dose, she/he can get the shot at the nearest site in that city after showing the beneficiary ID and phone number. But health officials said it is advisable to go to the same centre as it limits confusion. “Those who have received Covaxin should ideally ensure they go to the same site as the vaccine is not as widely available as Covishield,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle. He said every centre is supposed to make separate slots for those receiving their first dose, second dose and walk-in registrations. A slot for every 100 beneficiaries covers 50 registered beneficiaries, 30 spot-registrations and 20 second-dose beneficiaries. “These numbers can be changed according to the availability of doses and the number of sessions planned by the district administration,” Deshmukh said. A beneficiary also has the option to pick the timeline for the second dose — between the 29th and 42nd day after the first jab, central health officials said. “This option is available on two conditions: The first dose has to be administered. And if so, it’s only for centres where the vaccine type is the same as the first dose,” an official said. Last week, the state’s vaccination coverage (till Saturday) touched a total of 17.44 lakh beneficiaries, including citizens and health and frontline workers. State officials said they are now preparing to increase the number of vaccination sites to 2,000, from the current 1,127.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-site-appointment-needed-again-for-2nd-dose-officials/articleshow/81409522.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||5.4kg ganja seized from guest worker||Tirupur: The Perumanallur police on Saturday seized 5.4kg ganja from a 33-year-old guest worker.Police identified him as Bramanadha Dalai from Alamanga in Bhadrak district in Odisha. “He had bought the contraband from Jaipur in Rajasthan. He had reached Perumanallur on February 2. He was staying with a relative and working in a textile unit here,” a police officer said.After receiving information that Dalai was selling ganja, a policeman posing as a buyer contacted him over phone. Dalai told the cop that he was ready to sell 7kg ganja for Rs 2 lakh. Police arrested him on Saturday night and seized 5.35kg ganja. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-4kg-ganja-seized-from-guest-worker/articleshow/81400128.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||District logs 48 Covid cases,6,309 people take the jab||Coimbatore: As many as 6,309 people took the jab against Covid-19 on Monday. This is the highest number recorded in a day since the vaccination drive began in the district on January 16.While 5,749 of the beneficiaries received their first shot, 560 took their second shot completing their vaccination.Health officers said Monday’s figures were a sign that awareness regarding the safety and importance of vaccination seem to have finally reached the public.CMCH saw 360 people take the vaccine on the day. “We believe that many government officers on election duty who were shying away or did not fit into the prescribed age limit came for the vaccination on Monday, which pushed up the numbers,” a health department official said. “This is a sign that the public have become more aware of the importance and safety of the vaccine,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said.Many retirement homes and communities have begun signing up with hospitals to give their residents exclusive slots for vaccination, thereby reducing waiting time and possible exposure.Meanwhile, the district recorded 48 fresh cases of Covid-19 for the fourth consecutive day on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 56,127. As many as 51 cases were discharged, keeping the active cases at 353.With the district recording one death, the toll rose to 685. A 62-year-old diabetic woman who got admitted on March 4, with coughing and loose stools, died due to respiratory distress on Sunday.Of the 48 cases, 38 are from within the corporation limit. While six of them are from Kovaipudur, five are from Saibaba Colony. “The six people from Kovaipudur are from one family. Though they are asymptomatic, they got tested because a pregnant girl visited their house regularly, but was again asymptomatic, tested positive at PSG Hospital where she got admitted for delivery. The six turned out to be positive too,” a health officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-logs-48-covid-cases6309-people-take-the-jab/articleshow/81400121.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||Why March is a volatile month for Uttarakhand politics||DEHRADUN: The month of March has a dubious distinction linked with witnessing some major political turmoil in the Himalayan state. It was in March 2016 when an effort was made to topple the Harish Rawat government when a group of MLAs revolted against the CM. Then, in March last year, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat sprung a surprise by declaring Gairsain as the summer capital which shook up the politics in the Himalayan state. This year, too, it is in March that the CM announced the decision to make Gairsian into a commisionary incorporating the districts of Kumaon. The move is said to have greatly incensed the BJP MLAs from Kumaon and a political crisis has ensued in the state with a change of guard likely. Read AlsoUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat to resign todayUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat is likely to resign at a press conference on Tuesday. As per sources, he is scheduled to address a press conference today where he will officially announce his exit, said sources. There have been reports of serious discontent from a section of BJPPolitical analyst Jay Singh Rawat told TOI, “March has a special connection with the politics of Uttarakhand as this is the month when a new government is formed after each election. Also, the budget session – which is usually passed in March – becomes extremely important.” Incidentally, it was during the budget session in 2016 that the Harish Rawat government faced rebellion from its own MLAs. Five years on, it is again during the budget session that the Trivendra Rawat government, too, faced uncertainty with the saffron party MLAs being called to Dehradun to meet the party observers and the session wound up in a hurry. Watch Political crisis brews as Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat to meet with BJP leadership in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/why-march-is-a-volatile-month-for-uttarakhand-politics/articleshow/81397583.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 9, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: No site appointment needed again for second dose, say officials||PUNE: The second dose of the Covid vaccine can be taken at the same site as the first without prior appointment, health officials have said, adding that beneficiaries will be automatically given a scheduled appointment for the follow-up shot, at the same centre. “This automated system is effective. There will be no need to book an appointment for the second dose again,” said state immunisation officer, DN Patil. Also, if the beneficiary is in another city at the time of the second dose, she/he can get the shot at the nearest site in that city after showing the beneficiary ID and phone number. But health officials said it is advisable to go to the same centre as it limits confusion. “Those who have received Covaxin should ideally ensure they go to the same site as the vaccine is not as widely available as Covishield,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle. He said every centre is supposed to make separate slots for those receiving their first dose, second dose and walk-in registrations. A slot for every 100 beneficiaries covers 50 registered beneficiaries, 30 spot-registrations and 20 second-dose beneficiaries. “These numbers can be changed according to the availability of doses and the number of sessions planned by the district administration,” Deshmukh said. A beneficiary also has the option to pick the timeline for the second dose — between the 29th and 42nd day after the first jab, central health officials said. “This option is available on two conditions: The first dose has to be administered. And if so, it’s only for centres where the vaccine type is the same as the first dose,” an official said. Last week, the state’s vaccination coverage (till Saturday) touched a total of 17.44 lakh beneficiaries, including citizens and health and frontline workers. State officials said they are now preparing to increase the number of vaccination sites to 2,000, from the current 1,127.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-site-appointment-needed-again-for-2nd-dose-officials/articleshow/81409520.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Life for man who raped girl in 2012||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old man was sentenced to life for raping a neighbour, who was 12 years old, in 2012 at Kacheguda. The accused raped the girl when she went to his house to watch TV.  After the trial, on Monday, B Srinivasa Rao, Judge for XI Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge Court, Nampally, convicted the accused and sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment and pay Rs 50,000 fine. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/life-for-man-who-raped-girl-in-2012/articleshow/81401840.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Revoke decision giving govt business to pvt sector banks’||Ahmedabad:Irked with the decision of the Union government to lift embargo on private sector banks to have access to government business, public sector bank employees have sought to revoke the decision. According to a statement issued by the Maha Gujarat Bank Employees’ Association (MGBEA) on Monday, the government decision will help boost private banks at the cost of public sector banks and therefore the decision must be reviewed. “If all banks are equal, then why the private sector banks are exempted from mandatorily adhering to norms of rural branch expansion, rural lending, agriculture loans, priority sector loans, among others,” questioned Janak Rawal, general secretary, MGBEA. “The public-sector banks have mobilized 42 crore bank accounts of the poor people under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. Private banks have opened only 1.25 crore such accounts. If banks are to be treated equally as per the statement issued by the government, such bias is not appropriate,” said Rawal. MGBEA members said that public sector banks’ social-banking obligations come at a cost. “Lesser rate of interest on agriculture loans or education loans or MSME, costs public sector banks. Providing government’s business to these banks helps cross-subsidise the additional cost these banks incur in servicing other government schemes. The decision to give equal treatment to private banks is unfair and to the disadvantage of public sector banks,” according to MGBEA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/revoke-decision-giving-govt-business-to-pvt-sector-banks/articleshow/81400179.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||Half of top posts in akhadas will be kept for women seers: Akhada body president||Dehradun: On the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) Narendra Giri said that 50% of the top positions in akhadas will be reserved for female seers. Currently, there are about 500 mahamandaleshwars across all the 13 akhadas that come under the jurisdiction of ABAP, the apex body of akhadas in the country, of which only around 150 are women. Speaking with TOI on Monday, Narendra Giri said, “Women are making their mark in every area of society and should be encouraged in the religious sphere too. That is why we have decided to reserve 50% of the top positions in our akhadas like the mahamandaleshwar's post for women.” Giri said that in his own akhada, Niranjani, around 15 sadhvis hold senior positions. “Seers like minister of state for food processing industries Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, Santoshi mata, Mandakini Giri in Ujjain and Sati Mai are at the helm of affairs at Niranjani akhada,” Giri said. However, even though women may have decision-making authority at the top level, they are not allowed to reside in the akhadas as tradition forbids it, Giri added. An aspiring female seer told TOI that she welcomed Giri’s decision. “It is a huge announcement, considering women are often kept out unless they have an extremely strong backing. With over 50% positions now reserved for women, the scenario is going to change for the better for sure,” the seer, who refused to be named, said. In January, Giri had gone against his deputy, the general secretary of ABAP Mahant Hari Giri of Juna akhada, saying kinnar akhada (sect of transgender seers) will not get separate recognition and continue to be part of Juna akhada. On Monday, he maintained that instead of women forming separate akhadas, they could join the existing sects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/half-of-top-posts-in-akhadas-will-be-kept-for-women-seers-akhada-body-president/articleshow/81397586.cms||Shivani Azad
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Randomization of EVMs begins in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: Randomization of electronic voting machines (EVMs) for the three assembly constituencies in the Nilgiris was held at the additional collectorate in Ooty on Monday. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, who is also the district election officer, launched the drive in the presence of representatives of various political parties and election officials.After the first level of checking, there are as many as 3,845 electronic machines in the Nilgiris. In the first phase of randomization of EVMs, 3,231 machines were allotted. “With all safety measures in place, the allotted EVMs will be kept safe in the three constituencies under custody of election officers concerned,” said Divya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/randomization-of-evms-begins-in-ooty/articleshow/81400168.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Jubilee Hills housing society polls on March 21||HYDERABAD: Elections to the Jubilee Hills Cooperative House Building Society (JHCHBS) will be held on March 21. Amid allegations of irregularities in the housing society — one of Asia’s biggest — the nomination process will begin on March 9. The poll notification was issued on March 3. The housing society is spread over 1,195 acres in the upscale Jubilee Hills area of Hyderabad and has over 5,000 members. The present managing committee is headed by T Narendra Chowdary, even as opponent groups are trying to capture power of one of the prestigious housing societies. B Ravindranath, secretary of Jubilee Hills Welfare Society, alleged that several irregularities have taken place in the JHCHBS since 2005. “The irregularities include converting open spaces into plots, not considering waiting list for allotment of plots to the members, allotting commercial space to some persons at nominal rents and disqualifying members on some pretext or the other and removing their voting rights,” he told TOI. He said the society bylaws have been amended so as to continue in the committees despite serving two consecutive terms. Though several committees have been formed to look into other irregularities like diversion of funds, regularisation of additional area, leasing of lands and collection of money illegally, the state government has not acted upon the reports submitted by various committees. Narendra Chowdary and managing committee secretary Hanumantha Rao said some unscrupulous persons formed a rival association in the guise of ‘welfare’ and were alleging that a big number of voters had been removed from the housing society. “We have clarified that the society officially submitted three lists to the registrar of cooperative societies. One is the total list of society members, while the second one is that of those who did not attend general body meetings. The third list is that of those who have not cleared dues. Any inclusion or deletion of names of the members was done on the registrar’s decision. There is no scope of unfairness on our part. The society has no intention to disqualify anybody,” they said. In January 2015, then legislative assembly speaker constituted a 13-member House committee consisting of MLAs and MLCs to look into the irregularities. It was headed by MLA Aroori Ramesh. The committee was told to submit a report within three months. The report has not seen the light of the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jubilee-hills-housing-society-polls-on-mar-21/articleshow/81400169.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Yatra was not for displaying political strength, says Vasundhara Raje||JAIPUR: Former CM Vasundhara Raje on Tuesday said the two-day religious yatra was not intended to display her political strength, but was a sheer display of devotion for god. “There are people who are looking at this programme with an eye that I am displaying my strength. But they don’t see that it is nothing but pure devotion,” said Raje, who celebrated her birthday with her supporters including MPs, MLAs and party leaders in Bharatpur on Monday. The first day of her religious yatra was attended by eight MPs and around 20 MLAs even after the party officially called it a ‘personal yatra’. The yatra became the point of discussion in political circles and was seen as a massive display of strength by Raje. Refuting the opponents calling it a political move, she asserted that “This programme doesn’t have politics but has religion.” She recalled that her mother had taught her to follow the footsteps of Dharam Niti (state based on religion) and taking a cue from her, “I have made Rajasthan a state on the lines of religion.” Raje has served two tenures as CM between 2003-2008 and 2014-2018. “I became the MLA for the first time 36 years ago. Since then, all 36 caste and communities have showered love on me. I am sure that I will receive the same love and gratitude from them,” she added. She became Dholpur MLA on March 8, 1985. Biggest birthday bashFormer CM Vasundhara Raje’s birthday celebrations have become the biggest gathering of party leaders in any non-official programme in the recent years. Sources said that her much-hyped two-day religious yatra has been attended by nine MPs including one Rajya Sabha member, 11 former MPs, 31 MLAs, 97 former MLAs, 27 BJP candidates who contested state assembly polls in 2018, 42 former district presidents and 18 leaders who were given political positions in the past. Sources said Raje camp is upbeat over the success of the yatra and would like to continue the same in other parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/yatra-was-not-for-displaying-political-strength-says-raje/articleshow/81400182.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Agri officer sacked for applying for DMK seat||Salem: A temporary government employee was dismissed on Monday by collector and electoral officer S A Raman after it came to light that she had applied at the DMK headquarters in Chennai to contest from the Yercaud assembly segment.K Thilagavathy, 38, of Pethanaickenpalayam, was working as an assistant manager with the Salem district agricultural technical management agency in Thalaivasal block. It was a temporary job.Thilagavathy had expressed her desire to contest from the Yercaud assembly segment. “She had filed the application with the party office in person,” a senior officer from the agriculture department said. It is learned that she did not inform her higher officials before leaving for Chennai.A video of her standing in front of DMK headquarters in Chennai with filled-in application form went viral on social media.On March 1, Raman ordered for a departmental inquiry. During inquiry, she admitted that she went to Chennai to file the application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agri-officer-sacked-for-applying-for-dmk-seat/articleshow/81400174.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Outgoing SCB ward members confident of re-election||Secunderabad: Former elected Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) ward members who wish to contest in the ensuing Cantonment Board polls predict that the voters of their civilian wards in SCB may vote in their favour. The reason behind their confidence is that they say they have come good in all the assurances they made to their voters regarding new CC roads, water and sanitation network, and other infra works, and most projects are nearing completion. “We have taken up works to the tune of nearly Rs 10 crore in all eight civilian wards. Some have been completed. and some works are in progress,” Pandu Yadav former SCB ward member-VI, which is one of the biggest civilian wards in SCB, told TOI. In another three weeks, the major work of laying sewer trunk lines at Ramannakunta will be also completed at Bapuji Nagar in Bowenpally. Apart from this, works to rebuild the culverts damaged during last year’s floods at Dhanalakshmi Colony and other areas, are being undertaken at a brisk page and will be open to the public soon, he said. “Roads in many colonies that were damaged due the floods have also got a facelift,” Pandu Yadav added. Another former ward member-VIII, Loknatham, said that the maintenance of important roads in his ward’s jurisdiction has been taken up, and the works will be completed by month-end of in the first week of April. “Even works which were sanctioned in the last Board meeting held in the February have begun. We are keep track of all the work and will ensure they are completed,” another former board member said. “Once the works are completed, we will concentrate on plans to highlight our works through social media during our campaign,” a former ward member, who will be contesting for the second time, said. Meanwhile, the SCB engineering wing has been asked to supervise the works and complete it as per schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/outgoing-scb-ward-members-confident-of-re-election/articleshow/81401832.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Surat||Forester who busted it, quit plum job for passion||Surat: Ever since the court pronounced its verdict on the 2018 illegal lion show in Babariya forest range in Gir-West division of Gir Wildlife Sanctuary on Monday, range forest officer (RFO) Rajan Jadav’s phone has not remained silent. It’s truly a triumph of his passion. Meet the forester who literally stooped to conquer his ‘love’. An ardent wildlife lover, Jadav had left his class-one officer’s job as director (training) at the All India Institute of Local Self-Government in Mumbai to join the Gujarat Forest Department as an RFO, a class-two officer’s job in 2016. His decision then to take up the ranger's job, which is a step-down, surprised many of his colleagues and friends. While he was urged to rethink his decision, Jadav had no doubts about it and followed his instinct. Posted at Jungle Safari at Kevadia at present, Jadav is content that his action as the RFO at Babariya Range then fetched desired results today. Jadav, along with other forest officers, had carried out a raid at a farm where illegal lion shows were being conducted clandestinely, much against the wildlife Act. While the team arrested the accused, the audacity of the flippant teasing of a lion with a bait, shocked not only wildlife conservationists, but also the entire country. Jadav holds a doctorate degree in ‘Ecology Status and Importance of Grassland (Vidis) in Conservation of Avifauna of Saurashtra Region’. He holds two bachelor’s degrees — in biotechnology and in zoology. “Monday’s judgment gives me utmost satisfaction as we could take the matter to a logical conclusion and the accused were convicted,” Jadav told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/forester-who-busted-it-quit-plum-job-for-passion/articleshow/81398800.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Celebration of 1971 war victory begins at MRC||Udhagamandalam: The commemoration of Swarnim Vijay Varsh began at the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) at Wellington in the Nilgiris on Monday. Swarnim Vijay Varsh is part of the celebration to commemorate the victory of the 1971 war on its golden jubilee year across India. The occasion was marked by the presentation of arms to the Swarnim Vijay Varsh torch. The reception of the torch was followed by felicitation of three war veterans and three kin of other veterans.The torch was received by Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant, MRC, along with veterans of 1971 war led by Lt Gen S Pattabhiraman, (Retd) ex-vice chief of Army staff. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/celebration-of-1971-war-victory-begins-at-mrc/articleshow/81400171.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Goa||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB nets ‘major drug supplier’ in Goa||PANAJI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday apprehended alleged major drug supplier Hemant Sah alias Maharaj from Miramar, Panaji, in connection with Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Two foreigners were apprehended in a separate case. NCB’s zonal director (Mumbai) Sameer Wankhede told TOI that Sah had already been named by two accused in Rajput’s case — Anuj Keshwani and Regal Mahakaal — as a supplier of LSD and charas. He said Sah, a native of Madhya Pradesh, has been operating a shack at Morjim for the past several years. “After locating Sah in the Miramar area, his premises were raided late Sunday evening that resulted in the seizure of 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity) and 30 grams of charas,” Wankhede said. In September, NCB had searched two different places in South Goa and had intercepted a person who had supplied drugs to Keshwani. In another case, the NCB sub-zonal unit in Goa searched an area in Mazal Vaddo, Assagao, along with an operational team of NCB-Mumbai during the intervening night of Sunday and Monday and seized 41 blots of LSD (commercial quantity), 28g of charas, 22g of cocaine, 1.1kg of ganja, 160g of a white powder suspected to be a narcotic drug and 500g of a blue, crystal matter suspected to be a psychotropic substance. They also seized Rs 10,000 in cash. Nigerian national Ugochukwu Solomon Ubabuko and Congolese national John Infinity alias David have been apprehended and are being interrogated in connection with the case, Wankhede said. Ubabuko had also been arrested in 2013 by the Goa police, he disclosed. During a follow-up, a team of NCB sleuths searched the premises of Prasad Walke on Monday and recovered LSD blots (commercial quantity). “Seizure formalities are under way and a search is on for Walke and his associates. Walke is a history-sheeter who had already been booked by NCB-Goa in 2018 for trafficking LSD, cocaine, ecstasy and ganja,” Wankhede said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rajput-death-case-ncb-nets-major-drug-supplier-in-miramar/articleshow/81401835.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Banking to be affected on March 15-16 due to strike||MUMBAI: Banking operations will be hit on March 15 and 16, with bank unions and officers’ associations calling for a strike against privatization of banks. The strike call will mean that those paying advance tax through branches may have to do so a day earlier. As public gatherings are barred, bank staff will create awareness through social media and distribute ‘stop privatization’ masks to customers and tell them of the difference in charges between private and PSU banks. The government has announced privatisation of two public sector banks in the Union Budget. The strike call is in anticipation that the government will introduce the legislation to facilitate privatisation in the current session. Nilesh Pawar, Maharashtra, State Secretary All-India Nationalised Bank Officers’ Federation said the bank strike would be followed by a strike by public sector insurance companies. “At the time of bank merger, employees were the only ones protesting. We are now gathering general support by informing customers of the affordability issues that will come up with privatization and by highlighting the risk-taking and other work done by public sector banks in social schemes”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-banking-to-be-affected-on-march-15-16-due-to-strike/articleshow/81400186.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||Despite ban, plastic use rampant in Doon||Dehradun: Despite a blanket ban in the state, single-use plastic items are omnipresent in the capital city, including the vegetable and fruit markets.  Even though the government had announced that it will mete out stringent punishment to violators, shopkeepers and customers both claim that plastic remains the most convenient and cost-effective option to pack goods apart from serving a variety of other purposes. A shopper at Pulia, Ram Chandra, said, “The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) officials have been regularly campaigning against single-use plastic. Yet, only a few shopkeepers have switched to cloth bags. Most of the others still give goods packed in polythene bags. Awareness is scanty among the customers too.” Echoing similar sentiments, vegetable seller Vijay Kumar said, “Plastic still remains popular. We are ready to stop using it if there is a strict ban. However, we will have to then ask people to bring their own bags as the other options are costly.” Another buyer Anant Singh said, “More people should come forward and adopt eco-friendly alternatives. Apart from creating awareness, the DMC should also crack the whip on offenders.” Meanwhile, DMC officials said that they are regularly conducting drives against plastic at various parts of the city and imposing fines on those violating rules. They added that over Rs 8,000 has been collected as penalty in the first week of March alone. They also noted that many people are now coming forward to donate single-use plastic items for recycling too. According to data available with the Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board, industries in the state generate 1.5 lakh tonnes of plastic every year and consumers produce 30,000 tonnes of such waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/despite-ban-plastic-use-rampant-in-doon/articleshow/81398674.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Hot waters of Dholera hotbed of microbes||Ahmedabad: Researchers have found microbes that cling to life and thrive in some of earth’s most inhospitable environments in Dholera’s hot water springs in Ahmedabad district. The samples from hot waters of Tuva-Timba during any season of the year — be it winter or summers — range between 60°C and 66°C respectively. But these springs are home to nearly 66 types of thermophilic bacteria. These include methane-producing and sulphur utilizing thermophilic bacteria belonging to family of Acinetobacter, Pseudomonas, Methylobacterium and Desulfomicrobium in most of the samples taken by researcher’s department of life sciences, Gujarat University, Anand Agricultural University and Xavier Research Foundation, Loyola Centre for Research and Development.“Firmicutes, a group of bacteria, was the most abundant for Tuva Timba water samples, while Proteobacteria was the most abundant for Dholera water and Tuva-Timba soil samples. The third most abundant phylum was Actinobacteria, followed by Bacteroidetes and Deinacoccus–Thermus,” claims the research paper authored by Disha Patel, Jalpa Thakkar, Vincent Braganza and Hasmukh Modi. The paper adds that a similar finding was observed for Tulsi Shyam hot-water spring. “Here too the most abundant group of bacteria were Firmicutes followed by Proteobacteria, similar to our findings at Dholera,” claims the research paper. Extremophiles include organisms that can survive near-boiling heat or near-freezing cold, high pressure or high salt, as well as environments steeped in acids, alkalis, metals or radioactivity. The researchers found the abundance of extremophile bacteria in all three Tuva-Timba water samples — nearly 76% to 81%. “Micrococcus, a type of bacteria was found in three Tuva-Timba water samples and it ranged with 8% to 9.5%, while Clostridium was higher in Tuva Timba soil monsoon samples and in all three Dholera water samples and ranged between 4% and 5%.” The paper also noted that the presence of thermophiles and sulphate-reducing bacteria reveals a strong correlation with temperature and sulphate content of the water samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hot-waters-of-dholera-hotbed-of-microbes/articleshow/81400187.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||Muslim clerics in Uttarakhand won’t solemnise nikaah if dowry is exchanged||DEHRADUN: Shaken by the death of a woman in Ahmedabad, who killed herself after being harassed for dowry, ulemas of Uttarakhand have taken a stand against the practice — they will not solemnise any wedding where anyone demands dowry and any family that seeks dowry will face a social boycott. “The sin of dowry has destroyed families and taken lives. We have decided to stop conducting nikaah ceremonies for marriages where there is an exchange of dowry. These families will also be boycotted by the society if they are not willing to change themselves,” said Mufti Salim Ahmed, an ulema and member of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB). Ayesha Banu, 23, had jumped into the Sabarmati on February 25 after being allegedly hounded for dowry by her husband. Since the case came to light, several Muslim representatives and outfits have spoken out against the practice of dowry. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi had said people who “demand dowry” can “deceive the world but not the Allah.” Then, the Jamit-ul-Quresh and Hindustani Biradari in Agra said they will do everything in their capacity to stop the practice within the community. In Bhopal, the Masjid Committee and Darul Qaza announced the same. And in Hyderabad, the Jamiat Ahle Hadees Hyderabad and Secunderabad launched an awareness campaign against dowry. “It is a shame. People beg near mosques to have enough money for their children’s wedding. Why can’t weddings be simple? The Quran strictly says weddings should not be lavish affairs,” said Shahar Qazi, Dehradun, Mohammad Ahmed Qasmi. “Demanding dowry is a sin in Islam. Even if the bride’s family arranges for it, the groom’s family should say no … I have seen many families who identify themselves as strictly religious and live a life that follows the Sharia. But when it comes to dowry, they get greedy and demand as much money as they can get. Hypocrites, all.” The AIMPLB, Mufti Salim Ahmed said, has asked clerics across the country to conduct awareness drives. “We will run campaigns and identify places where such cases are being reported more often … We will remind people dowry is ‘haraam’.” (With inputs from Agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/muslim-clerics-in-ukhand-wont-solemnise-nikaah-if-dowry-is-exchanged/articleshow/81397593.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Squatters alloted alternate site still occupy road in KK Nagar||Chennai: Three years since the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board allotted alternate space to 12 shops encroaching upon PV Rajamannar Salai in KK Nagar, the city corporation is yet to remove them. The 80-feet-wide carriageway has shrunk to less than 50 feet, causing traffic snarls every day. Documents with TOI show Greater Chennai Corporation surveyed the encroachments and wrote to the TNSCB which allotted alternate space. But, a corporation official said, the shop owners went to court. “We will remove them after elections,” he said. TOI wrote about it in 2019 when a complaint was made to the corporation. V Gopalakrishnan, a civic activist who complained on the Namma Chennai app, said that as per the CMDA’s village map of Kodambakkam zone, no land was allotted for shops on this stretch. “I am surprised to see the huge traffic congestion on this stretch daily and wonder why the road has narrowed so much on this particular stretch. As per the map, there were no shops. GCC confirmed these were encroachments since 50 years and planned to remove them. It said it awaited alternate spaces,” he told TOI. When contacted, TNSCB officials said they wrote to the corporation two years ago regarding alternate spaces for six shops on Ramasamy Salai where the corporation recently removed six houses that were encroachments. “We asked them to pay Rs 5.68 lakh and take over the house,” said an official. But the owners didn’t make any payment and the corporation didn’t remove encroachments. A local ward official told TOI they got the allotment order 25 days ago and sent the eviction notices. “Six shop owners have filed a case in court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/squatters-alloted-alternate-site-still-occupy-road-in-kk-nagar/articleshow/81400188.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Chennai||Want a bike? Let the thief get it for you||CHENNAI: Time and technology have simplified almost everything — including theft. Want a ‘used’ motorcycle at an affordable rate? Contact an agent, who will put expert thieves on the job and ensure the bike of your choice is at your doorstep. And you can pay through digital wallets. Muthu, a 40-year-old with 20 years of experience in picking locks of parked bikes, says field workers like himself make `6,000-`10,000 for each job, while the agents make nearly `1 lakh. While it might take anything from a few hours to three days and a week to choose the target, it barely takes 20 seconds to pick the lock and ride off, says Muthu, who has been jailed several times and is out on conditional bail since January. In a Triplicane neighbourhood recently, he adds, he settled on the target in a couple of minutes, completed the job and called his client. Police statistics show that, on an average, 60 motorbikes go missing across the city every month. Last year, 740 bikes were stolen most of them from residential neighbourhoods. Customers are sent a catalogue of sorts through WhatsApp. Once the deal is struck, Muthu and his ilk come into play. Most of them purchase two movie tickets before executing the task as they need an alibi in case they are intercepted by police. CCTV cameras are not considered deterrents, but patrolling police are. So, the target is studied before the strike. Armed with master key, designed like a safety pin, that can open all bikes, they target all brands but a Bullet (Royal Enfield) is the most sought after because its lock can be picked in a jiffy. “Its ignition kit can also be easily replaced,” says Muthu. Once stolen, the bike is immediately transported to southern districts like Kanyakumari, Madurai, Nagercoil and Tuticorin as police rarely travel long distances to trace bikes. If a customer wants proper documents, the thief gets in touch with some showroom staff and is tipped about vehicles involved in accidents that are often returned. Such vehicles are dismantled and the original documents retained. The chassis number is imprinted on the engine of the stolen bike before sale. State-of-the-art bikes stolen from posh areas are dismantled immediately as the spare parts fetch a lot of money. While young ‘racers’ and chain snatchers are among his best customers, Muthu says he is also approached by ganja addicts among college students who offer to steal a bike and hand it over to him for `10,000. The veteran, however, agrees to the deal only if there is a proper ‘reference.’ “These days,” he says, “everything is on YouTube and people rarely come to us for training. But those needing expertise know who to approach.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/want-a-bike-let-the-thief-get-it-for-you/articleshow/81400181.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man held for morphing BJP leader’s pics on social media||MUMBAI: Cyber police at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) arrested Rahul Ade from Yavatmal district for allegedly stalking, morphing and maligning the image of a senior State BJP leader on social media. A case was registered against Ade on March 2 and he was arrested within five days. Ade claimed that he committed the offence to show his goodwill to an ex-minister, with whom he works in Ghatanji in Yavatmal. Ade has been remanded police custody till March 10. His mobile has been sent to forensic laboratory to retrieve offensive contents. If punished, Ade will be sent to jail for three years and he will be fined Rs 5 lakh. The victim in her complaint said, “I received threat calls. My photos were morphed and uploaded on social media with obscene messages.” Based on the complaint, DCP Rashmi Karandikar supervised her team who tracked Ade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-yavatmal-resident-held-for-maligning-a-senior-state-bjp-leader-on-social-media/articleshow/81401844.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Azadi fete: Tricolour to be hoisted at 75 locations in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana government will unfurl the national flag at 75 important locations, including Sanjeeviah Park, which has the largest national flag in the state, to mark 75-year celebrations of Indian independence ‘Azadi ka Amruth Mahotsav’. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked official to conduct essay writing competitions, debates, elocutions, drawing competitions, poetry sessions and other such programmes all over the state on the occasion of ‘Azadi Ka Amruth Mahotstav’ beginning March 12. The celebrations would be conducted till August 15. The CM participated in a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Azadi Ki Amruth Mahotstav on Tuesday. On this occasion, the PM explained the importance of the programme, its aims and objectives. The PM wanted the state government to organise programmes for 75 weeks to infuse patriotism among the people. The CM sanctioned Rs 25 crore for the celebrations to be held between March 12 and August 15, for 75 weeks. While the inaugural function would be held on March 12 at Public Gardens in Hyderabad in which the chief minister would participate, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan would take part in another meeting at Police Grounds in Warangal on the same day. In the inaugural programme, the national flag would be hoisted followed by police march-past and releasing of balloons in air, he said. The CM said these programmes would be held following Covid guidelines. After the video-conference with the PM, the CM held a high-level review meeting and instructed the officials on how to go about it. A committee, comprising officials from various departments and headed by advisor (Cultural Affairs) KV Ramanachary, has been constituted by the CM. KCR said the Telangana region played a unique role in the then freedom movement. Under the present self-rule, the state was making rapid strides in development and it has a major partnership now in the country’s progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/azadi-fete-tricolour-to-be-hoisted-at-75-locations/articleshow/81400183.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||T spent Rs 12,800 cr on fee reimbursement, says KTR||Hyderabad: TRS working president KT Rama Rao on Monday said the state government is giving top priority to educational institutions and welfare of poor students apart from filling up vacant posts in various government departments. Addressing heads of various educational institutions and teachers’ associations at a private college in Secunderabad as part of the graduates MLC election meetings, KTR said the government has spent Rs 12,800 crore on fee reimbursement in the last six years and released another Rs 1,800 crore to clear the accumulated arrears of fee reimbursement to the educational institutions. “This is apart from revising mess charges from school to university level which benefited 18 lakh students,” he claimed. Post-matriculation scholarships have been given to 15 lakh students in the state, KTR said. To strengthen the educational sector, the government has filled 1,33,000 jobs of which 19,200 posts were of teachers, he said. He said the government is spending about Rs 1.20 lakh on each student in 970 gurukuls every year. A total of 4.30 lakh students are studying in these gurukuls. “ To provide quality education to students belonging to the marginalised sections, the government has set up 672 gurukuls. The government has allocated Rs 350 crore to construct permanent buildings for 240 gurukuls. Appealing to the graduates to cast their vote for TRS candidate Surabhi Vani Devi in the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat during the March 14 elections, KTR said both BJP and Congress were slinging mud on the government despite filling up vacant government jobs. He again targeted the Centre for doing injustice to Telangana in various sectors, including education. He said policies like TS-iPASS have attracted huge investments to the state. Through this policy, 15,000 companies were set up creating 15 lakh jobs in the region, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-spent-rs-12800-cr-on-fee-reimbursement-says-ktr/articleshow/81400175.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||13k elderly given Covid vaccine jab in U’khand, highest single day inoculation so far||Dehradun/Almora: Uttarakhand recorded 58 new cases of Covid-19 Monday. With this, the coronavirus tally reached 97,430. According to the health department, the maximum of 27 cases were recorded in Nainital, followed by 13 in Dehradun, 10 in Haridwar, seven in Udham Singh Nagar, and one in Chamoli. On Monday, the state was able to vaccinate 13,330 people, all above 65 years of age, for Covid-19. This is the highest tally for vaccination in one day so far. “We have fully vaccinated 58,397 healthcare workers and 2,239 frontline workers so far,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, the husband of an Asha worker, who died of coronavirus in December 2020, was given Rs 50 lakh by the New India Insurance company. The money has been given under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package. Under the scheme, all frontline Covid-19 workers were provided with Rs 50 lakh life insurance. “Narmada Tiwari (55 years) lost her life to Covid-19 in December last year. Today, her husband Govind Ballabh Tiwari was given the life insurance amount of Rs 50 lakh,” said Deepak Bhatt, district program manager, National Health Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/13k-elderly-given-covid-vaccine-jab-in-ukhand-highest-single-day-inoculation-so-far/articleshow/81398708.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 9, 2021||Delhi||239 new Covid cases, 3 deaths; positivity rate rises to 0.5%||New Delhi: Delhi recorded 239 new coronavirus cases and three deaths on Monday, as the positivity rate rose to 0.5%, the health department said. The new cases were reported after 47,689 tests were conducted on Sunday, including 35,968 RT-PCR tests and 11,721 rapid antigen tests. The number of active cases stood at 1,803. Three new deaths took the toll to 10,924, according to the data. On Sunday, 286 new cases and two deaths were recorded, though the positivity rate was 0.31%. The city had registered 321 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count in nearly one-and-a-half months, and a death on Saturday, and 312 cases and a fatality on Friday. The number of people under home isolation on Monday rose to 947 from 937 on Saturday, the bulletin said, adding that over 6.28 lakh people had recovered till date. Health experts and doctors have attributed this ‘sudden rise’ in the number of cases to complacency among people, not following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and “assuming all is well now”. “People need to follow social distancing and wear masks. Also, those who are eligible, should get vaccinated against Covid-19,” said a senior doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/239-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-positivity-rate-rises-to-0-5/articleshow/81400201.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Pune||Carrying masks but not wearing them a worrying trend, says Pune police chief||PUNE: City police commissioner Amitabh Gupta on Monday said most people caught for not wearing face masks mostly venture out with the face covers but do not put them during the Covid-19 pandemic. He said police teams across the city were on an average intercepting around 1,000 people flouting the mask norms and were slapping the financial penalty on them. “The concerning factor is a majority of them are carrying masks but not wearing them. Once they see a police team, they hurriedly try to wear the masks,” Gupta said. “If the police utilize their full resources for cracking the whip on the mask rule violators, over 3,000 people will be caught on an average each day. Checking and penalizing is just one of the aspects to force people wear masks whenever they are outside. But people also need to be serious and responsible,” he said. On Monday, the police penalised 1,754 people in the district for not wearing face masks and recovered from them Rs7,32,400 in fine. The city police cracked the whip on 829 offenders and recovered from them Rs4,10,50 in fine. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had last week proposed to double the fine for not wearing masks following the recent spike in the number of cases as well as rampant violation of the Covid-19 safety protocols. A fine of Rs500 is imposed at present on those not wearing masks. Rao had said the proposal to increase it to Rs1,000 would be submitted to deputy CM Ajit Pawar on Friday during a review meeting. Psychiatrist Swapnil Deshmukh said a false sense of security crept into a major section of people. “Many people feel that since Covid-19 has not yet affected them, they will never have the infection. Secondly, there is a ‘burnout issue’ and people are tired of being at home for over a year and wearing masks every time they have to go out.” The manager of a restaurant at Fatimanagar said, “A couple recently came to the restaurant without masks. When we told them to wear the masks, they justified their action with strange theories. When we told them to leave, they agreed to wear the masks. Such incidents are increasing.” Middle-aged Kamlesh Saubar said, “It’s summer and the mask makes me feel suffocating.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/carrying-masks-but-not-wearing-them-a-worrying-trend-says-pune-police-chief/articleshow/81400189.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Since lockdown, Delhi Metro average daily ridership down by 15 lakh||NEW DELHI: From an average daily ridership of 25 lakh a day before the novel coronavirus outbreak, Delhi Metro now clocks an average of 10 lakh, according to the Economic Survey 2020-21 tabled in the Delhi assembly by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday. According to the survey report, before the nationwide lockdown due to Covid pandemic, the average daily passenger trips on Delhi Metro was about 57 lakh, including those on the stand-alone Airport Express Line and Rapid Metro in Gurgaon. The report said the average daily ridership had come down due to social distancing norms. Sources said the ridership in Delhi Metro was now one-third of what it was in the pre-Covid era. While the actual ridership varies between 10 lakh and 12 lakh now, the average passenger trips daily is around 22 lakh. Similarly, the actual ridership a year ago was 25-27 lakh a day and the passenger journeys were around 57-60 lakh. The report states that as per directions of the central government, the train services were suspended from March 22, 2020 to September 6, 2020 and resumed from September 7 in a graded manner. “For the safety of passengers and Metro staff, all steps were undertaken, e.g. social distancing norms, no-cash transactions, no travel through tokens, and running more trains during the off-peak hours,” the report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/since-lockdown-metro-average-daily-ridership-down-by-15-lakh/articleshow/81400196.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Fill 617 PET posts in 2weeks, HC tells govt||Hyderabad: The high court on Monday directed the Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC) to complete recruitment of physical education teachers (PETs) in the state-run residential schools in two weeks. The filling of 617 PET posts has been hanging fire for the last three years. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy pronounced this order while disposing of a batch of writ appeals filed by the government, residential schools and candidates who felt aggrieved by the order of a single judge. The single judge had earlier directed the authorities to follow the mandate given by the National Council for Teachers Education (NCTE). The bench made it clear that the government’s argument was not convincing and rejected it while upholding the order of the single judge. The single judge in his order had even recorded how the state government had appointed an experts committee and asked the TSPSC to follow the mandate of the NCTE based on the committee’s recommendations. Turning critical towards the government for blindly supporting the faulty functioning of TSPSC, the bench said: “Even after this, the TSPSC has muddled the qualification and recruitment process. Now, you (government) need not conduct a fresh recruitment. Look at the selection process so far made. Segregate it in tune with the two-category norm and complete the selection process within two weeks from now.” The NCTE had laid down clear-cut eligibility criteria for recruiting PETs. For children studying up to class VIII, the PETs must possess an Intermediate qualification along with a diploma in physical education offered by institutions recognised by the NCTE. For students studying in classes IX and X, the PETs must possess graduation along with participation in state-level or district-level sports and games and must be equipped with graduation in physical education. Though these guidelines are simple and clear, the TSPSC in its 2017 notification did not maintain this demarcation. It jumbled up the whole process and issued a common notification for filling all the posts en masse. Following this, some pleas were filed challenging the process and the court stayed the recruitment process. Meanwhile, experts said the state and the TSPSC have its task cut out as they were asked to go ahead by the court only after completing the segregation of two categories of PETs which they have been opposing all these years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fill-617-pet-posts-in-2weeks-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/81400195.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Regularisation of illegal colonies may take time||Jaipur: As the proposal to seek nod for regularising many illegal colonies was excluded from the recent empowered committee agenda, the wait of plot owners to procure lease deeds is growing longer. In the absence of lease deeds (patta), the developmental work in colonies would suffer. As per records, there are 63 colonies falling under the Prithvi Raj Nagar (PRN) scheme. Similarly, the JDA is also waiting to seek directions to regularise colonies situated on ‘mandir mafi’ land. There are over 75 colonies in PRN scheme which are developed on this land. An official said, in many colonies, the housing societies have illegally developed plots on the facility area (open spaces, parks, stadiums). An official said, “Before regularising, the JDA has to seek guidance. As per the mandatory rule, a society owner has to develop a society in 60:40 ratio. While, plotting should be done on 60%, remaining 40% should be reserved for roads, parks, open space to develop water tank, etc.” The housing society owners have developed plots on the area which was earmarked to develop facilities in Master Plan 2011. Residents of these schemes will remain deprived of facilities even after regularisation of the schemes due to unequal development as no land is left to develop the facility. A writ petition, 1554/2000 on this matter was also filed in the high court. Likewise, after the Supreme Court had issued many orders regarding regularisation of colonies on ‘mandir mafi’ land. A proposal was forwarded to seek legal opinion and after examining all the orders, lease deeds will be given to the plot owners. “Earlier, we were thinking to table the proposal in empowered committee meeting. Now, the meeting will not be held in near future, we will send it to the state government directly,” the official said. The JDA will also seek directions on regularisation of residential plots situated on 80-feet wide roads in PRN scheme. Recently, the civic body has decided to give only commercial lease deeds on plots on 80-feet road. However, there are many owners who are utilising the plots for residential purpose and do not want to spend extra to seek commercial lease deeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/regularisation-of-illegal-colonies-may-take-time/articleshow/81400199.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman with fake passport tries to take 3 minors to UK||MUMBAI: Two flyers, including a woman from Porbandar (Gujarat), were arrested for trying to fly to UK along with her three minor children with fake passports when immigration officials at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSIA) stopped them on Sunday. The officials got suspicious when Deviben Gareja (35) claimed she was flying with her children — Uday Odedra (24) and three minors to UK to settle down with her husband a Portuguese national, Vasudev Gaone (47). The accused got the visas approved by British High Commission after Gaone sent dependent visas for all. The accused and her minor children claimed they wanted to settled down in UK and did not plan to return to India. The fraud came to light when officials checked Gaone’s travel details through IVFRT (Immigration, Visa and Foreigners Registration & Tracking) and found that he had declared himself as unmarried during a visit to India in 2017. “When we spoke to Gaone over the phone he claimed that he was Deviben’s husband but we knew he was unmarried as per records immigration officials submitted to us. We seized Deviben’s son’s mobile in which we found her real husband’s photo and identity proof (Aadhaar card in the name of Bhikubhai Gareja) and identity cards of her three kids. Odedra is a distant relative and not her son,” said a Sahar police officer. Gaone, with the help of an agent, Bapu, helped the woman to get the fake passport from Gujarat, with the address shown as Valsad, while got the visa processed from British High Commission in Ahmedabad with the help of documents he sent from Portugal. “The fake passport issued to Gareja showed her name as Gaone Deviben Vasudev, while her real husband is Bhikubhai Gareja, a farmer in Porbandar. Odedra was shown as Gaone’s elder son, Ayush Gaone. Officials found discrepancies in Gareja and her son and two daughters’ statements during immigration stamping,” police said. Gaone and Bapu have been shown as wanted . “Gareja said Gaone directed her to the agent for the fake passport, and her husband helped arrange for Rs 1 lakh for each passport. Gaone sent a document to the agent to prepare a passport showing Gareja as his wife and the four as their children. “The three minor kids a son aged 16 and two daughters aged 14 and 10 got nervous at the immigration counter. We will get in touch with the passport office in Gujarat and the British High Commission for details,” police said. The three minor kids have been handed over to relatives, while Gareja and Odedra were produced before an Andheri court on Monday and remanded to police custody till March 10. A police source said they did not register a case of trafficking but only cheating, forgery and impersonation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-woman-with-fake-passport-tries-to-take-3-minors-to-uk/articleshow/81401872.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 9, 2021||Pune||Over 16,000 senior citizens get jabs as vax reach grows across Pune region||PUNE: The Covid-19 vaccines started to reach more citizens on Monday after several more sites opened up in Pune rural, Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad. The list of operational sites now includes over 80 primary health centres (PHC) that have been roped in cover some of the district’s most remote parts. Also on Monday, some 16,000 senior citizens received their first doses of the vaccine at government and private sites. In Pune city, there were over 9,000 beneficiaries from this group. In Pimpri Chinchwad, the number was at 2,723. With more private sites opening up, there were some early indications of reduced crowding at certain hospitals. Madhu Gupta, 62, who received her first dose at Bharati Hospital on Monday, said her experience left her “pleasantly surprised”. “I had to wait less than 30 minutes for my shot. The hospital staff were very courteous and they answered all our queries,” she said. Another recipient at Bharati, Colonel Sambhaji Patil (retd), said, “I liked how well the staff communicated information. They told us everything we need to know about the jab and the precautions that need to be followed.” At Sassoon General Hospital, Bhushan Patwardhan, former vice-chairman of the University Grants Commission (UGC), said the vaccine was proof of India’s capacity for advanced research. “Indian scientists have worked hard to develop the vaccine. The development process was completed with all the necessary trials within 10 months and is the product of scientists’ efforts,” he said. Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle, said the vaccination process has now improved at many centres. He added that they are currently making a list of sites at hospitals with over 50 beds. He said the final list depends on how willing these hospitals are. Currently, private hospitals with over 200 beds are carrying out the vaccine drive. (With inputs from Prasad Kulkarni)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-16000-senior-citizens-get-jabs-as-vax-reach-grows-across-region/articleshow/81400217.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Guv, CM condole demise of ex-guv Anshuman Singh||Jaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra and chief minister Ashok Gehlot condoled the demise of former governor Anshuman Singh on Monday. The Rajasthan government declared one-day state holiday on Monday following the death of Singh, who served as the governor of Gujarat and Rajasthan. Singh, also a former acting Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court, breathed his last at Lucknow's Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences on Monday. He was 86. According to an official statement, Singh, who was admitted to the hospital due to Covid-related complications on February 8, died at 4.30am on Monday. Tributes were also paid in the assembly on Monday expressing condolences on the demise of Anshuman Singh during obituary reference. Singh had taken charge as the governor of Rajasthan on January 16, 1999 and remained in office till May 2003. Expressing grief over the death of Singh, governor Mishra prayed for strength to his family to bear the loss. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a tweet said Justice Singh’s contribution to the judiciary and public service will always be remembered. Gehlot spoke to the elder son of Singh on the phone and expressed his grief. His invaluable contribution to the judiciary and the public sector will always be remembered, former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-cm-condole-demise-of-ex-guv-anshuman-singh/articleshow/81400226.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Education, health make the cut in outcome budget||NEW DELHI: The outcome budget 2020-21, a report card of the AAP government, was presented by deputy CM Manish Sisodia on the first day of the Delhi assembly budget session on Monday. The document mentioned that education and health projects topped the list with 80% of them being “on track”. “Delhi government has been presenting the outcome budget for the last four years. We are the only government that keeps checks and balances of the previous budgets,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Introduced in 2017-18, the outcome budget was started to link the budget with outcomes. Be it schools, higher or technical education, more than 80% of the outcome indicators were on track. Out of the 728 school buildings under the Directorate of Education (DoE) where CCTV cameras were to be installed, the project was completed in 459 schools. In 2019-20, 35,962 students were admitted under the EWS category out of 1,82,237 applications received by the department. The target for 2020-21 is 45,000 admissions. Despite the pandemic, the government conducted educational activities in 229 days in a session. A session is normally about 220 days. In the training and technical education segment, 4,100 students were admitted in diploma courses in polytechnics up to December 2020 as against 4,600 in 2019-20. In the disbursal of merit-cum-means financial assistance, it was provided to 3,760 students against the target of 2,000. A total of 87.8 lakh Covid-19 tests, including 31.3 lakh RT-PCR tests, were conducted till December 31, 2020. The report stated that 1.3 lakh CCTV cameras were installed in the second phase of the project by the Public Works Department, 73% schemes of which were on track. Work at Shastri Park intersection and Seelampur was completed and 7,000 hotspots were established. Work on five foot overbridges was completed fully and more than 90% work of other projects had been completed till December 2020. About 71% of the transport department’s projects were on track, including construction of two bus depots, installation of 5,200 CCTV cameras in DTC and Cluster Scheme buses till December 2020. The launch of the ambitious electric vehicle policy saw registration of 4,924 such vehicles since the launch. The pandemic, however, affected the performance of public transport buses due to restriction on carrying capacity. While 79% of output environment indicators were on track, so were 77% of output indicators under the forest department. All 26 ambient air quality monitoring stations installed by the environment department were functional, while 2,518 beneficiaries until December 2020 got subsidies for electric two-wheelers and four-wheelers. The forest department met its goal of creating five city forests and distributed more saplings and seedlings than the target. The report said 62% of Delhi Jal Board’s schemes and programmes were on track, including addition of 1,571 unauthorised colonies to the supply network till December 2020, compared with the target of 1,615 colonies for 2020-21. The free 20,000 litres water scheme benefited 6.6 lakh households. In the case of sewer lines connectivity, 602 unauthorised colonies were linked and 2,735km lines were laid till December 2020. Nearly 2.75 lakh women in distress were given monthly financial assistance in 2020-21 against 2.66 lakh women in distress in 2019-20. In the Ladli scheme, 33,241 applications were received for fresh enrolments (birth-level and school-level) till December 2020 against the annual target of 65,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edu-health-make-the-cut-in-outcome-budget/articleshow/81400207.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||All-new waterbody debuts in Dwarka||NEW DELHI: Dwarka has a new waterbody, complete with wooded islands. While it may not be fully filled with water, the newly created 7-acre pond in Sector 16, Dwarka, will soon present a better view. From Saturday, the amount of treated water sourced from Pappankalan sewage treatment plant being fed into the lake was increased from five million litres a day to 10 million litres. Built under the “City of Lakes” project by Delhi Jal Board aimed at rejuvenating waterbodies in the capital, the new lake is spread across 28,000 sq metres and will recharge the subsurface aquifers with more than five million litres of water every day. Ankit Srivastava, technical advisor to DJB, said the lake cost Rs2.5 crore to build. Srivastava said the whole exercise was completed in just seven months. Explaining how the lake water is of good quality, he said, “The water from the treatment plant is passed through a tertiary filter and nutrient filter. The quality of water is much better and has a higher ratio of biological oxygen demand to total suspended solids,” he said. Some other lake rejuvenation projects are in advanced stages at Rohini and Timarpur, Srivastava added. The lake site is located within the premises of the sewage treatment plant and will not be open to the public for recreational use. Srivastava said that the lake would instead serve multiple purposes besides recharging the groundwater in an area where the levels have gone down to 12-15 metres. A DJB official said that in future the possibility of groundwater extraction could be explored if it reached a sufficiently high level. “Tubewells may also be installed because several education institutions and the Law University are located nearby. Groundwater extraction for institutional use can be explored once the levels rise to above 7-8 metres,” the official said. The official explained that the lake could also act as a polishing unit for further purifying the water. The 155 waterbodies being rejuvenated fall in 14 groups, with the first phase ones expected to be completed by June, DJB had earlier informed the monitoring committee. Another 42 ponds and lakes are to be revived by January 2022, while the rest are expected to be finished by December next year. The frequently cited reasons behind delays in completion include budgetary constraints due to the pandemic, the lockdown, election model code of conduct and, in some cases, local resistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-new-waterbody-debuts-in-dwarka/articleshow/81400257.cms||Paras Singh
March 9, 2021||Delhi||LG: All steps taken to get economy back on track||NEW DELHI: Like all economies, Delhi’s economy has also been impacted by Covid-19 this financial year, but the government is taking all necessary measures to cushion it and bring the economy back on track, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal said in his address while marking the beginning of the assembly’s budget session. The LG, who was welcomed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and speaker Ram Niwas Goel, said the gross domestic product of Delhi was estimated to have contracted by 5.68% in 2020-21. He underlined that one of the main fallout of the Covid-19 lockdown had been dislocation of employment. “To mitigate the hardship, the government has launched a dedicated web portal, Rozgar Bazar.” To soften the blow, the government has also continued its commitment on electricity subsidy, free water supply to domestic households, and concessional rides for students and free ride for women in DTC buses, the LG said. It gave financial assistance to taxi and auto drivers, distributed cooked meals for free and provided shelter to the needy. About 71 lakh public distribution system beneficiaries got 50% enhanced ration for free in April, Baijal pointed out. The government has also decided to reduce the circle rates by 20% till September 30 this year to boost the realty sector, which will help the economy. The LG said the government schools had recorded a pass percentage of 97.92% in Class XII in 2019-20 and 82.61% in Class X. “Delhi Skill and Entrepreneur University has been set up to address the challenge of developing, trained and employable human resource.” To help the poor and marginalised sections, the government has implemented different scholarship schemes such as Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana for SC/ST/OBC/EWS categories to help them with competitive job examinations. New sports facilities such as a synthetic hockey turf and a swimming pool have been constructed at Ashok Nagar and Paschim Vihar, respectively, the LG said. Baijal pointed out that the government had successfully met the demand of water and its peak power demand of 6,314MW recorded on June 29 last year with zero loadshedding. In infrastructure, the flyovers at Shastri Park and Seelampur have been opened, while the construction of an integrated transit corridor in and around Pragati Maidan is in progress, the LG said. To strengthen public transport, the government has almost completed the process of buying 1,000 low-floor and 1,000 electric buses, Baijal said. While mentioning the expansion of the Delhi Metro network, he also referred to Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy, which “aims to encourage the rapid adoption of e-vehicles in Delhi”. The LG said the green war room with 24x7 live pollution monitoring mechanism and Green Delhi app were launched for registration of any pollution-related issue and their redressal were closely monitored. The 2021-22 Delhi budget will be presented on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lg-all-steps-taken-to-get-economy-back-on-track/articleshow/81400221.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||SYKES opens 4th centre in Hyd, to hire 800||Hyderabad: Global digital marketing and customer services outsourcing player SYKES on Monday announced the opening of its fourth centre in Hyderabad and sixth in India. The company plans to hire close to 800 people for the centre, which has a 500-seats capacity, to take the company’s Hyderabad headcount to over 2650 over the next one year. The new facility, spread over nearly 44,000 sq ft at Laxmi Infobahn in Kokapet area, also enhances the company’s footprint in the city to close to 1.5 lakh sq ft. SYKES currently has a global headcount of 55,000 of which close to 2,000 employees are located in India across centres in Hyderabad and Bengaluru. While the company has 1850 employees in Hyderabad working out of the existing three centres, it has close to 150 employees at two centres in Bengaluru. Pointing out that this is the second centre the company has opened since the lockdown began in March end 2020, SYKES India country head Dishant Bhojwani said the company has experienced rapid growth in India amidst the pandemic thanks to its strategic clients who played important roles in supporting customers during the global lockdown. “Their (clients) explosive customer growth has fuelled our business, which has required our continued expansion in the country to keep pace with demand. We have a strong focus in India and despite the challenges of operating during the pandemic, we still managed to nearly double our employee count from 2019.” The company caters to customers across sectors such as banking, communication, technology, telecom, retail as well as small and medium businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sykes-opens-4th-centre-in-hyd-to-hire-800/articleshow/81400209.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Nine trains to be diverted||Ahmedabad: Indian Railways has announced that nine trains from Ahmedabad division will be diverted on the alternative routes due to track doubling work at Madar-Marwar junction.The train that have been diverted include Ahmedabad-Gwalior, Bhuj-Barelli, Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Porbandar, Porbandar-Muzaffarpur, Okha-Dehradun, Dehradun-Okha and Bandra Terminus-Shree Ganganagar.The western railway has also announced that following the farmer agitation, Katra-Ahmedabad special train will be diverted. The train will come to Ahmedabad via Jammu Tavi, Pathankot, Mukeriya and Jalandhar city. However, the diversion will be only for one day that is for train leaving on Tuesday from Katra. Four workman special trains Ahmedabad-Memu, Mehsana-Vatva and Ahmedabad-Viramgam will be cancelled on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nine-trains-to-be-diverted/articleshow/81400202.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Agra||Women in Agra district jail prepare durries for needy||AGRA: A group of seven women lodged at the Agra district jail are serving the poor and needy families by making durries. These creatively designed durries are made from old and discarded clothes supplied by an NGO. According to the jail administration, these women have become experts in making durries. At least two durries are prepared in a day. Besides durries, women in jail have also started making purses. The jail administration, with the support of NGOs, is providing skill training to female inmates. Superintendent of Agra district jail Shashikant Mishra said, “Seven women in the age group of 30 to 60 are making durries in the jail. NGO Kalyanam foundation provides raw material and pays Rs 50 for each durrie. So far, the inmates have manufactured over 100 durries. We are trying to indulge more inmates in skill-based work. This will help them become self-reliant once they are out of jail.” Chairperson of Kalyanam foundation Pratima Bhargava said, “We have been working with women in Agra district jail for the past two years. Last year, female inmates made face masks. This time, they are making durries. They are making excellent products. We organized exhibition of durries made by them at private parties. They were sold like hot cakes. We are also providing durries to the poor and needy people. More female inmates are willing to join the work. We are happy to empower the women lodged in jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/women-in-agra-district-jail-prepare-durries-for-needy/articleshow/81397081.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Bundle of lies and tale of broken promises: BJP||New Delhi: As the budget session commenced in Delhi assembly on Monday with a speech by the lieutenant governor, leader of opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri claimed that it was a “bundle of lies and tale of broken promises”. The LG was obliged under constitutional norms to read out whatever the government put in the address, he said.Bidhuri claimed that Delhi government had failed to tackle the corona outbreak in the capital and it was only after the intervention of the central government that measures were taken to bring the situation under control. “It is the Prime Minister and home minister who deserve all the praise and appreciation for saving the people of Delhi from a major outbreak of corona. But the LG’s address failed to make any mention of this thing, which was unfortunate,’’ he remarked.“The Kejriwal government has in the last six years not been able to purchase even a single DTC bus. It has neither opened new schools/colleges or hospitals nor constructed new flyovers. Instead, Delhi has earned the dubious distinction of being the most polluted city in the world,” Bidhuri claimed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bundle-of-lies-and-tale-of-broken-promises-bjp/articleshow/81400235.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||26-year-old man, 30-year-old girlfriend commit suicide||Salem: A couple who were in a relationship committed suicide by jumping into a lake near Attayampatty in Salem district on Sunday evening.The deceased were identified as M Sekar, 26, of Kudalur near Magudanchavadi, and his partner Gomathi, 30, of Malayampalayam. Gomathi had separated from her husband and was living with her two children while Sekar was living with his two children, including an 8-month-old toddler, and wife Sumathi, 22. Sekar developed a sexual relationship with Gomathi three years ago. An officer from Attayampatty police station said Sekar was warned by Sumathi’s family members not to have any relationship with Gomathi.On Saturday evening, Sekar and Gomathi ended their lives by jumping into the Papparapatty lake, the police officer said.On the next day, locals found two bodies floating on the lake and informed the Attayampatty police. The bodies were fished out and sent to the government hospital in Salem for post-mortem.Meanwhile, Gomathi’s elder sister also committed suicide by hanging over a family feud in Kalipatty in Namakkal district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/26-year-old-man-30-year-old-girlfriend-commit-suicide/articleshow/81400240.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Moving car catches fire||Hyderabad: A moving car caught fire reportedly due to short-circuit and overheating on Monday at Telugu Talli flyover. No casualties or injuries were reported as the passengers escaped the car in time. Traffic cops alerted the disaster response and fire services personnel who reached the spot and doused the flames.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/moving-car-catches-fire/articleshow/81400229.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Burglars strike as man attends last rites||Ahmedabad: A 69-year-old man from the Ambawadi area of city on Sunday filed a complaint with Ellisbridge police alleging that burglars broke into his locked house and decamped with cash and valuables worth Rs 80,000 from his home when he went to attend the last rites and post-death rituals of his elder brother in Sarkhej. In his FIR with police, Vikram Tripathi, stated that his brother died around 20 days ago, who with his wife and son and his mother-in-law Mrudula Tripathi, 82, was staying at his home with his sister-in-law Meena Tripathi. On March 4, Mrudula and Meena locked the house and went to Meena’s place for three days. When they retuned on Sunday, they found that lock of main door of Vikram’s house was broken. Meena called up Vikram and informed him about the burglary and later he along with his family members rushed to their home in Rushvina apartment near Shreyas crossing in Ambawadi area and found that Rs 80,000 cash and some valuables were stolen. He approached Ellisbridge police station and filed a police complaint of burglary against unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/burglars-strike-as-man-attends-last-rites/articleshow/81400247.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Miffed at local authorities, Karim Nagar folks to boycott election||Salem: The residents of Karim Nagar in Salem city have decided to boycott the upcoming Tamil Nadu assembly election and have also erected a banner saying this at the entrance of the street on Monday.Talking to TOI, the vice president of the Karim compound residents welfare association, A Mustafa, said that as many as 1,125 voters lived in 155 houses in the compound. Though they have been living on the land, belonging to Mohammed Pura Matharasa, for more than five decades their request for basic amenities have fallen on deaf ears. “There’s no basic amenities such as drinking water connection, drainage system and public toilets,” he said.The residents claimed that the sitting AIADMK MLA Sakthivel allotted Rs 15 lakh from his constituency development fund to lay tar roads but the matharasa management refused.Similarly, Salem city municipal corporation (SMC) had allotted Rs 4.5 lakh to install solar street lights in the Karim Nagar compound but the matharasa management people vetoed that as well. The Karim Nagar residents have now urged the district administration and the SMC officials to take steps to change the land ownership to waqf board from the matharasa control. “We will boycott the election if our demands are not met,” Mustafa said.When contacted by TOI to get the reaction of matharasa muthavalli Abdul Kareem, his mobile number was found to be switched off since Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/miffed-at-local-authorities-karim-nagar-folks-to-boycott-election/articleshow/81400244.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Man murders wife, kills self||Dharmapuri: A 37-year-old man murdered his 32-year-old wife and committed suicide by hanging in his house at Pidamaneri here on Monday.The deceased were identified as D Rajkumar of Govinda Das Street, who was working as a medical representative and his wife Divya, a homemaker. “Rajkumar often quarrelled with Divya, suspecting her fidelity. On Monday around 6am, the couple got into a heated argument, during which Rajkumar hit her with a grinding stone on her head. He also strangled her using her dupatta,” said a police officer attached to the Dharmapuri town police station. “Divya died on the spot.”“A few minutes later, Rajkumar informed his relatives about the incident and asked them to take care of his two daughters. The relatives rushed to the house to find him hanging from the ceiling, next to his wife’s body,” the officer added.Police sent the bodies to the government medical college and hospital for postmortem. A case has been registered.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-murders-wife-kills-self/articleshow/81400238.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Pre-budget: Congress demands allowance for unemployed youth||New Delhi: Congress on Monday said the pre-budget economic survey paints a bleak picture as the per capita income of Delhiites has come down by 9%, while the contraction in Delhi’s Gross State Domestic Product is expected at 5.7% in 2020-21.Former MLA Adarsh Shastri said the per capita expenditure on health had decreased from Rs 3,044 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 3,029 crore in 2019-20, while the monthly financial assistance to senior citizens reduced from Rs 4.6 lakh to Rs 4.5 lakh during the Covid pandemic. Congress demanded unemployment allowance for youth, and reduction in VAT to lower fuel prices in the budget. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pre-budget-congress-demands-allowance-for-unemployed-youth/articleshow/81400242.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Pune||Expand list of comorbidities now to vaccinate more at risk: Specialists||PUNE: Experts have said the list of comorbidities, which determines priority Covid vaccination among those between 45 and 59 years of age, should be immediately expanded to cover more health conditions. A total of 20 comorbidities have been prioritised by the Centre. But experts said potentially dangerous conditions such as obesity and hypertension have been left out. Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of the country's leading experts on vaccination, said the list of comorbidities provided by the health ministry is far too restrictive and even complicated, especially when the country is aiming for maximum coverage. “To limit the list of comorbidities is problematic, when even a common condition such as obesity - a known risk factor - is excluded," she said. Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), said many middle-aged persons are completely unaware of their blood-pressure levels, risk of diabetes and may even have damaged blood vessels that can suddenly trigger heart attacks or strokes. “It is best to then sequentially cover all persons - those above 60, above 50 and above 40," Dr Reddy said, adding that at each successive phase of the immunisation programme, "we must aim to provide the widest possible coverage that resources permit for that age group". Central Covid-10 task force member, Dr Giridhar Babu, said the Centre should expand the vaccination drive to include everyone above the age of 45. “Creating any list of comorbidities will create additional restrictions as most do not have their conditions known to them. After this age group is covered, progressive expansion of other age groups can follow." He added that public health strategies have to be simple. "The current criteria are restrictive and add to complexities that can delay the vaccine drive." Dr D Prabhakaran from the PHFI said the government has done its best under the given circumstances. “If we include everyone with health risks, the number in the priority groups will be a staggering 500 million, approximately. He said, "The priority is to vaccinate those who are high-risk. For that, starting with the 60-plus is a good move. The decision may not be perfect or satisfactory to all, but it is the more practical one."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/expand-list-of-comorbidities-now-to-vaccinate-more-at-risk-specialists/articleshow/81400245.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Mini-marathon conducted to create voter awareness||Erode/Salem: The Erode district administration conducted a mini-marathon on Monday to create awareness about the Tamil Nadu assembly election.Hundreds of people, including boys and girls, participated in the event. Revenue divisional officer of Gobichettipalayam taluk Palani Devi flagged off the marathon from the government higher secondary school at Kacherimedu. It ended at a private marriage hall in Nallagoundampalayam.The district administration plans to carry out several election awareness drives, Devi said. “We will ensure 100% polling,” she said.Earlier, karate and silambam players carried out an exhibition show. The department of welfare of differently abled persons in Salem made a rangoli to encourage disabled voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mini-marathon-conducted-to-create-voter-awareness/articleshow/81400250.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra task force wants genomic data in public domain||PUNE: State task force has demanded that the Union government should put genomic data of Covid-19 cases in state in public domain to ensure better planning. The state has recorded over 10,000 cases in the last three days. Besides regular testing, contact tracing and treatment strategy and following Covid-19 protocol, there is an urgent need to understand whether there are any new strains, said state task force members. State task force member Dr Shashank Joshi told TOI that for public health experts to be assured that whether there are any new strains or the rise in cases is because of old strains, should be put out by the centre "The centre has to put out the data on public domain so that public health experts can plan accordingly. Especially in the state, certain pockets there is more spread. While the reason for the spread could be that public are not following the covid protocol, one has to be doubly assured that there is no new strain,''he reiterated The last three days the state has been registering over 10,000 cases and on Sunday the numbers touched 11,000, with Pune district listing the highest number of cases "While the positivity rate is high, the criticality rate is not. However, one cannot be complacent and with public participation and with necessary criteria of testing, tracing and treatment they should get the numbers down,''he warns. With the covid spread assessed in a green, yellow, orange and red scale, the expert said that the district needs to up their guard as at present the scale or the spread is yellow to orange and within two weeks if aggressive measures of containing the spread is not taken it can touch red. "Aggressive citizens participation and public health strategy is the way forward,''said Joshi. The state task force has already stated that 8-10 districts along with metro cities need focus. While Vidarbha and Marathwada regions were changing the scale from red to orange and some were changing from orange to yellow, there is a need for the state to be cautious. The task force have also put forth the increasing humidity factors and aggressive rise in temperature among the reasons for the rise in cases as was noticed last year during this time. They have stated that the trend is witnessed across the country and not just the state. Meanwhile central team members who are assessing the situation told TOI that they would travel to all the hotspots in the state and do a detailed analysis on why there was an increase in these pockets and what measures should be taken One team that had submitted the report stated that the surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra could be due to lack of fear of the disease among people and pandemic fatigue, while asking the state not to let its guard down. The second team is here to guide the state officials According to the daily figures, the last one lakh cases in the state were reported in just 12 days owing to fresh outbreaks in Vidarbha, Mumbai and Pune regions. On Sunday, the state added 11,141 cases during the day and recorded 38 deaths, taking the overall toll to 52,478. On Friday and Saturday, the state reported 10,216 and 10,187 cases, respectively. With this, the state continued to lead the fresh Covid surge in India. Maharashtra is among the 6 states which have accounted for almost 85% of the daily new cases over the past few days. Places like Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur are leading the Covid surge in the state, followed by Amravati and Thane. The state is now left with 92,897 active cases while the case recovery rate is 93.36 per cent. The fatality rate is 2.37 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/task-force-wants-genomic-data-in-public-domain/articleshow/81400251.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||2 gold smugglers held at RGIA||Hyderabad: Two gold smugglers were caught at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) by the enforcement agencies on Monday and 2.4 kg gold was seized from their possession. The Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) sleuths of the customs department apprehended a passenger, Shaik Mastan, who arrived from Kuwait in Jazeera Airlines flight (J9-1403) during the early hours of Monday and seized gold bars weighing 160 gm from his possession. Customs sleuths said that Mastan, who concealed the gold bars in his clothes, opted for green channel and he was intercepted at the customs check area. In another incident, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths rummaged an Air India flight that arrived at RGIA from Dubai on Monday and recovered 2.3 kg gold concealed in a life jacket under the passenger seat. DRI team picked up a suspect, who is currently being interrogated for identification of the gold smuggling gang members. “The value of the seized gold is over Rs 1 crore but the gold was not seized from a passenger. We are trying to identify the person who concealed the gold in the aircraft and are also trying to identify the person who was supposed to pick it up,” said a DRI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-gold-smugglers-held-at-rgia/articleshow/81400254.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Pune||Number of Covid tests surges past 24 lakh in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: The number of Covid-19 tests has surged above the 24 lakh-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), with the latest 1 lakh samples being tested in 10 days, averaging 10,000 tests per day. A total of 11,316 samples were tested in the region on Monday, the seventh consecutive day when the region’s daily testing stayed above 10,000. In fact, the region conducted less than 10,000 tests only once in the last 11 days (March 1), revealed the data released by the district health office. Health department officials said the number of tests per day has gone up in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural pockets of PMR. The PMC’s daily test count has been ranging from 6,500 to 7,500 now, which is an improvement from the last month’s daily tests of around 5,000. The neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) too has increased the daily testing beyond 3,000, the officials said. The PMC has so far tested over 11.92 lakh samples, while PCMC’s test count has increased to 6.8 lakh. The district’s rural areas have tested over 5.27 lakh samples. The Covid-19 tests began in the region about a year ago. The initial cases were reported from PMC limits in March last year. Sanjeev Wavre, assistant health chief at PMC, said, “Instructions have been issued to intensify testing of people showing flu-like symptoms from localities with more Covid-19 patients, besides tracing the close contacts. This is because the cases have gone up since the last few days. Testing will help identify positive patients early on.” The civic administration has told private laboratories conducting the Covid-19 tests to furnish details of positive patients on a daily basis to the administration. A PMC health officials said the laboratories have been warned of strict action and suspension of Covid-19 testing if they failed to follow the norms. The PMC is operating about 20 swab collection centres across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/number-of-covid-tests-surges-past-24l-in-pmr/articleshow/81400261.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Lured by Rs 25L home loan, man loses Rs 2L||Ahmedabad: Cashing in on a man’s desire to secure a home loan, a con artist tricking him out of Rs 2 lakh.Shyamu Desai, a 25-year-old resident of Kantipark society in Ghatlodia, filed a complaint against Naroda resident Dipak Ahuja with Ghatlodia police in this regard. Desai, who is a land broker, stated in his FIR that he had met Ahuja at a coffee shop in Naranpura. “In July 2020, I called my brother amd asked him if he knew someone who could get me a home loan. Ahuja overheard this, approached me, and said that he works at a bank and could help me get the loan. We exchanged our numbers then,” said Desai in his FIR. He said Ahuja called him up on July 7, 2020 and said that he would process his home loan request with a private bank and demanded Rs 2 lakh to expedite the loan procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lured-by-rs-25l-home-loan-man-loses-rs-2l/articleshow/81400265.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lawyer booked for manhandling 59-yr-old woman||A female lawyer and her sister have been booked for allegedly manhandling a 59-year-old woman, outraging her modesty, slapping and insulting her within the Girgaum court premises on March 5. The complainant, Surekha Maru, was working on the ground floor of the building when the incident took place. The accused has been charged for obstructing an official while discharging her duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-lawyer-booked-for-manhandling-59-yr-old-woman/articleshow/81400326.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||11 members of burglary gang held||Hyderabad: Medchal police along with central crime station (CCS) Balanagar team on Monday arrested 11 members of the notorious Pardhi gang for committing house burglaries in the city. The accused are KK Pardhi, 19, Lele Gujjar, 19, Jullabuddin, 20, Ansoor, 20, Amim, 20, Rujan Singh, 38, Minsari Lal, 40, Ali B, 20, Khan Kode, 20, Seerab Lal, 19 and a juvenile offender from Madhya Pradesh. The arrested accused along with their associates Balva, Kalam, Thakur and Pekload, who are currently absconding, committed 20 burglaries and thefts at Medchal, Alwal, Petbasheerabad, Shamirpet and Balanagar during the past three months. “The gang members had reached Kompally in December 2020 and erected temporary huts near Manju wines shop close to the railway track. The gang members conducted a recce in the neighbouring colonies posing as rudraksha and herbal medicine sellers to identify the locked houses,” said a Medchal police officer. After a series of burglaries, police teams identified the location of the accused and arrested them on Sunday. Police recovered Rs 1.4 lakh, two bikes, 3.8 gm gold and 26 cell phones from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11-members-of-burglary-gang-held/articleshow/81400249.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Batla House: Friendly fire theory junked||NEW DELHI: A city court on Monday rejected one of the “consistent suggestions” of Ariz Khan, an accused in the Batla House encounter case, that policemen who were a part of the raiding team had narrated the sequence of events falsely and concocted a story to cover up the accidental death of inspector Mohan Chand Sharma and injury to head constable Balwant. Additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav based his conclusion on two grounds — Sharma was the first to enter the flat in question, and as soon as police entered, the occupants started firing. “When the firing took place, other members of the raiding team were behind inspector Mohan Chand Sharma. The postmortem report showed that Sharma received two injuries, one on the shoulder and another in the abdomen. None of these injuries could have been caused by policemen behind the inspector as they were on the front portion of his body. They were caused by the militants occupying the flat,” the court held. In a reply to a questionnaire by Rajender Bakshi, the then ACP (Crime Branch), a board comprising experts from CFSL and doctors of AIIMS had opined that the firearm wounds received by Sharma were unlikely to be caused by accidental firing of members of the raiding team. Sharma’s autopsy was conducted on September 20, 2008, by Dr Arvind Kumar, Dr Sanjeev Lalwani and Dr Susheel Sharma. They opined that the cause of death was hemorrhagic shock due to firearm injury in the abdomen as mentioned in the postmortem report, which was sufficient to cause death. “Thus, the death of inspector Sharma by firearm injury is proved by scientific evidence, i.e. postmortem report,” the court held. A subsequent opinion mentioned that the nature of injuries suffered by head constable Balwant were grievous in nature and could have been caused by gunshots. “Therefore, scientific evidence proved that Balwant was hit by a bullet and received grievous injuries,” it added. On the point of Khan’s identification, the court said he had already been identified through photographs and educational documents seized from the place of incident. It was noted that if an accused was arrested on the basis of the disclosure statement of another accused, wherein admissible evidence is found showing his involvement in the commission of the offence, that portion of disclosure statement was admissible under Section 27 of Indian Evidence Act. The court was referring to the disclosure of Md Saif, who had surrendered. The evidence was ocular, documentary and scientific in nature, which left the court in no doubt that the prosecution had successfully proved the charges framed against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt. “Accused Ariz Khan alias Junaid, along with his associates Md Atif Ameen and Md Sajid (both died in the shootout) and Md Shahzad alias Pappu (already convicted) in furtherance of common intention intentionally and knowingly committed murder by causing the death of inspector Sharma,” the court held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/batla-house-friendly-fire-theory-junked/articleshow/81400378.cms||Aamir Khan
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Residents drop their guard in Covid fight||Coimbatore: At a time when the number of Covid cases has been rising across the country and the state government has issued fresh travel guidelines for the international and domestic passengers, city residents flouting mask and social distancing norms have become a common sight in the public places. “Though there is no major rise in Covid cases within the city limits, we need to be cautious and follow all the guidelines to prevent another spike. But people are not taking the precautionary guidelines seriously due to drop in Covid cases,” an official from the health wing of the city corporation said.The violations are continuing even as the corporation has directed health officials to slap a penalty of Rs 200 against those who were without facemasks and Rs 500 against those who violate social distancing norms under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. Pointing to the lowering of guard by people within their families, the health official said the number of cases reported within a family has been increasing for the past two months. “One of the persons in a family gets infected and spreads the virus to others. Of the 33 cases reported in the city on Monday, 16 people belong to four families,” the official said, adding that reluctance among the people to test for the infection is also contributing to this. Dr Varun Sundaramoothy, infectious diseases expert from Kovai Medical Center and Hospital, warned of asymptomatic carriers who spread the infection among the vulnerable in the community. “As the virus enters into our body only through nasal and oral cavities, it is extremely important to cover ones nose and mouth with a mask and to maintain physical distance from others,” he said. “Besides, as it is not clear which strains of the virus are responsible for the new cases, it becomes difficult for the health officials to predict the spread and severity of the infection,” he added. Dr P Kulandaisamy, former director of public health, said people should continue to disinfect the surfaces that are frequently touched, wash their hands regularly and stay in a ventilated room in addition to wearing face masks to control the spread. “As sero-surveys showed presence of antibodies in only 40% to 50% of the population, it will take some time for us to enjoy the benefits of the vaccination. Until then, we will have to follow the guidelines,” he said.The lack of seriousness about the infection among the people is due to fatigue, confidence of recovery among youth, lack of proper understanding and absence of hand washing facilities in many public places, Kulandaisamy said.“Cases will go up if we are not cautious. We also have to factor in the fact that we are neighbours to Kerala, where the cases have been going up,” he added.Dr Varun Sundaramoothy said the pandemic guidelines need to be followed for a certain period even after no cases were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-drop-their-guard-in-covid-fight/articleshow/81400301.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 9, 2021||Surat||Forester who busted it, quit plum job for passion||Surat: Ever since the court pronounced its verdict on the 2018 illegal lion show in Babariya forest range in Gir-West division of Gir Wildlife Sanctuary on Monday, range forest officer (RFO) Rajan Jadav’s phone has not remained silent. It’s truly a triumph of his passion.Meet the forester who literally stooped to conquer his ‘love’. An ardent wildlife lover, Jadav had left his class-one officer’s job as director (training) at the All India Institute of Local Self-Government in Mumbai to join the Gujarat Forest Department as an RFO, a class-two officer’s job in 2016. His decision then to take up the ranger's job, which is a step-down, surprised many of his colleagues and friends. While he was urged to rethink his decision, Jadav had no doubts about it and followed his instinct.Posted at Jungle Safari at Kevadia at present, Jadav is content that his action as the RFO at Babariya Range then fetched desired results today. Jadav, along with other forest officers, had carried out a raid at a farm where illegal lion shows were being conducted clandestinely, much against the wildlife Act. While the team arrested the accused, the audacity of the flippant teasing of a lion with a bait, shocked not only wildlife conservationists, but also the entire country. Jadav holds a doctorate degree in ‘Ecology Status and Importance of Grassland (Vidis) in Conservation of Avifauna of Saurashtra Region’. He holds two bachelor’s degrees — in biotechnology and in zoology. “Monday’s judgment gives me utmost satisfaction as we could take the matter to a logical conclusion and the accused were convicted,” Jadav told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/forester-who-busted-it-quit-plum-job-for-passion/articleshow/81398870.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Focus on achievements, struggle for equality||Coimbatore: Educational institutions, women’s wing of industrial associations, NGOs and hospitals across the region celebrated the International Women’s Day on Monday.While the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital set up a special desk for women to get vaccinated against Covid-19, the NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion in Tirupur reminded people how domestic violence is still rampant. Educational institutions like the Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women felicitated women achievers, including 105-year-old organic farmer R Pappammal. The Coimbatore Parenting Network organized a feast for their women members.Three Fashion Apparel Designing students of NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion wanted to showcase the plight of a bride subjected to domestic violence. “While the focus is usually only on women empowerment on Women’s Day, nobody acknowledges the fact that women continue to be victims of domestic violence,” said Kavya Govindarajan, who did the makeup. “We created bruises using a mix of wax and maida, and used cosmetics to create blood and clotting effect.”Another student wrote a poem on the impact of domestic violence and the importance of educating girls.Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women felicitated Padma Shri awardee Pappammal, self-help group member and mentor Vijaya Kumar, director of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International School Of Textiles & Management Alli Rani and Nandhini Rawal Singh, who has been working on developing disability development programmes and innovations.As many as 127 women got the Covid-19 shot at the special desk set up at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital to mark the day. While 80 of them took Covishield, 47 were given Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/focus-on-achievements-struggle-for-equality/articleshow/81400269.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||City sees highest vax turnout yet at 35,738||New Delhi: The city reported its highest turnout for Covid vaccination on Monday with 35,738 people getting the shot compared with 33,287 on Saturday. It also witnessed the highest number of senior citizens — 20,123 — turning up for the jab. On Saturday, the count was 17,288. The turnout count has been increasing consistently since the government has launched the second phase of vaccination under which people above 60 years and those between 45 to 59 with certain comorbidities are being vaccinated. However, the number of 45-59 age group vaccination decreased a bit with 2,710 individuals getting the shot as compared to 2,824 on Saturday. Healthcare workers are still turning up for the jab. On Monday, 2,337 healthcare and 3,252 frontline workers got the shot, while 7,316 healthcare and frontline workers got the second dose. Only one minor adverse event was reported. Among the prioritised age group, 68% (15,485) turned up in private facilities and the remaining 32% (7,348) in government facilities. As a proportion of slots available for online registration, 15,485 (75%) turned up against 20,700 available slots in private facilities, and 7,348 (39%) turned up against 18,700 slots in government facilities. Delhi government has expanded the network of vaccination centres this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-sees-highest-vax-turnout-yet-at-35738/articleshow/81400305.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Pune||CoEP jumbo unit likely to restart after green signal||Pune: The civic body has planned to reopen the jumbo Covid-19 unit at the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP), after a structural audit gives it the go-ahead.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had decided to dismantle the makeshift facility after its contract ended. However, it was decided to continue the facility following the recent surge in Covid-19 cases.The PMC has now decided to set up a dedicated facility at Dalavi hospital for Covid-19 treatment.“We are keeping a watch on the situation. The decision on restarting the jumbo hospital will be taken if the need arises. The decision will be taken after meeting other government officials,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner, PMC.The contracts of most of these hospitals were signed in August or September. The six-month contract either ended in February or are to expire in March. Rs200crore has been spent on these facilities.The PMC had built the CoEP jumbo unit with intensive care units (ICU), ventilator and oxygen-supported beds for treating Covid-19 patients. It has a capacity of 800 beds, 400 of which were occupied when it was operational. One more jumbo facility has been set up at Baner with the help of CSR)funds. This facility has around 350 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coep-jumbo-unit-likely-to-restart-after-green-signal/articleshow/81400292.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Business||Avg income of women engaged in direct selling rises 20%||Chennai: Direct seller and Chennai resident Suganti Murthy’s March incentive from sales were 23% higher over last year as companies have undertaken delivery instead of the agents themselves and also allowed longer credit cycles. Average income of women engaged in direct selling rose by 20% YoY as of March 2021, as more took to it during the lockdown. These agent-driven direct selling companies have relaxed rules for sales agents, which in return aided them with income growth, officials at Tupperware said. Tupperware has increased the credit period of payment by agents on purchase of supplies from 1 week to 2 weeks. “Earlier, we had a restriction to move within a 10 km radius from our residences. However, after adapting to online meetings, the number of interactions doubled from 12-14 per month to 25-30. With the delivery of products taken care of by the company, it has cut down the travel expenses,” Murthy said. Tupperware India, which launched various solutions like social-selling that allows sharing product URL links via Whatsapp, home-delivery of products, webstore launch, said digital adoption was the key to helping the rise in incomes of the agents. “Our agents have seen a steady growth of 20% on average income as of March 1, 2021, compared to 2020,” said Tupperware MD Deepak Chhabra. During the unlocking phase, the brand added 4-5 stores per month to its pool. This approach gave impetus to the direct sellers that allowed them to explore the possibilities of opening stores as per the unified multi-channel brand approach,” he said.“We have created a new channel which is a hybrid of the direct selling and outlet channel, and smart sellers can retail from the comfort of their home,” he added. With over 70,000 direct sellers Tupperware said the majority of the new agent enrollment came from metro and mini-metros in the last year. Amway officials said that off the total direct sellers (i.e) over 5.5 lakh, “we have witnessed women participation scaling upward by 10% i.e. from 60% in early 2020 to close to 70% today.” Amway CEO Anshu Budhraja said more people from the U35 (under 35 years) segment were enrolling as direct sellers. 51% of the total direct sellers at Amway are U35, and of the total new joinee. Healthy living gained momentum during the ongoing pandemic, with nutrition and immunity taking center stage. “This trend has benefited our direct sellers who have been building their business by selling nutrition products under the brand Nutrilite from Amway. Given the market scenario, Amway India witnessed tremendous business in the nutrition category, registering a growth of 13% over 2019. The contribution of the nutrition category to Amway’s overall business went up from 50% to over 61% in 2020,” Budhraja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/avg-income-of-women-engaged-in-direct-selling-rises-20/articleshow/81400340.cms||Mamtha Asokan
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Gulf JAC meets with MPs on Gulf workers’ wages||Hyderabad: The Gulf JAC, which has organised a ‘Chalo Delhi’ programme, met several MPs from different parties and from various states urging them to bring pressure on the central government to withdraw the two circulars reducing the minimum referral wage for gulf workers. On Monday, the Gulf workers and representatives of various organisations, met MP T G Venkatesh of TDP from Rajya Sabha, and CPM MP from Kerala Soma Prasad and explained how thousands of Gulf workers were adversely affected because of the central government circulations. After arriving by train from Mancherial in Telganana, the JAC members met two MPs from Punjab on on March 7. They handed over the representations to Ludhiana MP Ravneeth Singh Bittu of the Congress, and Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Oujla, also of the Congress. The Gulf JAC members led by Guggilla Ravi Goud, convenor, Gulf JACT also visited the camp of farmers agitating. The MPs have reportedly assured the delegation that the issue of Gulf workers’ wages would be taken up with the Union external affairs minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gulf-jac-meets-with-mps-on-gulf-workers-wages/articleshow/81400270.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Pune||Daily tally drops, over 1,300 recover||Pune: The daily Covid-19 tally dropped to 1,412 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, with its recoveries staying above 1,300 for the second straight day. Besides, 13 patients succumbed to Covid-related complaications in the region in the last 24 hours, taking its toll to 9,316. The region recorded over 11,300 Covid-19 tests on Monday, which was over 1,000 less than the Sunday’s count of more than 12,500, a report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar said. The Pune Municipal Corporation added more than 10 micro-containment zones in areas like Kondhwa-Yevlewadi, Hadapsar, Ghole Road-Shivajinagar and Sinhagad Road on Monday. Most are housing societies, complexes or small localities. The citizens in respective areas have been urged to take precautions and use face masks, avoid large gatherings. — Sarang Dastane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-tally-drops-over-1300-recover/articleshow/81400274.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||First-time voters weigh in on election issues||Coimbatore: Twenty-one year old R Vineeth of Saravanamapatti is excited about the upcoming state assembly election as this is going to be the first time he can exercise his constitutional right to vote. But at the same time, he is nervous and confused. Despite following the politicians closely, he is still struggling to choose the right party to lead the state forward. “All the leaders including Seeman and Kamal Haasan, give impressive speeches and their poll promises look more or less similar. But I don’t know how capable they are of fulfilling their promises because it all looks like the assurances were made just to attract the public. It doesn’t look they are actually concerned about the people,” he said. Most of the issues that were raised during erstwhile DMK administration have remained unsolved during the AIADMK rule and the government which claimed facing fund shortage during the lockdown, distributed gift hampers during Pongal. Seeing all this, Vineeth says he is yet to take a final decision.Vineeth is not the only one going through this dilemma. Many of the youngsters in the district are confused about choosing the right party to power even though they are aware of what an ideal party at the helm should look like.V Sanjana, a college student from Singanallur, said, “For decades, we have been choosing either one of the two major parties in the state and we have seen a lot of corruption during both their periods. I am not sure if the other parties are capable of bringing corruption-free government but I just want to give them a chance.” For her, the politicians are interested only in accusing members of other parties and working for their personal growth rather than connecting and forming a bond with the public and working for public welfare. K Devi from Mudaliarpatti, a tribal settlement in Anaimalai said that government oficials only visit their settlement before elections, making hollow promises and forgetting about them soon after. “Politicians visit our settlement ahead of the elections and assure us of providing all the basic amenities like increasing the frequency of bus trips, providing drinking water supply and constructing concrete houses for us. But, they just ignore us after the election. “I don’t believe all the politicians are bad. At least someone should be really concerned and work for the welfare of the public,” she added. Another resident from a settlement in Anaimalai shared that the government had distributed electronic freebies ahead of an election but forgot to provide them with electricity!“A few years ago, the state government had distributed free television, grinder, fan and mixi to all of us. But till date, they had not taken any steps to provide electricity connection to our settlement and the gifts that we received is collecting dust in our home. It is only recently that solar lights were installed. Whoever forms the government should understand the ground reality before making announcements,” said R Pasupathy from Mavadappu, a settlement in Anaimalai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/first-time-voters-weigh-in-on-election-issues/articleshow/81400280.cms||Nivedha Selvam
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Bhainsa: Nightmare for cops since 1980s||HYDERABAD: Bhainsa, a small town in Nirmal district, has witnessed sporadic communal incidents since the 1980s. These skirmishes continue to keep police on their toes even to this day. Religious processions, road rages, sound pollution and other local issues were triggers for the communal violence in the past few decades. In the mid 1980s, during a religious festival, members of two groups had clashed with each other and no one then knew that it was going to continue sporadically leading to rioting, arson and on one instance, the violence led to murders. In October 2008, during a religious procession, Bhainsa had witnessed the worst violence with nine persons, including six of a family burnt alive. Since 2008, Bhainsa has been considered a hyper-sensitive area. However, there has been peace for a long time till last year (2020) when Bhainsa again saw rioting with group clashes in January and May. In January, 2020, tension was triggered by a petty issue, a biker removing silencer of his vehicle. He made frequent trips to a lane, annoying people and triggering massive rioting and arson after members of other community took objection. However, district police have been trying to bring lasting peace with the support of local peace committees and engaging locals in various government-sponsored programmes to keep them engaged. “Yes, peace committees are there and actively functioning in Bhainsa,” incharge district superintendent of police Vishnu Warrier told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhainsa-nightmare-for-cops-since-1980s/articleshow/81400344.cms||Srinath Vudali
March 9, 2021||Dehradun||International Women’s Day: U’khand SSA inks MoU with IBM for girl child education||Dehradun: The state unit of the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) signed an MoU with IBM to improve the education standards among the female children of the state. The collaboration, 'IBM STEM for Girls' program, will be introduced in 130 secondary and higher secondary schools across five districts in the state. The five districts are Dehradun, Pauri, Haridwar, Almora and Udham Singh Nagar.  The program will advance the skills and careers of close to 25,600 students in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) fields. The collaboration is part of a three-year program between IBM and Uttarakhand State Government with the American India Foundation as the implementation partner to increase the participation of girls and women in STEM careers.  “Empowering female students through education that makes them capable of achieving success is a key imperative of the government. Our collaboration with IBM will help female students equip themselves with technical skills and expertise in STEM subjects. It will also impart the life-skills they need to solve real-world challenges utilizing good technology to make a difference to the community,” said Mukul Kumar Sati, Additional State Project Director of SSA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/international-womens-day-ukhand-ssa-inks-mou-with-ibm-for-girl-child-education/articleshow/81398862.cms||Mohammad Anab
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Govt tells HC cap on test price justified||NEW DELHI: The AAP government has defended its decision to cap price of RT-PCR tests, arguing that rates fixed reflect falling market price of the tests. In an affidavit filed in Delhi High Court, the government said “change in the rates of RT-PCR testing as fixed is a progressive measure designed to broadbase and democratise the testing ecosystem in public interest.” It has also cited the near similar rates fixed by state governments of Karnataka and Telangana to claim that the rate of Rs 800 was reached after weekly consultations with the central government as well as significant lowering of price of RT PCR kits and PPE kits due to large number of approved suppliers in the market from June 2020 onwards. The reply came in response to a plea filed last year challenging the decision fixing a cap of Rs 800 on RTPCR tests for detecting Covid-19 infection in the national capital. It was filed by an association of practising pathologists, which has contended that the price fixed would not cover the cost of consumables to be used in the test. The association also contended that the price cap cannot be made applicable to TrueNat and CBNAAT tests, which are also used to detect Covid-19 infection, as they use cartridges that are very expensive. It further said that sensitivity of TrueNat and CBNAAT was 98% and 100%, respectively, which were much higher than that of RTPCR open ended system test which stood at 67-70%. Delhi government had at that time clarified that the price cap was not applicable to CBNAAT and TrueNAT tests as these are different from RTPCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-tells-hc-cap-on-test-price-justified/articleshow/81400346.cms||Abhinav Garg
March 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Saris, veshtis, plates seized||Coimbatore: Flying squad officials seized 68 bags containing saris, veshtis and plates from the house of AIADMK booth agent Anitha at Bharathi Nagar in Ramanthapuram on Sunday.The squad, which inspected Anitha’s house based on a tip-off, found the bags that had photos of AIADMK leaders. Meanwhile, returning officer of Coimbatore north constituency U Murugesan seized Rs 5.56 lakh from Karthikeyan near the Government College of Technology during vehicle check on Monday. He was carrying the cash without any documents. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/saris-veshtis-plates-seized/articleshow/81400307.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Patna||Six die as school wall collapses in Bihar's Khagaria||PATNA: At least six workers died when a portion of the government high school wall collapsed during construction of a drain at Chandi Tola village in Khagaria district on Monday. The deceased were identified as Pramod Paswan (40), Lalit Kumar Sharma (25), Chhaila Tanti (30), Shivshankar Singh(25), Jhulan Manjhi (25) and Gyandev Paswan 26). CM Nitish Kumar condoled the deaths and said in a statement that a cheque for Rs4 lakh each as ex gratia payment was handed over to the kin of the deceased. The incident took place around 4pm when the workers were removing the soil of the drain and the school wall caved in under Gogri block in the district. Authoritative sources said the drain was being constructed under the ‘Nal-Jal’ scheme of the state government. An FIR has been lodged with Maheshkhunt police station in connection with the incident. Police were searching the the contractor. The bodies were sent to the Sadar hospital for postmortem. Khagaria SP Amitesh Kumar denied that anybody else was injured. Khagaria DM (incharge) Shatrunjay Mishra said Gogri SDO Subhash Chandra Mandal has been asked to submit a detailed report on the incident. The locals created a scene when the district police and administrative officials reached the spot. They demanded adequate compensation to the next of kin of the deceased. The school wall was constructed about eight months ago. It was a coincidence that the school was closed when the wall collapsed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-die-as-school-wall-collapses-in-khagaria/articleshow/81398442.cms||Ramashankar
March 9, 2021||Surat||More schoolchildren test positive in Surat||Surat: Three more school students tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, they have been conducting Covid-19 tests in schools and colleges ever since they were reopened. “On Monday, total 2,300 tests were conducted in 40 schools and colleges in the city. Out of it three school students-one from St. Mark School in Adajan and two from Mauni International School in Utaran-were tested positive for Covid-19,” said an SMC official. Over 45 students and teachers have been tested positive for coronavirus till now in Surat city. Surat city reported 90 Covid-19 cases on Monday. The Athwa civic zone reported highest positivecases among the eight civic zones with 27 cases followed by 23 in Rander zone. Total 84 patients were discharged on Monday taking the total number of recovered patients to 40,011 in the city. According to SMC officials, the recovery rate is 96.58 percent. As number of Covid-19 cases are on the rise, hospitalisation of patients has also increased. As on Monday, total 133 patients are under treatment in different hospitals in the city which include 22 patients in New Civil hospital and 14 patients in SMC run SMIMER hospital. Micro containment areas are increasing as Covid-19 cases are on the rise. As on Monday, there were total 533 micro containment zones which covered 40,032 people living in 10,422 houses across eight civic zones. The vaccination against Covid-19 is also going on full swing. According to SMC officials, till now, total 1.14 lakh vaccination doses have been administered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/more-schoolchildren-test-positive-in-surat/articleshow/81397762.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Two groups clash at DU, no complaint filed||New Delhi: A scuffle broke out between two groups at Delhi University on Monday. Police, however, dispersed the groups and managed to defuse the tension in time. Bhagat Singh Chatra Ekta Manch (BSCEM) members alleged that an event, where activist Nodeep Kaur and family members of the Butana rape victim were speaking, was disrupted by ABVP activists. ABVP claimed that the speakers were speaking against the Indian Army. “An event on International Women’s Day was violently attacked by ‘goons’ from ABVP at Arts Faculty. They tore posters and attacked students brutally. ABVP disrupted the programme before Dalit activist Nodeep Kaur could speak,” alleged BSCEM. The group also claimed that “Delhi Police remained mute spectators while the attack on students went on.” ABVP Delhi secretary Siddharth Yadav, however, said that a self-defence event was being organised by ABVP. “They started to disturb us and spoke ill for the Indian Army before a few of them attacked a DUSU member leading to a scuffle.” Delhi Police claimed that they intervened at the right time. “There are no complaints from any side,” said DCP North Anto Alphonse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-groups-clash-at-du-no-complaint-filed/articleshow/81400355.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Centre collected Rs 6.58L cr in taxes on fuel||Hyderabad: The Centre has collected Rs 6.85 lakh crore from the motorists among others towards taxes levied on petrol and diesel in the last three financial years from 2018-19 to 2020-21, said Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday. In a written reply to the questions asked by Congress MP A Revanth Reddy among other members in Lok Sabha, he said the tax collection from petrol and diesel in 2013 was about Rs 52,537 crore. It was Rs 2,13 lakh crore in 2019-19, Rs 1.78 lakh crore in 2019-20 and Rs 2.94 lakh in 2020-21. The price of the domestic cooking gas cylinder refill increased from Rs 410.5 on March 1, 2014 to Rs 819 as on March 1, 2021. The price of petrol which was Rs 73.16 per litre on March 1, 2014, increased to Rs 91.17 (in Delhi) on March 1, 2021. The price of diesel went from Rs 55.48 per litre on March 1, 2014 to Rs 81.47 on the corresponding date in 2021. The school dropout rate at secondary level stood at 13.5 percent, upper primary 2.9 percent and 1.9 per cent at primary level in Telangana in 2018-19, the minister stated in his written reply The minister also explained that the prices of petrol and diesel have been made market-determined by the government with effect from 26.06.2010 and 19.10.2014, respectively. Since then, the public sector Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) take appropriate decision on pricing of petrol and diesel in line with their international product prices, exchange rate, tax structure, inland freight and other cost elements. The prices of petroleum products in the country are linked to the price of respective products in the international market. The taxes on petrol and other fuels imposed in various countries keep changing from time to time as per the policy of their respective governments, and in some countries the percentage of taxes on petrol is higher than the current percentage of tax on petrol in India, the Union minister stated. The taxes are imposed for meeting the budgetary requirement of the government at the centre and state government in order to generate resources for infrastructure and other developmental items of expenditure keeping in view the present fiscal position. Taxes are increased or decreased depending on several factors like requirement of the government, market situation etc, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-collected-rs-6-58l-cr-in-taxes-on-fuel/articleshow/81400353.cms||Roushan Ali
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Parbhani man strangles his pregnant wife, tries to flee||MUMBAI: A 27-year-old Parbhani man, who had murdered his pregnant wife and escaped to Mumbai with an associate, was nabbed from Borivli-Dahisar after clever sleuthing by GRP. Umesh Magar had allegedly strangled his wife, Puja (23), but told his friend, Ganesh Pitale, that she died by suicide. He sought Pitale’s help to pack the body in a sack and dump it in a canal, before they boarded a bus for Mumbai. “Umesh and Puja were together for four years. Umesh started to suspect her fidelity and the two had fights. Puja was four months’ pregnant,” said Parbhani police deputy superintendent Rajendra Pal. GRP was informed on March 5 that Umesh and Pitale were likely to be in Borivli on the basis of their phone locations. Carrying the duo’s photographs, three police teams searched the railway station but did not find them. Pitale’s phone location then showed him near Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). A team rushed there where they learnt that a man matching Pitale’s description had boarded a tourist bus for Pune. “We found out which bus Pitale boarded but the vehicle was moving. Our team started to chase it and after a while, they got the driver’s phone number. The driver was cautioned to slow down the vehicle but not halt or do anything that would alert Pitale about the cops on his tail,” said GRP senior inspector Bhaskar Pawar. After Pitale was nabbed, he told officers that Umesh was hiding in Dahisar’s Vaishali Nagar slum, where his grandmother had lived long back. Another police team combed the slum and arrested Umesh. Both men were handed over to Parbhani police, where they have been booked for murder. Umesh’s sibling consumed a pesticide and killed himself on Monday. Police believe it could be linked to Umesh’s alleged killing of a pregnant Puja. During interrogation, Umesh told police he had strangled his wife on March 4. He then went to the market, where he met Pitale and invited him home. When Pitale spotted Puja’s body, Umesh feigned shock and said she had died by suicide. He sought Pitale’s help to pack the body in a sack and dump it in a dry canal at Selu. That night, the duo boarded a bus for Mumbai. The body was found by Parbhani police the next day. “Umesh has a criminal record in Nanded and Parbhani,” said Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-parbhani-man-strangles-his-pregnant-wife-tries-to-flee/articleshow/81400373.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 9, 2021||World||India slams farm protest debate in House of Commons, says packed with false assertions||NEW DELHI: The Indian government has slammed a debate held in the House of Commons on press freedom and safety of farmer protesters in India, saying it was one-sided and packed with false assertions. The High Commission of India in London issued a statement immediately after the debate held in Westminster Hall at which 17 out of 18 British MPs attacked Indian government's handling of the issues. “The High Commission of India has taken note of a distinctly one-sided discussion among a group of H’ble UK Parliamentarians in a Westminster committee room in response to an e-petition campaign. High Commission of India has been, over a period of time, taking care to inform all concerned about the issues raised in the petition. We deeply regret that rather than a balanced debate, false assertions - without substantiation or facts - were made, casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy in the world and its institutions,” the spokesman said. Read AlsoUK MPs blast Indian government for failing to protect press freedomLONDON: The Indian government came under fierce criticism in the House of Commons on Monday for allegedly violating the freedom of journalists to report on the farmer protests and the alleged use of brute force against protesters when British MPs debated a petition on the topic which has garnered“All issues raised are the remit of well-established independent democratic institutions in India for addressing the same. It is also a matter of concern that, once again, comments were made to mislead the British Indian community, raising doubts about treatment of minorities in India, alleged human rights violations in ‘Kashmir’ etc,” the spokesman said. During the debate MPs – from both Labour and the ruling Conservatives – condemned India for its treatment of farmer protesters and alleged crackdown on the press, as well as Internet shutdowns and arrest of activists. Jeremy Corbyn MP, ex-leader of the Labour party, claimed that 250 million people were taking part in the “strike”, which he described as the biggest ever industrial dispute in the history of this planet. PoK-origin Labour MP Tahir Ali, took the opportunity to launch a tirade against the BJP government, saying “I demand that the UK government condemn Prime Minister Modi and the actions of his BJP government. They continue to abuse the human and civil rights not only of farmers, but of Kashmiri people…They are cracking down on press freedom and political dissent, censoring critics and blocking access to the internet….Both Modi and the BJP government are linked to the rise in violent religious persecution within India, including attacks on Muslims, Sikhs and Christians.” Labour MP of Pakistan-origin Naz Shah claimed because the protests have been dominated by Sikh protesters from Punjab, the Indian government have tried to silence their voices by marginalising the issue to one that affects a single community. Labour MP John McDonnell said: “Journalists are continuously being targeted by arrests and intimidation, and falsely accused of criminal charges. Tragically, the political leadership feels it can act with impunity.” The High Commission rejected all these claims saying: “Foreign media, including the British media, are present in India and have witnessed the events under discussion first-hand. The question of lack of freedom of the media in India does not arise. The High Commission of India would normally refrain from commenting on an internal discussion involving a small group of H’ble Parliamentarians in a limited quorum. However, when aspersions are cast on India by anyone, irrespective of their claims of friendship and love for India, there is a need to set the record straight.” Indian diaspora group, Advocacy for British Hindus and Indians (ABHI) UK, fired off a letter to Catherine McKinnell MP, chair of the Petitions Committee, to ask why the British Parliament is “being weaponised to discuss a foreign country's issues over which Parliament has no obligation or influence and wasting taxpayer money.” The letter asked why the debate, “having no direct relevance to the UK's economy or citizens” had been fast-tracked ahead of a petition with 1.1 million signatures on calling to end child food poverty in the UK, or a petition calling for yearly cervical screening for women, which had been waiting 48 days for a debate. “Has the UK Parliamentary system been taken hostage by motivated interests pushing divisive, incendiary agendas in third countries? “ the letter asks. “It is a travesty that the UK Parliament has been forced to prioritise debate on a section of India's farmers and existential issues about its citizens are relegated.” Conservative MP Bob Blackman, whose constituency, Harrow east, has a large number of British Indian Gujarati constituents, said: “It seems there is a deliberate attempt to stir up hostility between the UK and India in a completely unnecessary fashion. India and the UK are moving together on cooperation in defence, security, on trade and other aspects of our working relationship. That needs to be encouraged and not destroyed in the way some people want to wish.” Watch India slams farm protest debate in UK House of Commons||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/india-slams-farm-protest-debate-in-house-of-commons-says-packed-with-false-assertions/articleshow/81402938.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 9, 2021||India||India slams farm protest debate in House of Commons, says packed with false assertions||NEW DELHI: The Indian government has slammed a debate held in the House of Commons on press freedom and safety of farmer protesters in India, saying it was one-sided and packed with false assertions. The High Commission of India in London issued a statement immediately after the debate held in Westminster Hall at which 17 out of 18 British MPs attacked Indian government's handling of the issues. “The High Commission of India has taken note of a distinctly one-sided discussion among a group of H’ble UK Parliamentarians in a Westminster committee room in response to an e-petition campaign. High Commission of India has been, over a period of time, taking care to inform all concerned about the issues raised in the petition. We deeply regret that rather than a balanced debate, false assertions - without substantiation or facts - were made, casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy in the world and its institutions,” the spokesman said. Read AlsoUK MPs blast Indian government for failing to protect press freedomLONDON: The Indian government came under fierce criticism in the House of Commons on Monday for allegedly violating the freedom of journalists to report on the farmer protests and the alleged use of brute force against protesters when British MPs debated a petition on the topic which has garnered“All issues raised are the remit of well-established independent democratic institutions in India for addressing the same. It is also a matter of concern that, once again, comments were made to mislead the British Indian community, raising doubts about treatment of minorities in India, alleged human rights violations in ‘Kashmir’ etc,” the spokesman said. During the debate MPs – from both Labour and the ruling Conservatives – condemned India for its treatment of farmer protesters and alleged crackdown on the press, as well as Internet shutdowns and arrest of activists. Jeremy Corbyn MP, ex-leader of the Labour party, claimed that 250 million people were taking part in the “strike”, which he described as the biggest ever industrial dispute in the history of this planet. PoK-origin Labour MP Tahir Ali, took the opportunity to launch a tirade against the BJP government, saying “I demand that the UK government condemn Prime Minister Modi and the actions of his BJP government. They continue to abuse the human and civil rights not only of farmers, but of Kashmiri people…They are cracking down on press freedom and political dissent, censoring critics and blocking access to the internet….Both Modi and the BJP government are linked to the rise in violent religious persecution within India, including attacks on Muslims, Sikhs and Christians.” Labour MP of Pakistan-origin Naz Shah claimed because the protests have been dominated by Sikh protesters from Punjab, the Indian government have tried to silence their voices by marginalising the issue to one that affects a single community. Labour MP John McDonnell said: “Journalists are continuously being targeted by arrests and intimidation, and falsely accused of criminal charges. Tragically, the political leadership feels it can act with impunity.” The High Commission rejected all these claims saying: “Foreign media, including the British media, are present in India and have witnessed the events under discussion first-hand. The question of lack of freedom of the media in India does not arise. The High Commission of India would normally refrain from commenting on an internal discussion involving a small group of H’ble Parliamentarians in a limited quorum. However, when aspersions are cast on India by anyone, irrespective of their claims of friendship and love for India, there is a need to set the record straight.” Indian diaspora group, Advocacy for British Hindus and Indians (ABHI) UK, fired off a letter to Catherine McKinnell MP, chair of the Petitions Committee, to ask why the British Parliament is “being weaponised to discuss a foreign country's issues over which Parliament has no obligation or influence and wasting taxpayer money.” The letter asked why the debate, “having no direct relevance to the UK's economy or citizens” had been fast-tracked ahead of a petition with 1.1 million signatures on calling to end child food poverty in the UK, or a petition calling for yearly cervical screening for women, which had been waiting 48 days for a debate. “Has the UK Parliamentary system been taken hostage by motivated interests pushing divisive, incendiary agendas in third countries? “ the letter asks. “It is a travesty that the UK Parliament has been forced to prioritise debate on a section of India's farmers and existential issues about its citizens are relegated.” Conservative MP Bob Blackman, whose constituency, Harrow east, has a large number of British Indian Gujarati constituents, said: “It seems there is a deliberate attempt to stir up hostility between the UK and India in a completely unnecessary fashion. India and the UK are moving together on cooperation in defence, security, on trade and other aspects of our working relationship. That needs to be encouraged and not destroyed in the way some people want to wish.” Watch India slams farm protest debate in UK House of Commons||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-slams-farm-protest-debate-in-house-of-commons-says-packed-with-false-assertions/articleshow/81402925.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Situation under control: Kishan Reddy||Hyderabad: Union minister of home affairs Amit Shah called up Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Monday to enquire about the situation in Bhainsa. Kishan Reddy said that the situation is very much under control and is being monitored. Meanwhile, BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay said that the TRS regime is trying to create tension and many innocent people were taken into custody. He alleged that a particular group is being targeted by the police. “Why is there violence constantly? Is this Pakistan? Police should check this,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP MPs Soyam Bapu Rao and D Arvind met the injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/situation-under-control-kishan-reddy/articleshow/81400370.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||In charge... Behind the desk, at traffic junctions||NEW DELHI: Apart from donning the usual hats of mother, daughter and wife, women cops also act as service providers to the nation. On the occasion of International Women’s Day, women personnel of Delhi Traffic Police were seen manning major traffic signals on Monday. Even at police stations, the unusual sight of women officers manning the entry gate, working as duty officers and functioning as in-charge of malkhanas was witnessed. Not just this, some were even in-charge of police control room vans. For 51-year-old Mukesh Devi, who has been working with Delhi Police for the past 31 years, it felt really special to be given a chance to handle traffic at 11 Murti crossing, a prominent signal that sees VIP movement every day. She was assisted by two male traffic cops. “While I have often been given prominent roles, you feel special on such days when specific arrangements are made just for you. None of my family members work in the force. Initially, it was tough to get their support. However, now that my son is married, my daughter-in-law takes care of the house while I step out to work,” said Mukesh Devi. Constable Pinky (30) was seen typing on the computer with one hand and holding the landline with the other at Greater Kailash police station. The mother of two said, “I leave my children with my mother-in law and come for duty. She supports me wholeheartedly. My husband is a policeman too. I work on the Crime and Criminal Tracking Networks and System and my role is to ensure that FIRs are uploaded, online complaints are checked and investigating officers are informed about their cases. GK has many senior citizens and it’s my job to address their queries.” Sub-inspector Jyoti Joshi (28), who was the duty officer for the day, said this was not the first time that she had been assigned the task. She is currently on probation, but aspires to be like her fellow SI Shalu. “We feel happy that our colleagues are cooperative. In fact, if we face any issues, we inform them and they understand our problem,” added Joshi, who was attending to people since morning. Other traffic circles where women cops were posted included Vijay Chowk, Hari Nagar, Peera Garhi, Uttam Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Sheikh Serai, Apollo and Nelson Mandela flyover. In addition to this, women staff of Road Safety Cell conducted awareness campaigns at ITO, Connaught Place and Garden of Five Senses. Police commissioner SN Shrivastava felicitated many women who had contributed to the society, including 22 women personnel and 15 civilians from different fields, at an event in the evening. “We wanted to make a statement on International Women’s Day in two ways. One, by letting our women force take command roles and manage priority policing. Secondly, by felicitating women police officers who have done exceptional work in their fields and much beyond. Our idea is to profoundly state that with self-belief, women can and are doing marvellous works, shoulder to shoulder with men, breaking gender stereotypes,” the commissioner said. Across the capital’s 15 police districts, several functions and programmes, including self defence, plantation drive and nukkad natak, were held to honour women personnel. Till about five years ago, Delhi Police had around 6% women personnel in the force, but that number has risen to approximately 9,400, which is almost 13%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-charge-behind-the-desk-at-traffic-junctions/articleshow/81400386.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||2.25L Remdesivir doses, 148 tonne oxygen stock in city: FDA||Nagpur: The city has a stock of 2.25 lakh doses of Remdesivir and 148 tonne oxygen, which is several times more than what was required per day on an average during the Covid peak in September last year.The data was revealed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Monday after its review of medicine stock in the city. If FDA is to be believed, then citizens may not have to run pillar to post to procure Remdesivir and oxygen, which were in short supply last year, especially when there is a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases.The city needed around 1,800 doses of Remdesivir and 60 tonnes of oxygen on an average per day during the peak last year. Few companies were manufacturing Remdesivir then, but the medicine stock has increased with at least four players supplying it now. Joint commissioner (addl charge), FDA, Nagpur division, Mahesh Gadekar, said Remdesivir and oxygen stock in the city today is far better than last year. “There are 13 oxygen manufacturing units in the division, with nine of them in the city. Nagpur division produces so much oxygen that it is also being supplied to Nanded, Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal districts,” he said. “If required, FDA can also ask these oxygen manufacturing units to increase or regulate productions since they are our licensees,” said Gadekar. In another significant development, Maharashtra FDA now have proposed to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), New Delhi, to bring ‘uniformity’ in the price of Remdesivir which now costs between Rs2,800 and Rs5,400. Two companies are selling Remdesivir for Rs4,800 and Rs4,100, said FDA sources. The proposal was forwarded after a high-level meeting in Mumbai on March 6. It may bring down the price of the Remdesivir in the market considerably. According to Gadekar, FDA is keeping a regular vigil on availability of Covid drugs in the market. They available in adequate quantity now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-25l-remdesivir-doses-148-tonne-oxygen-stock-in-city-fda/articleshow/81397810.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||ED gets custody of key accused in software scam||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is interrogating a key accused in Rs 1,500 crore trade-based money laundering scam after a court in Visakhapatnam granted his custody to the ED sleuths. The metropolitan sessions court judge granted the custody of Deepak Agarwal to the ED from March 6 to 9 to question him in the money laundering case. Deepak is a director of one of Hong Kong-based companies. He along with Ayush Goyal allegedly carted away Rs 1,500 crore to foreign countries in the guise of import of fake ‘customised software’. The ED arrested Deepak on February 2 and Ayush on February 27. The ED is now seeking custodial interrogation of Ayush from the court. This was the third arrest in the case after the arrest of kingpin Bhimendra Kumar Goyal, who is presently lodged in Tihar Jail. The ED said: “Deepak received foreign remittances worth Rs 300 crore. Ayush supplied cash to another accused Vaddi Mahesh and gave instructions about remitting funds outside India.” It further alleged, “He prepared fake invoices purported to have been raised by the overseas firms in the name of his Indian firms and arranged fake certificates with the help of chartered accountants.” Explaining the modus operandi, the ED said the CAs certified that the ‘customised software’ was downloaded in their presence and the certificates were later submitted to the banks as proof of import of software. The ED booked a PMLA case on the basis of an FIR registered by AP police against Mahesh following a complaint from the income tax wing. Investigations revealed that Mahesh in collusion with others incorporated various shell companies in India and opened bank accounts in these firms’ names. Mahesh received funds from various persons who were identifed as Ayush Goyal, Pramod Agarwal, Vikas Gupta and Vinit Goenka, which were later deposited into the bank accounts of his firms and transferred to bank accounts of his shell companies. Subsequently, the funds were remitted outside India to various companies in Singapore, Hong Kong and China in the guise of payments for the import of customised software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-gets-custody-of-key-accused-in-rs-1500-cr-customised-software-scam/articleshow/81400362.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 9, 2021||Surat||Forester who busted it, quit plum job for passion||Surat: Ever since the court pronounced its verdict on the 2018 illegal lion show in Babariya forest range in Gir-West division of Gir Wildlife Sanctuary on Monday, range forest officer (RFO) Rajan Jadav’s phone has not remained silent. It’s truly a triumph of his passion. Meet the forester who literally stooped to conquer his ‘love’. An ardent wildlife lover, Jadav had left his class-one officer’s job as director (training) at the All India Institute of Local Self-Government in Mumbai to join the Gujarat Forest Department as an RFO, a class-two officer’s job in 2016. His decision then to take up the ranger's job, which is a step-down, surprised many of his colleagues and friends. While he was urged to rethink his decision, Jadav had no doubts about it and followed his instinct. Posted at Jungle Safari at Kevadia at present, Jadav is content that his action as the RFO at Babariya Range then fetched desired results today. Jadav, along with other forest officers, had carried out a raid at a farm where illegal lion shows were being conducted clandestinely, much against the wildlife Act. While the team arrested the accused, the audacity of the flippant teasing of a lion with a bait, shocked not only wildlife conservationists, but also the entire country. Jadav holds a doctorate degree in ‘Ecology Status and Importance of Grassland (Vidis) in Conservation of Avifauna of Saurashtra Region’. He holds two bachelor’s degrees — in biotechnology and in zoology. “Monday’s judgment gives me utmost satisfaction as we could take the matter to a logical conclusion and the accused were convicted,” Jadav told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/forester-who-busted-it-quit-plum-job-for-passion/articleshow/81398902.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Andheri boy, one of 6 JEE (Main) toppers, is set to ace next round||MUMBAI: Andheri boy Siddhant Mukherjee emerged as one of the national toppers in the JEE (Main) results (February cycle) announced on Monday night. He is among the six students in the country and the only one in the state to have bagged a score of 100 percentile in the test conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Among the girls, Pranita Rao topped the state with 99.98 percentile. Around 6.2 lakh students appeared for the exam in the country. The final ranks will be announced after all the four cycles of JEE (Main). Passionate about computer science, Mukherjee is keen on pursuing his graduation in the subject from a premier institute. Though he already has acceptance letters from Cambridge University and Imperial College London, he is focusing on the preparation for JEE (Advanced). “This is just the first step. I want to secure a rank in top 60 in the JEE (Advanced) to get a seat in IIT-Bombay’s computer science programme,” said the 17-year-old. Mukherjee scored a perfect 100 in all three subjects in JEE (Main). “I managed to study well even during the pandemic and the exams went pretty smoothly,” he said. Mukherjee did his schooling from Dhirubhai Ambani International School and then moved to Kota for junior college and JEE preparation. His father is also an IITian from the Kharagpur institute. His mother is a chartered accountant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-andheri-boy-one-of-6-jee-main-toppers-is-set-to-ace-next-round/articleshow/81401905.cms||Yogita Rao
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||FM allocates Rs1k cr for Gosi, Rs250 cr for new admn bldg in city||Nagpur: The state budget declared by finance minister Ajit Pawar on Monday turned out to be a disappointment for Vidarbha as no big projects were announced for the region, just like the central budget.Except the new administrative building that would come up for Rs Rs 250 crore in the city and Rs Rs 1,000 crore for the inordinately delayed Gosikhurd project, there’s no significant allocation for the region.According to the deputy chief minister, the building will be in line with Maharashtra’s second capital status. He said Gosikhurd project is planned to be completed by the end of December 2023.On the positive side, Pawar announced that work on Hindu Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Highway was 44% complete. Of the 701km length, 500km from Nagpur to Shirdi will be opened from Maharashtra Day on May 1. Mega electric vehicle charging centres would be available on the entire stretch.The FM declared funds allocation for Gondwana Theme park in Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoo here to attract foreign tourists and introduce them to the local culture, but didn’t specify the amount.Experts believe that Rs Rs 1,000 crore will expedite Gosikhurd dam works, which is pending since the last three decades due to funds crunch. The significant allocation came after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the project and assured to complete it by 2023. During his visit to Gorewada Zoo, he had also declared setting up of Gondwana Theme park after protests erupted on renaming of the project on his father’s name.For Vidarbha's orange growers, a state-of-the-art processing project is being set up at Warud and Morshi in Amravati.The FM declared ‘Wildlife DNA technology center’ at Regional Forensic Laboratory at Nagpur. In all, eight such laboratories in the state, a special POCSO DNA sequencing center, computer calculus department, audio and video analysis department and computerized forensic help excellence center will be started.With a view to preserve ancient temples having heritage of hundreds of years and famous for their architectural structural, Pawar declared Rs Rs 101 crore which included Shiv Mandir at Markanda in Gadchiroli’s Chamorshi and Andeshar Temple in Lasur village of Daryapur Taluka in Amravati.The deputy CM seemed to have favoured Amravati while declaring a slew of projects. While declaring setting up of a medical college there, he said the work was in progress to expand the runway, construction of a new terminal building and providing flight service at night at Belora airport.He also announced funds for basic infrastructure schemes at Shri Kshetra Mozari, Shri Kshetra Kaundanyapur and Sant Gadgebaba Nirvana Bhoomi in Amravati. The minister announced Rs Rs 10 crore for Government Vidarbha Institute of Science and Humanities’ infrastructure development in the district.Pawar informed about the work development plan of Shri Kshetra Pohardevi in Washim where the tomb of Jagatguru Raat Sewalal Maharaj, an adored deity of the Banjara community, is located.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fm-allocates-rs1k-cr-for-gosi-rs250-cr-for-new-admn-bldg-in-city/articleshow/81397794.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 9, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Hesitancy for jab wanes with spurt in Covid cases||BHOPAL: Those undecided sitting on fringe for getting inoculated could be propelled to get inoculated given rise in Covid-19 cases, witnessed in the last two weeks, according to health experts. Monday was the highest single day vaccination turnout in Bhopal for the current phase of vaccination. More than 5000 got their first dose. Covid-19 cases surge could lessen vaccine hesitancy. Some turning up to get the shot are moved by increase in Covid-19 cases and seeking protection from the virus, said Dr Rajiv Singh. “Patients who are eligible are seeking medical advice for getting vaccinated. Earlier, many of them were undecided,” he said. There are other opinion too over the increase in demand for vaccination in Bhopal. “There is a general keenness in elderly people to get vaccinated. They are being encouraged by their families and often coming together to get vaccinated against Covid-19,” said AIIMS Bhopal, medical superintendent, Dr Manisha Shrivastava. As for the kind of Covid-19 cases seen in the recent past, there are a few triggers. Most of non-Covid services in hospitals are back to normal. In some instances, non-Covid in-patient admissions are later diagnosed with the Covid-19. Other instances of more common triggers for Covid-19, in recent cases, asymptomatic are reporting a loss of smell and taste, said a health consultant. “There is a lot of free movement. People are getting not socially distancing. All this comes to a need for a safety net, which is, if eligible, get inoculated,” consultant added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hesitancy-for-jab-wanes-with-spurt-in-covid-cases/articleshow/81400390.cms||Jamal Ayub
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Tamil Nadu polls: AIMIM, AMMK join hands||HYDERABAD: Soon after AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday said that his party will contest in Tamil Nadu, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) chief TTV Dhinakaran announced that his party and the latter are contesting the elections together. Addressing media on Monday at his party headquarters located in Darussalam, Owaisi said, “I will definitely contest Tamil Nadu elections.” While Owaisi said that he will roll out the details of Tamil Nadu elections on Tuesday, Dhinakaran announced the names of the seats a day before on Twitter. Recently, AIMIM unit president of Tamil Nadu had submitted a list of 22 candidates, 20 candidates were from Tamil Nadu and two candidates were from Puducherry, however, the party is contesting from three seats out of 234. Names of the assembly segments were announced by Dhinakaran. In a tweet, he mentioned the names and said that in an alliance led by AMMK, AIMIM will contest three seats. The polls in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are scheduled on April 6. Vaniyambadi, Krishnagiri and Sankarapuram are the three assembly segments where AIMIM will field its candidates. In the 2016 assembly elections, the AIMIM contested two seats – Vaniyambadi and Krishnagiri – in Tamil Nadu. In January, after inviting AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi to its minority wing conference scheduled in Chennai , the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) withdrew the invitation following pressure from its Muslim allies and some other religious groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimim-dhinakarans-ammk-join-hands-for-tn-polls/articleshow/81400388.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman says hubby perished in mishap, nabbed for murder||MUMBAI: A Virar woman was arrested for allegedly killing her husband on Sunday. The motive is not clear. Neha Pawar (29) informed a relative that her husband Lokesh (29) had met with a motorbike accident on Sunday and was serious. The relative went to the couple’s house at Jeevdani Apartment, Virar (E) and found Lokesh in a pool of blood. The 2-wheeler was parked in the compound and there was no sign of an accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-woman-says-hubby-perished-in-mishap-nabbed-for-murder/articleshow/81400435.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Youth from UP gunned down in Shahpura||JAIPUR: A youth was shot dead at Nithara Pulia at Shahpura on Jaipur-Delhi highway on Monday. The incident happened in broad daylight when an unidentified man shot dead Mahroon Khan, a native of Uttar Pradesh, over an undisclosed issue. Eyewitnesses said Khan, worked in a garage, was seen having a heated argument with a man on the road near Nithara flyover. His co-workers didn’t bother to intervene since the argument looked between him and the customer. “While talking, the man took out a countrymade pistol hidden in a piece of cloth and shot him. When he saw people rushing towards him, he ran away throwing his bag and pistol,” said a witness to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-from-up-gunned-down-in-shahpura/articleshow/81400391.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Hyderabad||UP CM’s remarks on secularism obnoxious: Asad||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday lashed out at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his comments on secularism, calling them obnoxious. “The obnoxious statement by honourable chief minister of the biggest state of India is an insult to our Constitution, it is an insult to the founding fathers and it is an insult to all those members who sat in the constitutional assembly under the leadership of Babasaheb Ambedkar and made this Constitution,” said Owaisi. Stating that the Sangh Parivar will never accept the diversity of the country, he said, “Sangh Parivar has a double face on this issue, when it suits them they say that the country is secular because the majority is secular. Now the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh says that secularism in itself is a threat to India’s prospects and he says in the world we are not getting the rightful place because of secularism.” “I would challenge him to go and complain to the Prime Minister. In the last six-and-half years, BJP and Sangh Parivar’s claims that under the leadership of PM Modi, India has made a mark in the global field, have now been clearly contradicted by their own chief minister. Who is bringing down India's name? it is chief minister of UP,” he added. Continuing his attack against the BJP, he warned Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy against the BJP. “I want to say to YSRCP that the BJP will make all efforts to form their government in AP, I can’t advise Chadrababu Naidu, he is Einstein, but BJP will end his party, create a vacuum, even he (Naidu) has to think,” said the Hyderabad MP. Speaking about the municipal polls in AP, he added, “I have huge respect for Jagan Mohan Reddy, I will continue to have respect for him, but if their MLAs work in this way, then I will definitely speak about it,” said Owaisi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/up-cms-remarks-on-secularism-obnoxious-asad/articleshow/81400401.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Celebration Of Women Empowerment||New Delhi: Around 50 people, among them men, women and transgenders from across India, were felicitated on International Women’s Day on Monday at a function organized by Delhi Commission for Women. Among those drawn from all walks of life to be honoured were an octogenarian martial artist from Pune and a 13-year-old from Delhi who help halt two child marriages. The felicitated personalities had commendable achievements under their belt or had worked significantly for women’s empowerment. There was captain Tanya Shergill, for instance, the first woman to have led the military parade on Republic Day this year. Like her, captain Bhawna Kasturi achieved the milestone of being the first woman to lead an all-men army contingent in the Republic Day Parade. While Shikha Pandey, a member of the Indian cricket team and an Indian Air Force jawan, was a youthful honoree, there were also 86-year-old Shanta Balu Pawar from Pune and 80-year-old Dadi Mohinder Kaur from Punjab. The former received the loudest cheer from the crowd after the martial artist performed stunts using stick weapons. The latter has gained popularity and goodwill for her energetic participation in the farmers’ movement. Many police officers were among those honoured. There were also Instagram celebrities like Kusha Kapila and Dolly Singh, ISRO’s women scientists who worked on Chandrayaan 2, acid attack survivor Laxmi Aggarwal, actor Shah Rukh Khan's philanthropic Meer Foundation, which offers free surgeries to acid attack survivors, the late Mahender Singh who was lawyer of Unnao rape survivor, the family of martyred 21-year-old jawan Sardar Gurtej Singh, professional golfer Deeksha Dagar and wrestler Neetu Sarkar. Addressing the award ceremony, DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, “Delhi Women's Commission has done unprecedented work in the last five years, handling over one lakh cases and attended to more than 4.5 lakh calls on the 181 helpline number. The commission has rescued many girls and women from different places.” Also present at the event, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal commended DCW for being the “only women’s commission in India that is known for its work”. He added, “Delhi is the only state that has provided free bus service for women, deputed security marshals in each bus and installed CCTV cameras on the streets across Delhi. While making any administrative decision, Delhi government keeps in mind the welfare of women and girls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/celebration-of-women-empowerment/articleshow/81400423.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||Two days after release in Pench, tigress captured after attack by another animal||Nagpur: Two days after the over three-year-old tigress was reunited with the wild in Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR), it was captured on Monday after another female in the wild attacked and injured her.The grown-up cub of Pandharkawda’s Avni was soft-released on March 5 from the Titralmangi enclosure in Pench where it was trained to hunt in over five-hectare enclosure for more than two years. The tigress stepped out of the enclosure at 6.45pm on Friday.“We captured it on Monday afternoon after we found her injured during the internecine fight. The tigress PTRF-84 was being monitored using VHF tracking and satellite telemetry 24x7. After confirming her fight with another female early in the morning, we sought wildlife vets’ opinion and decided to retrieve her,” said RS Govekar, CCF & field director.Govekar said the injury may affect her movements in the wild and hence, it was decided to tranquillize the animal after consulting PCCF (wildlife). “This kind of interaction with another tiger post-release was anticipated and an emergency retrieval plan was already provided in the original release plan submitted to the NTCA,” said Govekar.The female sustained injuries on her right foreleg but she is otherwise healthy. The tranquillizing operation was carried out in presence of Dr Chetan Patond, Dr Syed Bilal and other officers.On the fate of the tigress, Govekar said, “The capture operation was part of our broad release plan and hence, the animal has been kept in the same enclosure. We need to provide a level-playing field to the tigress. This is not the end of the experiment. She will continue to be monitored in the same rewilding facility under the same set of conditions till a further decision is taken.”Earlier, four such experiments to re-release hand-reared tigers in the wild by the forest department have failed miserably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-days-after-release-in-pench-tigress-captured-after-attack-by-another-animal/articleshow/81397872.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 9, 2021||Nashik||NMC chief orders more restrictions||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav on Monday announced more restrictions within the city limits as daily number of Covid-19 cases continued to rise sharply. “Private coaching centre will not be allowed to function and they will have to conduct the classes online. The closing time for hotels, restaurants and malls will now be 8 pm instead of 10 pm. Similarly, bars and restaurants that have bars will continue to remain closed,” Jadhav said on Monday. Moreover, for weddings, permissions from both the city police and the civic administration are compulsory. Currently, permission of either of two agencies is essential. According to Jadhav, people, who have been asked to quarantine themselves in their homes, will get their hands stamped. “Also, residential buildings that have five or more positive cases will be sealed now. Directives in this regard have been issued to the health department,” he said. The civic chief also expressed concerns over the rising cases of Covid-19 and admitted that people are still not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. “We are taking strict measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the city. These new restrictions will be in place within the next two days,” Jadhav said. Earlier, the NMC had shut down all education institutes till March 15 in the city. The restrictions have been extended till March 31. The number of active cases that were 511 on February 8 increased to 2,863 due to a rise in number of Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-chief-orders-more-restrictions/articleshow/81397139.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 9, 2021||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Chouhan spends the day with Hamidia sisters||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan reached Gandhi Medical College (GMC) on Monday on the occasion of International Women’s Day and had a discussion with the women staffers. Director of medical education, Dr Ulka Srivastava, GMC Dean Dr Aruna Kumar, superintendent of nursing Ram Rati Yadav were present. During the discussion, the CM asked appreciated their hard work and dedication especially during the pandemic. Chouhan asked if there was room for improvement in facilities provided to women in the hospital. In response, several nurses and women doctors said that they work in the hospital but their children are at home. Given the day and night shifts, they were most concerned their daughters. The medicos cited often the concern of what is happening at home takes toll on their duties in the hospital. “If you want to do something for us, then arrange for us to stay in the hospital premises so that we can work in the hospital without any fear and worry about home,” said a nurse. In response, Chouhan said that he would discuss the matter with the officials and come up with a solution. During the general discussions with women medicos, Chouahn said, “Our last one year has been spent fighting Covid-19. In this difficult situation, the contribution of nurses of Hamidia Hospital is incomparable; I thank all of you on behalf of the entire state.” CM gets emotional as nurse shares her woes: GMC nurse Razia Mansuri narrated her experience and left everyone including the CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan in a sombre and emotional mood. Razia told the CM that she joined a job at Hamidia Hospital in July 2020, around the time Covid-19 was reaching its peak.  “I have been doing duty in the Covid-19 ward since the beginning. My father is an asthmatic and I had a sister who died in August 2020. She was diagnosed with a rare medical condition. After her demise, my family insisted that since I am the only sibling, I take a job which has less risk involved,” she said. “My sister and my dad were treated by people who too risk their lives. I kept working as a healthcare provider and never would I turn my back on my responsibilities for society at large,” Razia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-spends-the-day-with-hamidia-sisters/articleshow/81400414.cms||Jamal Ayub
March 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Will talk to pvt hosps to reduce vax charges: Aurangabad collector||Aurangabad: District collector Sunil Chavan on Monday said that the administration would hold talks with private hospitals to bring down the charges of administering Covid-19 vaccination. “The rate for Covid vaccine has been fixed at Rs 250 per dose in private hospitals. It includes service charges as well, and this can be further reduced by hospitals in public interest,” he said while addressing a review meeting. Stating that mass vaccination can emerge as an effective tool to fight against Covid-19, Chavan said all target groups must take vaccination without any fear.  The hospitals that have joined the vaccination drive are Hedgewar Hospital, Dhoot Hospital, MGM Hospital, CIIGMA Hospital, Bajaj Hospital, Medicover Hospital, Alpine Hospital and MIT Hospital. As per official data, 1,592 senior citizens and 353 individuals above the age of 45 with comorbidity took the first dose of the vaccine in the city. 13 visitors at government offices test positive The RT-PCR tests of visitors being carried out at five key government offices has led to identification of 13 cases on Monday with the regional transport office (RTO) reporting the maximum number of cases. As many as 5 people tested positive at the RTO followed by three at the local civic body, two each from district collectorate and divisional commissionerate and one at police commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/will-talk-to-pvt-hosps-to-reduce-vax-charges-aurangabad-collector/articleshow/81397148.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||‘2k roadways staff yet to get retirement benefits’||Jaipur: Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that 2,432 employees who retired from roadways since 2018 were not given pension benefits due to the poor financial condition of the state-run enterprise. The amount due to them during this period alone is Rs. 188.24 crore.He said some of those employees are now dead. The minister said the government is fully conscious of the pensioners’ plight. He added that the government will soon arrange the money and distribute pension benefits with priority to the kin of those employees who have passed away. He was replying to a question in the assembly.The minister said there were plans afoot to sell off the extra land of the roadways last year but due to Covid pandemic it could not materialise. Khachariyawas added that the chief minister is also aware of the situation. Even if there is a need to avail a big loan to meet the obligation, the government will do so.Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria asked that what about those employees who retired before 2018. The minister said the government’s endeavour is to clear the retirement benefits of all the employees. He said it requires at least Rs 400 crore. He asked the opposition leader why the BJP government in its tenure was not able to settle this issue despite availing Rs 500 crore as loan in 20212-13 and Rs 175 crore as loan the very next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2k-roadways-staff-yet-to-get-retirement-benefits/articleshow/81400445.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Bareilly||Bareilly: Boy, 16, dies after three men forcefully pump air into his body||PILIBHIT: Three men allegedly grabbed a 16-year-old boy and pumped air through his rectum with a high-power air compressor, damaging his internal organs and leading to his slow and agonising death over a period of two days in a hospital in Bareilly. The three men, aged between 22 and 26 years, were on Sunday booked in Pilibhit after the boy died in a private hospital. Of them two accused have been arrested. Police are yet to find the reason behind the brutal assault, whether it was just for fun or the three men were holding some grudge against the boy. According to a written complaint given by the boy’s father, a resident of a village in Pilibhit’s Puranpur Kotwali area, his son used to work at a rice mill. “On March 4, when he was about to eat his lunch, three labourers identified as Amit, Suraj and Kamlesh grabbed my son. Amit and Suraj held his hands while Kamlesh pumped air in his body by the rice mill’s air compressor through his private organ,” the complaint read. As the local doctors could not deal with the case, the boy was shifted to the district hospital in Pilibhit. From there, doctors referred him to a higher medical facility in Bareilly. He died on Saturday. Station house officer (SHO) SK Singh, said, “The three accused were booked under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). Police had taken two of the three accused in custody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-boy-16-dies-after-three-men-forcefully-pump-air-into-his-body/articleshow/81397868.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Batla House encounter case: Delhi Police vindicated as 2nd bid to dub encounter fake foiled||NEW DELHI: The verdict given on Monday by a city court in the Batla House encounter case is yet another vindication for Delhi Police and puts to rest the controversies surrounding the incident. Within a span of eight years, not one, but two court orders have termed the 2008 encounter as genuine. From 2013, when the first order came, till now, the courts have considered hundreds of arguments trying to prove that the encounter was fake. However, all were rejected repeatedly in the wake of the clinching evidence. Delhi Police’s stand that the occupants of flat number L-18 were not innocent youths was established in September 2014 on the sixth anniversary of the encounter. Terrorist group Ansar-ut-Tawhid fi Bilad al Hind hailed Atif Ameen and Sajid, the two Indian Mujahideen members who had died in the encounter, as “martyrs”. This was the first time that any terror group, that too based in the Af-Pak region, had owned up to the slain men. The encounter was a watershed moment in Delhi Police’s history. On September 19, 2008, a police team led by inspector Mohan Chand Sharma had entered flat number L-18 in Batla House of Jamia Nagar in southeast Delhi around 10.45am. Sharma was killed in the encounter, following which the then ACP Sanjeev Yadav reached the spot with his team and neutralised two terrorists, caught one alive, while two others, including Ariz Khan, fled. A slew of inquiries were initiated after the encounter leaving the Special Cell shaken. The unit not only lost an officer, but braved all kinds of conspiracy theories for years. Politicians called the encounter fake and demanded a judicial inquiry. Inspector Sharma’s family had expressed deep anguish over the controversy and termed it as a political gimmick. For the next few years, police largely refrained from using their guns against criminals, leading to a spike in the crime rate in the capital. Meanwhile, Ariz Khan reached Nepal where he managed to get citizenship and a passport in the name of Mohammed Salim. He stayed in Palpa, Kapilavastu and Gorkha, where he first started a dhaba, but later began to teach in small schools in the area. He also made a brief visit to Saudi Arabia on the instructions of the Bhatkal brothers. In 2018, police got crucial leads from arrested IM ideologue Tauqeer, following which a team comprising inspector Chandrika, Satish Rana and others tracked him down in Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-vindicated-as-2nd-bid-to-dub-encounter-fake-foiled/articleshow/81400464.cms||Raj Shekhar
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Women at the forefront as caregivers of zoo animals||New Delhi: Sunita, a zookeeper at the Delhi zoo, was at the forefront while dealing with the bird flu outbreak, spraying disinfectants every day to ensure the virus didn’t spread in the premises. She was also among those who were deployed during the lockdown period. She said her gender didn’t stop her from feeding and taking care of animals. On Monday, the zoo celebrated International Women’s Day by highlighting the challenges its women staff face each day. An online session was also held to speak about their work and achievements. Delhi zoo director Ramesh Pandey said Monday was a special occasion to celebrate the work put in each day by women employees, a number of whom were essential workers during the lockdown. “Every staff member is important, particularly the women employees. We worked as a team even during the pandemic to enrich the lives of our animals,” he added. The online session — challenges and opportunities for women officers in zoo management — highlighted the work put in by every female staff member. The session included IFS officers working at other zoos. Anamika Narwal, Delhi zoo joint director, said every day poses a new challenge for them, with different animals and species requiring specific attention. “From a change in diet, to certain animals requiring medical assistance, we have to be on our toes daily. We have been simultaneously dealing with the bird flu outbreak and the entire premises are sanitised every day. Enclosures are given special attention,” she added. “The status of each animal is reviewed every day to ensure their well-being. When the zoo reopens, people will see a lot of difference in terms of enhancements made for animals,” said Narwal, who heads the animal section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/women-at-the-forefront-as-caregivers-of-zoo-animals/articleshow/81400496.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Nashik||Fatality rate continues to drop in Nashik city||Nashik: The Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) in Nashik city — despite the rise in the number of positive cases since the second week of February — has continued its downward trend. On February 7, the city’s CFR was 1.33%. It has now reduced to 1.26%. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintending officer of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), said although the cases are increasing, more than 80% of the new patients are asymptomatic. “Moreover, there has been a drop in the number of serious patients, which has overall led to a drop in the CFR. Early detection of the patients and timely treatment have also helped,” said Nagargoje. In the first week of February, Nashik city was detecting 99 new Covid -19 cases per day on average. This number has increased to 263 cases per day on average. The city’s CFR in April was zero, but rose to 4.27% by the end of May after 234 people tested positive and 10 succumbed to the infection. The city had registered the highest CFR (4.81%) in June 2020. The fatality rate started reducing thereafter due to various measures taken by the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fatality-rate-continues-to-drop-in-nashik-city/articleshow/81397170.cms||Tushar Pawar
March 9, 2021||Surat||Frontline workers’ ‘spirits’ dampens vaccination drive||Vadodara: The Covid-19 vaccination drive for frontline workers has thrown up unexpected challenges for the health department in Vadodara. Not just apprehensions, even alcohol proved to be a significant hurdle in the health drive. While there are no definite guidelines, it is advised that a person taking the jab should avoid consuming alcohol from the day before his vaccination to the day after being inoculated. The presence of alcohol in the system of a person may affect the efficacy of the vaccine, it is believed. The vaccination drive for frontline works had hit a major roadblock with the death of a sanitation worker on January 31. The death had made frontline workers apprehensive about the vaccine despite doctors holding that other health complications had led to his death.But through a better part of February, those managing the drive came across a typical situation. Some workers use to frankly admit that they had consumed alcohol on the previous day. They had to be sent back without inoculation.“We have to believe what they say. There is no way of ascertaining what they claim. While there are no guidelines regarding alcohol, the general recommendation as alcohol has its own way of interfering with the drug action,” said Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel.Patel pointed out that a majority of frontline workers had taken the vaccine now. “We are giving opportunities to everyone and trying to convince them, but cannot do anything beyond it,” he said adding that this was the only category where vaccination was not as per expectations. The silver lining was, however, policemen who took the jabs despite the apprehensions. So far 10,588 frontline workers have been vaccinated by VMC. There is still a small number of them who are getting vaccinated every day. Officials hope that with vaccination gaining momentum people will be less reluctant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/frontline-workers-spirits-dampens-vaccination-drive/articleshow/81397890.cms||Sachin Sharma
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Around 2.5L benefitted from allowance scheme for jobless||JAIPUR: Minister of state for youth affairs Ashok Chandana informed the House that so far 2,49,433 benefitted from Mukhyamantri Sabal scheme launched in February 2019 by which unemployment allowance of Rs 3,000 per month is being given to men and Rs 3,500 to women candidates for two years. Replying to the supplementary question of Rajendra Rathore during the Question Hour, Chandna said around 4.56 lakh applications had been received so far under Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal Yojana, out of which 2,49,433 beneficiaries have benefited. He informed that this scheme was being operated on first-come, first-serve basis when asked about the disparity in selection of the beneficiaries in different districts. Unemployment allowance has been given to a total of 2,49,433 beneficiaries till December 31, 2020, since the scheme was launched in February 2019. In January, 1,59,113 beneficiaries received the allowance. He informed that for the year 2020-21, 88,262 beneficiaries have renewed applications for receiving allowance, while applications of a total of 2,15,390 candidates are pending in the waiting list. He said that no application for investigation was pending as on December 31, 2020. The minister said in view of the state of unemployment, the maximum limit for granting unemployment allowance had been increased from 1.60 lakh to 2 lakh in the current Budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/around-2-5l-benefitted-from-allowance-scheme-for-jobless/articleshow/81400472.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Jawan injured during practice||A BSF jawan was seriously hurt when pre-muzzle of a gun exploded during firing practice of 105mm Indian field gun at Pokhran field firing range. He was referred to Jodhpur from Pokhran hospital. This is the third such incident in last one week during firing practice of 105mm guns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jawan-injured-during-practice/articleshow/81400478.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||Tiger cub knocked dead on SECR tracks near Nagzira||Nagpur: A 12-month-old male tiger cub was run over on Monday morning in Pindkepar forest by a speeding freight train heading towards Gondia from Ballarshah.This is the fifth tiger death in Ballarshah-Gondia section under South East Central Railway (SECR). Not only tigers, over two dozen leopard, sloth bear, gaur, and multiple herbivore deaths have been recorded on the tracks between 2008 and 2018 period, data for which is available.The sub-adult tiger is one of the male cubs of tigress T-14 from Nagzira. T-14 escaped with other two female cubs while crossing the tracks. The incident occurred early morning near Pindkepar forest, which falls under Goregaon range in Gondia division.According to forest officials, post mortem prima facie revealed that spine of the cub was broken due to the severe impact and there were internal injuries too. The cub also lost his right leg.Earlier, three six-month-old tiger cubs were mowed down by a speeding train on November 15, 2018 night on Chanda Fort-Gondia railway line at Chichpalli.As per forest department record, more than 50 wild animals — including 5 tigers, 4 sloth bears, 4 leopards, 4 hyenas, 4 gaurs, several wild boars, nilgais, and deer — have died on the tracks between 2008 and 2018. Many such deaths also go unrecorded.Senior forest officials said, “After three cubs were knocked dead in 2018, a survey was conducted to suggest underpasses in most vulnerable forested ranges of Mamla, Junona, Sindewahi, Chichpalli, Talodhi, Balapur, and Nagbhid in Bramhapuri and Chandrapur divisions.”“We had identified 19 railway poles where trains should run with caution of 40 kmph. These patches fall in Junona, Mamla, Babupeth, Lohara, Mindala, and Bramhapuri. A similar survey needs to be done along the same track in Navegaon-Nagzira landscape,” they said.“The Gondia-Ballarshah line was fully commissioned in 1999, but no mitigation measures were taken. It is high time SECR acts now. In years to come, the number of trains and speed will increase and apparently affect more number of animals,” said state wildlife board member Kishor Rithe.Forest officials said, “We have been communicating to SECR since 2012, but no efforts have been taken by the Railways to mitigate the conflict. The suggestions by a state wildlife board sub-committee, headed by PCCF (wildlife), have also been taken lightly by the SECR.”“It has been observed that a lot of wasted food is thrown along the tracks by passengers attracting wild animals. This is one of the reasons why animals come along the tracks. The Railways needs to take extra efforts to keep tracks clean along dense forest patches,” says Bandu Dhotre, president of Eco-Pro.Green activist Shrikant Deshpande has decided to file a public interest litigation against the Indian Railways.“In June 2018, then MoEFCC secretary CK Mishra had pointed out to the Railway Board that existing tracks passing through eco-sensitive zones should be modified as per Wildlife Institute of India (WII) guidelines. However, Railways has been neglecting all directives,” said conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar.DEATHS ON THE TRACKS* On April 14, 2013, a tiger cub was killed while another was maimed on Chanda Fort–Gondia railway line near Kelzar* On November 15, 2018, 3 tiger cubs knocked dead near Chichpalli in Chandrapur* From August 27, 2008, to November 15, 2018, 24 wild animals have died on tracks in Chandrapur district alone||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-cub-knocked-dead-on-secr-tracks-near-nagzira/articleshow/81397877.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 9, 2021||Bhopal||Braveheart who rescued minors from molesters plays ‘collector’||Bhopal: A vegetable vendor’s daughter became the collector for one day in Katni district on Monday. Archana Kewat, 21, a final year BA student, had rescued two minor girls from molesters. So, on International Women's Day, the district administration made her honorary collector for a day.“Beti Archana aaj acche se kaamkaz sambhalna” (daughter Archana look after the work properly),” said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in a tweet. Chouhan also praised the Katni district collector for the initiative.Kewat lives with her mother and siblings. Her mother is a vegetable vendor, said sources. The 21-year-old had saved two minors while travelling to her village on her bicycle from molesters on January 12, this year. She was felicitated by the chief minister for her act of bravery.District collector, Katni, Priyank Mishra, decided to make Archana Kewat collector on International Women’s Day for her act of bravery.A detailed programme of the honorary collector was also issued. As per the official sources, as collector, Archana Kewat reviewed the works of different departments at the district panchayat’s meeting room. While reviewing the works of the women and child development (WCD) department, Kewat instructed that there should be more focus on the severely underweight children. She also took stock of the monthly report of the children who are tended through angaanwadis. Attending another programme as collector, she said, “Men and women are two wheels of a vehicle and none of them can function without each other”.Later, Kewat also visited a programme organised by the WCD department in Chaka village of the district. She also inspected the shelter home for girls and gave necessary instructions.While talking to TOI, Kewat recalled the incident of saving the two minor girls: “On January 12, this year, I was returning home from college on my bicycle, when I saw a crowd outside a colony and two minor girls aged between 14 and 15 years were weeping. On enquiring, I was told that two unidentified bike-borne accused had molested them and they ran inside the colony. The two accused again tried to accost the minors. On seeing them, the girls started weeping and the accused started abusing the girls. One of the accused managed to escape, but I grabbed the other accused. He was later arrested by police,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/braveheart-who-rescued-minors-from-molesters-plays-collector/articleshow/81400476.cms||Amarjeet Singh
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Cruelty case’: Passport gets 10-yr renewal||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Monday raised the spirit of a pilot by directing Regional Passport Office here to renew his passport for 10 years, as against two years a magistrate had ordered in November 2019. The pilot is facing a case of alleged cruelty to wife since 2019 and under law had to seek a ‘no objection’ order from a court for the passport authorities to renew it. His lawyer said his petition to quash the FIR was pending and that without a long-term passport he would be unable to secure a regular job as a commercial pilot. The court said he had to pay maintenance to his estranged wife, children’s school fees as well as installments for a house purchased for them. HC held that the magistrate had given no reasons for limiting his renewal to two years and directed that it be renewed for 10, and that he pay his installments for the flat for six months and balance school fees, if any. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cruelty-case-passport-gets-10-yr-renewal/articleshow/81401914.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Start work on GIB breeding centre in Baran: Cong MLA||Kota: Sangod Congress MLA Bharat Singh on Monday raised the issue of the proposed Godawan breeding and conservation centre in Baran district’s Sursan in the assembly and demanded repeal of mining lease deeds allotted for 50 years in a 3-hectare plot proposed for the centre. He also demanded the need to start work as per the Budget announcement by the state government in 2019. Mentioning that the state government has rendered special status to Great Indian Bustard, also known as Godawan, Singh said that some of the most influential and corrupt people of Baran district, in collaboration with shady officials of mining and forest department, have succeeded to obtain mining lease deeds for 50 years in 3 hectare private agriculture land adjoining the proposed breeding centre for Godawan in Sursan area of Baran district. Despite being well aware of the fact that mining activities in the adjoining land are most likely to adversely affect the proposed breeding and conservation centre, the officials of mining and forest departments allotted applied lease deeds for mining purpose over 3 hectare of land to Heeralal Raiger and Sri Krishankant for 50 years, the Congress MLA said and said that Baran is the district where the officials of forest department were in past trapped by ACB. It is necessary that all the lease deeds (pattas) for mining allotted in the land adjoining the proposed Godawan breeding and conservation centre in Sursan in Baran district must immediately be repealed and the officials involved in the lease deeds for mining be prosecuted, Bharat Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/start-work-on-gib-breeding-centre-in-baran-cong-mla/articleshow/81400522.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Delhi||DJB in SC against Haryana as Delhi stares at water crisis||NEW DELHI: Facing shortage of raw water supply from neighbouring Haryana, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has moved the Supreme Court to avert a “severe water crisis” in the city. A DJB official said the city might face a severe water crisis due to high ammonia levels in the Yamuna and the continuously depleting water level at the Wazirabad barrage, which supplies drinking water to the Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants. From these plants, drinking water gets supplied to central, north, west and south Delhi. “The water levels that should stand at 674.5ft are down to an alarming low of 670.4ft. Raw water is sourced from the Yamuna and is drawn at the Wazirabad barrage. The availability of quantity and quality of raw water is dependent on the release of water by the Haryana government,” DJB stated. Following the drop in the water level, the ammonia level has reached 3.6ppm. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said the Haryana government’s lackadaisical attitude was leading to unchecked dumping of sewerage into the Yamuna, and the reduction in the supply of raw water to Delhi. Haryana supplies water to Delhi in three ways — Carrier-Lined Channel (CLC), Delhi Sub-Branch (DSB) and the Yamuna. CLC and DSB are supplied water from Hathnikund through Munak canal and Bhakra Beas Management Board. Delhi is currently receiving 479MGD water against 609MGD from Haryana. Chadha said DJB had undertaken every possible effort to seek help from central and state authorities for a workable resolution. “The continuous fall in the level of the Yamuna is a matter of grave concern. Despite notifying the officers concerned of the Haryana government, there has been no improvement towards restoring any normalcy.” As per a Supreme Court order of February 1996, the pond level at Wazirabad has to be kept full. Chadha said Delhi faced a raw water problem every two weeks. “This is caused either due to less flow in the Yamuna, less flow in the Delhi Sub Branch and Carrier-Lined Channels, or due to the discharge of polluted water in the Yamuna. Seeing the current scenario, DJB has moved the Supreme Court against the Haryana government to avert the severe water crisis in Delhi,” he added. Despite regular follow-ups, “there has been absolutely no efforts on the part of the Haryana government to reduce the discharge of pollutants in the Yamuna to decrease the ammonia levels”, Chadha alleged. “This leads to a situation where the water supplied for drinking purposes to Delhi is completely unfit for use without significant dilution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-in-sc-against-haryana-as-city-stares-at-water-crisis/articleshow/81400589.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jodhpur||Two brides stranded in Pak return, visa effort on for 3rd||JAISALMER: Two of the three brides, who were stranded in Pakistan for not being able to obtain a visa since the last two years, finally arrived in India via the Wagah border on Monday. The third woman still remains in the neighbouring country as she did not get a visa. Two years ago, three baraats from Jaisalmer and Barmer had gone to Pakistan, but since visas were not granted to the brides, the marriage parties returned to India without them. Though one of the brides could not come to India as she did not get a visa, her 1.5-year-old child has got the visa and has come to India. Now, the family members are worried as to how the baby will stay here without his mother. Barmer Jaisalmer MP and minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary has intensified efforts to get visa for the woman and has contacted the home ministry. Family member Dilip Singh said that baraats of two brothers, Nepal (24) and Vikram (24), residents of Bayeea village in Jaisalmer district, went to Pakistan in 2019. Their marriage took place on January 22 and 26 respectively at Sharanoi town in Sindh province with daughters of Taneraj Singh Sodha and Ranjeet Singh. Because of bad relations with Pakistan, they had to return without the brides. Similarly, Mahendra Singh from Barmer went to Pakistan in April 2019 and got married there and had to return without his wife. Meanwhile,Vikram Singh’s wife in October gave birth to a boy, Raju Singh. Efforts were made to get visa by minister Kailash Choudhary, which bore fruit. The Indian embassy gave visas to Kailash Kanwar, wife of Nepal; Mahendra’s wife Chagan Kanwar and their family member Mor Kanware and the 1.5-year-old child, but Vikram’s wife Nirmal Kanwar could not get visa due to technical reasons. Choudhary has now written to the additional secretary of home ministry and has requested to get visa for Nirmal Kanwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/two-brides-stranded-in-pak-return-visa-effort-on-for-3rd/articleshow/81406286.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Builder absconding for 3 years held for cheating buyers of Rs 30 crore in Vikhroli||MUMBAI: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Mumbai police on Sunday arrested a 63-year-old builder for cheating 59 homebuyers of Rs 30 crore over a Vikhroli-based project. The EOW housing unit arrested Hemant Parikh of SSV Developers for cheating, criminal breach of trust and forgery. He has been remanded to police custody. Joint commissioner of police (EOW) Niket Kaushik said that Parikh was on the run since the police registered a first information report (FIR) in 2018. While more than 150 homebuyers were cheated, 59 of them have approached the cops complaining that some flats are sold to multiple buyers. Jeevan Shivdasani, a Wadala resident, alleged that in 2012 he came across an advertisement by SSV Developers, which stated that a project, Vicenza Regency, was being constructed at Tagore Nagar in Vikhroli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bldr-absconding-for-3-yrs-held-for-cheating-buyers-of-rs-30cr-in-vikhroli/articleshow/81400564.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Central Vista: Debris dumped near Yamuna, say activists||New Delhi: Activists on Monday alleged soil and debris from the Central Vista project were being dumped in huge quantities in the Yamuna floodplain near Mayur Vihar Phase-I. The area forms a part of the floodplain, where encroachments and construction activities are prohibited, they claim. Bhavreen Kandhari, an environment activist, said that they found out about the dumping during social work being carried out in the area. “When we reached near Chilla Khadar, the locals informed us that soil from the New Parliament project was being dumped there. Many officials have informed the locals about this,” said Kandhari, stating it was a clear violation of National Green Tribunal orders. Dev Pal, a local resident and a field researcher at Housing and Land Rights Network, said, from February 4 onwards, around 55 trucks had been dumping waste every day with the activity generally starting after 10 pm. “It has only recently been stopped after people made a complaint that these dumpers were creating a lot of noise at night. However, several hundred drops have already been made and the soil has been flattened, raising the floodplain area by several feet,” claimed Pal, who had earlier filed a petition in Delhi High Court against removal of 70-80 jhuggis in the floodplain. “We have filed an additional petition regarding dumping of earthen waste in the same case now,” said Pal. A Central Public Works Department official denied the claims, stating they were instead filling excavated earth in a PWD project. “The allegations are not true. On PWD’s request, we have filled excavated earth in a Barapullah project within clover leaves and slip road area. The area is far away from the floodplain,” a CPWD official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/central-vista-debris-dumped-near-yamuna-say-activists/articleshow/81400547.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Two brides stranded in Pak return, visa effort on for 3rd||JAISALMER: Two of the three brides, who were stranded in Pakistan for not being able to obtain a visa since the last two years, finally arrived in India via the Wagah border on Monday. The third woman still remains in the neighbouring country as she did not get a visa. Two years ago, three baraats from Jaisalmer and Barmer had gone to Pakistan, but since visas were not granted to the brides, the marriage parties returned to India without them. Though one of the brides could not come to India as she did not get a visa, her 1.5-year-old child has got the visa and has come to India. Now, the family members are worried as to how the baby will stay here without his mother. Barmer Jaisalmer MP and minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary has intensified efforts to get visa for the woman and has contacted the home ministry. Family member Dilip Singh said that baraats of two brothers, Nepal (24) and Vikram (24), residents of Bayeea village in Jaisalmer district, went to Pakistan in 2019. Their marriage took place on January 22 and 26 respectively at Sharanoi town in Sindh province with daughters of Taneraj Singh Sodha and Ranjeet Singh. Because of bad relations with Pakistan, they had to return without the brides. Similarly, Mahendra Singh from Barmer went to Pakistan in April 2019 and got married there and had to return without his wife. Meanwhile,Vikram Singh’s wife in October gave birth to a boy, Raju Singh. Efforts were made to get visa by minister Kailash Choudhary, which bore fruit. The Indian embassy gave visas to Kailash Kanwar, wife of Nepal; Mahendra’s wife Chagan Kanwar and their family member Mor Kanware and the 1.5-year-old child, but Vikram’s wife Nirmal Kanwar could not get visa due to technical reasons. Choudhary has now written to the additional secretary of home ministry and has requested to get visa for Nirmal Kanwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-brides-stranded-in-pak-return-visa-effort-on-for-3rd/articleshow/81400504.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Aurangabad||MHMH mobile app becomes functional once again||Aurangabad: The Mazi Health Mazya Hati ( MHMH), an official mobile application dedicated to better handling of Covid-19 situation in Aurangabad, has become functional once again following the rise in fresh cases of coronavirus. The app, which shares real-time updates about availability of beds in state-run and private hospitals from the city and other areas of the district, was stopped after number of cases started to stabilise. Astik Kumar Pandey, administrator of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), said patients testing positive for Covid should take benefit of MHMH. As per MHMH updates, some of the large Covid Care Centres (CCCs), including Meltron (20), CIPET (22) and MIT Hostel (2), already have fewer number of vacant beds. The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Aurangabad has 243 occupied beds and only 19 are vacant,whereas MGM that offers both CCC and Dedicated Covid Hospital facilities does not have any vacant bed. Introduced by AMC on May 22 last year as the first-of-its-kind initiative in the state to tackle the pandemic, the app has witnessed over 10,000 downloads and has an average user rating of 4.2. Besides MHMH app, the civic administration has asked patients to contact the Covid Control Room of the AMC on 9607933541 in case they need any information related to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mhmh-mobile-app-becomes-functional-once-again/articleshow/81397181.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Bhopal||International Women’s Day: Woman cop turns home minister for a day||BHOPAL: In a gesture of respect towards women, home minister Narottam Mishra honoured a woman constable Meenakshy Verma on Monday, International Women’s Day. He later named Meenakshy the home minister for the day. Congress MLA Sajjan Singh Verma said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should make an announcement to provide 50% reservation to women in government jobs. Earlier, a police team comprising all women personnel was deployed for the security of Chouhan on Monday. “From piloting Chouhan's cavalcade to driving his official vehicle and providing immediate security, the command is in the women's hands,” a public relations official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/woman-cop-turns-home-min-for-a-day/articleshow/81400525.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Cousins, in love with same girl, commit suicide||Kota: Two cousins, allegedly in love with the same girl, committed suicide by jumping before a train on Delhi–Mumbai track near Gudla village under Keshoraipatan police station, Bundi on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. However, no suicide note was found at the place. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cousins-in-love-with-same-girl-commit-suicide/articleshow/81400560.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Pune land grab case: HC poses questions on Eknath Khadse’s arrest to ED||MUMBAI: Hearing a plea by NCP leader Eknath Khadse against Enforcement Directorate (ED) Bombay high court on Monday asked the central agency why was it needed to arrest the accused if he was co-operating with the probe? Khadse moved the HC to challenge a summon issued by ED to him in an alleged Pune land grab case. The ED had registered an enforcement case information report last October against Khadse in connection with the case. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale at one point asked, “Is he or is he not in an imminent threat of arrest?” The HC also asked ED, why Khadse’s arrest may be necessary if he is cooperating. Khadse submitted that though he was not an accused, his refusal to answer any question after he responds to summons could become grounds to arrest him. His counsel Aabad Ponda said this while rebutting preliminary objections raised by ED through additional solicitor general Anil Singh. Singh said summons issued to Khadse was under section 50, which is only for appearance and collection of evidence during investigation and the consequences of non-compliance is only penalty, where as for an arrest, there needs to be specific reasons to justify it, under sec 19 of PMLA Act. Thus he said Khadse’s petition is “pre-mature’’ and needs to be dismissed. Khadse, 68, had left BJP and is now with NCP. The hearing will continue on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-pune-land-grab-case-hc-poses-questions-on-khadses-arrest-to-ed/articleshow/81401933.cms||Swati Deshpande
March 9, 2021||Delhi||Cops and NGO join hands to give poor women skill training||NEW DELHI: Samita Singh (35) suffers from polio and is 90% handicapped. She cannot walk on her own, but drives an e-rickshaw for a living. The mother of three is usually carried around by her friend Lata, a widow, who also aspires to be an e-rickshaw driver. The duo has been training and motivating other underprivileged women for the last two years at the old Greater Kailash police station, which has been turned into a skill centre with the help of an NGO, Empowered Women’s Association (EWA). The women learning different courses used to be domestic workers, but they lost their job during the lockdown. The women who were trained there were felicitated on International Women’s Day. Singh told TOI, “I was diagnosed with polio at the age of two. My husband is an alcoholic. I didn’t want my children to suffer, so thought of doing something. I saved my pension and modified the brakes of the e-rickshaw to drive it around. I also have a modified scooter, but it’s upkeep is difficult.” Lata had informed Singh about the NGO, after which she was called to train other women. Lata’s story is also similar, but she lost her husband due to illness. “I saw Samita driving an e-rickshaw on Kalindi Kunj road and thought even I could do it. I later realised that she was handicapped. I manage everything, including fixing punctures, and even carry her to the e-rickshaw,” she said. Ritesh Kumar, the SHO of GK police station, and the NGO members converted the vacant building into a skills training facility during the police week. The courses offered include stitching, beautician, Madhubani paintings and e-rickshaw driving. An English speaking course is set to be introduced soon. Sharmila Goyal, EWA chairperson, said, “We got like-minded women together to do something for the society. Initially, we struggled for space and did things in open spaces, such as parks. Later, police allowed us to use the vacant building. We have trained over 40 women till now. We also gifted an e-rickshaw to a trainee, Shobha (25), a young widow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-and-ngo-join-hands-to-give-poor-women-skill-training/articleshow/81400629.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kochi||Munnar’s day temp hits all-time high||Idukki: Munnar, which is known for its chilly weather even during summer, is witnessing a rare weather pattern as the day temperature is soaring to new levels here. On Thursday, the day temperature in Munnar town reached a record 28 degrees Celsius while the lowest morning temperature was 4 degrees Celcius. The temperature recorded at Nallathanni near Munnar was 7 degrees Celsius ((minimum) and 25 degrees Celsius (maximum) on Thursday. It was 5 and 25 degrees Celsius respectively at Nallathanni on Friday as per the data of UPASI (United Planters Association of South India). As a result of the rare weather pattern tea leaves wilted in various tea plantations in the hill station. Saju Joseph, a resident in Munnar town, said that it was for the first time they were experiencing such a climate. “I have been living in Munnar for the past 25 years and it is for the first time I am experiencing such hot weather here. Also, during nights the town witnesses an extremely cold climate,” said Joseph. Normally, Munnar experiences a cool climate. The normal winter season begins here in November and there will be extreme cold climate in early January. But this year Munnar experienced a cold wave for the third time from December to February. According to climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil, it has been a trend for the past several years that the day temperature is increasing in high-range areas while night temperature dips. As per studies, the temperature in the high-range is increasing every day. During the 1989-2000 period the average day temperature in Idukki district was 25.6 degrees Celsius. It rose to 26.1 degrees Celsius during 2011-2020. During 1989-2000, the night temperature was 16 degrees Celsius, which increased to 17.4 degrees Celsius between 2000 and 2010. However, the 2011-2020 period saw the night temperature dipping to an average of 15.7 degrees Celsius. “The rise in temperature shows the change of climate pattern in the hill station. This year the change was shown three times during the winter season,” Cholayil said. He said the rising mercury will affect the tourism prospects of the hill station in the future. “If temperature increases, it will affect the tourist arrival too. Deforestation and increasing construction activities are the main reasons behind the temperature increase,” said Cholayil. He said the extreme cold weather at night and high temperature during day time will also impact the agricultural calendar in the region too. “The rare climate pattern will affect the production of various crops, including tea,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/munnars-day-temp-hits-all-time-high/articleshow/81400572.cms||Sandeep Thomas
March 9, 2021||Bhopal||427 new Covid cases in MP, 394 recoveries, positivity high at 2.6%||Bhopal: With 427 new Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Monday, the tally of Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh has reached 2,65,070. One death was also reported in Indore district taking the death toll due to Covid-19 so far to 3,872. New cases were reported from the 39 of the 52 districts of the state. The highest number of cases was reported from Indore where 166 people tested positive. On the brighter side, 394 people recovered from the disease, taking the count of people who have recovered so far to 2,57,560. A total 16,023 samples were tested on Monday. Of this, 427 tested positive, thus the positivity rate — which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested — for Monday stood at 2.6 per cent. As on March 8, there were 3,638 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/427-new-covid-cases-in-mp-394-recoveries-positivity-high-at-2-6/articleshow/81400562.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Leopard mauls 5-yr-old to death||A five-year-old girl who was sleeping beside her father in Upala Fala of Kewda Khurd village under Kewde ki Naal forest sanctuary limits, was dragged away and killed by a leopard past midnight on Sunday. The villagers who chased the leopard found the girl’s body on a rock inside the jungle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopard-mauls-5-yr-old-to-death/articleshow/81400575.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Teen gangraped by 9 youths, 4 detained||Kota: A 15-year-old girl from Suket town of Kota district was gangraped at intervals by at least 9 youths, two of them reportedly minors, at separate places in Jhalawar for 8 days. The survivor somehow managed to reach her home on Friday and approached Suket police station with her mother the next day and lodged a report against the youths following which police detained four suspects including two minor boys.The survivor in her report alleged one of her friend named Bulbul and a youth named Chothmal took her to Jhalawar city on February 25 in the pretext of buying her a school bag, Suket circle officer Manjeet Singh said. He added that the survivor dropped out of school after class 9.The survivor alleged 2-3 other youths joined Bulbul and Chothmal in Jhalawar, where she was drugged and raped by the youths, Singh said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-gangraped-by-9-youths-4-detained/articleshow/81400537.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jodhpur||Min to ACB: Expedite case related to toppling of govt||JAIPUR: Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal on Monday said that Ashok Gehlot led-Congress government in the state has strengthened the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). He assured the House that investigation against BJP minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and others in the case related to toppling of government would be expedited. Dhariwal was replying to a demand for grants for prisons and police department in the assembly on Monday. He stated that there was more corruption during the BJP government in the state. “Who brought an officer like Navdeep Singh into ACB? Which government is responsible for it? We have got the best officers and have shown zero tolerance against corruption,” he added. He added that the new format of jail manual is being made and will be soon approved by the state government. Congress MLA Rajendra Gudha while speaking on demands for grants stated that he can name the minister who is corrupt. “I took ticket from the party (BSP) where one has to pay to get a ticket,” he said. Meanwhile, deputy leader of the Opposition, Rajendra Singh Rathore called the rape incident in Kherli police station by the sub-inspector ‘shame’ for the entire state. The incident has highlighted the poor state of affairs in the state where the protector has committed a crime, shaking people’s confidence in the law-and-order apparatus. “This is not the first incident where police have committed a crime in the state. The way the victim was harassed by the police while filing a complaint shows they have no fear of law,” said Rathore. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani demanded resignation of chief minister Ashok Gehlot for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. “Gehlot is also the home minister of the state and cannot run away from the responsibility. He should step down from the department and give the charge to a minister who can have control the police,” said Devnani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/min-to-acb-expedite-case-related-to-toppling-of-govt/articleshow/81406258.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Udaipur||Min to ACB: Expedite case related to toppling of govt||JAIPUR: Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal on Monday said that Ashok Gehlot led-Congress government in the state has strengthened the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). He assured the House that investigation against BJP minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and others in the case related to toppling of government would be expedited. Dhariwal was replying to a demand for grants for prisons and police department in the assembly on Monday. He stated that there was more corruption during the BJP government in the state. “Who brought an officer like Navdeep Singh into ACB? Which government is responsible for it? We have got the best officers and have shown zero tolerance against corruption,” he added. He added that the new format of jail manual is being made and will be soon approved by the state government. Congress MLA Rajendra Gudha while speaking on demands for grants stated that he can name the minister who is corrupt. “I took ticket from the party (BSP) where one has to pay to get a ticket,” he said. Meanwhile, deputy leader of the Opposition, Rajendra Singh Rathore called the rape incident in Kherli police station by the sub-inspector ‘shame’ for the entire state. The incident has highlighted the poor state of affairs in the state where the protector has committed a crime, shaking people’s confidence in the law-and-order apparatus. “This is not the first incident where police have committed a crime in the state. The way the victim was harassed by the police while filing a complaint shows they have no fear of law,” said Rathore. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani demanded resignation of chief minister Ashok Gehlot for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. “Gehlot is also the home minister of the state and cannot run away from the responsibility. He should step down from the department and give the charge to a minister who can have control the police,” said Devnani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/min-to-acb-expedite-case-related-to-toppling-of-govt/articleshow/81406259.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: 5-point probe ordered in anti-TB drug ‘scam’||BHOPAL: A special court in Bhopal has ordered five points of investigation for Lokayukta into the alleged ‘TB drug purchase scam’, while rejecting closure of case filed against ACS-home Rajesh Rajora. The FIR was registered in 2009 under Section 13(1)(d) read with 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. In 2010, the high court had dismissed petitions filed for quashing of this FIR. SPE’s DSP Naveen Awasthi had filed a closure report in 2014, saying no offence was made out. While rejecting this closure report, a special court in Bhopal on Saturday ordered investigators to find out whether anti-TB injections purchased and distributed in various districts on December 8, 2006, were of 0.75 mg or 1 mg. The court also asked the investigating agency to submit with documentary evidence details of medicines purchased for treatment of TB between 2006 and 2007, the budget, and medicines supplied by the central government. Plus details of medicines that were allowed to be purchased under DOTS programme, with sanctioned budgets and heads under which funds were disbursed. The Lokayukta has also been asked to find out how many hospitals demanded or purchased 1mg streptomycin injections before it was bought by the government in 2006. Investigators have been asked to collect corroborative evidence to prove the allegations. It is alleged that the health department purchased TB medicines in 2007-2008 although they were being supplied by the central government free of cost. Rajora was health commissioner then. The directorate of health services was supposed to follow a new drug policy, implemented by the public health and family welfare department (PHFWD) on June 6, 2006, in procuring drugs for hospitals and public health centres. Medicines were to be purchased in a centralized manner with PHFWD as the nodal department. On April 20, 2007, Dr Ashok Sharma, who was director of health services, instructed the MD of Madhya Pradesh Laghu Udyog Nigam to supply medicines and injectables worth Rs 16.65 crore according to the requirement of department of medical education (DME), gas tragedy relief and rehabilitation department and PHFWD. These medicines included anti-TB drugs worth over Rs 31.99 lakh. This purchase of anti-TB drugs annoyed the central government. On July 8, 2007, Naresh Dayal, then secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, wrote to the Madhya Pradesh chief secretary, expressing concern about the purchase of anti-TB drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/5-point-probe-ordered-in-anti-tb-drug-scam/articleshow/81400598.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Min to ACB: Expedite case related to toppling of govt||JAIPUR: Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal on Monday said that Ashok Gehlot led-Congress government in the state has strengthened the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). He assured the House that investigation against BJP minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and others in the case related to toppling of government would be expedited. Dhariwal was replying to a demand for grants for prisons and police department in the assembly on Monday. He stated that there was more corruption during the BJP government in the state. “Who brought an officer like Navdeep Singh into ACB? Which government is responsible for it? We have got the best officers and have shown zero tolerance against corruption,” he added. He added that the new format of jail manual is being made and will be soon approved by the state government. Congress MLA Rajendra Gudha while speaking on demands for grants stated that he can name the minister who is corrupt. “I took ticket from the party (BSP) where one has to pay to get a ticket,” he said. Meanwhile, deputy leader of the Opposition, Rajendra Singh Rathore called the rape incident in Kherli police station by the sub-inspector ‘shame’ for the entire state. The incident has highlighted the poor state of affairs in the state where the protector has committed a crime, shaking people’s confidence in the law-and-order apparatus. “This is not the first incident where police have committed a crime in the state. The way the victim was harassed by the police while filing a complaint shows they have no fear of law,” said Rathore. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani demanded resignation of chief minister Ashok Gehlot for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. “Gehlot is also the home minister of the state and cannot run away from the responsibility. He should step down from the department and give the charge to a minister who can have control the police,” said Devnani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/min-to-acb-expedite-case-related-to-toppling-of-govt/articleshow/81400593.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Kochi||16 yrs on, digitization project of Sahitya Akademi in limbo||Idukki: The ambitious digitization project of Kerala Sahitya Akademi in Thrissur that kick-started in 2005 had an insightful vision of bringing rare and ancient books in Akademi's repository to the public. The project was envisaged to conserve and make available rare books and periodicals available with Appan Thampuran library. After 16 long years, the project still remains in the limbo, with less than 1,000 books being uploaded on the website with public access. They are poorly categorized, and users are unable to trace and track books using search terms. A Right to Information document (RTI) accessed by journalist C K Anandan Pillai revealed that over the years a total of Rs.2.58 crore have been spent on the project “which has till date did not deliver any significant result”. According to the information issued by the Akademi, six people (supervisor, two graphic designers, two scanning technicians and one library assistant) are working under the project. The RTI reply claims a total of 13,518 books have been digitized over the past 16 years, however, no action has been taken to make it accessible for public, failing the very purpose of the initiation of the project. Speaking to TOI, Pillai said, “It is a clear waste of public money. Despite spending a huge amount of public money, the results have been zero. If it was entrusted with a private agency, it would have finished the work long back with half the amount of money.” “The Akademi officials are not bothered about the work pattern or duty of the staff who are deputed for the project. The government should stop this project and hand it over to an efficient agency,” he said. For this, the first step would be to sort existing scanned books according to their copyright as copyrighted books can’t be uploaded for public access. However, it is learned from the document that, the Akademi even doesn’t have clear statistics on how many scanned books come under purview of copyright and how many don’t. The document revealed that the entire project was executed without a clear focus and with no clear categorization and prioritization. “It's disappointing to see such an insightful project limping behind for one-and-a-half decade,” he said. Dr K P Mohanan, secretary of the Akademi, told TOI that Akademi was undertaking a digital auditing on the project. “We are expecting a report from the auditing agency in a week and further action will be taken based on the report. We admit that there was a lagging on the project, but it would be rectified soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/16-yrs-on-digitization-project-of-sahitya-akademi-in-limbo/articleshow/81400631.cms||Sandeep Thomas
March 9, 2021||Ajmer||Min to ACB: Expedite case related to toppling of govt||JAIPUR: Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal on Monday said that Ashok Gehlot led-Congress government in the state has strengthened the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). He assured the House that investigation against BJP minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and others in the case related to toppling of government would be expedited. Dhariwal was replying to a demand for grants for prisons and police department in the assembly on Monday. He stated that there was more corruption during the BJP government in the state. “Who brought an officer like Navdeep Singh into ACB? Which government is responsible for it? We have got the best officers and have shown zero tolerance against corruption,” he added. He added that the new format of jail manual is being made and will be soon approved by the state government. Congress MLA Rajendra Gudha while speaking on demands for grants stated that he can name the minister who is corrupt. “I took ticket from the party (BSP) where one has to pay to get a ticket,” he said. Meanwhile, deputy leader of the Opposition, Rajendra Singh Rathore called the rape incident in Kherli police station by the sub-inspector ‘shame’ for the entire state. The incident has highlighted the poor state of affairs in the state where the protector has committed a crime, shaking people’s confidence in the law-and-order apparatus. “This is not the first incident where police have committed a crime in the state. The way the victim was harassed by the police while filing a complaint shows they have no fear of law,” said Rathore. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani demanded resignation of chief minister Ashok Gehlot for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. “Gehlot is also the home minister of the state and cannot run away from the responsibility. He should step down from the department and give the charge to a minister who can have control the police,” said Devnani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/min-to-acb-expedite-case-related-to-toppling-of-govt/articleshow/81406262.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Nashik||Schools, coaching classes in Malegaon shut till March 31||Nashik: The Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) has decided to keep all schools, colleges and private coaching classes closed till March 31. The decision was taken during a meeting of senior civic, police and district administration officials on Monday. MMC deputy commissioner Nitin Kapadnis noted that against the 10-15 daily new Covid cases reported about three weeks back, the daily case-count has now risen to 40 to 50. Students move about in the city, come to their institutes and then go home. If they catch the infection, they may pass it on to their family members, including the elderly members. To stop this chain, it has been decided to close all schools, coaching classes etc. till March 31, he said The Malegaon police have also decided to intensify action against people not wearing masks and not following Covid-appropriate behaviour — especially in the areas under the Chhavani police station. Additional SP Chandrakant Khandvi said: “More than 1,000 people have been booked in the past 15 days for not wearing masks. Now the focus is to check restaurants and shops where people crowd to purchase goods without taking appropriate measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/schools-coaching-classes-in-malegaon-shut-till-march-31/articleshow/81397194.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata fire: Server shuts down, rail bookings go blank||KOLKATA: Booking of rail tickets was suspended across the eastern region following the fire at New Koilaghat building on Monday evening. Officials said the server located at the building shut down after the UPS drained out at 7.30pm. Power connection to the building was cut off after the fire broke out at 6.10pm. The landmark Raj-era building houses offices of Eastern Railways and South Eastern Railways, including one of the biggest railway reservation booking centres in the country. Online booking of railway reservation, covering the entire eastern region, is controlled from this building. The second floor of the building houses the Centre for Railways Information System (CRIS), the brain or the nerve centre of the passenger reservation system. The server at CRIS that caters to Eastern Railway, South Eastern Railway, North Frontier Railway and East Central Railway and some other zones as well will be up and running only when electricity connection of the building is restored. The server also covers East Coast Rail and South East Central Rail. Now that the server is down, Kolkata has been delinked from Guwahati, Nagaland, Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru and even Thiruvananthapuram. “The blaze has affected parts of the 12th floor and the entire 13th floor of New Koilaghat building, which is shared by two zonal railways,” Eastern Railway CPRO Kamal Deo Das said. The green-and-orange building stands in the heart of Kolkata’s central business district of BBD Bag, which is a UNESCO-listed heritage zone known for its elegant British-era architecture. The landmark address — a massive 14-storeyed structure that overlooks Strand Road and the Hooghly — used to be red in colour a few years back until it got a fresh coat of paint. In fact, the strong winds of the river stoked the fire that spread to other floors. “As per fire department’s advice, electricity connection to the entire building was cut off. Consequently, the server is not functioning. So, there’s a disruption in the online ticket booking from the Kolkata server, which caters Eastern Railway, South Eastern Railway, North Frontier Railway and East Central Railway and some other zones,” CPRO Das said, adding: “But those booking from Delhi to Kolkata region can get tickets because the server at their end is not affected.” He hoped things would be back to normal soon since the fire brigade had almost brought the situation under control. “We can hope to initiate the server as soon as electricity is back,” said Das. Bapi Ghosh, a Howrah resident, said, “I was trying to book a ticket to Delhi but the line went blank. Then I looked at the television and realized that the office for online booking was on fire.” Asked about the damages, Das said, “We can ascertain that only after we get access to the building and enter our offices.” He said the railway offices housed on the entire 13th floor and parts of the 12th floor were currently out of bounds to them. The 13th floor mainly has signal and telecom and accounts sections, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/server-shuts-down-rail-bookings-go-blank/articleshow/81399001.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata fire: Alternative transport options keep Strand Road moving in office hours||KOLKATA: A prompt response by Kolkata Police and the fire department and the availability of alternative transportation options — like the ferry service and the Circular Railway — came as a blessing for Howrah-bound commuters after the fire broke out on Strand Road in peak office hours on Monday. Several commuters did get delayed in reaching Howrah station or had to walk a few hundred metres to board buses but the logistics streamlined in half an hour, giving respite to commuters from snarls and chaos that normally unfold following a fire in the central business district. “The bus I was in waited near Babughat for over 15 minutes. I immediately started planning to walk to Howrah but just then, the bus was diverted through Auckland Row. There were many cops on the road who ensured that the vehicles kept moving,” said Ranadhir Mitra, who was headed towards Howrah. Police diverted buses and other vehicles through Auckland Row, Kiran Shankar Roy Road, Council House Street and Koilaghat, only blocking the stretch between Strand Road-Council House Street crossing and Strand Road- Koilaghat crossing for fire-fighting. Several Howrah-bound passengers availed ferry services to the station. “Since the skylift arrived on time and there was enough space for it to operate, we did not have to rush several fire tenders. Consequently, the area was not clogged,” said a senior fire department official. People working in the building in which the fire broke out rushed out when security personnel raised an alarm. “I was working when an RPF personnel told us to rush out. We rushed down the stairs. Some slipped on the stairs but nobody was injured,” said a railways employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alternative-transport-options-keep-strand-road-moving-in-office-hours/articleshow/81399004.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Pregnant lady shot dead, kin accuse in-laws of murder||JAIPUR: A 27-year-old pregnant woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her in-laws’ house at ward no 52 of Ravidas Nagar area in Sriganganagar district. The woman also had a dispute with her husband few months after her marriage. The woman was shot dead and her in-laws claimed that she had shot herself. However, the family of the deceased woman has accused her in-laws of murder. According to police, a relative of the woman, identified as Pallavi Chabra (27), was intimated by her in-laws that she was shot by some assailants.  “A team of senior police officers rushed to the spot. However, the family had already taken her to the hospital where she was declared brought dead,” said a senior police officer. Police on Monday detained her brother-in-law Ishan and mother-in-law Meena Devi. “It was found that the woman got married on May 17, 2020 to one Anshul Chabra of Ravidas Nagar and since then, they had some ongoing dispute. The woman had also told her parents in her previous meetings with them that her in-laws were harassing her and that she was five months pregnant,” said a senior police officer. The husband of the woman has already been arrested for dowry harassment. “We have an FIR lodged by the father of the woman in which he has claimed that the in-laws’ family has been harassing his daughter for a long time. They had also been pressurizing her to make physical relations with her brother-in-law,” he said. Angry relatives of the woman refused for a post mortem. They claimed police did not take the matter seriously. The relatives also shouted slogans against the police and jammed the road connecting district hospital, Sriganganagar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pregnant-lady-shot-dead-kin-accuse-in-laws-of-murder/articleshow/81400621.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jaipur||Couple ends life in Alwar district||Jaipur: An 18-year-old girl and her male companion ended their lives by jumping before a train on Monday near Bhogor Pulia area in Alwar. The girl was a student of Cass XII while the boy (19) was preparing for competitive exams. According to police, the girl’s wedding was fixed by her parents for May 14. “Some days ago, she had eloped with her friend identified as Ramkhiladi Meena. Her parents had lodged a missing complaint on March 6,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-ends-life-in-alwar-district/articleshow/81400671.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Mumbai||Women’s Day gift: Welfare plans, more spl buses in Mum||Mumbai: The budget, coinciding with Women’s Day, gifted a slew of schemes and incentives for women including 1% concession in stamp duty for homebuyers, free travel on state-run buses for girl students from rural areas, and welfare schemes for domestic workers. For Mumbai, it announced new routes for the women-exclusive Tejaswini buses—from Goregaon depot, Malad depot, Kandivli (W) station and Borivli (W) station. Finance minister Ajit Pawar announced an outlay of Rs 2,247 crore for executing the schemes through the women and child development (WCD) department. Reaching out to the unorganised labour sector, the Sant Janabai Social Security and Welfare Scheme, which is expected to benefit 40 lakh women, has been set up with a Rs 250 crore seed capital under the Samarpit Kalyan Nidhi fund. Pawar also announced a 1% concession in stamp duty if the house is registered in the name of a woman or jointly with another woman relative from April 1. Currently, Maharashtra charges 3% stamp duty on property registration. To expedite disposal of cases of crime against women and children, 138 fast-track courts will be set up at a cost of Rs 103 crore, while girl students will be allowed free travel on MSRTC buses. Dr Sandhya Kadam of Courage India Cancer Foundation said: “It is a good move that... the state has announced free travel to school or college... it should also announce free healthcare facilities for women.” WCD minister Yashomati Thakur urged women to “avail these benefits”. —Sujit Mahamulkar & Somit Sen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/womens-day-gift-welfare-plans-more-spl-buses-in-mum/articleshow/81400715.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||NMC derecognition threat looms over Dhanbad med college||Sindri: The fate of medical students who passed out from the Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH), formerly known as PMCH, Dhanbad, hangs in balance as the National Medical Council (NMC) has threatened to derecognize the degrees of students passing out of the institute since 2013-14. The NMC’s threat came after the state government failed in filling up the vacant posts of faculty members in non-clinical, para-clinical and clinical subjects. SNMMCH authorities confirmed the developments on Monday. The notice has created a flutter among the more than 350 doctors who had passed out from the institute, who are working all over the nation and abroad, and nearly 200 others still studying in the institute. According to reports, the NMC, formerly known as Medical Council of India, had permitted the then PMCH to increase its intake strength from 50 to 100 in 2013-14 on the condition that the state government fills up all the vacant faculty posts within six months. But the posts are yet to be filled even after eight years of the commitment given by the state. While the posts remained vacant, the institute went on admitting 100 students in 2014, 2015 and 2016. Peeved over the indifferent attitude of the state, the NMC again reduced the intake strength of the institute to 50 in 2017. The NMC team inspected the institute four times in 2015, thrice in 2016 and twice each in 2017, 2018, and 2019. It warned the institute of derecognition on every inspection visit but the vacant posts of faculty were not filled up so far. A senior faculty member of the college said, “The NMC can make surprise inspections anytime this year but the state government does not seem to bother. It seems the government is only interested in getting political mileage by changing its name from PMCH to SNMMCH." At present, around 35% posts of faculty members are lying vacant which includes, 11 posts for professors in biochemistry, microbiology, PSM, physiology, dermatology, surgery, gynaecology, paediatrics, anaesthesia, radiology and psychiatry departments. While the psychiatry department has been shut for a long time, there is no permanent faculty member in the radiology department. The medical college has no CT scan machine, no wi-fi connectivity and additional lecture halls as directed by the inspecting NMC team. When contacted, SNMMCH principal Shailendra Kumar confirmed that the notice has been received from NMC. He said, "We have apprised the higher authorities of the state regarding the threat to derecognize the degrees since 2013-14.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nmc-derecognition-threat-looms-over-dhanbad-med-college/articleshow/81400028.cms||Anil Ashutosh
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||New industrial policy likely to be in place this month||Ranchi: The new policy to spur investments and industrial growth in the state is expected to debut by the end of this month, senior officials in the state industries department said on Monday after returning to Ranchi from the two-day maiden stakeholders meeting in Delhi. Chief minister Hemant Soren maintained that Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy, 2021, will focus on economic revival in the post-lockdown era. “The Covid- induced lockdown had affected the economy and led to an industrial crisis at different value chains. The industrial sector needs to overcome the dent caused by the lockdown. We felt there is a need for fresh policies to create jobs at a quick pace,” Soren had said addressing industrialists in Delhi on Saturday. While industries department secretary Pooja Singhal did not respond to TOI’s calls, another official on anonymity said the policy is expected to be out by the end of March. “The old industrial policy devised during the previous government is expiring this month and there was a need for a fresh policy. The government could have notified the extension of the existing policy for another five years or prepare a new one. The way world economies have changed, especially after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government felt the need a new policy will suit our requirements. The draft is ready and the final policy will be out by the end of this month,” he said. He added that in coming weeks, industries department is also considering to hold a few more stakeholders meeting in other cities and within the state to fine-tune the policy. As per a few provisions in the draft policy, the department has identified high-priority and priority sectors to bolster growth and define quantum of incentives and further simplify of processes for ease of doing business. High-priority sectors include textiles and apparel, automobile, auto-components and electric vehicle, agro-food processing and meat processing, pharmaceuticals and electronics system design and manufacturing (ESDM). The key highlight of the policy is to generate five lakh jobs and investments in tune of Rs 1 lakh crores in the next five years. The policy also proposes setting up different task specific bodies such as revival of sick units, asset reconstruction, and investment promotion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/new-industrial-policy-likely-to-be-in-place-this-month/articleshow/81398587.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 9, 2021||Goa||GCET prospectus for degree seats in last week of March||PANAJI: The prospectus for admissions to professional degree programme seats in Goa for the academic year 2021-22 is expected to be released in the last week of March, officials of the directorate of technical education (DTE) said. The prospectus announces the schedule for admission to degree seats in engineering, pharmacy, medicine, dentistry, ayurveda, homeopathy, nursing and five allied health programmes. While admissions to engineering and pharmacy degree seats take place through the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET), entry to the other programmes is based on students’ performance in the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET). “We are waiting for the NEET dates to be declared and accordingly the GCET dates and other admission schedules will be released. In Goa, 3,000-odd students vie for professional degree seats in the state and, of these, 65% answer both GCET and NEET. Therefore, it is important that the GCET and NEET dates do not clash. Also, there should be at least a week’s gap between the two exams for the convenience of students,” said an official. GCET, which is usually held on May 4 and May 5 in a regular year, is expected to be held in June this year, due to delay in the current academic year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Once National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test dates are out, the file will be put up for approval for the new Goa Common Entrance Test dates,” said the official. The prospectus to be released by March-end will contain details of professional degree programmes, seats, eligibility and merit criteria, rules and procedures for admissions and schedule for rounds of admissions. In 2020, most of the process of submitting application forms, accepting admission forms and allotment of seats, among others, was carried out online due to the pandemic. GCET 2021 will be conducted in mid-June, DTE has announced. “Application forms for GCET 2021 shall be accepted in May. Dates and procedure for submission of application forms for GCET 2021 shall be notified by May 1 and exact date of conduct of GCET 2021 by June 1,” DTE said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcet-prospectus-for-degree-seats-in-last-week-of-march/articleshow/81401679.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||2 teams deployed in Angara range to prevent forest fires||Ranchi: Concerned over the early forest fires this year, the Ranchi forest division on Monday rolled out two dedicated fleets of quick response teams in the Angara range for early detection of fires and control them. Officials said more fire-fighting teams will be pressed into action gradually in the coming weeks. On Friday last week, large forests areas in Angara and Jonha, which are home to pristine waterfalls and attract hundreds of tourists, caught fire, sending locals into a tizzy. While there are no reports of any loss of life, but many feared damage to wildlife, their habitation and the ecosystem, which could increase the man-animal conflict. A forest department official said, “Angara and Jonha is an important elephant corridor. Fire here would force the jumbos to enter areas inhabited by people.” The recent fire in his territory was a freak incident that was possibly man-made, he said. Talking to TOI, Angara range officer R K Singh said the department is on alert to prevent forest fires. He said, “From today (Monday), we have launched two vehicles, each having a team of seven persons to be on the move along the forested corridors round the clock to detect fire and take immediate action,” he said, adding that one vehicle will man the Mahilong section while the other has been put on duty in Silli area. “A team in one vehicle will work for a 12-hour shift. In each vehicle, we have made provisions for dry food like jaggery, chuda and water among others so that the team members don’t go hungry while on the move. Their job is to coordinate with the local van samitis (village forest committees) to keep a continuous vigil for forest fires,” he said. Forest fires are common during summers in the Angara range which has about 250 local van samitis. Most of the fires were controlled by the department in time and later rejuvenated the green lung through plantation and forest management practices. Many of these incidents also occurred due to the negligence of Mahua pickers, who usually burn dry leaves to collect the flowers, and throwing burning butts of cigarettes and bidis. Singh said the forest fire this year came early and it could have natural causes because of the early onset of summer and the extended dry spell. “However, to prevent anyone from throwing lighted bidis, cigarettes or other fire-causing activities in the jungle, we have now decided to take up stern action against any violator and they will be sent to jail if caught red-handed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-teams-deployed-in-angara-range-to-prevent-forest-fires/articleshow/81399843.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 9, 2021||Goa||GFP slams BJP for state’s rising crime graph||Panaji: Expressing shock and concern over the gruesome double murder at Fatorda, Goa Forward Party chief Vijai Sardesai said that Goa is becoming a savage and lawless state for which the BJP-led state government needs to be held accountable. Sardesai, the local MLA, has urged Goa Police to immediately pursue all leads and solve the case and bring justice to the family. “The chief minister who is also the home minister is busy mobilising the police force to clamp down on people who are legitimately protesting the government’s anti-Goan policies,” said Sardesai. He said the government has not taken steps to curb the rising cases of heinous crimes. “The security of citizens comes last on the agenda of the Pramod Sawant government. He is single-handedly making Goa a lawless and violent state,” he said. Further, he urged people to remain vigilant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-slams-bjp-for-states-rising-crime-graph/articleshow/81401714.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||53 Cov cases, 44 recoveries, zero deaths in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded 53 new cases of Covid-19 and 44 recoveries on Monday while the number of active cases was 472. There were no casulaties recorded and the death toll remained at 1,093. The maximum number of cases came from Ranchi which witnessed 31 cases, followed by East Singhbhum which recorded 16 cases. The rest of the cases came from eight districts. Meanwhile, a total of 22,168 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Monday, which included 11,848, who received their first dosage and 10,320 who received their second dose. Health workers, frontline staff, senior citizens and those aged 45 and above with co-morbidities received their first dose. As per health department data, as of Sunday, 36,59,34 people have been administered their first dose of the vaccine while 76,627 have been administered the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/53-cov-cases-44-recoveries-zero-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81399779.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||Hemant marks Women’s Day by felicitating Covid warriors||Ranchi: From an MLA arriving at the Jharkhand Assembly in traditional wear to highlight women’s issues, the women staff at Ranchi railway division manning the entire division, the chief minister felicitating women for putting up a relentless fight during the pandemic to legal experts discussing women’s rights, the International Women’s Day was an eventful affair in Ranchi on Monday. Congress’s Mahagama MLA Dipika Pandey Singh arrived at Vidhan Sabha clad in a saree, which is the uniform of anganwadi sevikas, and raised the issues being faced by the latter in the House. “I have come to the Assembly dressed as an anganwadi worker to remind the government that the sevikas have been protesting on a number of issues which have been ignored for long,” Singh said. She demanded that the government come up with a robust policy to fix the salaries of women employees. She even met CM Hemant Soren in this regard. Singh requested the government to reserve 50% of government jobs for women. The Ranchi railway division handed over the management and running of trains to an all-women crew. A total of 89 women, including station manager, drivers, points woman on signalling, cleanliness workers, on-board RPF guards and security personnel, operated the entire division on Monday. The Ranchi-Tori express train was operated by an all-women crew, which included a loco pilot, assistant loco pilot, on-board RPF constables and signalling staff. The division’s chief public relation officer, Niraj Kumar, said, “Earlier, all-women crews have operated trains. Today, we decided to hand over the complete management of the division to women to highlight their contribution towards our organization and the society, in general.” The CM started his day by rewarding women for their significant contribution during the pandemic at an event at SDC Hall in Purulia road. The event was organised by the women’s wing of JMM and Hemant felicitated 14 women, including a doctor, a nurse, a hospital counsellor and a cop. Thanking them for their service, Hemant said, “My government is committed towards women’s empowerment and we are going to roll out several schemes which will have maximum participation by women.” Later in the day, the CM congratulated all the women MLAs in the Assembly and distributed sweets among them. The Centre for Human Rights and Subaltern Studies of National University of Study and Research in Law (NUSRL) in collaboration with the UGC Women’s Studies Centre in Patna University organised a seminar on women’s right to property, gender disparity and challenges faced by women. The seminar was attended by senior judges and vice-chancellors of National Law universities from across the country. Addressing the event through video conferencing, former Supreme Court judge Gyan Sudha Mishra highlighted that education can only empower women and make them strong enough to fight for their rights fearlessly. NUSRL vice-chancellor Dr Kesava Rao Vurrakula discussed the gender disparities faced by women since the era of Manu and said that how the enactment of Hindu Succession Act, 1956 has improved the property rights of women. “The issue of gender disparity is inevitable and will continue to hold relevance unless absolute equality is ensured for women in word and in spirit, and it completely depends on women to fight for it,” Vurrakala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-marks-womens-day-by-felicitating-covid-warriors/articleshow/81399803.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||Homeguards ask for pay hike, take out march||Ranchi: Hundreds of personnel belonging to the Jharkhand Homeguards Welfare Association (JHWA) marched towards the Vidhan Sabha here on Monday demanding wages and perquisites at par with their counterparts in Bihar. However, they were stopped near the Jagannathpur temple. The JHWA has demanded that the honorarium paid to homeguards in the state be revised to Rs 744 per day, apart from the provision for provident fund, regular duty and payment of one and a half lakh rupees upon retirement. The agitating homeguards started the march from Hatia station and covered around 15 kilometres. After the police stopped them, the protesters sat on a dharna near the Sai Mandir. The general secretary of JHWA, Rajiv Kumar Tiwari, said that homeguards are paid Rs 500 per day. He added that the amount should be revised to at least Rs 744. Stating that their counterparts in Bihar are assigned duty at all government buildings, he added that many government units in Jharkhand have recruited private security guards, which has reduced the scope of employment for homeguards. He claimed that prior to the state polls, chief minister Hemant Soren, who was then the leader of opposition, had assured them that he would fulfil all their demands if voted to power. Notably, the agitating personnel said they would wait till Tuesday for a response from the government, after which they would resort to fresh protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/homeguards-ask-for-pay-hike-take-out-march/articleshow/81398567.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Goa||At Goa’s first HIV centre, women take centre stage||PANAJI: Started in 2005, the anti-retroviral therapy (ART) of Goa Medical College (GMC), the state’s first, is handled by almost all women staff, except for one male member. Started with three employees, today it has 12 and a patient load of 7,000. “Even the project director of the Goa State AIDS Control Society (GSACS) is a woman,” said a female staffer of the ART centre, which has seen much ups and down since it was started 15 years ago. Dr Angelica Siona Gomes has been project director at GSACS for more than a year. The centre has two women doctors and four counsellors. Even the security guard is a woman. “The appointment of women in the ART centre is not by a choice, it just happened,” the staffer said. Of 7,000 patients listed at the centre, 40% to 50% are women referred to them after they were detected with the infection, mostly after their partner/husband tested positive, the staffer said “Husband to wife transmission is fairly common. Except for a few cases, the women tested HIV positive after their marriage, or at the time of pregnancy when the HIV test is done,” she said. She said having women counsellors, even doctors, is a plus point as women coming to the center feel inhibited to talk about their problems. “The common refrain of these women when they first come to us is that ‘he(husband/partner ) destroyed me’. It’s like they have reached the end of the road. Yet many recover after the counselling and medication and are ready to fight back,” she said. Their fight doesn’t end with medication and following instructions of a doctor and counsellor. “Baring a few cases, these women have no family backing, so they have to also work, look after the children as also fight discrimination in society. It’s quite a deal, but they adapt like brave soldiers,” the staffer said. Patients listed at ART centre have to visit the centre once a month on a working day to collect medicines, but some are unable to for most work in the unorganised sector and asking for leave becomes difficult. “I can’t ask my boss for leave every month, even to visit a doctor. He will be suspicious and throw me out of the job. I can’t risk revealing my status because discrimination is common,” a twenty-something woman who works at a stationary shop in Panaji said. She said tries and collects her medication whenever time permits during lunch break, which is between 2pm and 3pm. This is subject to her friend being free to drop and pick her from the ART centre. She can’t take a bus because she will be late to report to work after lunch break. NACCO permits doctors to give three months’ medicines together so that patients are not required to visit every month, a staffer said. However, they can do this only if there is enough stock. In some cases, patients’ health needs to be evaluated for the first few months, in other cases, if they are put on new medication they need to visit the centre every month, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-states-first-hiv-centre-women-take-centre-stage/articleshow/81401674.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi youth lynched on vehicle theft charge||RANCHI: A 22-year-old youth identified as Sachin Kumar Verma was lynched by a mob early on Monday at Nawatoli under Kotwali police station here on suspicion of vehicle lifting. Police have registered a case against five named persons and 30 unknown persons in the incident. While two persons were arrested, a search is on to nab the others, police said. According to the police, Verma was loitering in the area when a mini truck (Tata 407) went missing and suspecting him to be the thief, truck owners and labourers caught hold him. They tied his hands and feet and started beating him up from midnight till 7 am on Monday inside a building in Nawatoli. The assailants also threatened to throw him into the well if he did not admit to the theft. After receiving news about her son, Anu Verma rushed to the spot and saw him tied and injured. She then informed the police, who rescued and took him to the district hospital. Verma, however, succumbed to his injuries. Angered by his death, Verma’s family members staged a protest at the local police station. They also alleged that the policemen ill-treated Verma at the station. Police said Verma had no criminal antecedent but was alcoholic and the two arrested persons, Alakh Deo and Indrajit, were identified as the two main culprits who thrashed him. Reacting to charges against the police, SSP Surindra Jha said, “It is not plausible that the policemen ill-treated him because they rescued him from the mob. We have taken all steps for a free and fair inquiry into the case. An independent officer will investigate the entire incident. The autopsy was conducted by a medical board in the presence of a magistrate.” Jha, however, said normally a victim should have been taken to the hospital first but Verma was brought to the police station. He added that action would be taken if any policeman is found guilty of delaying Verma’s treatment or mishandling the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-youth-lynched-on-vehicle-theft-charge/articleshow/81398726.cms||---
March 9, 2021||Jamshedpur||53 Cov cases, 44 recoveries, zero deaths in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded 53 new cases of Covid-19 and 44 recoveries on Monday while the number of active cases was 472. There were no casulaties recorded and the death toll remained at 1,093. The maximum number of cases came from Ranchi which witnessed 31 cases, followed by East Singhbhum which recorded 16 cases. The rest of the cases came from eight districts. Meanwhile, a total of 22,168 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Monday, which included 11,848, who received their first dosage and 10,320 who received their second dose. Health workers, frontline staff, senior citizens and those aged 45 and above with co-morbidities received their first dose. As per health department data, as of Sunday, 36,59,34 people have been administered their first dose of the vaccine while 76,627 have been administered the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/53-cov-cases-44-recoveries-zero-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81407788.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||Sharad Pawar convinced Hemant Soren to pull out of Bengal polls||RANCHI: Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)’s last-minute decision of to pull out of the fray in West Bengal elections might be hard to swallow for the party’s own ticket hopefuns, but Jharkhand Congress — JMM’s alliance partner in the state government — has backed the move. Though the tribal party is yet to make an official announcement in this regard, reportedly in a bid to convince the old school leaders within the party, the support from Congress will boost its morale. Sources in JMM said that the decision of pulling out of the election and supporting CM Mamta Banerjee was taken by the ‘youth brigade’ that has picked up cudgels against the saffron party. Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, Shiv Sena’s Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav were unanimous about supporting Trinamool Congress and Hemant Soren decided to join the brigade after NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s intervention. “It’s a matter of time when an official announcement would be made. Efforts are on to convince the senior members of the party,” said a senior functionary of the JMM while answering if Guruji would campaign in support of Mamta Banerjee. JMM leaders agreed that after finalizing the names of at least 30 people for the elections, it was tough convincing them to pull out. “Politics is all about unanimous decisions of the party and if a decision has been taken, all our dedicated workers are going to work in the direction of ensuring victory for the Trinamool,” the source said. Though Congress and Trinamool are pitched against each other in the Bengal polls, Congress state president Rameshwar Oraon backed JMM’s decision. “Our alliance is purely at the state level and both the parties are free to decide their political stance in other states and at the national level,” he said, stressing that Congress has a dominant presence in Bengal. Commenting on JMM’s decision Oraon said that there are 7-8% tribal votes in Bengal and it would have got divided between Trinamool and JMM, tjhus giving an edge to BJP. “The idea to support Trinamool will fortify the tribal seats in favour of Didi,” he said. JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said the party has a long list of tribal leaders to woo voters in districts bordering Jharkhand that has sizable adivasi population. “JMM can play a major role in over two dozen such seats of Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura, East and West Midnapore, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling districts,” he said. JMM had been aggressive ahead in campaigning in Bengal, but abstained from hitting out at Trinamool in the rallies. Hemant responded mildly when Mamta criticized the party after his Jhargram rally saying Trinamool was always welcome to field candidates in Jharkhand. He had also indicated that the party was open for talks with the TMC while responding to reporters in Dumka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pawar-convinced-hemant-to-pull-out-of-bengal-polls/articleshow/81398597.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||Doctors shut OPDs at all 6 medical colleges, demand arrears||RANCHI: More than 500 doctors, including senior residents, posted across six state-run medical colleges will boycott work and have closed down out-patient department (OPD) services after their talks with the state health department failed. The doctors have said that their arrears haven’t been paid as per the seventh Pay Commission from January 2016 to March 2019. A delegation of Junior Doctors’ Association (JDA) met state health secretary K K Soan on Monday afternoon after closing OPDs. Talking to TOI, JDA president at Rims Dr Vikash Kumar said: “We have been requesting the government to pay our pending arrears, but the government isn’t interested in addressing our concerns. We are now forced to go on a strike and we will be closing down OPDs at all medical colleges.” The doctors association said their problems are not being solved due to lackadaisical attitude of officials. “In the last week of January, the health secretary had visited Rims for the general body meeting and he promised us that our issues will be resolved within a week. We gave the department more than a month but nothing moved,” JDA secretary Dr Anitesh Gupta said. Dr Vikash said: “We have kept emergency services, Covid-19 ICUs, trauma centre and gynaecology department services out of the boycott and our doctors will attend to the patients as per their roster in these duties.” Earlier in the day, doctors decided to boycott work after a week-long representational protest ended on Monday morning but the government did not approach them to resolve their issues. The protest was also joined by doctors posted as senior residents at medical colleges in Palamu, Hazaribag, Dumka, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur along with Rims. A few doctors who have completed their three-year course at different medical colleges and joined work at different places in the state also haven’t been paid the arrears. “I did my MD (medicine) from Rims in 2017-2020. I completed my studies, worked in Covid wards at different hospitals in Ranchi and now I have been posted at PMCH, Dhanbad, as part of mandatory one year service to the state. But I have not been paid my arrears,” Dr Mahipal said , adding that OPDs will be closed in PMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/docs-shut-opds-at-all-6-med-colleges-demand-arrears/articleshow/81398611.cms||Gaurav Pandey
March 9, 2021||Ranchi||Babadham gears up for Shivratri||Dumka: The district administration is readying a plan to tackle the expected surge in the number of devotees at the Babadham temple in Deoghar on the occasion of Mahashivratri. Deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said SP Ashwini Kumar Sinha and he jointly inspected the temple routes a couple of days ago and asked the officials concerned to put in place sanitation and security measures in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. “We will allow the devotees to touch the deity and perform Sparsh Puja in view of their religious sentiments,” DC Bhajantri said, adding that the devotees, however, would have to adhere to all Covid protocols prescribed by the administration. The devotees will have to compulsorily wear masks and undergo thermal scanning before entering the temple premises. Bhajantri said no VIP offerings would be allowed on the day of Mahashivratri. SP Sinha said that additional forces would be deployed in and around the temple and along the devotee routes to ensure smooth passage. “Elaborate security arrangements will be in place to avoid any untoward incident on Mahashivratri,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/babadham-gears-up-for-shivratri/articleshow/81400113.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 9, 2021||Nagpur||First time since Feb 7, more recoveries than new cases in Vid||Nagpur: For the first time since February 7, new Covid-19 cases were fewer than recoveries on Monday. Overall, 2,830 new patients were reported from 11 districts of the region, while 3,015 of them recovered. Vidarbha now has nearly 3.45 lakh cases while 3.1 lakh of them have recovered. Recovery rate is under 90% now. Lowering number of new cases may be due to different reasons, but the foremost reason is sudden decrease in number of tests in the last 24 hours. Total 17,745 tests were conducted in all 11 districts of Vidarbha on Monday. This number is significantly less than the tests conducted in the last six days. As many as 31,391 tests were conducted on March 7 while 33,000-odd tests were conducted on March 6. Average daily test count in March is more than 25,000. The death toll also increased on Monday. Total 30 deaths were reported. Nagpur district reported 11 deaths, including 7 from Nagpur city, 1 from Nagpur district (rural) and 3 from other states/divisions. Amravati once again reported 7 deaths. Wardha reported 5 deaths for second day in a row whle Yavatmal reported 4. One patient each died in Akola, Buldhana and Gondia. Overall death toll of Vidarbha reached 7,594. In March so far, 206 deaths have been reported in Vidarbha. As the number of new cases was less than recoveries, the number of under-treatment patients has also come down. Now, 30,630 patients are under treatment. Nagpur has 11,076 of them followed by Amravati (6,449), and Akola (4,738). Bhandara, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur still have less than 1,000 patients under treatment. Amravati: Seven deaths on the second successive day took the district’s Covid toll to 569 even as it reported 462 new cases that took the caseload to 39,986. With 669 recoveries, the total went up to 32,968, leaving 6,449 active cases under treatment. Yavatmal: Four deaths took the toll to 485. Out of the 801 reports, 151 tested positive. Currently, 1,872 positive patients are undergoing treatment at various Covid care centres in the district. Wardha: Five more deaths increased the number to 368 on Monday. In all, 57 were detected positive while 167 were discharged, taking the caseload to 13,572 and recoveries to 12,196. Chandrapur: In all, 38 tested positive on Monday. There were 45 recoveries, leaving 625 active cases in the district. No deaths were reported and the toll remained stable at 400. Bhandara: The district recorded 46 new cases taking the caseload to 13,975. With 44 patients recovering, Bhandara now has 13,285 recoveries. No death was reported for 8th day in a row. With 328 deaths so far, the district has 362 patients under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 25 new cases. Total case count has reached 14,570. With 11 patients recovering, the count has reached 14,210. A senior citizen died in Gondia during treatment taking the death toll to 187. Now, 173 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: Seven new patients and 21 recoveries were reported Monday. No death was reported. Now, total caseload is 9,699, including 9,429 recoveries, 108 deaths and 162 patients under treatment. Washim: The district reported 138 new patients, lowest in the last 5 days. On the other hand, 313 patients recovered. Now, the district has 10,358 cases, 8,872 recoveries and 163 deaths. Total 1,322 patients are under treatment. Akola: Akola reported 113 new cases, lowest for the district in March so far. This took the caseload to 19,233. With 153 recoveries, total 14,109 patients have beaten Covid. A 65-year-old man died during treatment taking the toll to 386. Total 4,738 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported 517 new cases after conducting just 1,851 tests which is alarming. Total cases reached 21,821. With 341 recoveries, 18,776 of them have recovered so far. A death of a senior citizen patient was reported. Now, the death toll of the district is 201. Total 2,844 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-time-since-feb-7-more-recoveries-than-new-cases-in-vid/articleshow/81399611.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
