March 10, 2021||Bengaluru||Budget fails to cheer realty sector in Bengaluru as no dip in guidance value||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s budget proposal to cut stamp duty to 3% from 5% on flats priced between Rs 35 lakh and 45 lakh has brought little cheer to the real estate sector in Bengaluru as the government has again ignored its main demand to reduce guidance value to boost property sales. The government last year had assured it would decrease guidance value but decided against it at the last minute fearing it would lead to a dip in revenue, according to those privy to the decision. Guidance value is the minimum selling price of a property fixed by the government, depending on the locality. It’s observed that properties in many places are being sold at way below the guidance value, but the government is levying 5% of stamp duty on it. For instance, guidance value of a property on MG Road is over Rs 1.9 lakh per sqm and a buyer is bound to pay stamp duty based on this even when market price of the property is Rs 1.5 lakh per sqm. The budget proposal is applicable to the first registration of apartments (primary sale) valued between Rs 35 lakh and Rs 45 lakh. The government in December had reduced stamp duty from 5% to 3% for housing units priced at Rs 20-35 lakh. In his budget for 2020-21, Yediyurappa had slashed it to 2% for new flats priced below Rs 20 lakh. Stakeholders of the real estate sector are not much enthused as they feel the move would not help in boosting sales, even though the sector is crawling back to normalcy after the Covid-induced lull. “The benefit will largely be limited to Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities, where property prices are relatively low. It may cover a small segment of about 15%, while big markets like Bengaluru will be left out,” said Suresh Hari, chairman, Credai-Bengaluru. Hari said fast-moving housing units in Bengaluru are in the price bracket of Rs 50-70 lakh and sales would have got a boost if the government had reduced stamp duty on this segment. The reduction in stamp duty is not applicable to subsequent sales of new flats (secondary transaction), which is another deterrent, according to observers of the sector. MS Shankar, general secretary of Forum for People’s Collective Efforts, said industrial and commercial plots have been kept out of the benefit, which will hamper faster economic recovery. The observers highlighted that Maharashtra is witnessing about 67% jump in property registration after it slashed stamp duty from 5% to 3% for all housing units for the period between mid-August and December 31. They suggest a similar step in Karnataka may help ramp up dwindling revenues. The Karnataka government has collected Rs 9,299 crore (72%) from property registration as against the Rs 12,655 crore target fixed for 2020-21. Yediyurappa has kept the target stagnant at Rs 12,655 crore even for 2021-22. Kishore Jain, president of Credai-Bengaluru, said the government will do well to reduce guidance value of properties, which seems to be exorbitant compared to that in neighbouring states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/budget-fails-to-cheer-realty-sector-in-city-as-no-dip-in-guidance-value/articleshow/81418202.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
March 10, 2021||Bengaluru||Civic grievance redressal authority for Bengaluru soon||BENGALURU: The government on Tuesday told the legislative assembly that it will soon set up a grievance redressal authority headed by a retired district judge for addressing the civic woes of Bengalureans. Responding on behalf of CM BS Yediyurappa, law and parliamentary affairs minister Basavaraj Bommai said the government was serious about establishing the authority, part of the newly envisaged BBMP Act, at the earliest. “The BBMP Act has a provision for setting up of the authority to address civic concerns if they are not resolved by civic agencies. It will be headed by a retired district judge as incorporated in the Act,” Bommai said in response to a question raised by Shantinagar Congress legislator NA Haris. The MLA said the authority alone can’t do much as it will concentrate only on BBMP issues, while other civic agencies like BDA, BWSSB, Bescom and BMRCL won’t fall under its purview. He urged the government to consider a co-ordination committee to assist the authority. Bommai said the government has taken this into consideration and will look into setting up a committee, apart from examining if the authority can be given the power to deal with concerns pertaining to other agencies as well. The authority will be empowered to look into issues ranging from defunct streetlights and bad roads to stormwater drains and waste disposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/civic-grievance-redressal-authority-for-bluru-soon/articleshow/81418203.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Bengaluru||Pregnant woman falls from first floor in AP, gets arm replanted in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 19-year-old woman in her fifth month pregnancy, whose arm was severed following a fall from the first floor of her house in Adoni, Andhra Pradesh, got it replanted in a city hospital recently. She had landed on sharp railings and fractured her legs too, however her foetus remained unscathed. Gnana Tanuja reached Sparsh hospital, Hosur Road, 362km from her home, in eight hours. She fell at 9.30pm on February 19, she was brought to Bengaluru by early next morning. Doctors conducted an ultra sound scanning and checked the fetal heart rate. Everything was normal about her pregnancy which brought a huge relief to the family. Her hemoglobin level was just 6 gram per deciliter as against the normal 12.0 to 15.5 grams. Her O negative blood group being not very common, only two units of blood could be arranged at the time of the surgery. She underwent a seven-hour surgery for replantation of her severed hand that was ferried to Bengaluru in an ice pack. Tanuja was discharged from the hospital on March 8 with both legs in a cast, but she will have to continue with follow-up checkup and start with physiotherapy in sometime. Tanuja was sitting on the balcony of her house when she felt giddy and had no clue how she fell down. “I was dizzy and my eyes rolled up. When I opened my eyes, I was sitting on the ground and my hand lay severed,” Tanuja told TOI. She was profusely bleeding from the severed limb after she fell on railings. Her relatives took her along with her severed hand to an orthopaedic doctor in their surroundings who controlled the bleeding and administered the first aid. She was referred to a specialist hand-transplant surgeon in Bengaluru. Tanuja’s husband Pullela Venu said: “While she had fallen on one side, her hand was lying away from her. That was a very stressful moment.” Venu, who runs a vegetable nursery, said the compound wall of the building had sharp tailing inserted to prevent monkey menace. The family members believe that Tanuja had nothing but a miraculous escape. “She had not fallen flat. She was in a sitting position when I saw her. She was conscious but in acute pain and shock,” Venu said. ‘One of the most difficult replantations’“Arm replantation is one of the most difficult replantations to do successfully. Timing is crucial. If delayed, serious complications can occur including kidney failure, sepsis, hypotension and death,” said Dr N Jithendran, aesthetic, plastic and reconstructive microvascular surgeon, Sparsh hospital. In the last four years, Dr Jithenran has seen four such cases. Tanuja is the only woman among those who underwent hand replantation. Two were accident cases; another was a cleaner who severed hand while loading garbage to a vehicle. Tanuja is yet to move her fingers and it may take six months to one year. “She has sensation in the arm. The nerves have to regenerate and it will take time,” said the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pregnant-woman-falls-from-1st-floor-in-ap-gets-arm-replanted-in-city/articleshow/81418222.cms||Sunitha Rao R
March 10, 2021||Bengaluru||ACB raids 9 govt officials in 11 dists||BENGALURU: Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau on Tuesday raided nine government officials over possession of assets disproportionate to their known sources of income. The raids were conducted at 28 different locations in 11 districts. The raids were carried out on: Krishnegowda, Project Director, Nirmitikendra, Chikkaballapur; Hanumantha Shivappa Chikkannanavara, deputy chief electrical inspector, Belagavi circle; Subramanya K Vaddar, joint director, Town and Country planning, Mysuru; Munigopal Raju, superintendent engineer, Chescom, Mysuru; Channaveerappa, FDA, RTO, Mysuru South; Raju Pattar, accounts officer, Gescom, Yadgir; Victor Simon, police inspector, BMTF; K Subramanyam, junior engineer, Town Planning Office, BBMP, Yelahanka Zone, and KM Pratham, deputy director, Factories and Boilers, Davanagere. The ACB gave details about recoveries of some of the raided officials. Raju Pattar was found possessing assets 223% more than his known sources of income. Papers pertaining to 10 vacant lands in and around Yadgir and 3 acres of agricultural land have been found. Apart from other assets, police seized documents of 19 sites, 24 acres of agricultural land and two residential houses from raids against Krishne Gowda. His assets were worth 295% more than known sources of income. In operations against Munigopalaraju, documents of six sites in Mysuru, a flat in Kengeri and 6 acres of agricultural land were found. He was found to have assets worth 196% more than known sources of income. Channaveerapppa: Two residential houses, two sites; he has amassed assets which are 149 % beyond known sources of income. Victor Simon had papers pertaining to a flat in Bengaluru, a residential house in Mysuru, two sites in Mysuru, Rs 7.2 lakh cash, 223 litres of foreign liquor and documents showing his foreign trips. Overall, his assets were worth 257% more than known sources of income. K Subramanyam had documents of a house, four sites and a 33-room paying guest accommodation, all in Bengaluru, fixed deposits of around Rs 1crore in different banks and papers of foreign trips. His assets were worth 364% more than official income. “The process of calculating seized properties and other material of others are on. We’ll continue the search operations on Wednesday,” ACB officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/acb-raids-9-govt-officials-in-11-dists/articleshow/81418232.cms||---
March 10, 2021||World||Biden names two women generals to lead military commands||WASHINGTON: President Joe Biden on Monday announced the nomination of two women to lead US military commands, who will be only the second and third women to hold such senior military positions in the United States. US Air Force General Jacqueline Van Ovost, the only woman at the four-star general rank, the military's highest, was nominated to head Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM). Three-star army general Laura Richardson was nominated to lead Southern Command (SOUTHCOM), which covers Central and Latin America. She will also receive her fourth star. If the Senate confirms their nominations, then Van Ovost and Richardson will follow Lori Robinson, who was the first woman to helm a military command. She led Northern Command (NORTHCOM) before retiring in 2018. "Each of these women have led careers demonstrating incomparable skill, integrity and duty to country," Biden said while presenting the two generals during a short speech at the White House. "Today is International Women's Day, and we all need to see and to recognize the barrier-breaking accomplishments of these women," he added. The US military has 11 commands, all led by four-star generals. Last month, The New York Times reported that the Pentagon had decided on Van Ovost and Richardson's nominations as early as last year. But, according to the Times, the announcement was delayed until after the November presidential election because former defense secretary Mark Esper feared then-president Donald Trump would not approve the generals' nomination due to their gender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-names-two-women-generals-to-lead-military-commands/articleshow/81418249.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Al-Badr chief killed in Sopore gunfight: IGP Kashmir||SRINAGAR: The chief of terrorist outfit Al-Badr, Gani Khawaja, was killed in an encounter on Tuesday evening at Tujjar Shareef in Sopore in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district, IGP-Kashmir Range Vijay Kumar said, calling it “a big success”. As per police sources, incriminating materials including arms and ammunition were recovered from the encounter spot. A search operation is on. Khawaja, who belonged to the Kralgund area of Kupwara district, was one of the “most wanted” terrorists in Kashmir Valley. He was earlier with Hizbul Mujahedeen. Khawaja, as per police records, was involved in several terror crimes including attacks on security forces and atrocities on civilians, besides being the main recruiter of youths into the ranks of terrorist outfits. Dozens of cases have been registered against him in North Kashmir. They include, grenade blast on October 28, 2019 at the Sopore bus stand, in which 19 civilians were injured; riffle grenade attack at Warpora police post on March 21, 2019 in which two personnel were injured; attack on a police-CRPF naka party at Bismillah-Colony in Sopore, in which four CRPF men were seriously injured and one among them while being shifted to hospital succumbed to injuries; and attack on another CRPF naka party on April 18, 2020 at Noorbagh in Sopore in which three personnel were killed. He killed a civilian in Sopore on June 6, 2020 and was involved in an attack on a police party at Warpora Chowk on March 4, 2020, in which one SPO and one civilian were killed. Khawaja was also involved in supplying arms and ammunition to his terrorist associates. The IGP said that the operation was launched after police received specific inputs on Khawaja early in the day. A joint team of police and army launched a cordon-and-search operation at Tujjar. As the forces approached the targeted spot, a residential house, the hiding terrorists started firing at the security personnel, triggering a gunfight. According to official sources, security forces are still engaged in gunfight with another terrorist who was also holed up in the same hide out. Khawaja, according to police records, was uneducated and had joined militancy in January 2018. He was involved in nearly a dozen terror assaults across the valley. He was also involved in several stone-pelting incidents. He had been operating in the areas of Langate, Handwara, Bandipora and Kupwara in north Kashmir. SSP-Sopore, Javaid Iqbal said the encounter was called off and a search operation was launched, which confirmed that only one terrorist was hiding in the house. Watch Jammu and Kashmir: Al-Badr chief killed in Sopore gunfight||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/al-badr-chief-killed-in-sopore-gunfight-igp-kashmir/articleshow/81418280.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||J&K DDC members stage protest over status, honorarium||SRINAGAR: A day after the J&K administration announced their status and fixed their honorarium, the newly elected district development council (DDC) members boycotted a government programme in Jammu on Tuesday to register their protest. Cutting across party lines, DDC members staged the protest in the lawns of Jammu convention centre, where they all had gathered to attend a training programme organized by the Rural Development Department. Terming the administration’s Monday order a “humiliation and insult”, they refused to attend the training programme, which was scheduled to be inaugurated by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. This prompted the government to cancel the programme. DDC member Shabir Ahmad Lone said they will resign en masse if the government did not revoke the order. Muzaffar Ahmad Dar, another DDC member, said: “We were promised to be given powers on a par with MLAs, but the bureaucrats are against it. They have issued the order without consulting us.” The J&K administration had amended its warrant of precedence (WOP) on Monday, placing the chairperson of DDC equal to the administrative secretary/inspector general of police. According to the WOP, the vice-chairperson and member of DDC will be equal to the vice-chancellor of a university and the chairperson of block development council (BDC), respectively. The administration had also fixed the honorarium of DDC chairperson at Rs 35,000 per month, that of vice-chairperson at Rs 25,000 and member at Rs 15,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-ddc-members-stage-protest-over-status-honorarium/articleshow/81418321.cms||M Saleem Pandit
March 10, 2021||World||Gilgit-Baltistan house passes joint resolution for interim provincial status for region||ISLAMABAD: The Gilgit-Baltistan legislative assembly unanimously passed a joint resolution on Tuesday demanding that Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and Pakistan’s state institutions grant the region interim provincial status. The resolution, tabled jointly by G-B chief minister Khalid Khurshid Khan and opposition leaders, also demanded representation in the National Assembly and other federal bodies. The resolution stated that a bill to amend the constitution to declare G-B a provisional province of Pakistan should be passed by Parliament without causing any damage to the country’s stance on the Kashmir issue. A copy of the resolution was also forwarded to the prime minister’s office by the GB assembly secretariat. “The demand for constitutional rights is an unanimous demand of the people of GB, not of an individual/ party only. The unity we’ve shown on this issue needs to be repeated again at the federal level,” KK Khan posted on Twitter. Pakistan’s parliament would have to amend the constitution to grant interim provincial status to Gilgit-Baltistan. A constitutional amendment requires a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly and in the Senate, which is not possible without the support of the opposition parties currently struggling to oust Imran Khan from office. The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an anti-government alliance of a dozen opposition parties, has called for a “long march” on Islamabad by the end of this month, vowing that they will not end their sit-in protest before packing off the incumbent government. Last year, PM Imran Khan had announced during his visit to the region that he would grant provisional provincial status to Gilgit-Baltistan. He had said the decision was taken keeping in mind UNSC resolutions on Jammu and Kashmir. China also has reportedly been pressing Pakistan to grant G-B constitutional status given that the region is Pakistan’s only land link to China’s Xinjiang province. The region is at the centre of Beijing’s ambitious multibillion-dollar China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, a key constituent of China’s Belt and Road Initiative. Gilgit-Baltistan, formerly known as the Northern Areas, has been the subject of a dispute between India and Pakistan since 1947. India considers it an integral part of its Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/gilgit-baltistan-house-passes-joint-resolution-for-interim-provincial-status-for-region/articleshow/81418389.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 10, 2021||World||EU accepts Pak plea for Basmati GI||ISLAMABAD: Pakistani rice exporters on Tuesday claimed that the European Union has accepted their plea not to give India the exclusive rights to export Basmati rice to Europe. According to the stakeholders, the European Commission declared the notice of opposition and the statement of Pakistani exporters admissible. Pakistani exporters had filed a detailed response to the EU in a notice of opposition against the Indian claim over the geographical indicator (GI) tag of Basmati rice in the bloc. Last year, India had asked the EU to recognize the fragrant, long-grain staple as originating in seven Indian states and territories, which would give its producers exclusive rights to the Basmati label in the lucrative European market. Pakistan, however, opposed India’s claim, arguing that its farmers also grow top quality Basmati rice. “Rice Exporters Association of Pakistan (REAP) had filed a notice of opposition on December 7, 2020, against India’s claim on GI of Basmati in the EU,” the association said in a statement. “REAP took this step on behalf of rice exporters and farmers of Pakistan who are at risk of losing a billion-dollars’ worth of income,” the statement said. Since 2006, the EU has applied zero tariffs on rice imported into the bloc that has been authenticated by either Pakistani or Indian authorities as genuine Basmati. “India had sought the protection of its Basmati as a GI product in the EU in an attempt to deter Pakistan’s growing export and appreciation of Basmati,” the association of rice exporters said. The European Commission made REAP a party to the case. “Now, REAP can advocate for the protection of Pakistan’s GI rights over Basmati directly,” the REAP statement added. India is the world’s biggest Basmati exporter and meets 65% of the global demand for the aromatic rice. Pakistan, which is one of the Top 5 exporters of rice in the world, meets the remaining requirement and earns $800 million to $1 billion annually from its exports. A GI tag is a sign used on products that have a specific geographical origin and possess origin-based qualities and reputation in the region. “With the admissibility of REAP as a party, the case of Pakistan in EU has reached its third stage where all the contesting parties will engage in consultations with each other,” the REAP statement said. “The time period for the parties to engage in negotiations is three months. The negotiations will last, tentatively, till May 6. This is a pre-trial phase, whereby, parties are encouraged to reach an amicable solution,” it added. It further stated that in case no settlement is reached, the fourth stage of trial will commence in the tribunal of the Directorate General Agriculture, European Commission. Pakistan had only recently registered Basmati rice as GI under Geographical Indications Act 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/eu-accepts-pak-plea-for-basmati-gi/articleshow/81418487.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
March 10, 2021||World||India protests farmer protest debate in UK house, summons high commissioner||LONDON: India issued a demarche on Tuesday to Britain and summoned the British high commissioner to convey strong opposition to the “unwarranted and tendentious discussion” on India’s agricultural reforms in the UK Parliament, which the Indian high commission here described as packed with false assertions and one-sided. Dubbing the debate “a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country”, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla advised UK high commissioner to India Alex Ellis that British MPs “should refrain from practising vote-bank politics” by misrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy. The Indian high commission here said it “had taken note of the distinctly one-sided discussion” sparked by a petition on press freedoms and protester safety in India. “We deeply regret that false assertions — without substantiation or facts — were made, casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy in the world and its institutions,” it said. At the debate 17 out of 18 MPs, from Labour, the Conservatives and other parties, condemned India for its treatment of farmer protesters and the alleged crackdown on the press, Internet shutdowns and arrest of activists. Most claimed they represented concerned Punjabi constituents and called on UK PM Boris Johnson to raise their concerns directly with the Indian government. “When aspersions are cast on India by anyone, irrespective of their claims of friendship and love for India, or domestic political compulsions, there is a need to set the record straight,” the Indian high commission said. “It is also a matter of concern that comments were made to mislead the British Indian community, raising doubts about treatment of minorities in India, alleged human rights violations in ‘Kashmir’, etc.” Two British MPs took the opportunity to launch a tirade against the BJP government. Labour MP Nadia Whittome, who is of half-Punjabi and half Anglo-Indian heritage, said: “I am proud to speak in solidarity with the millions resisting Modi’s regime. It is not protesting farmers, Rihanna or Greta Thunberg who are dividing India; it is the BJP.” PoK-origin Labour MP Tahir Ali even called for sanctions to be imposed against India. “These sanctions should include banning Modi and other representatives of the BJP government from entering the UK and the seizure of any UK based assets belonging to Modi or BJP figures until these abuses stop,” he said. “They continue to abuse the human and civil rights not only of farmers, but of Kashmiri people… The UK should work alongside international organisations to protect human and civil rights in India and Kashmir,” he said, mischievously claiming Kashmir is a separate country. “The UK government values its trade relationship with India, but it must be broader and deeper than just trade, it must also be about joint promotion of democracy, human rights and upholding international law,” said Stephen Kinnock, Labour’s shadow minister for Asia. “We are deeply concerned about reports of live ammunition being used by police,” he said. “Mr Modi does need to recognise the world is watching.” “The UK Tory government, in their desperation to get a trade deal, are failing spectacularly to stand up for the human rights of the protesters,” claimed Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi. Conservative MP Theresa Villiers was the lone voice defending India. “Anywhere in the world agricultural reform is very, very difficult,” she said. “Reform of farm subsidy and support has been under active discussion in India for 20 years, and international bodies such as the IMF have welcomed PM Modi’s attempt to take action.” “Whilst this is an exciting time for the UK-India partnership it does not hinder us from raising difficult issues,” said Nigel Adams, minister for Asia at the foreign, commonwealth & development office, responding to the issues raised. Advocacy for British Hindus and Indians (ABHI) UK has fired off a letter to MP Catherine McKinnell, chair of the petitions committee, to ask why the British parliament is “being weaponised to discuss a foreign country’s issues” and “wasting taxpayer money”. The letter asked why the debate, having no direct relevance to the UK, had been fast-tracked ahead of a petition with 1.1 million signatures, calling to end child food poverty in the UK. “Has the UK parliamentary system been taken hostage by motivated interests pushing divisive, incendiary agendas?” the letter asks. Conservative MP Bob Blackman, whose constituency has a large number of Gujarati constituents, said after the debate: “It seems there is a deliberate attempt to stir up hostility between the UK and India in a completely unnecessary fashion.” Watch Debate on farmers' stir: India summons British envoy, slams 'gross interference'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/india-protests-farmer-protest-debate-in-uk-house-summons-high-commissioner/articleshow/81418534.cms||NAOMI CANTON
March 10, 2021||World||UK talk show host quits show over Meghan remarks||LONDON: British talk show host Piers Morgan has quit the show “Good Morning Britain” after making controversial comments about the Duchess of Sussex. The UK's media watchdog said earlier Tuesday that it was launching an investigation into the show under its harm and offense rules after receiving more than 41,000 complaints about Morgan's comments on Meghan. In her interview with Oprah Winfrey, Meghan spoke about how she “didn't want to be alive anymore” as she struggled to fit in with the monarchy and that her request for help was rejected. Morgan said Monday that he “didn't believe a word” the duchess said. That drew criticism from many, including the mental health charity Mind. On Tuesday's episode, Morgan stormed off the set of the programme following a heated discussion with a fellow presenter about Harry and Meghan's allegations about racism in the royal family. ITV, which produces “Good Morning Britain,” said Tuesday: “Following discussions with ITV, Piers Morgan has decided now is the time to leave Good Morning Britain.' ITV has accepted this decision and has nothing further to add.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-talk-show-host-quits-show-over-meghan-remarks/articleshow/81419218.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Celebrating equality at this event in Lucknow||A 16-day-long campaign, Jashn- E- Insaniyat was organized by at a café in Gomti Nagar sometime back. Songs of love and thoughts of equality echoed at the event and #banonayisoch and #marzibinashaadinahi were the main themes under which a panel discussion was conducted. The #banonayisoch campaign discussed about the right to decide about one’s marriage and if gender social norms can be only changed through laws. (L) Deepak Kabir (R) Mohammad Rashid(L) Deepak Kabir (R) Mohammad Rashid(L) Hamna Fatima and Abhishek (R) Pallavi Khare(L) Hamna Fatima and Abhishek (R) Pallavi Khare Mohd Shameem and Aparna MishraMohd Shameem and Aparna Mishra Stand-up acts, songs and dance were also performed by the youngsters in accordance with the theme. A musical theatre act directed by Bhartendu Kashyap was appreciated by the audience. (L) Nasir (R) Saman Habib(L) Nasir (R) Saman Habib (L) Sangeeta Jaiswal (R) Shivani(L) Sangeeta Jaiswal (R) Shivani Mahendra Pal sung songs by eminent poets celebrating human rights and a tribute was paid to the late poet Mangalesh Dabral. A total of 16 candles and paper lanterns were lit as a part of the closing ceremony and certificates were distributed to all the participants and volunteers by Saman Habib and Sangeeta and Veena Rana. Other key organizers included Sanhita, Durgesh, Nikita, Mansi, Priya, Adarsh Rastogi and Shivanika. (L) Surya Mohan (R) Upasana Tripathi (L) Surya Mohan (R) Upasana Tripathi (L) Zeeshan and Rachita (R) Anil Kumar (L) Zeeshan and Rachita (R) Anil Kumar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/celebrating-equality-at-this-event-in-lucknow/articleshow/81413466.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Vidushi Sisirkana Dhar Choudhury passes away||Kolkata: Barely hours after the celebrations of International Women’s Day had concluded, the world of music lost one of its seniormost female Hindustani classical violinists who had broken the glass ceiling way back in the 50s. At a time when few women chose to become professional instrumentalists, Vidushi Sisirkana Dhar Choudhury created a niche for herself as an acclaimed teacher and an internationally reputed violinist who also played Indian classical music on the viola. On Tuesday, she succumbed to a cardiac arrest at a private nursing home in Gurgaon. A disciple of Pt VG Jog and Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, the legendary violinist was conferred the Sangeet Natak Akademi award in 1997. She was 83 and is survived by her daughter, Suraranjani.  Speaking about her mother, Suraranjani said, “Maa had suffered brain haemorrhage last Friday and on Sunday again. On Tuesday, she passed away due to a cardiac arrest. She has been an inspiration for me. Apart from her great passion for music, her simplicity towards life and living has left an enormous impact on me. She has been my pillar all through and I am fortunate to have been able to take care of her for the last four years.” Pt Swapan Chaudhuri, who had a long professional and personal association with her, is disturbed with the news. Comparing her to a shady banyan tree, he said, “She was this protective sister who was always concerned about the well being of others without caring much about her own self. Not only was she keen on teaching her students, she would also ensure that they were well-fed. In her, I noticed a trait that I also found in Annapurna Devi,” he said. Vidushi Sisirkana Dhar Choudhury According to him, her students in America too are very disturbed with the news of her demise. “I know her since the early 60s. We used to call her Bordi. Before our association in America, I had known her from my Rabindra Bharati University days where I used to teach in the department of instrumental music from 1971 to 1983. Bordi was such a patient and dedicated teacher. Her students used to love her,” he said.  His bond with her strengthened when she moved the US. “She was interested in research-oriented work. In the US, I have seen how dedicatedly she would be engaged in the transcription work of Ustad Allauddin Khan saab’s music. Ustad Ali Akbar Khan saab was very fond of her. I have accompanied her at various concerts both in India and the US. She had an admirable depth in her music and was very reserved and honest. She knew exactly where she stood and never asked for anything from anyone. Even if she was hurt, she never let others understand her pain. When I heard her play, I felt music became an expression of the various emotions that she had buried within her soul. But if I complimented her about her recital, she would just brush aside my comments and say: ‘ekhono kichhui holona’. It’s rare to come across such a great human being.” Vidushi Sisirkana Dhar Choudhury with Pt Swapan Chaudhuri Born in Shillong on December 27, 1937, Sisirkana was just seven years old when she received her first lesson on the violin and vocal music from Ustad Moti Mian. Later, she received training from Pandit VG Jog. Ustad Ali Akbar Khan had accepted her as his pupil in 1956. Violinist Indradeep Ghosh, who has been her disciple for 30 years, said, “Guruma’s father was the house physician of the governor of Meghalaya. I have heard stories of Jog saab going down to Shillong and staying there when she took her lessons. She was the one who introduced viola to the mainstream Hindustani classical music.”  Pt Pallab Bandyopadhyay, who trained under Pt VG Jog, had received talim from her when she was the head of the department of instrumental music at Rabindra Bharati University (RBU). Sisirkana had joined RBU in 1971 and retired in 1997 as a professor of instrumental music. She was the Alauddin Khan Professor of Instrumental Music as well. During 1990 -1992, she also became the head of the department of vocal music. Besides being the dean of faculty of fine arts from 1990 to 1994, she had briefly officiated as the vice chancellor in 1993. “Though she evoked a sense of awe as our teacher, deep down she had a very tender heart and a motherly approach,” Pallab said.  In essence, her recitals began with elaborate alaaps and then went on to express the unique lyricism of the raags. Be it raag ‘Darbari’, ‘Sree’, ‘Mudra ki Todi’, ‘Palash Kafi’ and ‘Chandranandan’, the deep sonorous tone of her violin always created an intensely meditative mood. “She had added an extra fifth melody string to the violin. It increased the range of the octave. Musically, she tried to imbibe the style of playing the sarod in violin,” Pallab added.  How was she as a teacher? Pallab described her as a “perfectionist”. “She never allowed any compromise,” he added. Indradeep said her method of teaching went back to the “good old style of the Indian tradition and value system”. According to him, listening to her “invaluable stories and experiences” of how her gurus practiced and taught their disciples have been “lessons of life” for her disciples. “She was an extremely strict teacher who was caring as well. She only accepted dedicated students who would practice a minimum of ten hours daily. She would give us ‘palta’s and unless we got the desired perfection, no new lessons were given to us. Learning and understanding the concept of a raga and its depth took more than a year,” he explained. A file photograph of Vidushi Sisirkana Dhar Choudhury with Pt Abhijit Banerjee, who accompanied her at the Doverlane Music Conference in 2017 Tabla player Pt Abhijit Banerjee’s tryst with her was unique. He had started learning violin from her in 1985. The lessons continued till 1994. “At that time, she had no student whom she had to teach from scratch. I was already a regular tabla player. But I loved the violin and was serious about learning it. Every Sunday, I would go to her Golpark residence to take lessons from her. She too was very serious. Right from helping me buy the correct violin to teaching me the basics, Sisir-di took care of everything. Every lesson would not be for less than an hour. But while teaching, she insisted that I never leave playing the tabla.”  As destiny would have it, Abhijit couldn’t continue his violin lessons after 1994. She had left for the US in 1998. He reconnected with her only in 2017 after receiving a call from the organisers of the Doverlane Music Conference. This experience was unique because he was asked to accompany her on the tabla for her concert. “That was the first and the last time I had accompanied Sisir-di on stage. Earlier, I had got few offers to accompany her but had always avoided it because she was my guru,” Abhijit said.  Memories of that concert are very vivid. “I was overwhelmed when Sisir-di announced on stage that she was glad that I had agreed to accompany her. Though I was her disciple in violin, she had wanted me to keep that identity aside while accompanying her on the tabla. What was most humbling was that I was also asked to release her album,” he recalled.  During that interaction, Sisirkana had told Abhijit that he must continue singing as well as playing the violin. “I have already started singing. As a mark of respect to her words, I have also brought out my old violin. Once repaired, I will start playing it too,” he said, adding that he has been mesmerized by her “perfect tantrakari” in violin to represent the Maihar style.  Most musicians and connoisseurs also talk about her unique style of rendition. Calling her one of his “favourite violinists in Hindustani classical music”, Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar said, “Sisir-di was among the rare musicians who played the ‘dhrupad’ styled ‘alaap-jod’ on the viola and subsequently switched over to the violin for the rest of her concert. The viola, as an instrument, has a depth and range that added a new dimension to her concerts. I have even heard her play the entire concert in viola.” The sarod player has memories of spending time with her at Ustad Ali Akbar Khan’s college in San Rafael. “That was in the late 90s. What gave her recitals a new dimension was her repertoire that comprised the best of both the ‘dhrupad’ and ‘tantrakari’ style,” he pointed out. Vidushi Sisirkana Dhar Choudhury  This was also echoed by Indradeep, who said, “Guruma incorporated Maihar gharana’s ‘dhrupad ang baaz’ and the ‘tantrakari’ style in her recitals. Her speciality lay in playing the alaap, jod and jhala on the viola and the unique technique of her right hand and use of first string as ‘chikari’ during ‘jhala’. Veterans remember how in the 70s, Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, Pandit Nikhil Banerjee and guruma would perform as a trio at many music conferences in Kolkata.”  Not too many are aware that she had also created a few raags, including ‘Rasaranjini’ and ‘Tarangini’. “She had gone to play at Dakshineshwar temple. The head purohit had requested her to play something new. That’s when she created a new raag called ‘Bhavatarini’ that was dedicated to the Goddess Kali,” said Indradeep.  According to Pt Bickram Ghosh, she and his father, Pt Shankar Ghosh were a popular duo. “They had great camaraderie and had also had very popular LP records in raag Kaushik Bhairavi and Darbari Kanada to their credit. As a child, I have attended many of their concerts. My first concert outside Kolkata was with her in 1988. That was in Guwahati.” Besides being a superb musician, Ghosh also highlights the fact that she was among the few lady instrumentalists to become a performing artist in the 50s. “During those days, few women would take up an instrument and perform professionally. Sisir-pishi not only did so but also became a prominent star in the musical horizon. Without a shred of doubt, she broke the glass ceiling,” Bickram added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vidushi-sisirkana-dhar-choudhury-passes-away/articleshow/81418704.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
March 10, 2021||India||First Quad summit: India, US, Japan, Oz leaders’ talks on Friday||NEW DELHI: Keeping the China challenge squarely in their sights, the first summit meeting of the Quad — India, US, Japan and Australia — will take place virtually on Friday, the foreign ministry announced on Tuesday. An official readout said the meeting of PM Narendra Modi, President Joe Biden, PM Yoshihide Suga and PM Scott Morrison will discuss everything from Covid vaccine supplies to climate change. "The leaders will discuss regional and global issues of shared interest, and exchange views on practical areas of cooperation towards maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region," the statement said. This is diplomatese for the core discussion of the Quad — countering the aggressiveness of China in the Indo-Pacific region. Read AlsoJapan PM Yoshihide Suga takes up China in Modi callAhead of the first Quad summit, Japan Tuesday ramped up the rhetoric against China as it said that PM Yoshihide Suga in a phone conversation with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi expressed serious concerns regarding unilateral attempts to change the status quo in the East and the South ChinaRead AlsoRange of global issues to be discussed at Quad summit: White House"That President Biden has made this one of his earliest multilateral engagements speaks to the importance we place on close cooperation with our allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific," White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference.Interestingly, the Quad, which used to be known as the quadrilateral security dialogue, is now known as the quadrilateral framework to indicate it has gone beyond a narrow security dialogue. This will be the first Quad summit meeting since 2007. The MEA statement added, "The summit will provide an opportunity to exchange views on contemporary challenges such as resilient supply chains, emerging and critical technologies, maritime security, and climate change." Morrison has been pushing the summit, and Biden signalled early interest in both the Indo-Pacific and the Quad, and has moved fast to secure a summit early in his tenure. Biden spoke with Suga on January 27, Morrison on February 3 and Modi on February 8 to call this summit. Last week, Morrison was quoted as saying that Quad summits would become "regular". On February 18, US secretary of state Anthony Blinken initiated a virtual meeting of the Quad foreign ministers to prepare for this summit. "This will become a feature of Indo-Pacific engagement," Morrison said last week of the Quad’s elevation. "I am looking forward to that first gathering of Quad leaders, the first-ever such gathering." There is a possibility of informal Quad meetings on the sidelines of multilateral meetings post-pandemic. The first opportunity this year would be at the G7 summit in the UK, where India, Australia and South Korea are special invitees. Watch First Quad summit: India, US, Japan, Australia leaders’ to have virtual meeting on Friday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-quad-summit-india-us-japan-oz-leaders-talks-on-friday/articleshow/81419294.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||BJP’s Trivendra Singh Rawat resigns in Uttarakhand, new CM today||DEHRADUN: After four days of intense political parleys, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat tendered his resignation to governor Baby Rani Maurya at Raj Bhavan in Dehradun on Tuesday afternoon. A BJP legislative party meeting has been called on Wednesday morning to decide the name of the new CM. An official notification issued later in the day by chief secretary Om Prakash said that the governor has accepted the resignation of the CM and his cabinet and they have been asked to look after the portfolios held by them till the time a new government is formed. Soon after meeting the governor, Rawat said he was thankful to the party for giving him a chance to be at the helm for four years. “I come from a very humble background and it is only a party like BJP which gives a chance to a common man to head the state. The party has now decided that it needs a new face and, therefore, I am stepping down. Our government has initiated a number of development schemes and the people of the state will definitely get the benefits. My successor will take these projects ahead and I would like to wish him good luck for his tenure,” he added. Rawat further said he had “never thought of getting so much respect, love and affection from the party and people alike.” He added: “My tenure is just nine days short of four years and I will term it as the golden phase of my political career.” Asked about the reasons which led to his resignation, Rawat said, “The decision was taken in Delhi and I accepted the party’s directions.” Earlier, Rawat, accompanied by state party president Bansidhar Bhagat and a few MLAs like higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat and Dehradun Cantt MLA Harbans Kapoor, had gone to Raj Bhavan through the rear gate and met the governor. With Rawat’s exit, a guessing game began on possible candidates for the CM’s chair. Among the names in speculation for the top post are those of higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat, regarded as Trivendra Rawat’s protege, Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, RSS general secretary Suresh Bhatt, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Lok Sabha MP Ajay Bhatt and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. BJP national vice-president and former Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh, appointed as observer by the party along with state in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, was expected to reach Dehradun late on Tuesday to attend the legislative party meeting scheduled for Wednesday. The party’s Lok Sabha MPs are also likely to attend the meeting. Speculations of change of guard started with the unexpected and urgent core committee meeting of BJP called on Saturday evening in which Raman Singh and Dushyant Kumar Gautam took feedback from party MLAs on the state government’s functioning. Later, they submitted their report to the central leadership. Rawat was summoned to Delhi on Monday morning and during the course of the day had a video-conferencing with PM Narendra Modi and later met party president JP Nadda and home minister Amit Shah. Meanwhile, commenting on the CM’s resignation, Dushyant Kumar Gautam said, “Trivendra Singh Rawat is an asset to the party which needs him at the national level and this is why he has been asked to resign as CM so that he can help the organisation in poll-bound states. There is no other reason for his resignation.” Watch I have submitted my resignation to Uttarakhand governor: Trivendra Singh Rawat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjps-trivendra-singh-rawat-resigns-in-uttarakhand-new-cm-today/articleshow/81419761.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Mumbai bizman Hiran’s widow tells ATS she suspects cop killed him||MUMBAI: Vimla Hiran, the wife of Mukesh Hiran whose SUV laden with explosives was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25, has said in her statement to the state Anti-Terrorism Squad that she suspects assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Waze killed her husband. The ATS is probing the alleged murder of Hiran and has treated Vimla’s statement as an FIR. She also claimed Waze had told Hiran to claim responsibility in the explosives case and assured him that he would secure his release from jail in case he was arrested. She said they consulted a lawyer who advised them against it and added that Hiran was under tremendous stress. The ATS is now trying to figure out what the motive behind Waze’s decision could be. Hiran’s body was found floating in a Mumbra creek on Thursday. In her three-page statement to the ATS, Vimala has said Waze had been using the same SUV for the past four months. Waze and her husband knew each other, she claimed. Waze declined to comment when electronic media tried to get a response from him. Meanwhile, an NIA team on Tuesday met senior ATS officials and collected documents pertaining to the explosive case. The Union home ministry had on Monday asked the NIA to take over the probe into the planting of explosives. Vimla said her husband had purchased the car from one Peter Newton. The vehicle was, however, given to Waze, a regular client of Hiran’s, in November last year; Hiran has an automobiles accessories shop in Thane. On February 5, Waze had sent the car back with his driver to Hiran’s garage for servicing. When Hiran took the car for a drive on February 17, the steering jammed and he parked it on Airoli-Mulund Link Road, from where the car was allegedly stolen. A week later, the car was found parked outside Antilia with gelatin sticks. Read AlsoBJP says Maharashta shielding cop in Hiran case, demands arrestMUMBAI: There was chaos in the Maharashtra assembly on Tuesday with leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanding the immediate suspension and arrest of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in the murder of car accessories dealer Mansukh Hiran whose Scorpio was found with gelatin sticks outsideIn the FIR, Vimla further alleged that it was Waze who insisted that Hiran should draft a complaint saying policemen and the media were harassing him. On March 2, Hiran had submitted a complaint to various authorities, including the commissioners of police in Mumbai and Thane detailing the alleged harassment. On March 4, Hiran returned home early and said he would be stepping out to meet one Tawde at Ghodbunder Road in Thane. She said Hiran left his home around 8.30 pm and when she called him at around 11 pm, his two mobiles were found switched off. Her brother-in-law Vinod then called up Waze, who wondered how Hiran went to meet a policeman without informing him. Next day the family lodged a missing complaint with Naupada police. On March 5, her son Meet said he received a call from Mumbra police saying his father’s body had been found in the creek. When Meet and Vinod went to identify Hiran’s body at Kalwa hospital, they noticed handkerchiefs inside the Covid mask. She said it was impossible that her husband died of drowning as he was a good swimmer. She said Hiran had worn a gold chain, a finger ring, wrist watch and carried a purse, mobile phone with two SIM cards and five ATM cards besides other identification documents which were missing. Police suspect this has been done to mislead the investigation. The ATS team on Monday recorded the statement of Waze. ATS officials said on Tuesday that they may summon him in a day or two. “As Waze’s name has been mentioned in the FIR, we will question him about allegations made by Hiran’s wife. We are scanning the CCTV footage to gather more details about Hiran’s movement after he left home on March 4,” said an official. Officials said they are trying to find out Waze’s location when the SUV was found abandoned, and on the night of March 4, when Hiran left his home. ATS teams are looking for Hiran’s cellphone as well as the Innova car, which was tailing the SUV on February 25. From the CCTV footage, it is clear the Innova’s bumpers were not painted, which is common among vehicles used by policemen and state government officials, an ATS official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mumbai-bizman-hirans-widow-tells-ats-she-suspects-cop-killed-him/articleshow/81420320.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 10, 2021||India||The poor may be getting left behind in vaccination drive||With the Covid vaccination drive widening across India, a ‘class divide’ seems to be opening up — almost every centre in the big cities is reporting more recipients from the wealthier neighbourhoods than the lower-middle class areas. People from poor pockets are conspicuous by their absence.  The same trend has been noticed in Delhi, Bengaluru, Pune and other big cities. The reasons for the divide could range from poor access to smartphones to transportation issues. “There could also be vaccine scepticism,” said a Mumbai doctor. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nesco Jumbo Hospital in Goregaon, concurred that a cursory look is enough to confirm this divide. “A survey among the working classes could tell us why their numbers are low,” she said. Education and awareness about the vaccination perhaps is also playing a role here, said Dr Lalit Sankhe, head of JJ hospital’s vaccination centre. Read AlsoCovid-19: 2.6 crore have registered for jabs, 75% onlineMore than 2.6 crore people had registered for Covid-19 vaccinations in the country till Tuesday, with a majority of the appointments (around 75%) being booked online on Co-Win or through the Aarogya Setu app, while the rest were walk-ins. Men accounted for 58.5% of total registrations while moreVaccine beneficiaries, particularly from the lower-income groups, are practically missing from private hospitals in Delhi. Though some health officials said this is because one has to shell out Rs 250 at a private hospital for a jab, their numbers at government hospitals, where vaccines are free, also remains low. Nodal officers say lack of knowledge about where to register and how to get themselves enrolled for the jab may be the key factor behind the low turnout. “Only around 10% of the people being seen here each day would be in the lower income group,” said Anil Kumar, nodal officer at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. At Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, officials say many who came have been complaining they cannot access the Co-win app nor use the government portal. “Many are elderly and from the lower middle class. They say they do not have a smartphone nor do they know how to use the internet. We ask them to go to cybercafes. If they don’t, we register them,” said an RML staff. When asked if there is enough awareness about the drive in slums and other low-income areas, Pune assistant director (health), Sanjay Deshmukh said, “It is not an awareness problem. The beneficiaries will wait and watch and once the current rush recedes, they will come forward.” Doctors in Bengaluru’s government hospitals admit that most of those who got jabbed are from affluent class. Dr Sylvia Karpagam, a public health specialist says, “Online registration has always been a barrier to access. It is not an inclusive measure and discrimination is evident.” Though data on recipients’ economic background is not yet available, around 90% of recipients in Kolkata are from the more affluent sections, say private and government hospital representatives. Even government hospitals, which are rarely visited by affluent people, have been swarmed by them. Medical staff at private vaccination sites in Lucknow said people from the upper class are mostly turning up in large numbers. “While online bookings are purely upper class, walk-in registrations are less than 10% of the beneficiaries,” said a paramedic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/the-poor-may-be-getting-left-behind-in-vaccination-drive/articleshow/81420727.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Business||LPG price has doubled in 7 years, and the subsidies are gone too||NEW DELHI: The price of a household cooking gas, or LPG, refill has doubled in the last seven years and subsidy has been erased by raising rates in small doses over the years. Simultaneously, government’s tax collection from petrol and diesel sales has risen four-and-a-half times as a result of increased taxes during this period, according to oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s written replies in the Lok Sabha. According to replies to a bunch of questions on rising fuel prices on Monday, an LPG refill cost Rs 410.50 cylinder on March 1, 2014 and has risen to Rs 819 this month. The prices are for Delhi, the reference market, and vary in accordance with state taxes elsewhere. LPG refill price jumped Rs 125 per cylinder in the last 32 days alone as a result of four increases since February 4, stretching budgets of poor households. Read AlsoAfter another Rs 25 hike, LPG refill price up Rs 175 since February 1Household cooking gas became costlier by Rs 25 on Monday, the fourth increase in the last 24 days that takes the total increase to Rs 125 per cylinder. Cooking gas prices have been rising since December. Rates have cumulatively gone up by Rs 175 per refill since then. After the latest increase, aOn previously unheard levels of fuel prices, Pradhan said petrol and diesel had been decontrolled from June 26, 2010 and October 19, 2014, respectively, and retailers set prices in line with “international product prices, rupee exchange rate, tax structure, inland freight and other cost elements.” With taxes accounting for the bulk of the retail prices, revenue collection from fuel sales stood at Rs 52,537 crore in 2013, which rose to Rs 2.13 lakh crore in 2019-20 and Rs 2.94 lakh crore in the 11 months of 2020-21. Read AlsoEdible oil prices have risen by up to 50% in one yearNEW DELHI: The modal (most common) retail price of edible oils have increased by 25% to 50% in the past one year. This has become a new headache for the government and sources said the issue is likely to come up for discussion at an inter-ministerial committee meeting this week. The data obtainedPetrol carries an excise duty of Rs 32.90 per litre and diesel Rs 31.80 a litre on diesel. Excise on petrol was Rs 17.98 a litre in 2018 and Rs 13.83 on diesel. Read Also'Excise duty on petrol, diesel can be reduced by Rs 8.5 a litre without hurting revenues'Petrol and diesel prices have touched historic highs following a relentless spike over the past nine months. Currently, a litre of petrol costs Rs 91.17 in Delhi and diesel is sold at Rs 81.47 a litre.Pradhan said the central government's total excise collection from petrol, diesel, jet fuel, natural gas and crude oil has increased from Rs 2.37 lakh crore in 2016-17 to Rs 3 lakh crore during April-January 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lpg-price-has-doubled-in-7-years-and-the-subsidies-are-gone-too/articleshow/81420847.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Fuel price war paralyses Parliament||NEW DELHI: Both Houses of Parliament failed to function on Tuesday with leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleging “digital discrimination” against the opposition in the lower House, saying protests by them were being “blacked out”. Speaker Om Birla retorted sharply and asked the Congress leader whether he was desirous of showing the public scenes of unruly protests and persistent disruption by opposition MPs. Chowdhury, however, persisted with his allegations, demanding that the “blackout” be stopped and said Parliament belonged not only to the government, but equally to opposition parties. Protests, which have included waving of placards and slogan shouting, have not been shown on TV by order of successive Speakers, including those when UPA was in office. Chowdhury said, “There is digital discrimination. Whatever the government says and does comes on television. Everyone is a stakeholder in the House. Whatever we do is being blacked out. The blackout should stop. The camera should focus on everyone.” Read AlsoLPG price has doubled in 7 years, and the subsidies are gone tooThe price of a household cooking gas, or LPG, refill has doubled in the last seven years and subsidy has been erased by raising rates in small doses over the years. Simultaneously, government’s tax collection from petrol and diesel sales has risen four-and-a-half times as a result of increased taxesIncidentally, Congress MPs were in the well at that point, demanding a rollback of fuel and LPG prices, as well as a discussion on the subject. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, endorsing the Speaker’s comments, said the opposition wanted the country to see Parliament in disarray. Vociferous protests by opposition parties against rise in fuel prices led to repeated adjournments of Rajya Sabha as well, which consequently failed to transact any substantial business. Congress, BSP, DMK, Shiv Sena and Left parties demanded suspension of regular business for a discussion on the record high prices of petrol and diesel as soon as proceedings began in the upper House at 11 am. With Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu having already disallowed the notice moved by leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, deputy chairman Harivansh said the ruling could not be “reopened” as per rules. But the slogan-shouting opposition members persisted with their demand, with some of them even trooping into the well, leading to the first adjournment till noon. The House was then adjourned till 2 pm amid continuing uproar. After lunch, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad stressed on the need to take up the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill 2021, which has already been passed by Lok Sabha and seeks to replace an ordinance. Senior Congress member Anand Sharma, however, said as per tradition, no government bill should be taken up when the opposition was demanding a discussion on an important issue. "The opposition has a right to take up the issue," he said. With the opposition showing no signs of relenting, the deputy chairman adjourned the House for the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fuel-price-war-paralyses-parliament/articleshow/81420917.cms||---
March 10, 2021||---||Election Commission shunts Bengal DGP after ‘adverse report’ against him||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Tuesday shunted out West Bengal DGP Virendra with immediate effect based on a “joint adverse report” it received last week from the special general observer and two special police observers in the poll-bound state and posted P Nirajnayan, an IPS officer of 1987 batch, as the new state police chief. The EC further directed the West Bengal chief secretary that Virendra not be given any post directly or indirectly related to the conduct of election. The poll panel on Tuesday also shunted out two senior bureaucrats in Tamil Nadu — joint commissioner, income tax, in Chennai K G Arunraj (IRS) and Chengalpattu SP D Kannan (IPS) — based on adverse reports regarding their conduct. Kannan was transferred in view of an FIR filed against him for having intercepted a woman IPS officer on the behest of a senior IPS officer who she has accused of sexual harassment. The commission also directed that Kannan be placed under suspension immediately and disciplinary proceedings initiated against him. The EC sought a compliance report from the West Bengal chief secretary on the posting of the new DGP in West Bengal by 10 am on Wednesday. While CBDT has been asked to send a compliance report regarding attachment of Arunraj at its headquarters by 10 am, a similar report on Kannan was sought from the Tamil Nadu chief secretary by 11 am on Wednesday. Trinamool Congress saw “political interference” in the EC decision. “We have said this before too, we see political influence in the EC’s decisions. The EC is following whatever BJP is demanding. First, they declared an eight-phase poll. Now this transfer. Virendra is a good officer. Whatever they do, TMC will win this election convincingly,” party MP Saugata Roy said. BJP state spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya welcomed the poll panel’s move. “When our political workers were being attacked and killed, we got no help from this administration. This obviously cannot go on. We hope this decision brings neutrality in the administration,” he said. According to sources, more transfers of senior police officers may be in the offing in West Bengal due to adverse inputs regarding their fairness. West Bengal special general observer Ajay Nayak and special police observers Vivek Dubey and Mrinal Kanti Das, in a report sent to the EC a few days ago, expressed serious doubts regarding Virendra’s neutrality. The report is said to have detailed instances of his partisanship towards the ruling Trinamool. TOI has learnt that apart from asking for Virendra to be immediately removed as DGP, the special observers suggested a panel of officers they deemed fit to succeed him. The EC is said to have verified antecedents of the officers in the panel and found Nirajnayan most suitable for the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/election-commission-shunts-bengal-dgp-after-adverse-report-against-him/articleshow/81421146.cms||Bharti Jain
March 10, 2021||Business||Trai puts on hold for a week new norms on business text messages||NEW DELHI: Telecom regulator Trai on Tuesday suspended the newly-implemented norms for commercial text messages for one week, following major disruptions in SMS and OTP deliveries for banking, payment, and other transactions. The norms that pertain to content template checks and balances for text messages came into effect on Monday. Its temporary suspension now would give commercial entities, sending out messages and OTPs to customers, a reprieve and more time to comply with the stipulated requirements. The move to suspend the norms would enable the ‘principal entities’ to register the template of SMS so that no inconvenience is faced by customers. Trai said, “In order to protect the interest of consumers, it has been decided that scrubbing of SMS by telecom service providers shall be suspended temporarily for seven days.” According to the regulator, telecom operators are being asked to inform their ‘principal entities’ to take immediate necessary action in this regard and facilitate their registration, including SMS template, in a time-bound manner. The suspension comes after transactions, including banking, credit card payment and certain other services that involve SMSs and OTP generation, faced a major outage on Monday. The disruption that had even impacted SMS/OTP deliveries for railway ticket bookings and Co-Win registration occured after telcos implemented the Trai norms. The latest norms, based on blockchain technology, aim to curb unsolicited and fraudulent messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/trai-puts-on-hold-for-a-week-new-norms-on-business-text-messages/articleshow/81421228.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Elevators turned death chambers for 4 firefighters in Kolkata||KOLKATA: For eight men, the ride up two elevators to the burning top floor of the New Koilaghat Building in Kolkata on Monday evening turned out to be a suicide mission.  The elevators turned into death chambers as soon as the doors opened on the 12th floor, with flames leaping in and singing the men. They scrambled out straight into the dense acrid smoke and choked to death.  The burnt and soot-covered bodies of firefighters Girish Dey, Gourab Bez, Aniruddha Pal and Biman Purkait, policeman Amit Bhawal and railway staffer Sudip Das were found in the lift lobby. Two others who had inadvertently travelled up another elevator — railway deputy chief commercial manager Partha Sarathi and RPF constable Sujoy Sahani — died, too, trapped inside the lift. The duo were evacuating from the second floor, but the elevator climbed up to the 13th instead. The day after the horrific tragedy, senior fire brigade officers were at pains to explain why experienced firemen had overlooked the basics of firefighting and taken an elevator ride to meet their end. The decision was so bizarre that even CM Mamata Banerjee expressed surprise when she visited the site on Monday. “How did experienced firemen use the elevator when everyone knows they are to be avoided during a fire or an earthquake,” she had remarked.  Fire department officers admitted the deaths were entirely avoidable. “I don’t know who was at the command control but the team committed a cardinal mistake when they used the elevator. In the past, we have tackled fires in taller buildings by accessing them through the stairs,” a former fire department deputy director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/elevators-turned-death-chambers-for-4-firefighters-in-kolkata/articleshow/81421244.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 10, 2021||India||Durga on lips, Didi dares BJP to play Hindutva card||NANDIGRAM: Launching her poll campaign for her new seat Nandigram, Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday warned BJP “not to play the Hindutva card” with her after a Chandipath recital that went on for three-and-a-half minutes. “You want to play with religion? Khela hobe (Let’s play),” she told her saffron rivals. This was Mamata’s first rally at Nandigram after she announced Trinamool’s list of candidates for the assembly polls. She will file her nomination papers on Wednesday. The Bengal CM introduced herself to her fervent followers as their “ghorer meye (their own daughter)” and said she would be spending at least three months of a year at her ‘Nandigram home’, a two-bedroom house at Nandigram’s Reyapara. “I may forget my own name but will never forget Nandigram,” Mamata said, recounting her “blood ties” with the place that was one of the two flashpoints — along with Singur in Hooghly — which propelled her and her party to office in Bengal in 2011. “Ami Hindu barir meye (I am the daughter of a Hindu family),” she said, addressing a crowd brimming with enthusiasm. “Some are trying to do a Hindu-Muslim divide. But I would tell them not to play the Hindutva card wit me. Show me how good a Hindu you are before you do that,” she added, before launching into the Chandi Path recital. Immediately after the rally, she visited three local temples and a popular mazhaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/durga-on-lips-didi-dares-bjp-to-play-hindutva-card/articleshow/81421250.cms||Suman Mandal
March 10, 2021||---||Durga on lips, Didi dares BJP to play Hindutva card||NANDIGRAM: Launching her poll campaign for her new seat Nandigram, Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday warned BJP “not to play the Hindutva card” with her after a Chandipath recital that went on for three-and-a-half minutes. “You want to play with religion? Khela hobe (Let’s play),” she told her saffron rivals. This was Mamata’s first rally at Nandigram after she announced Trinamool’s list of candidates for the assembly polls. She will file her nomination papers on Wednesday. The Bengal CM introduced herself to her fervent followers as their “ghorer meye (their own daughter)” and said she would be spending at least three months of a year at her ‘Nandigram home’, a two-bedroom house at Nandigram’s Reyapara. “I may forget my own name but will never forget Nandigram,” Mamata said, recounting her “blood ties” with the place that was one of the two flashpoints — along with Singur in Hooghly — which propelled her and her party to office in Bengal in 2011. “Ami Hindu barir meye (I am the daughter of a Hindu family),” she said, addressing a crowd brimming with enthusiasm. “Some are trying to do a Hindu-Muslim divide. But I would tell them not to play the Hindutva card wit me. Show me how good a Hindu you are before you do that,” she added, before launching into the Chandi Path recital. Immediately after the rally, she visited three local temples and a popular mazhaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/durga-on-lips-didi-dares-bjp-to-play-hindutva-card/articleshow/81421247.cms||Suman Mandal
March 10, 2021||India||Digital media: High court seeks government’s reply on new IT rules||NEW DELHI: The Delhi HC on Tuesday sought the Centre’s response on a plea challenging the new Information Technology rules on digital news media. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notices to the ministry of electronics and information technology and granted them time to file their response on a batch of petitions. The petitioners are Foundation for Independent Journalism and editors of two news websites. The petitioners argue that the new IT rules issued on February 25 are palpably illegal in seeking to control and regulate digital news media when the parent IT Act nowhere provides for such a remit.  They have sought to declare the “IT rules as void and inoperative insofar as it defines and applies to publishers of news and current affairs content.”  The petitioners urged the high court to grant them interim protection so that no coercive steps are taken against the digital news media outlets by the authorities till the next date of hearing on April 16. The HC only said that if any coercive action is taken by the Centre, the petitioners may move the court with an application. Advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing the petitioners, contended that regulation of news content is not within the Information Technology (IT) Act’s purpose. “I am not talking about OTT platforms and social media. I am only concerned with news media and current affairs. The new rules go far beyond anything that is permissible in a democracy,” she argued.  The petition assails the new rules as they classify “publishers of news and current affairs content” as part of “digital media”, and seek to regulate these news portals under the Rules by imposing government oversight and a “Code of Ethics”, which stipulates such vague conditions as “good taste” and “decency”. The petitioners said they bring out wholly digital news and current affairs publications and are directly affected by this overreach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/digital-media-high-court-seeks-governments-reply-on-new-it-rules/articleshow/81421263.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Edible oil prices have risen by up to 50% in one year||NEW DELHI: The modal (most common) retail price of edible oils have increased by 25% to 50% in the past one year. This has become a new headache for the government and sources said the issue is likely to come up for discussion at an inter-ministerial committee meeting this week. The data obtained from the price monitoring cell (PMC) of consumer affairs ministry shows that the modal price of packed groundnut oil has increased from Rs 120 per litre on March 9, 2020 to Rs 170 on Tuesday. Similarly, the modal price of packed mustard oil has gone up from Rs 113 per litre to Rs 140 in the past one year. The modal price of palm oil has also increased by 50%, from Rs 85 to Rs 122 per litre during this period. The PMC data also shows that the modal vanaspati prices (packed) went up from Rs 80 to Rs 120 per litre in the past one year and one litre of packed sunflower oil was selling at Rs 150 on Tuesday compared to Rs 110 a year back. Officials said multiple factors are responsible for this increase in prices, which have been going up steadily except for mustard oil. They said firstly, the global supply of edible oil has decreased and there are indications of domestic consumption increasing. The second reason is India’s huge dependency on imports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/edible-oil-prices-have-risen-by-up-to-50-in-one-year/articleshow/81421288.cms||Dipak K Dash
March 10, 2021||India||ED attaches 7 sugar mills worth Rs 1,100 crore of ex-BSP MLC||NEW DELHI: Former BSP MLC from Saharanpur Mohammad Iqbal has been accused of using shell companies to acquire seven sugar mills in UP worth Rs 1,100 crore during 2010-11 when Mayawati was the chief minister. On Tuesday, ED attached all the mills on charges of alleged money laundering under PMLA. Last year in October, ED had also conducted searches on the premises of Iqbal and his associates in connection with the mining scam. Iqbal is accused of controlling about 100 shell companies. The seven shell companies that acquired seven sugar mills were incorporated on the same date in 2011. “The present valuation of these sugar mills comes to about Rs 1,097 crore,” ED said.  “The sugar mills were sold to Iqbal and his family members at a throwaway price, only at Rs 60.2 crore through disinvestment or sale process in year 2010-11’,”the agency said. Investigation is under way against other politicians. “Namrata Marketing Pvt Ltd and Giriasho Company Pvt. Ltd, shell companies under the control of Iqbal and family members, participated in the bidding process of disinvestment of sugar mills of the UP government during 2010-11 and acquired seven sugar mills...using money from illegitimate source,” ED said. Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO), ministry of corporate affairs, Delhi and CBI have also investigated the case relating to acquisition of assets through illegitimate means. During the investigation conducted by ED, statements of key associates of Iqbal, accommodation entry operator and dummy directors of various companies were recorded||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-attaches-7-sugar-mills-worth-rs-1100-crore-of-ex-bsp-mlc/articleshow/81421315.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Sore with seat share, Vijayakanth snaps ADMK-BJP ties, to go it alone||CHENNAI: Vijayakanth’s DMDK on Tuesday broke away from the AIADMK alliance following disagreement over the number of seats and selection of constituencies. Despite last ditch attempts, the two parties failed to sort out their differences and seal a deal, ending protracted negotiations that had dragged on for days. Shortly after the talks broke down, DMDK leader Vijayakant issued a statement to announce that the alliance was off. “Since AIADMK refused to allot the number of seats and constituencies (sought by the party) and a consensus could not be reached, the DMDK has decided to quit the AIADMK-BJP alliance,” he said. This was based on a unanimous decision taken at the party’s district secretaries meeting, he added. Sources confirmed that the AIADMK’s last offer was 13 seats, while the DMDK stood firm at 18 besides a Rajya Sabha seat. Soon after the alliance collapsed, the DMDK directed its district secretaries to submit a probable candidates list for all 234 constituencies, indicating its keenness to go it alone. Even as Vijayakant an nounced snapping of ties, DMDK cadres set off fireworks at the party office in Koyambedu in Chennai. “It is Deepavali for all of us today. The AIADMK will forfeit deposits in all the constituencies,” DMDK deputy secretary L K Sudhish said. The DMDK leader came down heavily on AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy, who is one of the key members in the seat-sharing panel, accusing him of being a ‘sleeper cell’ of ally PMK, which has been allotted 23 seats. Senior minister D Jayakumar criticised Sudhish for his derogatory remarks against his party and said the DMDK had gained recognition in 2011 by winning 27 seats ony because of AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sore-with-seat-share-vijayakanth-snaps-admk-bjp-ties-to-go-it-alone/articleshow/81421338.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 10, 2021||---||Sore with seat share, Vijayakanth snaps ADMK-BJP ties, to go it alone||CHENNAI: Vijayakanth’s DMDK on Tuesday broke away from the AIADMK alliance following disagreement over the number of seats and selection of constituencies. Despite last ditch attempts, the two parties failed to sort out their differences and seal a deal, ending protracted negotiations that had dragged on for days. Shortly after the talks broke down, DMDK leader Vijayakant issued a statement to announce that the alliance was off. “Since AIADMK refused to allot the number of seats and constituencies (sought by the party) and a consensus could not be reached, the DMDK has decided to quit the AIADMK-BJP alliance,” he said. This was based on a unanimous decision taken at the party’s district secretaries meeting, he added. Sources confirmed that the AIADMK’s last offer was 13 seats, while the DMDK stood firm at 18 besides a Rajya Sabha seat. Soon after the alliance collapsed, the DMDK directed its district secretaries to submit a probable candidates list for all 234 constituencies, indicating its keenness to go it alone. Even as Vijayakant an nounced snapping of ties, DMDK cadres set off fireworks at the party office in Koyambedu in Chennai. “It is Deepavali for all of us today. The AIADMK will forfeit deposits in all the constituencies,” DMDK deputy secretary L K Sudhish said. The DMDK leader came down heavily on AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy, who is one of the key members in the seat-sharing panel, accusing him of being a ‘sleeper cell’ of ally PMK, which has been allotted 23 seats. Senior minister D Jayakumar criticised Sudhish for his derogatory remarks against his party and said the DMDK had gained recognition in 2011 by winning 27 seats ony because of AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/tamil-nadu/sore-with-seat-share-vijayakanth-snaps-admk-bjp-ties-to-go-it-alone/articleshow/81421334.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 10, 2021||India||Supreme Court junks PIL seeking curbs on ‘Jai Shri Ram’||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a PIL seeking to restrain political parties, more particularly BJP, from raising ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan during campaigning for West Bengal assembly polls alleging that it amounted to seeking votes in the name of religion, which is a corrupt electoral practice under Representation of People Act. Petitioner advocate M L Sharma also had challenged the Election Commission’s decision to hold eight phase polls in West Bengal, while ordering single phase voting in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and three phase polling in Assam. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said “we cannot even say that your motivation behind this PIL is noble. We will not entertain this petition. You withdraw and move the high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-junks-pil-seeking-curbs-on-jai-shri-ram/articleshow/81421349.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Guwahati||Ulfa leader held for ‘plotting to assassinate’ Himanta||GUWAHATI: Three people, including Ulfa pro-talks faction vice-chairman Pradeep Gogoi, were arrested under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on Tuesday for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to assassinate Assam minister and BJP’s key man, Himanta Biswa Sarma. Sarma, a ‘Z plus’ protectee with CRPF cover, said: “I received a call from the DGP on Monday night and he advised me to remain cautious. He also said he was taking steps for my security.” Sarma, who was campaigning in Silchar in the evening, said, “I fear only God, my parents and the public.” Earlier in the day, he had accompanied chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal to Majuli for filing the nomination papers of the CM and, later, he was with BJP candidate Taranga Gogoi at Naharkatiya for filing the latter’s nomination papers.  Police said there was “an input about the conspiracy” after mobile calls between the Ulfa vice-chairman and two people in Karbi Anglong were intercepted. “We picked up the three men last night and after their interrogation, they have been arrested. The court has remanded them in police custody for three days,” a police officer said. The three have been charged under various sections of the IPC, including criminal conspiracy, attempt to wage war against the state, and conspiracy of a terror act under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/ulfa-leader-held-for-plotting-to-assassinate-himanta/articleshow/81421353.cms||Prabin Kalita
March 10, 2021||India||BJP says Maharashta shielding cop in Hiran case, demands arrest||MUMBAI: There was chaos in the Maharashtra assembly on Tuesday with leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanding the immediate suspension and arrest of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in the murder of car accessories dealer Mansukh Hiran whose Scorpio was found with gelatin sticks outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month. He accused the MVA government of shielding Waze and said he was suspicious about the role of home minister Anil Deshmukh. “If you are protecting Waze and not arresting him, we suspect you. Is the home minister protecting a criminal because he belongs to a political party?” asked Fadnavis. Waze had joined Shiv Sena in 2008 when he was suspended from the police force. Fadnavis demanded that even as the murder probe was on, Waze should be arrested for destruction of evidence. Deshmukh hit back by accusing Fadnavis of scuttling the probe into the Anvay Naik suicide case to protect Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami. Amid sloganeering by BJP, Fadnavis dared Deshmukh to probe him. The assembly had to be repeatedly adjourned. In the assembly, Fadnavis said that in her statement to the police, Hiran’s wife Vimla had said she suspected Waze’s hand in her husband’s murder. She had said Waze was known to her husband and had taken one of his cars in November 2020 and kept it for four months. After Hiran’s Scorpio was found outside the Ambani residence, Waze had accompanied him for police interrogations. “She says it was Waze who drafted a letter saying Hiran was being harassed by police,” said Fadnavis. Fadnavis said Waze was demanding that Hiran get arrested. “Her husband told her that Waze asked him to get arrested and that he would get him released on bail in a few days”. Fadnavis also said Hiren’s last known location was close to Dhananjay Vithal Gawde. “Gawde and Waze had sought anticipatory bail in a 2017 extortion case of Rs 40 lakh,” said Fadnavis. Gawde is a former Sena corporator who was later expelled from the party. “I suspect he was murdered in a car and his body was thrown into a creek,” said Fadnavis. Deshmukh said, “This case is being investigated by the ATS. The state will not protect anyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-says-maharashta-shielding-cop-in-hiran-case-demands-arrest/articleshow/81421358.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 10, 2021||India||Maharashtra counters Hiran fire with SIT probe into MP’s suicide||MUMBAI: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday announced an SIT probe into the suicide of seven-time MP Mohan Delkar in a Mumbai hotel last month after the opposition turned up the heat in the assembly demanding arrest of API Sachin Waze in the Mansukh Hiran murder case. Deshmukh said Delkar had named Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator Praful Khoda Patel in his suicide note. Patel was with BJP and had earlier served as minister of state for home in Gujarat when PM Modi was chief minister. “In his suicide note, Delkar said he was facing harassment and insults from Patel, and he had threatened to destroy his image in society, which is why he was committing suicide,” said Deshmukh. He also said Delkar’s wife Kalaben and son Abhinav had written to him and made the same allegations. Soon after the SIT probe was announced, Delkar’s family including his wife, son and daughter met CM Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and Deshmukh at the assembly. “They have reposed faith in the police and have asked for police protection because they face threats,” said Deshmukh. Deshmukh also said that in his suicide note, Delkar also mentioned that though he was being harassed in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, he had chosen to commit suicide in Mumbai because he had faith in the MVA government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-counters-hiran-fire-with-sit-probe-into-mps-suicide/articleshow/81421366.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 10, 2021||India||Actual foodgrain stock at FCI 2.5 times of norm, says Goyal||NEW DELHI: The actual stock of wheat and rice with the state-owned Food Corporation of India (FCI) on January 1 was almost two and a half times of the stocking norm to meet the requirement, food ministry told Lok Sabha on Tuesday. In a written reply, Union food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal said the actual stock of wheat and rice was approximately 52.3 million tonnes compared to the stocking norm of 21.4 million tonnes as on January 1. The increased stockpile of foodgrains has been a concern for the FCI despite the huge quantity of stock released during the Covid lockdown when additional 5kg were allowed to beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act and to a large number of migrant workers who did not have ration cards. “Had that quantity not been lifted, we would have been left with little space to keep the current procurement of foodgrains. There was some relief. But now again we have huge stock,” said an official. In response to another question, he said there has been minor loss of the foodgrains stocked by the FCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/actual-foodgrain-stock-at-fci-2-5-times-of-norm-says-goyal/articleshow/81421370.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||China hackers targeted NTPC infrastructure just days back: US outfit||NEW DELHI: The intrusion into India’s power plant infrastructure by Chinese state-backed hacker group Red Echo continues. The last such activity was noticed as recently as February 28 and this was revealed on Tuesday at a webinar by US-based cyber security organisation Recorded Future. “We have observed significant, sustained, high-volume traffic from Indian power sector assets to Red Echo infrastructure... The Red Echo infrastructure is still active, with the last observation on February 28, with communication to NTPC infrastructure,” said Charity Wright, a researcher with Recorded Future’s threat analysis department, Insikt Group. After a malware is planted, the compromised system starts communicating with the hacker’s server. On March 1, the Massachusetts-based organisation had released a report about Red Echo attempts to “infiltrate” India’s power plants by planting a malware identified as ShadowPad in at least 10 power plants and two seaports. As per Wright, Red Echo’s activity was first noticed in October 2020. Recorded Future informed the Indian government about the intrusion on October 10, just two days before a major power outage impacted Mumbai and surrounding areas. “We have been tracking their malicious infrastructure since October 2020. But there is no evidence to suggest that the Maharashtra state power plant failure was linked to Red Echo,” Wright said. Cyber security experts in India said the rising instances of these intrusions are cause for concern. “We don’t know what system had been compromised; it could have been a harmless administrative server. This needs to be taken seriously as it could basically mean China is prepositioning itself in case (political) conditions deteriorate,” said cyber-politico expert Jiten Jain. “The government, going forward, has asserted that it will not use Chinese parts in sectors like power and telecom. But the existing infrastructure is flooded with Chinese parts. They pose a threat and nobody seems to be talking about that,” Jain said. The intrusion, as per Wright, could not have led to any economic gains. “The group was preparing for future operations. They were basically communicating their capability to the adversary (India). By hiding in India’s (critical) infrastructure, they wanted to convey that they had control over Indian assets if they made another move (against China),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-hackers-targeted-ntpc-infrastructure-just-days-back-us-outfit/articleshow/81421372.cms||Anam Ajmal
March 10, 2021||India||Goyal, Harsimrat spar in Lok Sabha over FCI notification||NEW DELHI: Lok Sabha on Tuesday saw a faceoff between food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal over a recent notification by FCI stating that the agency would procure foodgrain only from those farmers who upload details of their land and production. While Badal said this was “direct interference” of the Centre in state subjects, Goyal said he was surprised to see how she could forget the focus of the Modi administration on “transparency” considering that till recently, she was part of the government and had no reservations on decisions she was now contesting. Asking a supplementary question during question hour, Badal countered Goyal’s claim of how the government had provided an alternative to farmers to sell their produce in markets of their choice. “But farmers have been protesting against the option. Today, FCI has issued a notification that procurement by the government, on which our national and state economy are dependent, will be only from those who will upload their land records,” Badal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/goyal-harsimrat-spar-in-lok-sabha-over-fci-notification/articleshow/81421383.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Russia calls meeting to broker peace in Afghanistan; India won’t be at table||NEW DELHI: After the US, Russia has stepped in and called a peace conference in Moscow on March 18 with the Afghan government and Taliban representatives, and including Pakistan, China and the US. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation (HCNR) Abdullah Abdullah are invited, HCNR spokesperson Faraidoon Khawzon said. “Politicians from Afghanistan, including President Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah as well as envoys from other states and representatives of the Taliban are expected to take part in the Moscow meeting on March 18 to discuss the Afghan peace process,” Khawzon was quoted as saying. However, the Afghan government is yet to decide whether it will attend. India is not a part of this grouping, although in a previous meeting, India had sent two former diplomats. The Moscow conference comes after several weeks of hectic outreach by Russia’s special envoy Zamir Kabulov, who was in Pakistan in the last week of February to shore up Pakistani support to get Taliban to the table. The US has put forward two proposals — one, to hold a peace meeting among regional stakeholders Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and the US along with Afghanistan under UN auspices; two, a peace conference between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Turkey. The US proposal of an interim government has already had the Afghan leadership up in arms. Vice President Amrullah Saleh has ruled out compromise on putting up an interim government without elections. This was one of the proposals by US secretary of state Anthony Blinken to Ghani on Sunday. India is yet to spell out the details of its own participation at the UN-led conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/russia-calls-meeting-to-broker-peace-in-afghanistan-india-wont-be-at-table/articleshow/81421405.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Had Rahul shown concern earlier..., Scindia counters jibe||INDORE/BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday launched a double-barrel counter to Rahul Gandhi’s remark that Scindia “would have been CM had he remained in Congress but is now a back-bencher in BJP”. Scindia remarked that Rahul should have been concerned about him when he was in Congress. “It would have been a different situation had Rahul Gandhi been concerned the same way as he is now, when I was in Congress,” Scindia said on Tuesday. Chouhan accused Congress of not only “victimising” Jyotiradiya Scindia, but also his father Madhavrao Scindia. “It’s not only Jyotiradityaji, who is a victim of injustice, Congress had meted out injustice to late Madhavraoji Scindia too. He was never allowed to become CM of Madhya Pradesh,” Chouhan said. MP home minister Narottam Mishra said: “Very quickly, Rahul Gandhi understood that without Scindia, Congress is zero in Madhya Pradesh. He should instead try an experiment in Rajasthan and appoint Sachin Pilot chief minister.” Congress veteran Kantilal Bhuria said: “Rahul Gandhi is correct. Scindia sits in the back in BJP. During Congress rule, he used to sit in second position in Parliament. He could have become chief minister had he remained with Congress. Even now, if he is willing to come back, he needs to apologise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/had-rahul-shown-concern-earlier-scindia-counters-jibe/articleshow/81421407.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||Grooming centre for pets opens at veterinary college||PATNA: Pet owners in the city can now go for grooming of their furry friends, including haircut, nail trimming, paw cleaning and ear cleaning at the newly inaugurated Pet Grooming Centre at Bihar Veterinary College here. Veterinarians said four to six pets undergo various cleanliness and hygiene sessions at the centre per day. “The exercise not only makes the pets look better, but also protect them from dangerous viruses and diseases,” they added. “We are planning to develop the grooming centre as a dermatology clinic with services like anti-tick bath to remove fungus infections and medicated and customized bath for the pets with skin diseases,” said Dr Vivek Kumar Singh, assistant professor of veterinary medicine at Veterinary Clinic Complex. Satya Kumar, public relations officer at Bihar Animal Sciences University, said the grooming centre at veterinary college is a one-stop destination for overall hygiene and fitness of the pets. “Haircut and medicated cleaning of pets must be done every 15 days,” he said. Pet owners are also relieved with the opening of the grooming centre. “Being owner of a dog, I am always worried about its hygiene and cleanliness. Recently, my pet recovered from a deadly virus and I want to take all preventive steps to ensure that it does not fall ill again. I will definitely take my dog to the grooming centre within a few days,” said Harsh Shrivastava (24), a student in the city. Dr Singh further explained about the deadly ‘Parvo’ virus which is mostly found in domestic cats and dogs. “The virus is highly contagious and spreads from street dogs and cats to a healthy pet. Preventive steps must be taken to protect the pets from the virus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/grooming-centre-for-pets-opens-at-veterinary-college/articleshow/81418725.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||Make policy for ethanol production in state: CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday directed the state industries, sugar cane and other departments concerned to make the framework for ethanol production promotion policy, so as to entice investors in the sector and boost up industrialization, besides helping in the creation of jobs and work opportunities. The CM also said the industries department should be very particular in selecting the investors, who are interested in the production of fuel-grade ethanol only, as it would ensure 100% use of the ethanol so produced for its mixing with fuel/petrol. The CM was addressing the minister and officials concerned at a meeting to assess the status of the follow-up work already done and that required to be done with regard to the making of the policy framework with bearing on the production of fuel-grade ethanol. The CM said like sugar cane, maize could also be used for the production of ethanol. Nitish asked the industries department to seek experts’ advice on the construction of seaport in Odisha and also assess the advantages that would accrue to the state’s bid for its industrialisation. Besides, he also asked the industries department to make an incentive policy for the benefit of migrant workers who had already been engaged in the making of garments. They had returned to the state amid the coronavirus pandemic last year. Earlier, additional chief secretary of industries department Brajesh Mehrotra made a presentation on the policy regarding ethanol production, besides pointing to the outcome of his visit to Odisha to explore the possibility of constructing a seaport along the coastline there. Among those who participated in the meeting were industries minister Shahnawaz Hussain, sugar cane industry minister Pramod Kumar, chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, development commissioner Amir Subhani, additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad, finance department principal secretary S Siddharth, principal secretaries to CM, Deepak Kumar and Chanchal Kumar, as well as cane industry principal secretary N Vijayalaxmi, among others. Giving a background to the state’s bid for cane-based ethanol production in the state, the CM said his government in 2006-07 had sent a proposal to the then central government, but it was not cleared. “If it had been cleared then, the state’s industrial scenario would have been quite different by now,” the CM said, adding that the present dispensation at the Centre finally made its policy for ethanol production based on cane and other items, including maize. Further, noting that his government has been trying for the state’s industrialization since 2006, he said Bihar Investment Policy, 2016, had various provisions, which open scope for the establishing industries in the state that should also be actively tapped by the industries department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/make-policy-for-ethanol-production-in-state-cm/articleshow/81418558.cms||Abhay Singh
March 10, 2021||Patna||‘Handloom haat’ to come up on Fraser Road soon||PATNA: On the lines of Dilli Haat or Khadi Mall, the state industries department is to open a ‘handloom haat’ on Fraser Road in the city. Clothes like Tussar silk of Bhagalpur, handloom items with Madhubani paintings, tikuli art, block printing and appliqué work will be available there, sources said. The handloom haat is being developed by Infrastructure Development Authority (IDA) in the Bihar State Finance Corporation building near SP Verma Road roundabout. Officials said nearly 65% of the construction work is completed. It will be operated by Upendra Maharathi Shilp Anusandhan Sansthan (UMSAS), which comes under industries department. “The handloom haat will provide a platform for local weavers and craftsmen to sell their products without much hassles,” a senior UMSAS official said. When asked about it, Aarti Keshav of Kankarbagh said she is a regular visitor to Khadi Mall and a handloom haat will be another favoured shopping destination for handcrafted merchandise. “It is very difficult to identify original Bihar-based handloom, like Bhagalpuri silk and Madhubani painting saris as these have become quite popular. Having an establishment of the government will definitely ensure authentic handloom products,” Aarti said. Handloom haat apart, state industries minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain during a visit to Khadi Mall near Gandhi Maidan on March 2, had said similar khadi malls will be opened in other districts and outside Bihar as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/handloom-haat-to-come-up-on-fraser-road-soon/articleshow/81416841.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||Nalanda boy dies in‘celebratory’ firing||BIHARSHARIF: A 12-year-old-boy died allegedly in celebratory firing at a birthday party in Nalanda Monday night. His family members, however, claimed the boy was murdered. According to eyewitnesses, Laddu Kumar, son of Chunnu Paswan, was hit by a bullet fired by co-villager Mantu Kumar at the birthday party of Vikky Kumar at Vansh Gopalpur under Noorsarai police station area. Laddu died on the spot. Chunnu, however, claimed that Mangrela Kumar had invited Laddu to the birthday party to ‘kill him as he had a long-standing dispute over a piece of land’. Mantu is a relative of Mangrela. Some villagers, who attended the party, said everyone was dancing with female dancers when Mantu suddenly fired a shot in the air. They said people caught hold of him, took his pistol and locked him in a room. They said shortly thereafter, he somehow came out of the room and fired again, possibly from a different firearm. And this time the bullet hit Laddu. Noorsarai SHO Virendra Choudhary said when he reached the village on getting information, Laddu’s family had already left for Biharsharif Sadar hospital. He said police have been deployed in the village. Meanwhile, the 19-year-old Ashish Kumar, son of Bablu Kumar of village Jararpur under Deepnagar police station area, succumbed to the bullet injuries at PMCH on Tuesday. Ashish had allegedly sustained bullet injuries after being caught in the crossfire between two rival groups near his village under Deepnagar Police station area in Nalanda on Monday night. However, Ashish’s father, in a written statement to the police, said his son had sustained injuries after falling from the terrace of the house. The villagers had earlier said miscreants shot at him after he resisted their attempt to snatch his cellphone. The police claimed the deceased was caught in the crossfire between two rival groups. Deepnagar SHO Mushtaq Ahmad said no hospital report stated that he had bullet injuries. He said investigation would carry on from different angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nalanda-boy-dies-incelebratory-firing/articleshow/81418524.cms||Farrukh Nadim
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh polls: Krishna expects high voter turnout today...||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district administration have made elaborate arrangements for Wednesday’s municipal elections. Two municipal corporations and four nagar panchayats across the district will go for polls. District collector A Md Imtiaz, who oversaw the distribution of polling material to observers and returning officers, asked returning officers of the city’s 64 divisions to contact election officers in case any objections are raised from voters and political parties. Polling equipment including ballot boxes, stamps and ballot papers have reached the 788 polling stations. Authorities arranged 180 buses to shift polling material and staff to the polling stations. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said they are working to increase the polling percentage. “All arrangements have been completed, including distribution of voter slips. We appeal to voters to come forward for polling. We expect the percentage to be high this time as polling stations are situated in less than 2 kilometres radius in majority of divisions,” he said. Police have also identified the problematic areas in the city. Vehicle checks were conducted at 40 different locations in the city to seize liquor, cash and other gift articles which were supposed to be distributed to voters. Along with Vijayawada, 50 divisions in Machilipatnam, 32 wards in Nuzvid, 23 wards in Pedana, 20 wards each in Vuyyuru, Nandigama and Tiruvuru are also going for polls. Md Imtiaz said transport facility will be provided to the elderly. Organisations have been directed to give permission to employees to cast their votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-expects-high-voter-turnout-today-/articleshow/81418627.cms||Venu Lanka
March 10, 2021||Nashik||Gold chain worth Rs 1.7L stolen in Nashik city||Nashik: A 60-year-old woman was robbed of her gold chain worth Rs 1.75 lakh in the Nashik Road area of the city on Monday afternoon. Complainant Manjula Wackchaure told the police that on Monday, around 4.30 pm, she was standing outside her building and talking to a friend when an unidentified person approached them on the pretext of asking for an address. While they were busy helping him, the man snatched Wackchaure’s gold chain and fled on a bike which his accomplice was riding. The woman then approached the police and filed a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gold-chain-worth-rs-1-7l-stolen-in-nashik-city/articleshow/81415811.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Concerns rise over spike in cases in AP's Chittoor district||TIRUPATI: The steady rise in Covid-19 cases in Chittoor district over the last few weeks has been a cause for concern for the general public as well for district administration officials. While Andhra Pradesh has been identified among eight states in the country with a higher number of active cases, Chittoor has been accounting for a majority of the fresh cases being reported in the state. What is more worrying is that this comes at a time when the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) plans to gradually increase the pilgrim footfall to the temple city to pre-Covid levels. The 38 fresh positive cases reported in Chittoor district in the last 24 hours has taken the overall number of active cases in the district to 322, which is the highest in the state. Chittoor also holds the dubious distinction of registering the highest number of Covid-19 fatalities with 853 people succumbing to the novel coronavirus so far. From March 1 to 9, 278 fresh cases were reported in Chittoor district, out of which a majority of cases were from Tirupati urban and rural mandals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/concerns-rise-over-spike-in-cases-in-chittoor-dist/articleshow/81418594.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||10 students fall sick at school in Gudivada||Vijayawada: Ten students of classes I and II at RCM Primary School in Gudivada fell sick during class hours on Tuesday, complaining of severe nausea. Teachers immediately informed the students’ parents and health wing authorities. The students were taken to an intensive care unit. District medical and health officer Dr Suhasini rushed to the spot and monitored the treatment. As the incident happened before the mid-day meal, doctors suspect water contamination as the reason behind the sudden sickness. Civil supplies minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Kodali Nani) monitored the treatment and interacted with parents. Nani asked health wing authorities to shift the children to Guntur and Vijayawada general hospitals for better treatment. “An inquiry will be ordered and stringent action taken. The government will provide the best treatment,” Nani said. Food safety authorities have collected samples of water and mid-day meals from the school. — Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/10-students-fall-sick-at-school-in-gudivada/articleshow/81418530.cms||Venu Lanka
March 10, 2021||Patna||‘NCERT books helped me score 100 percentile’||PATNA: Sheohar boy Saket Jha, who scored a perfect 100 percentile in JEE Main 2021 (February session), shares his success mantra with Saumya Singh. Excerpts: What was your reaction after declaration of results? I got to know the result around 9.30pm on Monday. Although I was confident of scoring good marks, getting 100 percentile was beyond my expectation. I now hope to repeat this performance in JEE (Advanced). Tell us about your educational background Studies have always been a priority in our family. My father is a high school principal and all my three sisters have excelled in academics. After my initial schooling in Bokaro, I shifted to Kota in Class IX and joined a prominent coaching institute there which awarded me full scholarship. I had scored 94% in Class X and also secured top rank in Aryabhatta Mathematics Olympiad in classes V and VIII. When did you start preparing for JEE Main? I moved to Kota with my mother Sunita Jha in Class IX and prepared for JEE Main for four years. During Covid-induced lockdown, I studied online at home. The lockdown gave me additional time to prepare for the test. What was your preparation strategy? I mainly focused on NCERT books and studied 10 hours a day. Since I was always good in mathematics, my focus was on other two subjects. Did you face any difficulties in taking test amid Covid restrictions? I think the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns gave me enough time to make preparations for the test. Returning to Bokaro and changing my examination centre was the only inconvenience I faced. Are the school textbooks adequate for JEE Main preparations? I strictly centred my preparations around the NCERT books. Studying NCERT books thoroughly is very important. The study materials provided by my coaching institute also helped. How did you de-stress yourself during the preparation? What are your hobbies? In my leisure time, I used to watch television programmes and listen to music. ‘Kaun Banega Crorepati’ is my favourite TV programme. I also love to play cricket. However, my schedule doesn’t allow me to play the game. Your future aspirations? I want to do well in Class XII examinations and crack JEE (Advanced). I aspire to join IIT-Bombay and pursue engineering in computer science. Coding and artificial intelligence has always fascinated me and I want to do something in this field. Any suggestion for future JEE aspirants? They should read NCERT textbooks for basics and follow a strict schedule. Revision is also necessary to crack engineering entrance examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ncert-books-helped-me-score-100-percentile/articleshow/81416904.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Business||After over 38 long years, TTS to retire as MD of Sundaram Finance in April||Chennai: Only two things have changed for TT Srinivasa Raghavan or TTS as he is called, over the past two decades. One, the beard has more `salt than pepper` capturing his progressing age and a tuft has sprung up, while the vermilion on the forehead and the infectious smile that continues to hide more than what it reveals remains unchanged.The smile hides the trevails of 1998 CRB Capital Markets, the Y2K problem, the assault on home turf of truck financing by the new age banks like HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank, the 2008 global meltdown and its resultant impact, pains of demonetisation and decadal lows of truck sales that he has faced.It also doesn’t reveal that under his leadership Sundaram Finance’s net worth grew to Rs 5,554 crore in March 2020 from Rs 487 crore in March 2003 and assets grew from Rs 2,670 crore to over Rs 35,000 crore.After more than 38 years, TTS will retire as the MD of Sundaram Finance this April and hand over the baton to Rajiv Lochan, a former McKinsey executive and former CEO of Kasturi & Sons.“I have been lucky and whatever we have done is because of the team. It is no individual effort,” TTS says. After completing his MBA from Gannon University in the US in 1977 TTS headed back home to join Grindlays Bank and then jumped out to be part of Indian Overseas Bank. It was an opportunity of life that brought him in touch with GK Raman, former head of Sundaram Finance. He joined SF in 1983.He founded the GQP principle Or Growth, Quality and Profitability principle. This coupled with the relationship that SF has built with its customers is the secret sauce of success. “We have sanctioned loans to thousands of truckers even when their credit scores were not encouraging. That is because we know them and their families and understand that they need a little benevolence and our calls have always turned right in such cases,” he says. “We penetrate to that micro level.”SF has a fair share of criticism too from the markets. Its ultra conservative approach has resulted in it being a big fish in a small pond. For example the market capitalisation of Kotak Bank (which was a financier like Sundaram Finance before becoming a bank in December 2006 was Rs 12,370 crore it has risen to Rs 3.9 lakh crore now. However, SF’s market capitalisation has moved from Rs 1,117 crore to Rs 29,450 crore in the same period. “Different people have different risk appetite. Why should we do something because someone else is doing it. We will do what we are good at and we will strive to do it better,” he says.A long term colleague of TTS said: “He is a people’s man. He can quietly sit in a corner in Nageswara Rao park and listen to Carnatic music and walk into a luxury hotel for a conference with same intensity. He returns all calls and messages, which shows how important he values people.” “I live with my parents, dad is 97 and mom is 92 and that tells you the reason for the tuft. Visiting a saloon is high risk so have stayed this way. All my life it has been SF and home and so haven’t been part of any social circles. Hope, retirement will give me time to spend time with photography too in game reserves,” TTS says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-over-38-long-years-tts-to-retire-as-md-of-sundaram-finance-in-april/articleshow/81418174.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
March 10, 2021||Business||Star Health gets ready for IPO, eyes $3 bn valuation||Chennai: Westbridge Capital and billionaire investor Rakesh Jhununwala-backed Star Health and Allied Insurance has kick started the process for a public float as it completes its best ever year since inception.Promoted by industry veteran and former United India CMD V Jagannathan in 2006 and backed by ETA group of the Middle East, Star was the first stand alone medical insurer in India. In August 2018, a consortium of investors including WestBridge, Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and Madison Capital, picked up 90% stake from the promoters and other PE investors including ICICI Venture, Tata Capital and Apis Partner who picked up stakes at various times.“Kotak and Citigroup have been mandated to take forward the IPO process,” sources said. “The expectations are that some of the investors may part sell their stake and book profits at a valuation of nearly $3 billion,” sources said. “It is probably the only health insurer which is earning underwriting profits for nearly 4 years now.”While the work at the IPO is in early stages, sources said that nearly 10% of equity could be diluted, a combination of fresh issue plus secondary sale through part exits by existing investors to raise nearly Rs 3,000 crore. The issue may hit the markets towards the last quarter of the current calendar year, sources said. Multiple messages and calls to V Jagannathan, chairman and Dr S Prakash, MD of the company went unanswered. The focus for Star has been private/retail business and it commands a leadership in the market with more than one in three health policies written. It exited government as part of its strategy to stay focused on retail. The company which ended March 2020 with a gross written premium of Rs 6,865 crore may end the current fiscal with a GWP of nearly Rs 10,000 crore. “This fiscal year will be the best ever year for the company since inception. The Covid pandemic has forced many to look or write medical insurance policies,” source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/star-health-gets-ready-for-ipo-eyes-3-bn-valuation/articleshow/81418014.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
March 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Now, get Covid vaccine without an appointment||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 118 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the case load to 8,90,884. The state did not record any new deaths from the novel coronavirus on Tuesday. Altogether 89 patients were declared cured. There are currently 1,038 active cases with 8,82,670 cumulative recoveries and 7,176 deaths. In keeping with recent trends, Chittoor topped the chart with 38 new cases. Vizianagaram, for the second consecutive day, did not record any new cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 45,079 Covid-19 samples on Tuesday and detected 118 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.3%. The state health department, in an official statement on Tuesday, said the public can now directly approach Covid-19 vaccination centres, even if they have not registered their names on CoWin portal or the Aarogya Setu application, for inoculation. “Those aged 60 or above can receive the vaccine by showing their Aadhaar card or other proof. The persons with comorbidities (aged between 45-59 years) will need to produce a medical certificate for getting the vaccine. However, the doctors at the vaccination centres would also give the needed medical certificate, if the prospective recipients submit their medical test reports, doctor prescription or other proofs to support their comorbidities,” said health officials, adding that, “ Meanwhile, the vaccination process for the healthcare workers and frontline staff would continue. People can get the vaccine at all hospitals empanelled under the Aarogyasri Scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-get-covid-vaccine-without-an-appointment/articleshow/81418549.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Business||Nodwin Gaming gets Rs 164 cr from PUBG creator||Chennai: Emerging as a strong global contender in the world of esports, Nodwin Gaming, a subsidiary of gaming firm Nazara Technologies, has raised Rs 164 crore from South Korean gaming firm Krafton, the developer of PUBG. Nodwin Gaming did not disclose the percentage of stake secured by the South Korean firm. The company’s other investors include gaming enterprise Nazara Technologies, JetSynthesys, and others. Post the transaction, Nazara will continue to own a stake more than 50% in Nodwin. Nazara’s 2018 investment in Nodwin has created a value in excess of 6.44x in the three years, Nazara said. Nodwin Gaming said it would utilise the funds to accelerate the development of esports in South Asia, Middle East and Africa, support talent, provide better gaming infrastructure and technology and execute esports tournaments at the national and international level."With Krafton coming on board, we have an endorsement from the mecca of gaming and esports -South Korea- on what we are building from India for the world based on our competence in mobile first markets," Akshat Rathee, co-founder and managing director, Nodwin Gaming, said. “Krafton is excited to partner with Nodwin Gaming to help foster the promising esports ecosystem and engage with our fans and players in India. Taking the momentum from this partnership, we will explore additional investment opportunities in the region to uphold our commitment and dedication in cultivating the local video game, esports, entertainment, and tech industries,” Changhan Kim, CEO of Krafton said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nodwin-gaming-gets-rs-164-cr-from-pubg-creator/articleshow/81417856.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Forest dept gears up for pilgrimage to Velliangiri||Coimbatore: The forest department, which has been allowing people to trek the Velliangiri Hills from March 1, is gearing up to receive more than 20,000 people on Maha Shivaratri on Thursday.“Considering that 10,000 people climbed the seven hills on Sunday and 4,000 people on Saturday, we are expecting 20,000 to arrive from Wednesday morning,” said Boluvampatti range officer Saravanan.The department has roped in 30 volunteers from NGOs and frontline staff from other ranges for crowd management and to ensure that no plastic or inflammable products enter the forest. “We have stationed four rangers and 30 volunteers at the base of the mountains to check pilgrims. Six rangers and some volunteers have been stationed at the seventh hill to ensure that pilgrims are following rules and regulations and to provide them assistance. The devotees will be checked to ensure they do not carry any form of plastic or materials like matchstick, candle, wick,” the official said. “However, there will be no staff along the six-kilometre route that the pilgrims take.”Thousands of pilgrims visit the Shiva Temple during Maha Shivaratri, Chitra Pournami, and Karthigai Deepam. They offer prayers at the Poondi temple at the base of the hills before climbing.The Velliangiri trek has been classified as difficult because pilgrims have to cross seven hills though rocky terrains that are steep. They take four to six hours to complete the trek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-dept-gears-up-for-pilgrimage-to-velliangiri/articleshow/81417898.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||...but division confusion may hit poll percentage||Confusion over newly-created polling divisions in the city may affect voting percentage in Wednesday’s municipal elections. Though the municipal limits remain the same, polling divisions have now been increased to 64 from the earlier 59 due to the rise in city’s population. Divisions with more voters have been divided into two by altering the boundaries. Areas like Gunadala, Patamata, One Town and Bhavanipuram got the new divisions after the delimitation process in 2020. Though new divisions were created, they were not publicised due to Covid-19 restrictions. In some cases, candidates have campaigned in other wards. Many voters came to know about their divisions only after receiving voter slips. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/-but-division-confusion-may-hit-poll-percentage/articleshow/81418643.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||‘Govt has put heat on liquor mafia in Bihar’||PATNA: Prohibition and registration department minister Sunil Kumar on Tuesday said the state government has put the heat on liquor mafia by conducting raids and arresting them in and outside the state. Speaking in the legislative assembly, the retired IPS officer said the government was also taking action against the excise officials and police personnel to neutralize their clandestine operations. Over 3.46 lakh people have been arrested for liquor ban violation in the state till February this year since the prohibition law came into force in 2016 and as many as 5,000 had been arrested outside Bihar, specially in Punjab, Haryana and Jharkhand, he said. During the last five years, 15,000 vehicles had been confiscated and 53 lakh litres of countrymade liquor and 97 lakh litres of India made foreign liquor (IMFL) were seized. Further, 186 police personnel and other officials had been dismissed, while 60 station house officers (SHOs) have been banned from posting at police stations, Kumar said. Further, he denied any drop in the inflow of foreign and domestic tourists due to prohibition and said their number had increased by 21% between 2015 and 2019. Kumar said the tax collection from the registration of land and stamp duty has remained steady as 77% of the target collection worth Rs3,617 crore has been met. RJD MLA comes with stethoscope: Mahua RJD MLA Mukesh Roshan on Tuesday surprised the concerned on the state assembly campus, as he reached there with a stethoscope slung around his neck and blood pressure measuring machine in his hand. When asked, Roshan told mediapersons that CM Nitish Kumar has has been getting angry with the members of the state legislature the purpose behind his gesture was to underscore that anger should be kept in control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-has-put-heat-on-liquor-mafia-in-bihar/articleshow/81417017.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Business||Job market may rebound by end 2021: Study||Chennai: Corporate India is getting more optimistic about business prospects and the job market is likely to gain ground in the upcoming quarter (April-June), with three percentage points increase in employers intentions to recruit, sequentially. Manpower Group’s Net Employment Outlook (NEO), which measures employers’ intentions to increase or decrease workforce, came in at 9% for April-June 2021— an improvement of three percentage points from the Jan-March quarter. Hiring plans are down two percentage points from the same period last year when Covid had just struck the economy. A large majority (56%) said they were likely to get back to pre-Covid levels of hiring by the end of 2021. 27% of employers reported that they may return to pre-COVID hiring within June 2021. The survey of 2,375 employers across India shows that 12% anticipate an increase in payrolls in the upcoming three months, 2% forecast a decrease and 53% expect no change. Digital transformation will be a key driver for the job market, and those who can collaborate remotely and effectively, and have an upskilling mindset will stand a better chance over others, the HR firm noted. For the next six to 12 months, almost all (92%) of companies intend to offer their employees a mix of remote working and regular working at the office. Public administration, education and services sectors are likely to lead the job market. Construction industry anticipates modest hiring pace while the weakest labor market is expected in the wholesale and retail trade businesses. Among organization types, the strongest hiring prospects are reported by large businesses with 250 or more employees. Hiring outlook for small businesses (10-49 employees) remain unchanged for the upcoming quarter.“The new budget announced [also] seems to provide the right impetus to opportunities in job creation especially in the public infrastructure, healthcare and BFSI. However, in all probability, the impact of the government spend on employment will be seen in Q3 and Q4, 2021 when the rubber meets the road,” Sandeep Gulati, group MD, ManpowerGroup India, said. A positive hiring sentiment is prevalent across geographies as employers in all four regions expect to increase payrolls during the coming quarter. Strongest hiring prospects are reported in the West, where the NEO is 10%, followed by companies in the North that forecast hiring opportunities with an outlook of 8%. The NEO stands at 7% and 4% in the South and East respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/job-market-may-rebound-by-end-2021-study/articleshow/81417813.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat reports 4th-highest GST frauds in India||Ahmedabad: With rising number of fake billing scams coupled with a surge in cases involving illicit claiming of input tax credit (ITC) in Gujarat, the state ranks fourth in terms of registering GST-related frauds in India. Gujarat reported some 2,848 cases of GST-related frauds from 2017-18 to 2020-21 (till January 2021) of a total of 27,000 cases reported across the country, shows data tabled in the Parliament by the Union ministry of finance. Gujarat is preceded by Delhi (3,295), Tamil Nadu (3,220) and Maharashtra (3,195). “GST evasion is a countrywide phenomenon. When the new tax regime was rolled out, no physical verification was required for obtaining GST registration. As a result, many obtained fake GST registrations,” said J P Gupta, state commercial tax commissioner. “Furthermore, many have illicitly claimed ITC using their GST registrations. The clause allowing a buyer to claim ITC only if the supplier has paid taxes was introduced only last year. Due to several such procedural reasons, tax evasion was rampant since the rollout of the new tax regime,” added Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-reports-4th-highest-gst-frauds-in-india/articleshow/81418102.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 10, 2021||Business||Focus on culture to boost diversity, not compliance||By Sujaya BanerjeeAt the end of a discussion on ‘Leading with inclusion’, a male leader reached out to me offline to say, “While I strongly agree with the idea of equal opportunities, how can one guard against the soft bigotry of low expectations while hiring diverse groups? Hiring women, especially those who are married, having primary care responsibilities, will simply mean more effort and flexibility by the men/others in the team to ensure work deliveries are not compromised.” I was impressed with his refreshing and uncommon candour while expressing his concerns. We discussed how the journey of building a diverse and inclusive workplace involves journeys of serious reflections on the inside — on strongly held values, beliefs and assumptions regarding diverse groups. This, even as we manifest equality and opportunities on the outside. That diversity means the group is different. And to value the difference, we need to actively create ‘ramps’ to enable these groups to maneuver and navigate workplaces to become successful. ‘Ramps’ is a metaphor for the support, compassion and flexibility that may be required to enable diverse groups, in this case women, to manage key life transitions and continue to become invaluable contributors to the organisation’s journey in the future. This episode remains etched in my mind because the leader had the gumption to openly express his presumptions rooted in biases and ask for clarity. In most cases, these questions are buried under the pressures of compliance on diversity numbers and expectations of leaders to appear morally and socially right by obviously supporting the agenda of equal opportunities. In fact, the moot challenge with the diversity and inclusion (D&I) agendas, even in organisations where this is being driven actively, is the unrelenting focus being placed on compliance instead of culture-building. Let’s look at the current overall gender diversity situation within India Inc. The representation of women in the workforce has dropped from 24% to 20% during the pandemic (according to the International Labour Organization). The representation of women in India Inc spans from no women in senior leadership to at best 11%, in companies having 30%-plus women representation at entry levels, with a significant leakage in the pipeline at junior-/mid-bands. These statistics can often bewilder leaders as the optics around women empowerment as presented in the media — through advertisements, awards and on social media — tend to give a sense of much greater progress and accomplishments on this agenda. In reality, most organisations that have hired women see representation itself as the agenda, with inadequate efforts on creating cultures of inclusion that integrate women by creating a momentum for their career advancement and growth. Having said that, there are a few organisations investing actively in gender diversity, by creating ecosystems and governance to build, groom and prepare women for leadership and decision-making. These organisations are steadily making transitions from compliance for diversity headcount to driving real inclusion and contributions from diverse groups. There are also some trailblazer organisations leading the way. These inspire others to emulate the journey of equal opportunities and build contemporary workplaces where both men and women contribute equally to the success of the organisation. For organisations wanting to embark on an impactful D&I agenda focusing on gender diversity, here are some actions to consider: * Make recruitment processes more inclusive: Make job descriptions more inclusive, encourage gender-blind hiring and include women in the hiring process. For gender diversity to succeed, it is imperative to ensure no hiring standards are being compromised to bust the myth on women being ‘diversity candidates’ — a biased term used to indicate women/diverse candidates hired to fulfil the compliance agenda, without necessarily meeting the hiring standards. * Offer flexibilities where possible to protect women’s career momentum: This can enable long-term retention and loyalty, especially when support to key life transitions are given. Often flexible policies create a mindset of compassion for others. For example, some companies have started returnee programmes for even men who may have taken career breaks to manage life challenges. * Improve transparency around pay to ensure parity and fairness to all diversities: This is important to become a credible equal opportunities employer. * Set up mentoring schemes: Mentors play a vital role in boosting the potential of diverse groups. Programmes like ‘men as diversity partners’ and ‘men as allies’ help champion personal and professional development for women and help them adopt a growth mindset to search for new opportunities that will challenge them. The best part of these programmes is the culture of mentoring it creates for all diversities. * Build culture of inclusion and psychological safety: Train all employees on conscious and unconscious biases and empower everyone to call out these. While these are important steps for companies looking to build diverse and inclusive cultures through gender diversity, it is time for women to play a more active role in their own journeys of empowerment, and ‘#ChooseToChallenge’ (the slogan for International Women’s Day 2021) the status quo on various issues. #ChooseToChallenge urges women to choose to challenge biases, discrimination and misconceptions instead of bearing with them. Choose to challenge is an initiative to speak up and claim equality and respect. Here is a list of what women could choose to challenge as they meet more than halfway to help employers build workplaces of equal opportunities: 1) #ChooseToChallenge biases when you see them: Don’t grin and bear and get resentful. Confront with respect and don’t accept being treated second class 2) #ChooseToChallenge lack of support from those around you: Family, children must all do their bit to enable you to pursue your dreams. Challenge the status quo on being the only caregiver burdened with housework 3) #ChooseToChallenge opportunities that appear too tough, too hard for a woman: Lean in to prove otherwise and bust myths to make it easy for other women 4) #ChooseToChallenge any myth on your ability, dexterity, emotional strength needed to manage complex problems — take them on, head on! 5) #ChooseToChallenge that women are too dependent, agreeable, harmony oriented and emotional to take a tough stance, assert with courage, without breaking down relationships 6) #ChooseToChallenge by living by your own brand of leadership worth emulating 7) #ChooseToChallenge the belief that women do not want to work in teams lead by women or that women leaders don’t support women with lesser power. Bust these myths by demonstrating the power of sisterhood to make each other win! The pandemic has undoubtedly been an accelerator for change and building diverse and inclusive workplaces is a matter of compelling need rather than choice. #ChooseToChallenge old thinking by embarking on building diverse and inclusive organisations of high performance and innovation. (The writer is CEO, Capstone People Consulting)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/focus-on-culture-to-boost-diversity-not-compliance/articleshow/81419554.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Business||Vidal Health Insurance TPA acquires rival Vipul MedCorp||Mumbai: Vidal Health Insurance TPA (third-party administrator) has fully acquired rival Vipul MedCorp Insurance TPA to become one of the top three TPAs in the health insurance segment. Vidal Health manages policies covering 140 million lives and has a healthcare network of over 12,000 hospitals and more than 20,000 OPD clinics. The company has a 60% share of state and central government policy implementation. The company’s provider network partnerships extend to Asia, Europe and North America. In India, it has offices and staff presence across 800 cities in 310 districts. “We are already the leaders in servicing government schemes in many states across the country. Our strength in servicing large corporate accounts is well known. This acquisition will give us a similar scale in servicing retail individual customers,” said Vidal Health chairman & MD Girish Rao. Along with this acquisition, Vidal Healthcare Services (VHC), the parent entity of Vidal Health, has also acquired a group company of VMC — Vipul Medicare — which gives the group a presence in Oman. It already has a presence in the UAE and Qatar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vidal-health-insurance-tpa-acquires-rival-vipul-medcorp/articleshow/81419409.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Business||Craftsman Automation goes for IPO, investors dilute stake||Chennai: Private equity investors International Finance Corporation and Marina III (Singapore) Pte are diluting 50% of their stake in Coimbatore-based auto parts maker Craftsman Automation whose public float starts on March 15. Marina III (Singapore) Pte is selling 1.56 million shares and International Finance Corporation 1.41 million equity shares. Individual investor K Gomatheswaran is exiting the company by offloading 1.42 million equity shares comprising 7% stake. Promoter chairman and MD Srinivasan Ravi will offload 0.13 million equity shares which will bring his stake in the company down from 52.8% to 49.7% post IPO. Together the promoter family will hold around 60% stake even after the IPO.Craftsman Automation has been valued at Rs 3,000 crore which will go upto Rs 3,150 crore post the IPO because of a Rs 150 crore primary issue. IFC invested in the company in 20108 while Marina III came in 2012. The issue is priced at Rs 1,488-Rs 1,490 per share and the funds raised from the issue will be used to retire debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/craftsman-automation-goes-for-ipo-investors-dilute-stake/articleshow/81417890.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||Coastal plan needs checking before going public: Wagh||PANAJI: Goa University professor Ramrao Wagh has stated that various government departments should have coordinated to check and correct anomalies of the draft Goa Coastal Zone Management Plans before they were put out to the public with errors.  “Government authorities and experts are not applying their minds. Experts from the water resources department and soil conservation division of the agriculture department have information. They know where the bandhs and sluice gates are. They should have first verified this on the maps and then opened them to the public so that people don’t waste their time,” he said. “This needs to be done first as people are agitated and are afraid because their houses are not reflecting on the maps,” Wagh, who is younger brother of former MLA and deputy speaker Vishnu Wagh said. The ground reality hasn’t been studied, he said. “They’ve just put markings on the maps and given it back to the public. They’ve shown the high tide line where there are sluice gates and have connected one sluice gate to another and marked the high tide line. This is wrong. Some field work has to be done,” he said. Wagh cited examples in Neura, of areas shown as settlement for many years now suddenly turned into no development zone. There are errors on the map in Dongri where an area has been shown as NDZ because the HTL has been erroneously shown according to the sluice gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coastal-plan-needs-checking-before-going-public-wagh/articleshow/81419226.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Coimbatore||E-pass compulsory for people from Kerala||Coimbatore: In view of a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, the district administration has made it compulsory for any passenger coming from the neighbouring state via flight, train or road to obtain an e-pass and produce their Covid-19 test report from Tuesday morning.District authorities said that this will ensure that infected people from Kerala don’t enter the district and discourage unnecessary travel between the two states.The health and revenue departments have set up 13 check posts across the Coimbatore-Kerala border to check all vehicles for e-passes and Covid-19 certificates.Any vehicle or passenger without the above two will be sent back.“The Coimbatore Corporation will be asked to set up check posts at the Coimbatore Junction and Podanur railway stations to check all arrivals from Kerala-originating trains for e-passes and Covid-19 negative certificates, without which they will either be sent back or forced to give a sample and opt for institutional quarantine,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said.“Arrivals, who are not business travellers, will have to undergo seven days of home quarantine even if they come with a negative certificate, which we will monitor closely,” he added. Establishment of false information like a long duration arrival, posing as a business traveller will face police action, he warned.While the district has no direct flights from Kerala, all arrivals from Mumbai flights must come with a Covid-19 negative test and an e-pass. “Even if they come with a negative test, they will be tested by us again and they will have to home quarantine for seven days,” the deputy director said.Meanwhile, the district recorded 55 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, which is the highest number of cases recorded by the district since February 7, taking the total number of cases to 56,182.Among the 55 cases, three people were from a single family living behind the airport and another three people from a single house at Sulur.“While the family behind the airport went to Palani temple on a pilgrimage, the family in Sulur went to Tirupur for a wedding and developed symptoms a day later,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said. A father and son who returned from a holiday were admitted to PSG Hospitals after becoming breathless and testing positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/e-pass-compulsory-for-people-from-kerala/articleshow/81417889.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||BMC mops up Rs 415 crore property tax in single day||MUMBAI: Racing to meet its property tax collection targets before the financial year ends on March 31, the BMC on Monday collected a whopping Rs 415 crore of outstanding property tax dues. The civic body’s total tax collection has now reached over Rs 3,500 crore. With the March 8 deadline for commercial establishments to pay tax ending, the BMC has stepped up its drive to track offenders. It has netted over Rs 100 crore per day right from February. In March alone, the BMC collected around Rs 1,100 crore from property tax defaulters. Total outstanding dues of property owners across the city are close to Rs 20,000 crore. With the civic body facing a severe cash crunch this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and a slew of discounts to builders and contractors, the BMC will soon attach and auction properties of defaulters. “We made a record collection of Rs 415 crore on Monday. We are confident of meeting our revised target of Rs 4,800 crore. We have created a list of top 100 defaulters in each of the 24 wards and are focusing on recovering dues from them,” said Dr Sangeeta Hasnale, assistant municipal commissioner, assessment and collection. Officials in the civic body said the tax target was revised to Rs 4,800 crore due to the pandemic. “For commercial properties, the deadline to pay tax without any penalty was March 8, while it is month-end for residential property owners. Failure to pay on time will invite a penalty of 2%. We have also begun attaching high-end vehicles of defaulters,” Hasnale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-mops-up-rs-415-crore-property-tax-in-single-day/articleshow/81420881.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 10, 2021||Patna||Opposition slams Bihar govt over promotion of dead doctor as CS of Sheikhpura||PATNA: The opposition RJD cornered the government in the state legislature on Tuesday over promoting and transferring a doctor, who had died in February this year. RJD MLA from Sheikhpura Vijay Samrat displayed outside the assembly premises the March 8 notification through which the government had transferred Dr Ram Narayan Ram as the civil surgeon of Sheikhpura district, even though he had died in February 7 this year when he was posted as incharge of Bikramganj sub-divisional hospital. Earlier, RJD MLA Lalit Kumar Yadav raised the issue on the floor of the House during the zero hour. Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said the government had taken serious note of the matter. RJD MLCs also raised the issue in the Upper House. After much criticism, the health department issued a fresh notification on Tuesday, giving additional charge of civil surgeon to Dr Krishna Murari Singh, the medical officer of Sheikhpura Sadar hospital. Dr Singh also handles the additional charge of additional chief medical officer, Sheikhpura. Raising this issue in the House, RJD MLC Subodh Kumar said the episode has exposed the functioning of the health department. Health minister Mangal Pandey said it was a serious issue and a show-cause notice had been issued to the officials concerned. “Notification in this regard was issued on Monday and the moment the fact came to our knowledge, the show-cause notice was issued,” the minister added. Another RJD MLC, Sunil Kumar Singh, said appointment of a dead doctor as civil surgeon was not an ordinary issue and the government must come up with a proper explanation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-slams-bihar-govt-over-promotion-of-dead-doctor-as-cs-of-sheikhpura/articleshow/81417047.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Business||Can you think inside the box? You’re hired||MUMBAI: Are you good at problem-solving with good interpersonal skills? Do you have strong technical skills with a humanities background? Can you think inside the box — be creative in a confined space — a skill set that’s needed during a crisis like a pandemic? If so, you are hired. “We will welcome talent that displays non-linear thinking at work. As a society, we have been trained to deal with limited data. With data explosion, information is abundant and now the real deal is finding the ‘relevant needle in a haystack’,” said KPMG India’s digital advisory head Akhilesh Tuteja. There’s a growing demand for people who not only have specific qualifications to transform an organisation digitally but can also demonstrate a combination of other attributes like inter-personal skills and are pragmatic with a sharp analytical mind. “We expect agility and a life-long learning approach for potential KPMG-ers. We believe that the future of consulting is not about basing the strategies on what worked well and what didn’t work in the past. Given the speed of evolution of digital technologies, relying largely on proven trends and past experience can be quite limiting,” said Tuteja. KPMG India plans to hire several thousand people in the coming years, half of which would be experienced professionals. The change in the nature of talent requirement is not restricted to any one function of an organisation. It cuts across all departments. Take the case of human resources, for instance. “In three years, the manner in which the HR function has undergone a change is dramatic. We now have data scientists, analytics and data experts working in HR. Every HR practitioner is expected to manage massive amounts of data and also derive useful insights. It’s a skill every HR practitioner needs to possess. A manager today needs to have the ability to handle change. He/she needs to be comfortable with being uncomfortable,” said Chaitanya Sreenivas, IBM India and South Asia HR head. Sreenivas said as iterative jobs like processing of claims and query response continue to reduce, HR has become more consultative and strategic for an organisation. At Sun Life ASC (Asia Service Center) India — the global in-house centre of Sun Life Financial, a Canadian financial services company — a rigorous set of psychometric assessments are deployed for hiring across all levels. The aim is to look beyond the cognitive and analytical ability of the candidates, assess their learning agility, their interaction styles and also their ability to connect the dots and appreciate the big picture. According to an IBM Institute for Business Value (IBV) study, a majority of CEOs surveyed in India see technological and market factors, along with regulatory concerns, among the most important external forces that will affect their business in the next few years, following the massive disruptions of 2020. Half of outperforming company CEOs surveyed globally and 35% in India said managing a remote “anywhere” workforce is a top leadership challenge over the next few years. The longer-term challenge of a hybrid work environment would require providing employees with digital, cloud-enabled tools for collaboration. Sun Life ASC’s CHRO Rajeev Bhardwaj said, “Today, organisations need to respond to their clients and communities within an agile environment. That means they need to focus on network performance, network learning and network fit, rather than individual contribution and competencies alone.” Clearly, in order to drive high performance in this interdependent environment, new mindsets and capabilities are required. “It’s important that people be curious, eager to learn, collaborate, share accountability while progressing to remain effective,” said Bhardwaj. Tuteja of KPMG said through the interview process, candidates are accessed on the basis of whether they were risk-averse or are willing to take calculated risks. “During the course of the interview, we also get a sense of whether the candidate is a visionary or executionary or a healthy mix of both,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/can-you-think-inside-the-box-youre-hired/articleshow/81419532.cms||Namrata Singh
March 10, 2021||Patna||JD (U) eyes ‘mergers & acquisitions’ to beef up party in state||PATNA: With the merger of former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha's Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) with JD(U) on the cards, CM Nitish Kumar is trying to fortify his party's presence after being relegated to a junior partner's position in the ruling alliance. The speculation about Nitish Kumar and Upendra Kushwaha joining hands began soon after they met in December last year and early February this year. The rumours got stronger on Monday when Kushwaha and Vashishtha Narayan Singh of JD(U) took the Covid-19 vaccine together and held talks. The development comes weeks after altogether 208 leaders and activists of Chirag Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party joined JD(U). Some workers of Kushwaha's RLSP have already resigned from the party and have been given JD(U) membership in the presence of its national president RCP Singh. JD(U)'s efforts to beef up its presence coincides with the rising influence of BJP in state politics. The results of the state assembly elections diminished the political stature of Nitish Kumar, who has been in the power for more than 15 years. "This is for the first time in the past two decades when JD(U) has become a junior partner in the state. The last time JD(U) was a junior partner of BJP in the alliance was when it had contested less number of seats in 2000," a senior leader of JD(U) said. That JD(U) is now in expansion mode is evident from the assertion of some senior leaders at a training programme for party workers from all assembly constituencies. The leaders told the workers to establish direct contact with the people, listen to their grievances and sort them out. They were also asked to stay in the villages and strength the party's support base at the booth level. The JD(U) state president Umesh Kushwaha, who was present at the workers' training programme, said the future of the party solely depended on the hard work and devotion of the workers to the party they owed. "Workers and activists of the party have been assigned the task to tell people about the development works undertaken under Nitish Ji's leadership. He is the real architect of Bihar's development," he added. Though RLSP didn't get a single seat in the state assembly polls, it had impacted the results in 20-30 seats, including a few seats in Begusarai, Vaishali, Bhojpur, Gaya, Saran and Khagaria districts. With no seats in the assembly, the RLSP chief can't hope to get any political weightage in the RJD-led grand alliance. Nitish Kumar's JD(U), on the other hand, suffered an erosion in his core caste constituency of Koeris ( represented by Kushwaha). The former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S) is already with Nitish. Known for his unexpected moves, Nitish may find Upendra Kushwaha an able lieutenant in JD (U) after the merger. The party aims to return to a situation similar to 2005 when it came to power in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jd-u-eyes-mergers-acquisitions-to-beef-up-party-in-state/articleshow/81418500.cms||Ramashankar
March 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizagites list expectations from corporators||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the Port City set to get a mayor and a deputy mayor, along with 98 elected corporators, one each for each ward under the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) after a gap of 14 years, residents have put forth their expectations from their ward representatives. From sustainable welfare and infrastructure development beyond petty politics to approachable and tech-savvy corporators, Vizagites listed out the civic issues they felt corporators should prioritise. Retired professor of Andhra University ABSV Ranga Rao said, “With the city expanding in all directions and pressure of population increasing, addressing water scarcity every summer should be a priority. Focusing on rain water harvesting and the possibility of desalination of sea water should be explored. Besides, attention should be given to constructing better roads, footpaths and improving connectivity between far-flung areas, addressing parking problems and dog menace in various colonies. Of late, the city has slipped in the cleanliness index in urban surveys. Every effort should be taken to maintain the cleanliness of the sea beaches, roadsides and colonies with provision for proper garbage disposal.” Elaborating on the kind of corporators that citizens would prefer, heritage activist and environmentalist Sohan Hatangadi said, “The corporator must have a clear understanding of city planning, human development, a healthy respect for the natural environment and the heritage of the city they live in. They must be patient listeners, should be reachable to citizens, proficient in stating their views in the assembly and to the GVMC in a crisp and clear manner. Every corporator must maintain a clear record of the ward’s issues on file and on their smartphones. They must talk to the stakeholders before suggesting any big infrastructure project and think beyond narrow party politics for the overall welfare of the citizens and city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizagites-list-expectations-from-corporators/articleshow/81418518.cms||Sulogna Mehta
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||Wife of NIMS chancellor arrested for blackmailing||JAIPUR: A day after arresting two persons for blackmailing National Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) chancellor Dr BS Tomar, police on Tuesday arrested his wife for the blackmailing and extortion racket. Police on Monday had arrested two persons who posed as journalists and took Rs 25 lakh from Tomar in connection to a rape case wrongly lodged against him almost 18 months ago. “Based on the investigation, Shobha Tomar, wife of the chancellor, was arrested for blackmailing and extortion. Tomar had lodged a case of blackmailing against his wife, his son and 10 others at Ashok Nagar police station which was under investigation for a long time. After getting corroborating evidence, the woman has been arrested,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime. Tomar had lodged a case on October 12, 2019 in which he had accused his wife, son Anurag, BB Agarwal, Rajesh Badhoria, Ajeet Badoria, Neha Khan, Bir Singh, Pooran Singh Rao, Mintu Yadav, Dhananjay Singh, Jitendra Unial and others of asking for Rs 15 crore after wrongly implicating Tomar in a case of rape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wife-of-nims-chancellor-arrested-for-blackmailing/articleshow/81419223.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||Expect thundershower & lightning on Fri, Sat: Met||PATNA: People can expect some respite from surging mercury as Patna Meteorological Centre has issued forecast for development of thundershower along with lightning on Friday and Saturday. The Met office has, in fact, issued forecast for partly cloudy skies in southern and central parts of the state from Wednesday itself. Skies remained party cloudy in few southeastern districts on Tuesday as well. Weather experts have attributed the party cloudy skies to moisture incursion from an anti-cyclonic circulation over northwestern Bay of Bengal. “Moisture-laden easterly winds are blowing in Bihar due to the anti-cyclonic circulation. As a result, thunderclouds along with light showers are expected in the state for a couple of days from March 12,” said Shailendra Kumar Patel, a meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre. The expected rainy weather will break a prolonged dry spell, which led to a rather warmer last lap of winter season. In fact, there was no significant rainy spell in the month of February. Meanwhile, the onset of summer season has been warmer than the normal in the state. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature at Patna, Gaya, Chhapra, Sabour and Forbesganj remained one to two notches higher than normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/expect-thundershower-lightning-on-fri-sat-met/articleshow/81417108.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||Two new schemes to boost entrepreneurship among youth, women from April 1: Minister||PATNA: State industries minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain on Tuesday said to boost entrepreneurship among women and youths, Mukhyamantri Mahila Udyami Yojana and Mukhyamantri Yuva Udyami Yojana will be implemented from April 1 this year. He was replying to a question raised by RJD MLC Ram Chandra Purbey regarding monetary help given under the Mukhyamantri Anusuchit Jati Evam Janjati Udyami Yojana. Shahnawaz said the scheme was launched in May 2018, and the department had received 53,570 online applications. Altogether 4,005 applicants got the approval, out of whom 3,723 got the first instalment, while 3,111 have got the second instalment and 1,296 got the third instalment. He further said they had received complaints regarding payment being done in three instalments, so it is being planned to reduce it to two instalments. Talking about the upcoming scheme for women and youths, he said a maximum of Rs five lakh will be given as a loan and up to Rs five lakh as a grant. While women will not have to pay any interest on the loan, youth belonging to the general category will have to pay 1% interest. He further said there is a provision of a Rs 25,000 stipend for training purposes. On the eligibility to get the benefit under this scheme, Shahnawaz said the beneficiary must be a resident of Bihar and should have a minimum qualification of intermediate, ITI, polytechnic diploma or equivalent. The minimum age is 18 years, and the upper age limit is 50 years. The unit should be either a proprietorship firm, partnership firm, limited liability partnership (LLP) firm or private limited company. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra raised the issue of a yarn mill established in 1986 in Pandaul industrial area in Madhubani where the latest technology machines and infrastructure was made available at an expense of Rs 20 crore. However, it is lying defunct now. Shahnawaz said the mill could produce 750kg yarn per day, however, it got closed in 2000 and several important parts of the machines were stolen, after which the mill manager had lodged an FIR. He said of the total 23 acres of land available there, 7.50 acre has been given for the establishment of an engineering college and the rest others were available on BIADA’s website and it is being expected that industries will be set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-new-schemes-to-boost-entrepreneurship-among-youth-women-from-april-1-minister/articleshow/81417076.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 10, 2021||Rajkot||Four lions hunt near Jetpur again||Rajkot: Four lions were sighted near Pipalva village of Jetpur taluka of Rajkot district on Monday early morning. According to villagers, these lions had hunted a few domestic animals. According to villagers, four lions killed three cows and one goat in a shed on the outskirts of the village. The forest officials were informed about it in the morning. The lions were found earlier in Timbdi village which is 3 km from Pipalva. The eight lions were rescued from the villages of Jetpur and shifted to Sakkarbaug zoo, later they were released into the wild. It’s not confirmed if the lions sighted in Pipalva are the same lions or some other group that has ventured into Jetpur. The forest department had a few months ago rescued three lions from near Rajkot city, expressing apprehension of possible human-animal conflict. Ashvin Parmar, conservator of forest Rajkot said “I have got the report of animal killing by lions near Jetpur, however, lions are not directly sighted by the staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-lions-hunt-near-jetpur-again/articleshow/81415946.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||4 rag dental student in hostel, FIR lodged||Jaipur: A 28-year-old woman pursuing a degree course at Rajasthan Dental College and Hospital under Bagru police station area has accused at least four of her seniors of ragging. Almost eight days after the incident, the woman on Monday lodged a case of outraging her modesty and ragging. Police have registered a case and investigation has been handed over to ACP Vaishali Nagar. According to police, the medical student from Kota said on March 1, her seniors including Dr Gargi, Sayali, Osin and Sajal Gupta ragged her. “She has also alleged that she was taken to a hotel where her seniors outraged her modesty. She discussed the incident with her parents and after their suggestion she lodged an FIR on Monday,” said a senior police officer of Bagru police station. Senior police officers said that they would record the statements of other students and the accused in this case and would also visit the hostel. “A case under Sections 341-A, 354-A 354-D of IPC and under other sections of SC/ST Act has been registered against the accused. A deputy superintendent rank officer has been assigned the task of investigating the matter,” the officer added. A team of Jaipur police visited the college and took statements of some of the staff and the girls. “Only after proper verification of the FIR and complaint action would be taken.We are also looking for CCTV camera footage if available,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-rag-dental-student-in-hostel-fir-lodged/articleshow/81419227.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||Woman gets pregnant despite tubectomy, moves consumer forum for compensation||PATNA: A woman has moved the district consumer forum at Muzaffarpur seeking Rs 11 lakh compensation from the state government for getting pregnant despite undergoing tubectomy at Motipur primary health centre (PHC) in July, 2019. The case was filed on March 6. Dr Harendra Kumar Alok, who was the Muzaffarpur civil surgeon before his transfer on Monday, ordered an inquiry into the matter. Phulkumari Devi (30), a native of Mahna village under Motipur police station area in Muzaffarpur, had got married to Sudhir Das (35) of Bakhri Nazir village at Motihari in East Champaran on May 20, 2009. Das is a daily wager and has shifted to Panipat in Haryana one and a half months back for earning livelihood. When contacted, Das told TOI over the phone from Panipat that they already have three daughters and a son and his wife underwent tubectomy as they didn’t want another child. “I can’t bear the expenses of another child. That’s why my wife has moved the consumer forum for Rs 11 lakh compensation from the state government to bear the expenses,” he said. Das, who is uneducated, said he didn’t want to commit the sin of killing the foetus by abortion. “Now my wife is seven months’ pregnant,” Das said, adding she had studied till class IV. Her uncle Vishwanath Das said they visited Motipur PHC after knowing about his niece’s pregnancy. “It was Dr Sudhir Kumar who had performed the tubectomy on her in July, 2019. He is still posted there. However, he misbehaved with us twice recently when we went to ask him how she became pregnant even after family planning surgery. An ASHA asked us to fill up a claim form for getting compensation. However, my niece moved the forum,” Das said. When asked, Dr Alok on Tuesday said sometimes such surgeries do fail. “The incident of Phulkumari came to my knowledge four days back after which I ordered an inquiry,” he said. “There is a provision of Rs30,000 compensation to a victim in such a scenario. Besides, the state government also bears delivery and medicine expenditure in such cases. However, the victim must make a claim to the health department for these benefits,” he said. Dr Alok also said abortion within limited time during the initial three months of pregnancy is also allowed as per legal provisions. Alok said further necessary action in the matter would be taken on the inquiry report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-gets-pregnant-despite-tubectomy-moves-consumer-forum-for-compensation/articleshow/81418768.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 10, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: 78 lakh voters to seal fate of 7.5k candidates today||AMARAVATI: The stage has been set for the conduct of municipal elections in the state. Polling will be held for 2,215 divisions and wards spread over 12 municipal corporation cities and 71 municipal towns and nagar panchayats on Wednesday. The results will be declared after the counting of votes on March 14. Although the State Election Commission (SEC) issued notification for the conduct of elections in 75 municipal towns, all wards in four municipalities including Pulivendula, Punganur, Macherla and Piduguralla turned unanimous, prompting the officials to conduct polling in 71 towns. Interestingly, many cities and towns are going for civic body polls almost after a decade. District election authorities (DEAs) have identified hypersensitive and sensitive areas with regard to law and order situation and deployed additional police forces. Over 60 per cent of the total wards and divisions across the state fall under hypersensitive and sensitive areas segment. Meanwhile, the SEC has set its focus on Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Guntur cities to prevent electoral malpractices. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar is undertaking a visit to Vizag while SEC secretary Kannababu will focus on Vijayawada and Guntur on the day of polling. As many as 78,71,272 electors would exercise their franchise from 7 am to 5 pm in urban areas. Officials from the respective civic bodies have disbursed voter slips to electors and requested those who could not collect the slips to visit the polling stations with valid voter ID card for assistance. Women voters outnumber men in a majority of the wards in the state. Altogether, 39.97 lakh women are enrolled as electors in towns, while 38.73 men have been identified as eligible voters. Additionally, 1,168 transgenders have also been enrolled as voters. The SEC declared that as many as 7,552 candidates are in the fray for 2,215 divisions/wards in municipal corporations and municipalities. While 2,571 candidates will contest for 582 divisions in 12 corporations, 4,981 candidates are in the race for 1,633 wards in municipal towns. Interestingly, the 12 municipal corporation cities combined have more voters than the 71 municipal towns. While there are 48.31 lakh voters in 12 cities going to election, the 71 municipal towns together have just 30.40 lakh voters. The SEC has appealed to voters to exercise their franchise without fail, adding that elaborate arrangements have been made for the conduct of polls in a peaceful environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/78-lakh-voters-to-seal-fate-of-7-5k-candidates-today/articleshow/81416926.cms||Samdani MN
March 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Stage set for GVMC polls, 14 years after previous round||VISAKHAPATNAM: The stage is all set for the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) elections on Wednesday. Over 17 lakh voters will cast their ballots to elect the next GVMC council after nearly 14 years since the last election. The proposal to make Visakhapatnam the executive capital ensured that no political party left anything to chance in a bid to claim the key corporation. Despite YSRC’s landslide victory in the 2019 general elections, all four core MLA segments of the city were won by TDP. However, Vizag South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar who won the seat on a TDP ticket, later extended his allegiance to YSRC around six months back. While YSRC believes its welfare schemes and proposal to make Vizag city the executive capital will ensure their victory, TDP is hopeful of winning support of urban and neutral voters. In 25 wards, Left parties too are throwing their hats in the ring while the BJP-Jana Sena alliance too hopes of making a splash in the polls. The Centre’s announcement on Monday, reiterating its decision of 100% disinvestment of RINL-Vizag Steel Plant may also impact the preferences of voters in around 20 wards. For its campaigns, YSRC roped in several senior ministers to support their candidates while TDP saw its party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, national general secretary Nara Lokesh and TDP state president K Atchannaidu and other senior functionaries leading roadshows. Visakhaptnam district collector V Vinay Chand said elaborate arrangements have been made for the GVMC polls. “Of the total 1,712 polling stations in Vizag city, 240 have been identified as sensitive and 654 as hypersensitive stations. Election day proceedings would be web-cast in Vizag city, while they would be video-graphed in areas with limited connectivity. A zonal magistrate will be deployed to each of the 98 wards of the city,” he said. Chand said the administration has completed the distribution of 86.8% voter slips in Vizag city. “Due to address changes and other technical issues, the remaining slips could not be issued. However, the public can approach the booth facilitation centre at the polling station to get their voter slips,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stage-set-for-gvmc-polls-14-years-after-previous-round/articleshow/81416993.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
March 10, 2021||Patna||Dedicated power feeders for remaining farmers soon: Minister||PATNA: Energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav informed the state assembly on Tuesday that CM Nitish Kumar has launched the Mukhyamantri Krishi Yojana to give agriculture feeder connection to all the remaining farmers by March 31 next year. Yadav said the state government had to take this route to cover the remaining farmers with the agriculture feeder connection as the Centre’s support in this regard will expire on March 31 this year. The government has allotted Rs 1,329 crore for the state scheme and a contract has also been signed for its implementation, he added. The minister said an agreement has been signed with two companies to provide the required agriculture feeder connection to the remaining farmers. “As many as 3.3 lakh farmers have been provided the connection so far. They are getting electricity at the cheap rate of 0.65 paise per unit,” Yadav added. The minister was replying to the House debate on the Rs 8,559.99-crore budgetary demand of the energy department for the 2021-22 fiscal. The cut motion had been moved by senior member Vijay Shankar Dubey. Though the opposition members walked out of the House during the government’s reply given by Yadav, the House passed the budget by voice vote. Yadav said the state government has been purchasing power for distribution among the domestic and industrial consumers at a rate that is highest in eastern India. Against the national average cost of power at Rs 3.60 per unit, the Bihar government has been purchasing power at Rs 4.12 per unit, he added. The minister said the government has been working on expanding the use of prepaid meter system for which a contract has been signed with a French company. “When a new system comes into play, various kinds of rumours are spread. I appeal to the power consumers not to give credence to them,” Yadav said, adding purchase of electricity at the high rates and overall cost borne by the government could be reduced if the Centre gives its clearance to the state government’s proposal for a Rs 375-crore hydel power project at Dagmara in Supaul district. Even as the government has been purchasing power at a higher rate, it has also tried to reduce the burden of the consumers by paying them power subsidy, the minister said. In 2018-19, the government paid Rs 5,070 crore worth of subsidy to the consumers, followed by Rs 5,193 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 5,469 crore in 2020-21,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dedicated-power-feeders-for-remaining-farmers-soon-minister/articleshow/81417004.cms||Abhay Singh
March 10, 2021||Patna||Govt sets target to vaccinate 92 lakh pensioners in Bihar||PATNA: After successfully vaccinating over 1 lakh women against Covid-19 on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday, the health department is now preparing to vaccinate 92 lakh pensioners in the state. The department has also targeted to increase the number of session sites for vaccination from the existing 1,100 to 2,000 by March 25. Health minister Mangal Pandey on Tuesday said the state has created a record of sorts by vaccinating such a large number of women in a day. “Altogether 1,15,802 women were given the first dose of the vaccine on Monday,” the minister said quoting the final figures released on Tuesday. Pandey said the department would start collecting data of pensioners for the next mega vaccination drive. “According to a rough estimate, about 92 lakh people are getting pension in the state under different categories,” the minister added. The minister said panchayati raj representatives would be roped in to make the vaccine drive successful in the state. “Immunisation at panchayat level is our priority,” he added. Pandey said the state has so far received 22.06 lakh doses of Covishield and 2.73 lakh doses of Covaxin. “We have already used 10.44 lakh doses,” he added. Meanwhile, 30,440 more elderly people and those in the age group of 45 to 59 years received their first vaccine dose in the state on Tuesday. Altogether 12,976 beneficiaries, on the other hand, received their second dose. So far, 8.52 lakh beneficiaries have got their first vaccine dose and 2.35 lakh second vaccine dose in the state. 41 more test +ve for Covid: The state’s Covid tally rose to 2,62,820 on Tuesday with 41 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Altogether 33 more people defeated the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 99.30%. No fresh death was reported on Tuesday. With 2,60,975 people recovering from the virus so far, there were 296 active cases in the state on Tuesday. Of the 41 new cases recorded from 15 districts on Tuesday, Patna alone accounted for 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-sets-target-to-vaccinate-92-lakh-pensioners-in-bihar/articleshow/81416928.cms||Sheezan Nezami
March 10, 2021||Business||Government plans to include GST in UPI QR code||MUMBAI: The government is looking at upgrading the QR code for UPI in such a way that it can incorporate the GST component and show the same separately. This will enable the government to come out with fiscal incentives for payments that are made digitally. The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) is working on UPI to enable this feature, CEO Dilip Asbe revealed. According to Asbe, when both ends of the payment are driven by software with information going to a cloud, there is no limit to the innovation that can take place. Additionally, information provided to the merchant and customer can grow manifold. He said that the NPCI was working with banks and payment companies to create the capacity to handle a billion UPI transactions daily. “UPI has grown 250% in nine months. It is a journey where everyone has to keep investing,” he said. Asbe was speaking at an event organised by Paytm to launch an upgraded version of its soundbox, which provides payment confirmation through audio and a screen. The payment company also launched a software application developed jointly with Visa which enables any NFC-equipped smartphone to accept contactless card payments from all card networks. Speaking at the launch, Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma said that the company has sold 9 lakh point-of-sale (PoS) devices in 18 months and was targeting to upgrade 50 lakh merchants to accepting contactless payment over smartphones and IoT (internet of things, or net-connected) devices. Sharma said that Paytm was already working on developing the dynamic QR that could incorporate GST. Speaking at the same event, Visa’s India chief T R Ramachandran said that with 25 billion IoT devices in the world, the scope for contactless payments has increased. He said that over 50 countries have increased their limit for contactless payments and the RBI has also revised the limit after analysing years of fraud data. On the proposed licences for the new umbrella entities proposed by the RBI, Ramachandran said that the heterogeneous nature of the Indian market meant that one size does not fit all. He pointed out that there were under-penetrated segments in digital payments, such as B2B transactions and cross-border remittances. “It requires a thousand flowers to bloom to satisfy the appetite of India,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-plans-to-include-gst-in-upi-qr-code/articleshow/81419441.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Man hangs self, blames wife, in-laws for torture||VADODARA: A 31-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself at his home in Bajwa area on Monday afternoon. Shishir Darji, who stayed in Amrapali Society, took the extreme step when he was alone at his home. The deceased left a two-page suicide note wherein he blamed his wife Monika and in-laws for his suicide. Darji wrote that it is not a suicide but murder. Investigating officials said that they are investigating the role of Darji’s wife and other persons. According to the police, Darji went into his room on the first floor of the house and removed the fan and then hung himself with a sari. “His relatives went to his home but when no one opened the door, they called up the police. Our team reached there at about 5 pm,” said D J Limbola, police sub-inspector at the Jawaharnagar police station. The cops found Darji hanging from the ceiling hook. “We found a handwritten note in Gujarati in the room. Darji seemed to be in distress and was determined to end his life. His note said that he was tired of harassment by his wife and in-laws,” said Limbola. The police said that Darji had completed his LLB studies but he never practiced law. He was working as a salesman in a private company in Manjalpur. “He got married to Monika eight years ago but the couple again tied the nuptial knots as per rituals four years ago. Monika gave birth to a baby 11 months ago,” added Limbola. But she didn’t return to Darji’s house after the delivery. Investigating officials said that the couple was facing problems for the last couple of years. The deceased wrote that his wife and in-laws should be punished for pushing him to end his life. “He said in his note that his WhatsApp messages will prove if he was being harassed or not. We checked his mobile phones but they are all locked. The handsets have been sent to FSL along with the suicide note,” said Limbola. The cops are yet to question Monika, who stays at Vyara in Tapi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-hangs-self-blames-wife-for-torture/articleshow/81416422.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||33% of land owned by AMC is using less than 45% of FSI||AHMEDABAD: Just how much public land has market potential in Ahmedabad? Four years ago the state revenue department collated a detailed picture for city on public land parcels and their locations and their potential marketability. The exercise found that the airport and cantonment represent a large amount of Central Government land — the airport is spread over 403 hectares (ha) with runways, taxiways, aprons, terminals and other aviation infrastructure, while the cantonment is spread over 484 hectares. The exercise found that 35 hectares of the total airport area had marketability. In the case of the cantonment area, the department said the total marketable land in the cantonment area was estimated to be 230ha. Out of this 36ha was under roads, including roads leading to the Airport. The revenue department also found that of all public land in state government and AMC possession, about 6,850ha, close to 52% was not marketable, while 21% land was vacant land and 31% had been developed with construction at different levels of consumed FSI. Vacant land including TPS appropriations represent 20.73% of total public land and 43% of the total potentially marketable land. “Plots smaller than one hectare are not considered marketable,” said a senior revenue department official. Nearly 15ha is ‘obsolete’ and could not be used as it was completely occupied by illegal construction. There was around 303 hectares of land under Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) possession where construction activity could utilise less than 45% of the total Floor Space Index (FSI). Only 36 hectares of AMC owned land was such where construction activity had utilised more than 85% of the total FSI, which came to just 20% of the total available AMC land. “Only 1,699ha of land under AMC, 1,267 hecatre land under the state government in the city and 321 hectare under the possession of the central government was marketable. The officials first footprints of existing buildings were identified from the satellite imagery and then digitized. “For calculating unused FSI of buildings on various plots, the number of floors for every building was noted from field surveys. The area of building footprint was multiplied by the number of floors which gave the floor area for every building and then the total floor area of buildings on the plot,” said a state revenue officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/33-of-land-owned-by-amc-is-using-less-than-45-of-fsi/articleshow/81419278.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Do treasure hunters hold clue to Ramateertham case?||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to investigate the desecration of the Lord Rama idol at the Sri Kodandarama Swamy temple in Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district has now expanded its net to search for treasure hunters in an attempt to identify possible suspects. The SIT and Vizianagaram police, which took up the case, are yet to make headway in their probe. Speaking to TOI, a senior officer with the SIT, L S Rao, said the investigation has now turned to treasure hunters, many of who keep an eye out on isolated places of historical importance and centuries-old abandoned temples, in search for hidden treasure and ancient coins and idols. It will be recalled that the SIT arrested a seven-member interstate treasure hunting gang for desecrating a Nandi idol at Makapet Kasi Visweswara temple in Krishna district. Believing a myth that the 12th century Nandi idol had diamonds hidden inside it, the gang had broken off the ears of the idol. The SIT suspects that treasure hunters are likely to approach the vandalisers. “We have visited some places in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and met some treasure hunters in connection with the Ramtheertham temple case. So far, we have not got any concrete clues from our interactions and we will continue to visit more places to interact with other gangs that can provide some clues,” they added. Initial efforts by the SIT and police in questioning suspects failed to yield results. The SIT’s decision to begin its probe afresh follows the realisation that it might have overlooked initial evidence in the case. The SIT, however, has only one piece of material evidence at the moment—a hacksaw blade used to decapitate the idol, which was found with the idol’s head in a lake near the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/do-treasure-hunters-hold-clue-to-ramateertham-case/articleshow/81418681.cms||Nalla.Babu
March 10, 2021||Patna||Min to open 3 crèche facilities at secretariat||PATNA: Social welfare minister Madan Sahni will inaugurate three crèche facilities at the main Patna secretariat building on Wednesday. The facilities have been set up at Vishweshwaraiah Bhawan library, main secretariat room number 189 and annexe building of the old Bihar legislative complex. Addressing the concerns of working mothers who are forced to leave their kids at home, the Women Development Corporation (WDC) has set up daycare facilities at the secretariat for children under five years of age under the Mukhyamantri Nari Shakti Yojana. WDC managing director Harjot Kaur Bamhrah said the project was long due. “Working women in secretariat had been demanding childcare facilities for long. Thanks to allotment of space, we are about to turn their requests to fruition,” she added. Jamui MLA Shreyasi Singh, who had earlier demanded introduction of childcare facilities for women staff at the legislative assembly, said, “I congratulate the state government for taking this initiative. Such facilities should be introduced in other government offices as well,” she added. The initiative to provide crèche facility at the secretariat has been welcomed by working professionals. Anshika Singh, a government employee, said, “As a mother, it’s tough for us to work in the office while our child is at home. The crèche facility will address our concern.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/min-to-open-3-crche-facilities-at-secretariat/articleshow/81418602.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||‘Ensure installation of CCTV cameras in all shops, apartments by month-end’||PATNA: Altogether 16,808 CCTV cameras have been installed in the state capital for crime control, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said on Tuesday. He said 15,122 out of the 16808 CCTV cameras, were installed in apartments, 1345 in malls and 341 in police stations of Patna district. Holding a meeting with the IG of Patna and DMs and SSPs of the Patna, Nalanda, Bhojpur, Buxar, Rohtas and Kaimur districts under the division, he asked them to ensure the installation of CCTV cameras in all residential apartments, commercial complexes, banks, petrol pumps, jewellery shops and hospitals by March 31. Agarwal expressed concern over the incidents of crime in Patna and said CCTV cameras were very effective in tracking the culprits and helping in the investigation with authenticity and transparency. Though the direction was issued to all the six districts, the focus was on the state capital, including Danapur and Khagaul, which witnessed more criminal activities than in the rural areas recently. He said regular public complaints were reaching him regarding the lack of security measures in some of the apartments, posing threat to life and property of their residents. Though there was a remarkable progress in CCTV installation, Agarwal asked the officials to ensure 100% compliance by March 31. Agarwal also sought the status of the CCTV cameras installed but non-functional in residential and commercial areas. Hundreds of highrise malls and private hospitals have come up in the new colonies under Danapur subdivision in the recent past and added to human activities. He said direction was also issued to the Patna Municipal Commissioner to present the list of apartments and commercial complexes, including malls, under its jurisdiction by March end. He said the SDOs and executive officers of Nagar Parishads and police stations were also assigned the task to monitor CCTV camera installations. Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh and SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma were present in the meeting while others joined through videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ensure-installation-of-cctv-cameras-in-all-shops-apartments-by-month-end/articleshow/81416881.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||High Court forms panel to inspect sanitary facilities for girls in schools, colleges||PATNA: The Patna high court on Tuesday formed a three-member committee of women lawyers to inspect sanitary facilities, including toilets, for girls in schools and colleges under the Patna Municipal Corporation limits. The committee will look into cleanliness, water supply, availability of sanitary pad dispensers and their disposal machines, soap dispensers and dustbins, among others in the colleges and government schools. The committee will then submit a report on the infrastructure required for girl students at all such places. There are around 20 colleges under Patna University, 10 under Patliputra University and 31 government schools falling within the municipal limits, which the committee would inspect. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar has granted one week to the committee to complete their inspection and submit a report after which further hearing on the matter would take place. The committee consists of counsels Archana Sinha, Anukriti Jaipuriyar and Amrisha Srivastava. Sinha and Jaipuriyar are amicus curiae in the case, along with counsel Shambhu Sharan Singh. Additional advocate general Anjani Kumar had appeared for the state government while Rakesh Kumar Singh and Sandeep Kumar appeared for Patna University and Dr Anand Kumar appeared for Patliputra University. The state government, along with both the universities, had responded that a large number of toilets are present for girl students and the condition of all these were good but they need cleanliness. The high court was not satisfied with the replies and ordered the formation of the inspection committee. The high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the issue by converting a news report published by a Hindi daily into a PIL. The report published on April 10, 2018, highlighted the plight of girl students in colleges and government schools. Complaints by girl students regarding non-availability of toilets, absence of water supply, and other basic facilities were highlighted in the report. On Monday, the high court even imposed a cost of Rs 5,000 on Patna University for its delay in submitting its reply on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-forms-panel-to-inspect-sanitary-facilities-for-girls-in-schools-colleges/articleshow/81418799.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 10, 2021||Goa||Drugs: One year RI for ex-college guard||PANAJI: A Mapusa court has sentenced a former security guard of a Mapusa-based college to rigorous imprisonment for one year in a drugs case dating back a decade. The court found the 50-year-old Nepali, Bahadur Singh guilty for supplying narcotics at the gate of the college in March 2010. “Considering the fact that the accused is only the bread earner and has minor children to support, the accused is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year and fine of Rs 5,000,” additional sessions judge, Mapusa, Kshama Joshi stated. In March 2010, PSI Somnath Mahajik received information at 9pm that the security guard would be going to deliver charas between 11pm and 11.30pm to prospective customers at the gate of the college on the same day. A team conducted a raid and saw him going to the main gate of the college from the main building side with a yellow colour plastic bag in his hand at 11.15pm, and rushed towards the main gate and signalled the panchas and surrounded him. The narcotics weighed 850 gms. They found cash of Rs 100 in his pant pocket and an identity card with his name and photograph issued by the college. Counsel for the accused G Kanekar argued that there are serious contradictions and omissions in the deposition of the pancha and investigating officer and address of the pancha. Public prosecutor A Talaulikar submitted that the discrepancies in the cross examination were due to lapse of time as the raid was conducted in 2010 and the deposition was recorded in 2019, i.e. more than nine years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drugs-one-year-ri-for-ex-college-guard/articleshow/81419235.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Farmer held for cultivating ganja plants in maize field||Tirupur: The Tirupur rural police arrested a 52-year-old farmer on Monday for cultivating ganja plants on his maize field on the Valaiyapalayam – Kattoor road near Kamanaickenpalayam.The arrested person has been identified as I Govindhan of Suriyan Kattu Thottam at Karapalayam. “He owns 1.5 acres of agricultural land at Kattoor, where he is cultivating maize. On Monday evening, a police team led by special branch police officer Saminathan and Kamanaickenpalayam police sub-inspector Sampath Kumar inspected the field and found four ganja plants weighing 5kg,” a police officer said. “The team destroyed the plants.”Govindhan was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and. Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 and was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmer-held-for-cultivating-ganja-plants-in-maize-field/articleshow/81417901.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||RKM project stalled due to shortage of funds||Kolkata: An educational project of the Ramakrishna Mission, that was coming up at New Town, has come to a halt for lack of funds. The RKM monks in charge of the project, Viveka Tirtha, have appealed for funds so that a shortfall of Rs 50 crores is met and educational activities can start on the campus within the next one and a half years. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had taken a special initiative to allot five acres at New Town for the project and plans were laid to start a centre for human excellence and social sciences here. The original project cost was Rs 174 crore and donations had come for it from multiple corporate houses. The state government had also given a donation of Rs 20 crore so that the unique centre, designed to resemble the Art Institute of Chicago, US, could come up. It was there that Swami Vivekananda delivered his famous speech in the Parliament of Religions in 1893. “Unfortunately, due to the pandemic, the project has come to a grinding halt. The cost has escalated,” said a communication from Swami Vishokananda, who is in charge of the project.  Viveka Tirtha is slated to have departments that will deal with value education, a school of languages and a language laboratory, computer institute and digital library, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rkm-project-stalled-due-to-shortage-of-funds/articleshow/81417903.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 10, 2021||Coimbatore||EVMs randomized in Tirupur||Tirupur: Randomization of electronic voting machines (EVMs) took place at the Palladam and Tirupur (south) tahsildar offices on Tuesday morning. The district returning officer and collector K Vijayakarthikeyan started the drive in front of representatives of political parties. The EVMs were later sent to strongrooms in each assembly constituency. Tirupur district has 3,343 polling stations in eight assembly constituencies, where 4,015 ballot units, 4,015 control units and 4,350 VVPAT will be used. Palladam constituency got the highest number of EVMs – 658 control units, 658 ballot units and 713 VVPATs — for the 548 polling stations there. Tirupur (north) constituency, which has 535 polling stations, received 642 ballot units and control units each and 696 VVPATs. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/evms-randomized-in-tirupur/articleshow/81417899.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||Now, SOG to investigate theft of silver slabs in city||JAIPUR: A day after the reports accusing Jaipur police of not taking the silver slabs recovered from the arrested accused on record in connection with the multi-crore theft, director general of police (DGP), M L Lathar shifted the investigation of the case to the Special Operation Group (SOG) wing of Rajasthan police. According to police, Lathar on Monday spoke to the commissioner of police Anand Srivastav on the matter and had asked if the reports saying police concealed the silver slabs were true. In the evening, Lathar ordered the shifting of the investigation to the SOG wing of Rajasthan police. “Yes, the investigation would now be done by the SOG wing of Rajasthan police,” said Ajay Pal Lamba while talking to TOI. However, refuting reports saying police had recovered two silver slabs from those arrested in the silver theft case and has not put in on record, senior police officers of Jaipur police on Monday said they had vital clues on the whereabouts of the kingpin Shekhar Agarwal. Police commissioner Anand Srivastav, facing criticism over the department’s role in handling the case said, “First, we recovered Rs 18 lakh from one of the accused which was given to him by Agarwal in lieu of their help in the digging of tunnel. We have found Rs 50,000 in his bank accounts. It is clear that no silver slabs were ever recovered.” “At the same time, even if we had recovered silver slabs in a theft case of valued at crores of rupees and had shown the recovery from the labourers, it would have benefited Shekhar. After the arrest, he can make a plea in the court that he had been wrongly implicated. As per our information, Shekhar is a big trader who deals with sale and purchase of silver slabs and it was found that he had even sold these silver slabs to some of the jewelers in the city in the market price with bills and everything,” Srivastav added. “In theft cases, recovery has to be handled carefully. We are on the job and will clear all doubts created by some people for their vested interests,” said a senior officer. Senior officers of Jaipur police said some people for their own benefits are trying to twist the case in a wrong direction. “We have got concrete clues on the whereabouts of Agarwal and he will be caught soon,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-sog-to-investigate-theft-of-silver-slabs-in-city/articleshow/81419233.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Residents of VKR Avenue demand drinking water||Coimbatore: DMK cadres and residents of VKR Avenue near GN Mills staged a protest in front of the city corporation office in Thudiyalur on Tuesday demanding regular drinking water supply to the area.Drinking water is now supplied to the area only once in two to three weeks, the protesters said. “They used to get water once in 10 days. Water pressure is so low that it takes three hours to fill seven buckets. While there is sufficient water in reservoirs, why can’t the corporation supply water regularly?” asked K Chandrasekaran, secretary of DMK’s 3rd ward.Residents are forced to shell out a substantial amount to buy water, Chandrasekaran said. “Whenever we raised the issue, officials came up with an excuse or other. They should focus on repairing pipeline leaks.”The protesters left the spot after corporation officials held talks with them.Corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Panidan inspected the water supply augmentation project being implemented in Thudiyalur, Mettupalayam Road, VG Rao Nagar and Varadharajulu Nagar later in the day.Meanwhile, members of the Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association, Kaushika River Farmers Committee, Thadagam Valley Mineral Resources Protection Committee and Social Justice Party staged a protest in front of south tahsildar office and urged the government to take action against the illegal brick kiln units in Thadagam valley. Steps should be taken to rejuvenate Kaushika River and Sanganoor pallam, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-of-vkr-avenue-demand-drinking-water/articleshow/81417904.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Court seeks cops’ reply on plea for FIR against Kangana||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Wednesday sought a status report from Delhi Police on a plea seeking lodging of an FIR against actress Kangana Ranaut, who during the ongoing farmers’ protest against the agri laws made a series of tweets allegedly aimed at defaming and inciting hatred towards the Sikh community. Metropolitan magistrate Amardeep Kaur directed police to file an action taken report by April 24 on a complaint filed by Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president, Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee. Sirsa said that Rannaut in her series of tweets aimed to defame the Sikh community and the farmers. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-seeks-cops-reply-on-plea-for-fir-against-kangana/articleshow/81438445.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Two SSIs held for accepting Rs 1,700 bribe||COIMBATORE: Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption sleuths arrested two special sub-inspectors (SSIs) attached to the Variety Hall Road police station here on Tuesday for accepting a bribe of Rs 1,700 from a man. A DVAC official said the sub-inspectors, Irulappan, 57, and M Ganeshan, 53, demanded money from Sridhar, a Kovaipudur resident, to release his bike. “Irulappan seized the bike from Sridhar for drunken driving on February 27. Then he demanded Rs 6,000 for releasing the bike without registering a case. When Sridhar said he was not in position to arrange the money, Irulappan asked him to give Rs 3,000. But Sridhar again expressed his inability to give Rs 3,000,” the official said. Irulappan then handed over the bike to SSI Ganeshan, who climbed down from earlier demands and accepted to release the bike if Sridhar gave him Rs 1,700, the official added. Before the fixed date, Sridhar approached the DVAC and complained about the incident. Subsequently, DVAC sleuths laid a trap to catch the SSIs red-handedly. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-ssis-held-for-accepting-rs-1700-bribe/articleshow/81417906.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||Activists sour over Chicalim priest’s ‘abuse’||VASCO: Various organisations, including Goencho Avaaz and Gakuved (Federation of Gauda Kunbi Velip and Dhangar) and villagers of Chicalim and St Jacinto island have condemned the incident in which the parish priest of Chicalim Fr Bolmax Pereira and Stephanie Lucas, the newly elected member of Chicalim panchayat, were abused by a group of politically-affiliated workers and have demanded action against the abusers. As reported erlier, a complaint has been lodged at the Vasco police station naming the personal assistant to a minister. The incident ws a fallout of attempts made by this group to say that Lucas was BJP-supported after her election. While the Goencho Awaaz said that they will push in for a proper FIR against the culprits, Gakuved leaders are visiting Lucas who was elected ST candidate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/activists-sour-over-chicalim-priests-abuse/articleshow/81419257.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly polls: First-timers and young voters are a silent tsunami||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s tryst with assembly poll is less than a month away. Yet, parties ‒ old and new ‒ and poll veterans are yet to say anything to make first-time voters turn their heads. Reason: They have no clue. For the record, more than 21 lakh first-time voters have entered the poll rolls this year. This might look minuscule, but it is not. In the 2016 assembly election, just 5 lakh popular votes were responsible for the DMK’s defeat. Five lakh votes meant 38 seats less than its rival AIADMK, and five years in the Opposition. Seen in this context, the 21 lakh-plus first-time voters are indeed crucial this time. Unlike politicians who are at a loss to decipher priorities of the first-timers, the latter are pretty aware and are clear about what they lack and, hence, what they want. From climate change to metro and such other infrastructure, they have their own bucket-list of expectations and woes. S Sruuthi can’t wait to get her finger inked. The 18-year-old B Com student of MOP Vaishnav talks of global warming and climate change, and says, “Kerala has made it mandatory to plant one mango tree and one jack fruit tree to get a house registered. Similarly, if it is made compulsory for every household in Tamil Nadu to plant two trees, there will be no trace of pollution and there will abundant fresh air.” Many youngsters TOI spoke to say it does not matter what happened in the past. Now is the time to make progress with a new vigour. B Jagath Prasad, a final-year economics student at Loyola College, is aware that only two political combinations were in power in Tamil Nadu for the past 55 years. “Now I want better, if not best, infrastructure for my state and the city. The party I am voting for should have realistic manifestos that discuss traffic congestion and explain their unkept promises on environment. Central funds allocation to Tamil Nadu should be done in a transparent manner so that the Chennai Metro does not end up like Bengaluru, Delhi or Kolkata, metros which are unable to live up to the promised standards. Sudha Vendhan, 18, is eager to vote but is worried at the absence of such basic amenities like napkin vending machines at public places in the city. She had a torrid time during one such emergency while travelling in a bus. “It was an unforgettable experience; I was looking for a sanitary pad kiosk at every bus station, but to no avail. If we can introduce parked cycle zones at metro stations, why not install sanitary napkin vending kiosks as well?” S Narayanan, a student of Stanley Medical College and Hospital, says pandemic was an eye-opener. “As a country, we were unprepared for such a calamity,” he said, adding: “In terms of facilities, government institutions should be on a par with private ones. Leave alone air-conditioned amenities, we should at least have proper toilet facilities with running water,” says the 21-year-old. Second-year engineering student Naresh Kumar, 21, feels one cannot erase corruption completely, but parties should try to bring it down. “I plan to do an in-depth study about my constituency, candidates, and the party. Also, it is painful to see the pathetic state of our roads, especially in interior Tamil Nadu,” he said. Twenty-year-old Sai Shaarang of Chromepet, doing a 3D animation course at Loyola College, is at ease while discussing even such touchy issues like reservation. “First, the quota system in the state should benefit all. The present ratio is skewed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/first-timers-and-young-voters-are-a-silent-tsunami/articleshow/81417911.cms||Neeraja Ramesh
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Plantation for ecology park at Bopal dumpsite begins||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has eradicated the landfill site in Bopal and has begun work on setting up an ecology garden in the area. The AMC began plantation at the site on Monday.The AMC had completely freed the area of garbage in December and had begun work on levelling the site. On Monday, the AMC began plantation work at the former landfill site. The ecological garden will have an open gymnasium, a children’s play area, a small lake with a fountain and other features. The AMC will soon begin work on other facilities at the site.The park will cover 22,000sq m. The AMC deodorized the soil at the site and sanitreated it, which involves a non-hazardous mixture of mineral and herbal components that control the decomposition of organic waste material.The Rs 3.5 crore project also involves the laying of a new top layer of soil to hold moisture and bind the roots of plants. The top layer will get black soil to make it more fertile. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plantation-for-ecology-park-at-bopal-dumpsite-begins/articleshow/81419268.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Surat||Surat: Three professors among 127 test positive||SURAT: Three professors including a college principal and as many students were among the 127 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Even as the government and civic body have been urging people to wear face masks amid rising infection cases, SMC officials found that the college principal tested positive and did not wear a mask. "How can students be expected to wear masks when their own teachers don’t?,'' said an SMC official. Till now, 99,657 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in schools and colleges of which 64 students and teachers were found positive. SMC has asked schools and colleges to direct their students not to come to the institutions if they or any of their family members were infected. If any student has a travel history outside the state, he/she must get themselves tested and only then, they must be allowed to attend the schools or colleges. "Those schools which have air conditioners in the classrooms should provide ventilation and keep the windows open for air circulation to halt the spread of the virus. Extra curricular activities must also be avoided for the next two months,'' SMC official said. SMC has also asked all educational institutions to close their canteens and make sure that no one is allowed inside campus without masks. The civic body has warned of strict action if any educational institution is found violating Covid-19 guidelines. "Ever since the educational institutions were reopened, the number of Covid-19 cases among students and their families are on the rise and we have come to know that the guidelines are not being followed in schools and colleges,'' a senior official added. Tuesday’s 127 cases were the highest in the past few weeks. Also, 86 patients recovered and got discharged. The recovery rate now is 96.49% in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-profs-among-127-test-positive/articleshow/81416743.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chennai||Delay in getting messages on jab confirmation irks elderly||Chennai: Senior citizens from Chennai's western suburbs, who took their Covid-19 vaccine shots last week, complained that they were yet to receive text messages confirming their first dose of vaccination. Hospitals in Avadi, Ambattur, Thirunindravur and Tiruvallur attributed the delay to technical glitches in the Union government's Co-Win portal. Dean of Tiruvallur Government Hospital Arasi Srivatsan said that the server was very slow and initially it took up to 30 minutes to add download or add a photo. Six to ten patients had to wait in the meanwhile. "Now, we have been instructed to note down their Aadhaar card details and mobile numbers so that the acknowledgment could be sent later. Our primary aim was to ensure that senior citizens and others did not face any difficulties when they are at the hospital for vaccination," she said. Public too accept this fact. V Rengachari from Thirunindravur said that except the text message issue, there was nothing to complain about the quality of service offered at the health centre. While Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the district issue hand-written notes to people after vaccination, private hospitals give cards, said T Sadagopan, resident of Avadi. Bhaskaran, a resident of Thiruvallur said, "Unless we receive the message, we will not be able to download the certificate online. In case a person travelled to another district due to work or personal reasons, he/she will be in a position to get their second dose at a nearby hospital. Over there, only certificates, confirming the date of first dose and vaccine name (Covishield or Covaxin), will help. Hand-written notes, cards or oral claims will cause unnecessary confusions". According to official data, 35,713 people were vaccinated in Thiruvallur so far. Of them, nearly 6,000 frontline workers got their jabs last week. "This bulk process could have made the servers slow," said an official from Thiruvallur health department. He, however, agreed to sort the issue soon and take cases of people, travelling out of town, on priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/delay-in-getting-messages-on-jab-confirmation-irks-elderly/articleshow/81417910.cms||Ram Sundaram
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hotel manager deposes in Hema Upadhyay case||Mumbai: A hotel manager from Jaipur appeared before the Dindoshi sessions court on Tuesday to depose in the December 2015 Hema Upadyay and her lawyer’s murder case. The witness told the court that on December 2, 2015, all the accused —Vidyadha Rajbhar, Vijaykumar Rajbhar and Pradeep Rajbhar — had booked a room in his hotel. So far, four accused have been arrested and are facing trial, including Hema’s husband Chintan Upadyay who allegedly conspired to kill his estranged wife. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hotel-manager-deposes-in-hema-upadhyay-case/articleshow/81420940.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||Kids flee homes to meet online ‘lovers’ as communication gap with parents widens||PANAJI: Unbeknown to her parents, a 14-year-old girl from Mapusa recently left her house and travelled to Vasco to celebrate the birthday of her ‘boyfriend’ whom she had met on Instagram. When she was traced in the port town with the boy the following day, rescuers were shocked to discover that there was a complete disconnect between the teen and her parents. Hers is not the only case. The One-Stop Centre (OSC) at Bambolim reports at least five to six instances each month wherein police complaints are lodged by desperate parents over missing daughters who have yet to attain legal age. The age group of such children is 13-17 years. It is often found that the girl in question and her parents do not share a healthy dialogue. Then there is also parental neglect, an issue that is common among all social strata. “In a majority of such incidents, we find that the parents are educated and well-to-do, but have little communication with their children. The disconnect is glaring,” said Emidio Pinho, coordinator at the OSC. The centre, an initiative of the Union ministry of women and child development, provides a range of services, including police facilitation, medical aid, psycho-social counselling and legal counselling under one roof. Recounting a case that occurred during the Covid-induced lockdown last year, Pinho said a 13-year-old girl fled from her home and, despite travel restrictions, managed to cross over to Karnataka in her parents’ car to meet her boyfriend. “When we had to go to Karnataka to bring her back during the lockdown, we had to obtain permission to cross the border,” he said. Parents’ ignorance about the features on mobile phones, coupled with their inability to understand the type of content their children view on the internet only aggravates the matter. “In one of the cases that we helped, the girl had made her parents buy her a high-end phone after convincing them that homework and communication with her school was possible only through such a device. It was appalling because her parents used a phone that had basic features while the child used a sophisticated device,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kids-flee-homes-to-meet-online-lovers-as-communication-gap-with-parents-widens/articleshow/81419308.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||State crosses 1.5L count at vax centres||Kolkata: Bengal recorded the highest ever turnout at the covid-19 vaccination centres on Tuesday with the number crossing the 1.5 lakh count. A total of 1,60,435 recipients took the vaccine shot across the 1916 vaccination sites spread over the state. State health department sources said that the state has the capacity to run around 5000 vaccination sites in a day. But the glitches in Co-Win 2.0 was not allowing the scale up. “The 3rd phase of Covid vaccination using the new version Co-Win is gradually picking up momentum. For two successive days it crossed the one lakh mark and today crossed even the 1.5 lakh mark. The portal issue was somewhat resolved today,” said director of health services Ajay Chakraborty. Of the total vaccinated on Tuesday 54,782 were in the age group 60 plus and 19,234 were in the age group 45-59 with co morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-crosses-1-5l-count-at-vax-centres/articleshow/81417909.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Microorganisms can work against microplastics||AHMEDABAD: The invisible plastic demon that many tend to overlook is microplastics. Experts now point out that PET bottles, pipes and utility goods and even polythene bags get segregated due to their value in the scrap market. But a large part of pollution comes from microplastics which make their way into vegetables, water and the air and have implications for human health. “Such plastic material is difficult to identify and stop. Thus, if the environment has bacteria and other microorganisms that can disintegrate it, it can be a major step towards stopping the spread of microplastics,” said a city-based researcher. The nature of commercially used plastic is heterogeneous due to distinct physico-chemical properties. The degradation of such plastics, require different metabolic pathways. Various microorganisms that have putative xenobiotic degradation genes have been reported to assist in the degradation of plastics. In October 2018, scientists at IIT-GN detected microplastics in the Sabarmati. In one of the first-ever study in the state conducted by the Discipline of Earth Sciences of IIT-Gandhinagar on microplastics in the riverine systems, researchers isolated two groups of microplastic — small and large with size ranging 75 micrometres (µm) to 212µm and 212µm to 4mm, respectively — from the Sabarmati river sediments. A micrometre is a millionth of a metre. The most startling fact was that microplastics begin showing up in the Sabarmati after it passes Ahmedabad city, the highest amount of microplastic was detected when the river passed the Pirana dump and sewerage discharge point near it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/microorganisms-can-work-against-microplastics/articleshow/81419272.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Daily Covid cases up by 50% since February 14, but death rate falls sharply||NEW DELHI: There’s some good news amid the worrying resurgence of the Covid-19 pandemic in several states of the country. While daily cases in India have risen by over 50% since February 14, the death rate has dropped sharply with the case fatality rate (CFR) during this period less than half of the CFR in India since the start of the pandemic. CFR, or the death rate, is the percentage of patients who have died out of the total infected with the virus. The CFR from February 14 (when infections began to rise in the country) to March 9 was 0.65%. In comparison, the overall CFR from Covid-19 infections in India is 1.4%. In keeping with the trend worldwide, the Covid-19 CFR has been gradually decreasing in India since before the pandemic hit its peak in mid-September. Daily deaths have increased since the resurgence of the virus but the rise in cases has outstripped the uptick in fatalities. The seven-day rolling average of daily deaths is currently at 101, up from a low of 89 on February 11. This translates to a growth of around 13%, as compared with an over 50% rise in cases. On Tuesday, India recorded 17,879 fresh cases of the coronavirus and 133 deaths. The day’s death toll was the highest since February 24, with Punjab reporting a big surge in fatalities. The state reported 20 deaths from the virus on Tuesday. Maharashtra continued to record the highest fatalities at 56, while Kerala reported 16 deaths. Maharashtra reported 9,927 fresh cases, followed by Kerala (2,316) and Punjab (1,036). Haryana reported 336 cases, the highest since December 30. Fresh cases in Tamil Nadu (569), Gujarat (581) and Chhattisgarh (390) were the highest since January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-covid-cases-up-by-50-since-february-14-but-death-rate-falls-sharply/articleshow/81421420.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 121 defaulters’ property sealed||AHMEDABAD: In its continuing drive against property tax defaulters, the AMC sealed 121 more properties, the majority of which were in the Bodakdev ward of the North West Zone, mainly commercial properties situated on SG Road and Sindhu Bhavan Road. The AMC sealed the properties for not paying dues ranging from Rs 4,000 to 4.8 lakh. AMC officials said in one case a tenant at Sarthak II opposite Rajpath Club had failed to pay his tax of Rs 4,100, the only property sealed for default of below Rs 5,000. Officials said properties at Sarthak II, Maruti Crystal, Sarthik Square, Shapath III, Aristha, Galaxy Complex, Advait complex, Venus Benecia, Manek Opers Association and Sarjan Tower were among the others sealed. The highest default was for a property at Sarthik Square on SG Road, whose owner owed Rs 4.73 lakh. Of the 121 properties, 32 had defaulted on over Rs 1 lakh. In the West Zone, the AMC sealed a property at Dev Krupa Apartments in Vasna for a default of Rs 15.52 lakh, one on the eight floor of Corporate House near Dinesh Hall (Rs 2.2 lakh), Gopal Palace (Rs 1.9 lakh), Maharana Pratap Centre (Rs 1.7 lakh). Properties in Shivalik Plaza and Loha Bhuvan and Popular House were also sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/121-defaulters-property-sealed/articleshow/81419266.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||225 of 1,479 turn up for vaccination in Chd, only 1 came for 2nd dose||Chandigarh: On Monday, 225 healthcare workers received the Covishield shots out of 1,479 targeted beneficiaries. Only one healthcare worker took the second dose. While 328 frontline workers were inoculated out of 1,944 beneficiaries. Till date, 10 adverse events have been reported. There were 553 healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated on Monday out of 3,423 targeted beneficiaries. Ten sites each were operational for the health care and frontline workers. Also, out of 29,149 targeted beneficiaries, 9,468 healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated till date. Government Medical College & Hospital in Sector 32 again had the least attendance for the healthcare workers where out of 211, only one received the vaccination for the second dose, while none came for the first dose. At all the three sites of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, only 122 got the shots out of 564 targeted beneficiaries. The site at ITBP had the maximum footfall where out of 112 frontline workers, 80 were inoculated, while at the police hospital only 37 turned out for the vaccine out of 427 beneficiaries. City among 5 worst performers There are only five states/UTs where the healthcare workers have less than 40% coverage are Chandigarh (33.1%), Punjab (36.7%), Tamil Nadu (36.7%), Nagaland (25.5%) and Puducherry (22.6%)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/225-of-1479-turn-up-for-vaccination-in-chd-only-1-came-for-2nd-dose/articleshow/80938140.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cops find Rashika’s ‘missing’ mobile, tab||KOLKATA: A ‘missing’ mobile phone that 25-year-old Rashika Jain had reportedly used to send messages to her family members hours before her death — and one that her family believes might hold the key to her mysterious death on February 16 earlier last month — is finally in the possession of police. The detective department has also recovered her personal tab, the password of which Rashika had shared with her brother Rishav. Cops said they are now sending both electronic items to the central forensic lab to try and get leads from them. “If required, we might even take the help of CFSL at either Chandigarh and Hyderabad,” claimed a police source. Police sources said that they had gone to the DL Khan road residence of Rashika’s in-laws and recovered the electronic items. The Jain family have also identified both. Rashika, a highly educated woman, who completed her higher studies in Singapore and hails from a business family in Alipore, was found dead outside the residence of her in-laws on February 16. A CCTV footage had shown her falling from the terrace. “We have known from the beginning about the various messages Rashika had sent to her family members hours before her death. The fact that she shared the passwords hint that we might land on something crucial,” said a police source. Jt CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma confirmed that a few seizures have been made in this case but refused to share details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-find-rashikas-missing-mobile-tab/articleshow/81417961.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||74 projects in Maha face axe over non-compliance of rules||NAGPUR: The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has warned of revoking stage-I forest clearance to 74 linear projects in Maharashtra for not complying with various stipulated conditions under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980. Of these, 20 include power transmission lines, 47 road development and 7 railway projects. The projects require a diversion of 948 hectares land, equivalent to 1,772 football fields. MoEFCC officials, who did not want to be named, confirmed that on March 8, the environment ministry regional office has written to the state principal secretary (forest) that as per the Centre’s decision, stage-I approvals granted by the MoEFCC should be submitted by the user agencies and the state governments by March 31, 2021. The decision was taken at the meeting of group on infrastructure for linear projects on December 4, 2020, expressing serious concerns over the pendency of a large number of proposals at the user agency level, which are pending stage-II approval, even though stage-I clearance under FCA has been accorded long back. The validity of most of these proposals has expired. Hence, a timeline was drawn in which it was decided that the proposal which is pending for more than three years — complete compliance was to be submitted by the user agency by January, 2021. Besides, the proposal which was pending up to 2-3 years, compliance was to be submitted by February, and for those pending up to 2 years, compliance was to be submitted by March. However, as the state failed to do the needful, MoEFCC has, on March 8, finally warned of revocation of stage-I clearance. The above decision was also ratified in the fortnightly regional coordination meeting (FRCM) minutes of which were released on March 2. “We have informed the state government that in case of continuance of pendency, environment ministry will be constrained to consider revocation of stage-I proposal,” said officials. Details of linear projects show many projects are pending for stage-II clearance for over 25 years. A road project Nalavadevadi Hiware-Jamb in Satara is pending for diversion of 2.16 hectare forest land since 1997. User agency has failed to comply with FCA conditions. Take for example, Sironcha-Patlangudam highway in Gadchiroli. It needs diversion of 171 hectare forest land and is pending since 2008. A transmission line project from Padghe-Wada in Panvel got stage-I approval in 1995, but compliance report has not been submitted yet. Compliances have also not been done for two crucial railway line projects in Vidarbha. One includes diversion of 19 hectare land in favour of Central Railway for construction of Wardha-Yavatmal-Pusad-Nanded broad gauge track. The project had received stage-I clearance in 2018, but proposal details show it is pending for some shortcomings. Similar is the fate of SECR’s Wadsa-Gadchiroli railway line which needs diversion of 84 hectare land. The project received stage-I approval in April, 2019, but compliance is still awaited. BOX WHAT IS STAGE-I & STAGE-II CLEARANCE * Under the FCA, 1980, anyone wanting to carry out non-forest activities in forest areas has to obtain forest clearance (FC) in two stages by applying to forest department which sends it to the state after verification. The preliminary clearance is called stage-I FC * For stage-II FC, the user agency has to realize cost of compensatory afforestation, net present value (NPV) of land diverted, certificate of completion of rights in terms of FRA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/74-projects-in-maha-face-axe-over-non-compliance-of-rules/articleshow/81419311.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat elderly couple died for measly Rs 12,000||AHMEDABAD: When the four men went to rob the Patels in Thaltej, they thought they would get away with gold bars and lots of cash. What they ended up with was a measly Rs 12,000 and two deaths on their hands. Within three days of the murder of Ashok and Jyotsna Patel, both aged 68, cops nabbed the four men who carried out the gruesome crime, as well as the fifth man who had pointed them in Patels’ direction. While four of them were arrested from various places in Madhya Pradesh, the fifth was nabbed from his house in Janatanagar in the city. They were identified as Bharat Gaud, his brother Rahul Gaud, Ashish Vishwakarma, Brijmohan Gaud and Nitin Gaud, all aged between 19 and 21, . They had been staying in Jantanagar for the past one month and hail from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. During their interrogation, police found out that the plan had been hatched by Bharat so that he could arrange for Rs 2 lakh he needed as dowry to marry off his sister. Police said that the wedding of Bharat and Rahul’s sister Nikita was scheduled on April 25. “Her future in-laws had demanded Rs 2 lakh as dowry but their financial condition was not good. Bharat, who was working as a carpenter for the renovation of the Patels’ bungalow at Shativan Palace Society between February 14 and 24, called his brother-in-law Nitin to discuss the issue. “Nitin stayed at the Patels’ house for around two hours. He told Bharat that as the couple’s son was in Dubai, they probably had gold and cash in crores. He said they could get the money they wanted from the Patels,” the police said. After that, Nitin allegedly decided to conduct the robbery with the help of Rahul, Ashish, and Brijmohan. Police said, “On March 5 morning, they went to Patels’ bungalow and rang doorbell. Jyotsna opened the door. Nitin told her that they wanted to take picture of the furniture in their house and she let them in. Jyotsna went upstairs to perform pooja. Ashish followed to keep her busy upstairs. Suddenly, Nitin, Brijmohan and Rahul jumped on Ashok and pressed his mouth till he fainted. They dragged him to the bedroom.” Police added, “Having heard Ashok’s voice, Jyotsna began coming down. Nitin and Ashish ran to her. While Ashish pressed her mouth, Nitin slashed her throat a couple of time. When she was in her death throes, they stabbed in her stomach. They then removed some ornaments from Jyotsna’s body, cash from Ashok’s person, and also from the drawers. They found around Rs 12,000.” Then, Rahul and Brijmohan decided to flee in Patels’ SUV. Ashish and Nitin were supposed to flee on their motorcycles. But as the car was in first gear, it rammed into the main door of the house, forcing them to abandon the vehicle and make for the bikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/elderly-couple-died-for-measly-rs-12k/articleshow/81419377.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Surat||Three more with UK, South Africa variant found in Surat||SURAT: Reports of three more Covid-19 patients in the city have confirmed that they were infected with the UK and South African strains of the virus. Officials said two patients had UK strain while one was detected with the South Africa strain. A 56-year-old man and his wife (51) staying in Athwa zone were detected with the UK strain while a 41-year-old man in Katargam had the South Africa variant, official said. “In Surat City, we have found three more patients with variant strain (2 UK strain B 1.1.7/1 South Africa B 1.1.351). I appeal to all to use masks without fail and adopt all precautions including avoiding crowded places,” municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani tweeted on Tuesday evening. Pani said these three patients had local travel history and recovered and discharged a few days ago. The reports of their samples, which had been sent to Pune laboratory for testing, arrived on Tuesday. Earlier, in the last week of February, SMC's health department had found three patients with UK strain of coronavirus, which included one 17-year-old boy from Athwa zone and a 45-year-old and 49-year-old woman from Adajan area. “In the wake of new Covid-19 strains cases in Surat, we ask people to follow Covid-19 guidelines and maintain social distancing to halt the spread of the virus. In order to trace infection cases, we are aggressively conducting testing and isolating them. The emphasis is on those people who have a travel history within and outside the state, he added. Testing centres have been set up at the city’s entry points, bus depot and airport among other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-more-with-uk-south-africa-variant-found-in-surat/articleshow/81416788.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chennai||Dry, hot days in offing for Chennai, suburbs||CHENNAI: Stepping out in the sun in the last few days was difficult. Now, weathermen have forecast more such days as low humidity levels in the mornings due to dry incoming seabreeze are making even a slight increase of one or two degrees above normal temperature feel hotter. But as humidity picks up in the night, it is making nights warmer. While some parts of southern Tamil Nadu are expected to get rain till March 12 due to a trough in the easterlies, the rest of the state including Chennai is likely to stay dry and hot.  For the next 48 hours, maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover at 34°C and 24°C in the city and the suburbs while the sky condition may be partly cloudy during morning and clear thereafter, IMD has forecast.  Since the beginning of March, day temperatures had been a degree or two above normal while humidity dropped below 50% on a few days leaving days feeling hotter than usual. This, officials said, was due to a high pressure over Bay of Bengal sending in strong and dry easterlies into the land that is resulting in low humidity levels during the days, which later picks up in the nights.  On Tuesday, Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a maximum of 32.6°C and 33.2°C which were only 0.3°C above normal in both the stations. Humidity levels were at 73% and 74% in both the stations. Since humidity picks up in the night, nights are becoming warmer with 25.2°C and 25°C recorded on early Tuesday morning before sunrise. While high humidity could lead to sweating as the body tries to cool itself, low humidity leads to instant evaporation of the sweat as the body tends to feel more heat.  “The rise in temperature by plus or minus one or two degrees will continue for the next few days and climatologically this is normal for the month of March,” said N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD, Chennai. “When the temperatures rise, relative humidity drops. But with temperatures remaining around 33°C, you will feel the heat only when you step out in the sun. Only when temperatures rise to about 37°C, you will start feeling the heat even when you are indoors,” he added. Weather blogger Pradeep John said while the present conditions may continue for the next few days, weather models indicate a weather disturbance by the end of the month, which may improve the present conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dry-hot-days-in-offing-for-city-suburbs/articleshow/81417937.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Bareilly||2 PFI activists from Kerala sent to 2-day STF remand by Mathura court||Agra: Two alleged activists of Popular Front of India (PFI), who were arrested in Lucknow last month for allegedly planning to carry out blasts in Uttar Pradesh, were on Tuesday remanded to two-day STF custody by a court in Mathura. The court had earlier asked the police to produce the two Kerala men, who were lodged in a Lucknow jail since their arrest, on an application filed by STF which wanted to interrogate them. Just a few days after their arrest, the STF claimed that the two accused, Anshad Badruddin and Firoz Khan, had “confessed” to their involvement in funding journalist Siddique Kappan and his three accomplices to foment trouble after the death of a Hathras gang-rape victim. Raising objections over the STF plea, defence lawyer Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi said that the application seeking custody was “baseless”. “They just want to harass them and plant some false evidence against them,” he said, adding that investigation agency did not establish any direct connection of the two accused with Kappan and other three PFI activists. Overruling the objections, the court sent the two men to STF remand. The court directed police to ensure that the two men are not harassed by investigating officer or any policeman during their 48 hour custody. “Also, if the accused’s lawyer wants, he may be present during investigation. But he would not interfere and maintain distance from the accused,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-pfi-activists-from-kerala-sent-to-2-day-stf-remand-by-mathura-court/articleshow/81416786.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Need study to ensure Banganga water flow is not hit in future’||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Tuesday sought the Centre’s assistance, through the Central Board of Ground Water, to conduct a proper scientific study to know whether the natural flow of spring water to the Banganga Tank at Malabar Hill, would be affected in future due to the proposed construction of a highrise near it.“Banganga would be a dead monument if water supply will stop,’’ said a bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta. It heard a petition by the Gaud Saraswat Brahmin Temple Trust that extensive piling and construction work was affecting the Grade-I structure and its water had already turned muddy.The judges told additional solicitor general Anil Singh that while there is no reason to disbelieve two reports by the State’s Directorate of Archaeology and Museums that the water quality is not affected, they want to know that after construction is completed there will be no obstruction to the water flow of the tank and its water quality. “After all the heritage structure has to be preserved,’’ said the Chief Justice, posting the matter on Wednesday for Singh to inform which “competent responsible officer’’ of the board in Mumbai can be deputed to undertake the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-need-study-to-ensure-banganga-water-flow-is-not-hit-in-future/articleshow/81420997.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||DEO tells schools to produce fire NOCs by March 12 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: All primary, secondary and higher secondary schools in Ahmedabad have been directed to furnish details of fire safety measures implemented by them in their campuses by March 12. A notification in this direction was issued by the district education officer (DEO), Ahmedabad on Tuesday where schools have been asked to produce valid fire safety no-objection certificate (NOC) by Friday. This decision comes a few days after a division bench of the Gujarat high court said they were shocked to learn that nearly 5,200 schools in the state are operating without NOCs. The court made the observations while hearing a public interest litigation about a fire in ICU of Shrey Hospital where eight patients died. There are close to 650 schools in Ahmedabad and they all are required to give details of the necessary fire safety equipment installed and NOCs obtained by March 12, said sources in the education department. For schools that have initiated the process of getting NOC, they will have to produce necessary documentary evidence, sources said. For schools that are outside the corporation limits, instructions have been given to the heads of such schools to provide details of fire safety measures taken within the next one week, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deo-tells-schools-to-produce-fire-nocs-by-march-12/articleshow/81419325.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Excel sheet for education with a 24% share in the pie||NEW DELHI: Education continues to be a priority for Delhi government as evidenced by the allocation of 24% of the state budget to it. Alongside this big allocation, there was the announcement on Tuesday of new educational institutions: a virtual model school, law university, 100 schools of specialised excellence, a sainik school and a Delhi Armed Forces Preparatory Academy. These initiatives add to the recently announced plan for the Delhi School Education Board. “Through the new education board, the government wants to nurture children who are patriotic and are prepared to uphold the responsibility of the country in every domain in the future,” Sisodia said in his budget speech on Tuesday. He said there would be 20-25 government schools under the new board’s ambit initially. “We believe all government and private schools will want to come under its aegis of their own accord in the next 4-5 years,” Sisodia added. The minister also made a pitch for amending the Delhi School Education Act, 1973, and Delhi University Act, 1922. “These laws are not aligned to the ethos of the new education policy. We have requested the central government to revise the provisions of the Delhi University Act and have started working on the Delhi School Education Act,” Sisodia said. As for the Deshbhakti curriculum, Sisodia said, “The task of preparing a syllabus for classes nursery to VIII is in the final stages. I am happy to have announced the very same fact in the last budget of the Delhi government, before the new education policy was even introduced and we started bringing Early Childhood Education into mainstream education. The new syllabus will focus on personality development of the student from the primary level.” Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, and member of the expert committee on the new curriculum, elaborated, “It will have national and international flavours and will be a mix of the local and glocal with international good practices based on knowledge, skills and emphasis on indigenous practices.” Building on the adoption of technology forced by the pandemic, Sisodia introduced the Virtual Delhi Model School. “This school will not have four walls or a building, but there would be regular teaching-learning, examinations and assessments,” he said. “It will be my endeavour to have the school functional by the next session. Any child living anywhere in India who wants to benefit from the Delhi education model can be a student,” he declared. The government plans to establish 100 schools of specialised excellence, where the focus will be on body language and personality development. Also taking shape are the Sports University, New Delhi Law University and Teachers University are taking shape While highlighting that since 2015, Delhi has seen a 36.4 % rise in higher education seats and 66.4% in technical education, Sisodia said, “A lot still remains to be accomplished.”Since AAP came to power, the education allocation has been around 25% of the total outlay. It was around 13% in 2013-14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/excel-sheet-for-education-with-a-24-share-in-the-pie/articleshow/81417970.cms||Shradha Chettri
March 10, 2021||Noida||Two dead, 5 injured as truck hits parked lorry on Eastern Peripheral Expressway||NOIDA: In yet another accident in Gautam Budh Nagar, two persons were killed and five others sustained injuries after a speeding truck crashed into a stationary lorry parked on a side of the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) in the early hours of Tuesday. The accident occurred at 4.30am when the truck ferrying a group of buffalo traders and their livestock (25 calves) from Punjab to UP’s Amethi rammed the Gujarat-registered lorry near the Sirsa cut at high speed. While the truck driver, identified as Palwinder Singh, fled the spot, the deceased were identified as Amethi resident Amirullah and Rajpura’s Jaswinder Singh. They were seated on the front seat towards the left side of the truck, police said. Relatives of the deceased said that Palwinder who was driving at high speed possibly dozed off and failed to spot the stationary lorry. “The truck hit the lorry from the left side exposing Amirullah and Jaswinder to fatal injuries. He possibly jumped off the vehicle after the accident,” said Kala, a relative of Jaswinder. Five other passengers who suffered injuries include Suryabhan Singh, Ram Farep, Asir Ahmed, Surbhan and Mohit, all belonging to UP’s Sultanpur district. The traders were carrying the 25 baby buffaloes for cattle rearing in Amethi and some of the baby buffaloes too suffered fractures. Kasna SHO Vivek Trivedi told TOI that “no complaint has been lodged in the accident so far”. In another accident, six people, including two women, have been injured after a speeding Tempo Traveller travelling from Greater Noida to Noida overturned after losing balance while trying to overtake another vehicle on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway early on Tuesday. The vehicle was ferrying 12 passengers from Greater Noida towards Noida when the accident occurred around 9.15 am, police said. Expressway station officer Yatindra Yadav told TOI that the injured — Sadesh Bhati, Anuj Kumar Singh, RK Sharma, Suberam, Sonam and Sakshi Tyagi — were taken to Felix hospital in Sector 137. No FIR has been lodged in the case and the driver too was allowed to go. “No complaint has been received so far as passengers left for their destination while those in the hospital are yet to lodge a complaint,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-dead-5-injured-as-truck-hits-parked-lorry-on-epe/articleshow/81421057.cms||Shikha Salaria
March 10, 2021||Surat||Villagers protest removal of idol from old temple inside airport campus||Surat: A group of residents from Gaviar village staged a dharna and blocked Dumas road for a few minutes on Tuesday morning after they found Lalbai Mata idol allegedly abandoned near a newly constructed temple. The villager alleged that the idol was removed from the old temple located inside the Surat airport campus without taking them into confidence.Airport officials claimed that they took the actions in consultation with local leaders and as per the orders received from senior Airports Authority of India (AAI). However, police said that due to unplanned actions by the AAI officials led to the ruckus. Police later convinced the villagers to end the protest and assured of amicable solution. After blocking the road, locals staged a dharna outside the new temple. “The idol was found abandoned near the new temple. It must have been left here during the night without informing villagers,” said Bipin Patel, a villager. “We had recently agreed to allow shifting of the Lalbai Mata temple but they wanted it to be done respectfully after following all rituals.” “It was decided in a previous meeting to shift the idol from the old temple to new. As agreed by local MLA and some leaders, we executed the shift on Monday evening as the muhurat was in the evening,” said Sajid Hakim, deputy general manager (civil), Surat airport. “Due to unplanned execution by the AAI officials, the situation turned tense. However, the situation is under control and things are normal now,” said a senior police official. The old temple is in the middle of the planned parallel taxiway and the villager had agreed to shift it. Villagers from Gaviar, Dumas, Bhimpore and Sultanabad worship the goddess and visit the temple during festivals. However, entry to the temple was blocked by AAI for the last few months for security reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/villagers-protest-removal-of-idol-from-old-temple-inside-airport-campus/articleshow/81416832.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Education & health boost for Delhi in ‘deshbhakti budget’||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic, which has wrecked economies around the world, has not deterred the Delhi government from pegging its budget estimate for 2021-22 at Rs 69,000 crore, a 6.15% hike over that of the previous year. This was announced by deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, in the assembly on Tuesday. The government has allocated 24% to education and 14% to health — its abiding priorities — and 13% to transport and roads, besides continuing all the subsidies. However, the budget comes coated in patriotic colours with Sisodia calling it a ‘deshbhakti budget’, announcing 75 weeks of programmes, beginning March 12, to mark 75 years of Independence, leading up to August 15, 2022. Besides highlighting the role of freedom fighters, the city will showcase the “Kejriwal model of governance” and the journey of Delhi in the past 75 years and its vision for 2047 (100 years of independence). Challenge 2047: Per Capita Income At Singapore LevelDeputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said his government wants to elevate Delhi’s per capita income to the level of Singapore by that year. Achieving this aim, according to government sources, is a difficult task but not impossible. The actual per capita income of Singapore in 2020-21 is $53,424 (Rs 39,71,278) as against Delhi’s $4,762 (Rs 3,54,004). The budget is aimed at driving economic recovery through spending on schemes, programmes and projects. In the budget, 55% of funds have been assigned to subsidy schemes, programmes and developmental work and 45% to establishment and administration which, according to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, reflects efficient financial management. The government plans to generate 62% of the receipts from tax revenue, 9% from GST compensation and 14% from small savings loan among others. The “Deshbhakti Budget” has put a Rs 45-crore tag on installation of 500 high masts for unfurling the Tricolour. An amount of Rs 10 crore each has been earmarked for highlighting and celebrating the lives of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and the father of Indian Constitution, Dr B R Ambedkar. In an interesting move, Delhi government has proposed the opening of a sainik school and a Delhi armed forces preparatory academy and allocated Rs 25 crore for promoting dhyan and yoga by sending instructors to colonies. A “Deshbhakti curriculum” is being introduced in all government schools by assigning one period daily to inculcate pride and sentiments of unity and brotherhood and love and respect for the country. The budget has proposed a “Mentorship Volunteer” programme, “Youth for Education”, to be launched this year to make education a mass movement. Grand events will be organised under “Festival of India” and an “Indian Classical Music Festival” has also been scheduled. Senior citizens above the age of 75 years will be felicitated across the capital. The government has pointed out the fact that the novel coronavirus pandemic had badly disrupted its financial calculations. “Its impact on the economy resulted in a significant decrease in the government’s tax revenue for the current financial year. Up to January 2021, the collection of tax revenue was approximately 40% less than the budget estimate,” said Sisodia. He said his government is taking steps to improve tax collection. It has commissioned a study on improved GST implementation by checking leakages. Changes are being made in the excise policy too to improve collection. In other significant initiatives, a Covid-19 vaccine will be made available to the people of Delhi free of cost in government hospitals under a new scheme, “Aam Aadmi Free Covid Vaccine”, which has a proposed allocation of Rs 50 crore. An amount of Rs 1,293 crore has been set aside for various capital projects for expansion in health-related infrastructure and redesigning of 19 existing hospitals. Hundred “Mahila Mohalla Clinics” will be opened across the city to give women the confidence to discuss their health issues and get advice and treatment. Under a new scheme — Saheli Samanvay Kendra — 500 aanganwadi hubs are to double up as incubation centres to strengthen the role of women in the economy. The government is also introducing a new scheme, “Suryoday”, under which it will spend Rs 7.2 crore to tackle substance abuse in the capital. For the first time, around 1,600 buses will be added within a year to boost public transport with a final target of an 11,000-strong bus fleet. To ease the commute in various parts of Delhi, the government has prepared three big schemes which are awaiting approval from Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC). These are: East-West Corridor (an elevated and tunnel road between Tikri and Anand Vihar), North-South Corridor (elevated and tunnel road from Signature Bridge to the airport) and an outer road running parallel to the Yamuna, from Signature Bridge to Sarai Kale Khan. The government will also work to remove the mesh of cables crisscrossing various parts of Delhi in the next five years to ensure safety of people and their property as well as to beautify the capital. It has prepared a draft start-up policy and is in the process of finalising it. Watch Arvind Kejriwal hails Delhi budget presented by Manish Sisodia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/challenge-2047-per-capita-income-at-singapore-level/articleshow/81417999.cms||AlokKNMishra
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Proposal for sainik school may require rule tweaks||New Delhi: One of the highlights of Delhi budget presented on Tuesday was the plan to set up a sainik school and a Delhi armed forces preparatory academy in the city. As the sainik schools fall under the defence ministry, the school to be started will follow the policy already laid down, according to a government official.In his budget speech, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “To prepare our children for the security of the country’s borders, we propose to start a new sainik school and a Delhi armed forces preparatory academy in Delhi. There are currently 33 sainik schools across the country but none in Delhi.”An official added, “We will follow whatever processes are required to be observed in setting up the school.” A sainik school is established with the collaboration of the central and state governments, and the majority funding comes from the Centre. When Haryana government earlier also increased the number of sainik schools in that state, it was done after receiving the approval of the Union ministry of defence. Delhi government, in addition, also proposes to set up a Delhi armed forces preparatory academy. “Along with their regular studies, the students will also be prepared for recruitment in the National Defence Academy and other armed forces institutions,” claimed Sisodia.On being asked if the academy would be on the lines of the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun, the government official said that institution would indeed serve as a model. “For all institutions that we have set up, we have looked at the already established models. Then we add our innovations, picking worthy ideas from various international institutions. This makes our institutions different and they have that extra edge,” the official added.Legal experts contended that the state government could establish similarly oriented schools by adopting the model but having a separate nomenclature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/proposal-for-sainik-school-may-require-rule-tweaks/articleshow/81418020.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Agra||ASI official awarded for building childcare room at Taj for nursing mothers||AGRA: Archeological Survey of India (ASI) superintending archeologist (Agra circle) Vasant Swarnkar, who took the initiative of setting up an exclusive air-conditioned room at Taj Mahal for women visitors to breastfeed their babies in private, was awarded for his efforts towards empowerment of women on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday in Delhi. The award, “Recognition of your efforts towards empowerment of women and for being an inspiration for the country” was given to him by the Delhi Commission for Women. Talking to TOI, Swarnkar said it's very encouraging, especially for people who are working in a government sector. “Though I never thought of any awards, this gives a boost to me for continuing such works in future,” he said, adding that this will also motivate others to do good work. Swarnkar said the decision to build the special room was taken after observing the difficulties mothers face while visiting the monuments in finding a secluded spot for nursing their infants. More so, during weekends when due to the heavy rush of tourists it was sometimes impossible for mothers to find a secluded spot to feed their babies. Such facilities should be started at all public and tourist places for nursing women, Swarnkar suggested. The facility of a nursing room at Taj Mahal was started two years ago in August 2019 and later, at Agra Fort. “Around 200 women use this facility at Taj Mahal every week,” said officials. Most of the women who have used this room recorded their appreciation in the visitors’ book, writing comments such as “incredible, much needed facility, comfortable” and someone wrote, “for women’s respect and keep Indian culture alive, its best initiative”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/asi-official-awarded-for-building-childcare-room-at-taj-for-nursing-mothers/articleshow/81416804.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 10, 2021||Agra||2 PFI activists from Kerala sent to 2-day STF remand by Mathura court||AGRA: Two alleged activists of Popular Front of India (PFI), who were arrested in Lucknow last month for allegedly planning to carry out blasts in Uttar Pradesh, were on Tuesday remanded to two-day STF custody by a court in Mathura. The court had earlier asked the police to produce the two Kerala men, who were lodged in a Lucknow jail since their arrest, on an application filed by STF which wanted to interrogate them. Just a few days after their arrest, the STF claimed that the two accused, Anshad Badruddin and Firoz Khan, had “confessed” to their involvement in funding journalist Siddique Kappan and his three accomplices to foment trouble after the death of a Hathras gang-rape victim. Raising objections over the STF plea, defence lawyer Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi said that the application seeking custody was “baseless”. “They just want to harass them and plant some false evidence against them,” he said, adding that investigation agency did not establish any direct connection of the two accused with Kappan and other three PFI activists. Overruling the objections, the court sent the two men to STF remand. The court directed police to ensure that the two men are not harassed by investigating officer or any policeman during their 48 hour custody. “Also, if the accused’s lawyer wants, he may be present during investigation. But he would not interfere and maintain distance from the accused,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-pfi-activists-from-kerala-sent-to-2-day-stf-remand-by-mathura-court/articleshow/81416813.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Midda may have died of illness: Cops||Kolkata: Kolkata police has claimed that DYFI activist Moidul Islam Midda (31) — who reportedly lost his life after attending the Nabanna Abhijan programme of the left on February 11 — carried no visible injuries and that his death could be due to “prolonged illness”. Though the special SIT formed to probe the case — under a special CP — is still probing the case, the final post mortem report has shown that Midda was suffering from kidney and heart ailments. Though he did have an injury on his knee, the autopsy stated that this was not enough to cause death. The report is likely to be submitted before the high court when the SIT submits its report on the death as per court directions. “The probe will continue and take its own course. Only when we collate all our findings can we be able to ascertain the exact cause of death,” said an officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/midda-may-have-died-of-illness-cops/articleshow/81418024.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi budget 2021: Over Rs 9,000 crore for transport, focus on e-vehicles and boosting bus fleet||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s ambitious electric vehicle policy, launched last August, aims at 25% of all vehicles registered in the capital to be EVs in a few years. While presenting the 2021-22 budget on Tuesday, finance minister Manish Sisodia said the government had an aspirational dream to convert the entire transport system of Delhi into an EV system in the next 25 years, when India would celebrate 100th year of Independence. As against the Rs 7,344-crore allocation for the transport sector in 2020-21, which was 11.3% of the total outlay, Sisodia proposed an outlay of Rs 9,394 crore (13.6%) for transport, road and bridges in this budget. While it focuses largely on education and health, a decade ago in 2011, the prime focus of the budget was on public transport, with 25% or around Rs 3,400 crore of the total outlay earmarked for this sector. This came just a year after the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi when major expenditures were incurred on transport infrastructure. Sisodia said that to promote e-buses in the public transport sector, the government was preparing to bring 1,300 of these vehicles on the road, out of which tenders had been put in place for 300 for Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), and these would be operational by December. The rest will be introduced by mid-2022 under the Cluster Scheme, he said. A fleet of 1,600 public buses has been added and, by September 2021, 1,000 more will be there, the deputy chief minister said. The current combined DTC and Cluster Scheme fleet is 6,693, the highest till date in Delhi, and this number will reach a record high of 7,693 in a year. The state government has put a target of a 11,000-bus fleet. Sisodia said the unavailability of land in Delhi was a challenge and the far-sightedness of Delhi government had paved the way for the construction of multi-level bus depots at Vasant Vihar and Hari Nagar, which was being carried out in collaboration with National Building Construction Company. To make bus travel a wonderful experience, the construction of 1,397 bus queue shelters is being undertaken, he said. To promote a spirit of personal independence among women of Delhi, the government had provided the facility of free travel to women in DTC and Cluster buses from October 2019 and the facility will continue in 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-rs-9000cr-for-transport-focus-on-e-vehicles-and-boosting-bus-fleet/articleshow/81418071.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||Rs 1,000 crore not enough to complete Gosi project in 3 years||NAGPUR: Completing the Gosikhurd dam project in three years as announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray may need more funds than Rs 1,000 crore allotted by state finance minister Ajit Pawar in the budget. Sources said an initial estimate of Rs1,500 crore was made by the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC), which instead got Rs1,000 crore for the next financial year. According to latest estimates, work to the tune of Rs5,800 crore remains to be done. By these standards, VIDC needs at least Rs2,000 for each fiscal to finish the work in three years. During his visit to the project in January, Thackeray had said that the dam would be completed in three years. The project that began in 1987 with a cost of over Rs380 crore still remains to be finished. According to the last estimate, the projects needs Rs18,494 crore to be completed. As against this, over Rs12,600 crore have been spent and Rs5,800-odd remain. So far, irrigation potential of 1.35 lakh hectares has been created. To reach the full potential, another over a lakh hectares need to be covered. It is normal for the irrigation projects to not get the entire allocation during the given financial year. In the current year, the state government was supposed to provide Rs733 crore for Gosikhurd project. As against this, Rs480 crore have been received so far. The funds are released as and when work progresses. The remaining amount is expected to be released before end of the current financial year. Since the remaining funds may come late, the amount can be spent till June 2021, said a source. Such delays are common, however. If Gosikhurd does not get enough funds, then allocation would be needed to be hiked in the coming fiscals, said sources. There was a plan to bring 24,000 hectares under irrigation. After that, it is targeted to cover 39,000 hectares and 41,000 hectares respectively. Gosikhurd project has been in the eye of controversy since the last 10 years relating to the tenders granted when Pawar was the state water resources minister. An ACB inquiry continues in the tenders granted earlier. An inquiry is under way for the Jigaon project, another major dam coming up in Buldhana district. Even funds released for Jigaon dam are short by over Rs250 crore as against allocation for the current fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs1000cr-not-enough-to-complete-gosi-project-in-3-years/articleshow/81419344.cms||Shishir Arya
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED’s probe only after I moved to NCP, says Khadse||Mumbai: Former state revenue minister Eknath Khadse on Tuesday told Bombay high court an Enforcement Directorate (ED) inquiry against him in a Pune land deal was only after he moved from BJP to NCP. His counsel, Aabad Ponda, refuted ED’s objection to maintainability of his petition. He said while the complaint was registered in 2016 and a closure report was filed in 2018 by police, ED had not been in the picture, but came in only after he changed parties, so apprehension of arrest was justified. The court adjourned the hearing to March 15. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-eds-probe-only-after-i-moved-to-ncp-says-khadse/articleshow/81421088.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Agra||Killer of mother-daughter duo arrested after being injured in encounter with Agra police||AGRA: The 20-year-old jilted lover who had allegedly stabbed his girlfriend and her mother to death on Monday was arrested after he sustained an injury in a brief encounter with police on Tuesday. The accused — pursuing his graduation — was remanded to judicial custody after being produced in the court, said police. Police said during interrogation, the accused, Govind, confessed to having killed Kamini and her mother Sharda Devi. The accused told police that Kamini had stopped talking to him for the past several days and out of desperation, he went to meet her at her house when her mother caught him. As she tried to scream, he attacked her with a knife and also stabbed Kamini as she tried to protect her mother, said police. Station house officer of Bah police station Vinod Kumar said acting on a tip-off received, the area near Bateshwar was barricaded for checking the vehicles. After some time, when police noticed a motorcycle-borne youth, they signalled him to stop, but he took U-turn and opened fire at police in a bid to escape, said the SHO. In the retaliatory firing, the suspect was injured and shifted to a hospital, said police, adding that they seized an illegal weapon from his possession and impounded the motorcycle. Govind was booked under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 452 (house-trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act. On Monday, Agra SSP Babloo Kumar had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on information leading to the arrest of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/killer-of-mother-daughter-duo-arrested-after-being-injured-in-encounter-with-agra-police/articleshow/81416836.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
March 10, 2021||Goa||Police crack Fatorda murder case, 3 workers nabbed in Mum||MARGAO: The Goa police on Tuesday cracked the Fatorda double murder case with the arrest of three persons in involved in the case at Dadar, Mumbai, with the help of the Mumbai police. The accused, it is learnt, have told the police that they killed the two elderly persons for not having paid their wages for a long time. The accused hit a sledgehammer on their heads to kill them, police sources said. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said that the three accused who have admitted to having committed the murder, were being brought to Goa by a team of Fatorda police. The police revealed the names of the accused as 18-year-old Ravinkumar Shyamkumar Sada from Bihar, Akash Ajaykumar Ghosh, 20, and Adityakumar Ramesh Kharwal, 18, both natives of Jharkhand. Singh said that the trio was planning to board a train to Jharkhand from Mumbai when they were apprehended. The accused were engaged as construction labourers by the deceased, 62-year old Minguel Miranda, a construction contractor, and were staying in a room behind his house at Ambaji, Fatorda. Police sources said that the accused murdered Miranda and his 85-year old mother-in-law Catarina Pinto in their house in the wee hours of Munday and fled to Mumbai. The Fatorda police had on Monday recovered the two-wheeler missing from the Miranda house from near the Vasco railway station. “Extensive searches were made at Vasco and Margao railway stations, and in the trains passing through these stations. Through technical analysis and intelligence collection, all three accused were traced in Dadar, Mumbai. A team of Fatorda police immediately proceeded to Mumbai,” Singh said. The Mumbai police managed to nab the accused based on the photographs of the suspects sent to them by the Goa police. A press note by the Mumbai police stated that they received specific information that the three persons similar in appearance were spotted near Shivaji Park in Dadar, Tuesday morning, following which the police formed several teams and combed the entire area. “The police spotted the three persons who were moving about near the Chaityabhoomi at Shivaji Park and found their movements suspicious. Upon questioning by the police, they confessed to having committed the murder before fleeing from Goa,” the Mumbai police stated in the press note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-crack-fatorda-murder-case-3-workers-nabbed-in-mum/articleshow/81419350.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Lawyers’ murder: FSL test finds car collision evidence||HYDERABAD: Crucial forensic evidence has come out in lawyer couple Gattu Vaman Rao and PV Nagamani’s murder case. The Telangana State Forensic Science Laboratory (TSFSL) has found out traces of temporary registration sticker belonging to the name plate of the accused vehicle on the couple’s vehicle. The FSL said the exchange of material took place when the vehicle of the accused dashed against the Creta SUV of the victims. DNA experts are also analysing the blood samples collected from the accused vehicle to match it with the victims. Ramagundam police led by additional DCP Ashok Kumar are likely to file a chargesheet soon after the DNA report is submitted. The two key accused — Kunta Srinivas and Bittu Srinu — rammed their new Brezza car at a high speed against the SUV of the advocate couple at Kalvacherla near Peddapalli on February 17. After dashing the vehicle, the duo hacked the advocate couple with hunting sickles. Later, the assailants fled away in their car. Police seized the car after arresting the accused. Clues team collected samples from both the cars and sent them for examination. A source in FSL told TOI, “Traces of temporary number plate of the accused vehicle are found on the victims’ car. This links the accused vehicle to the crime scene.” To further link the accused to the crime, DNA experts at the FSL are working on the accused car’s bloodstains. “DNA fingerprinting is being done after taking samples from the bodies of Vaman Rao and Nagamani with that of bloodstains collected from the Brezza car,” said a forensic expert. Ramagundam police said the accused had murdered the couple due to personal rivalry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lawyers-murder-fsl-test-finds-car-collision-evidence/articleshow/81419346.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Steep jump in green budget for 360° strike||NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party government is taking a 360-degree approach to combat air pollution and aims to put an end to it by India’s 100th year of Independence, finance minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday while presenting the Delhi budget 2021-22. To achieve it, the government said, it is giving a strong push towards electric vehicles and adopting measures such as making it mandatory to use anti-smog guns at construction sites. Two anti-smog towers are also in the final stage of installation, Sisodia added. For ecology and environment, Rs 124.8 crore has been set aside as against last financial year’s Rs 52 crore. “As we are approaching a century of our Independence, we would all like to put an end to environmental pollution. Work is being done with a 360-degree approach in this direction under the leadership of chief minister Kejriwal ji,” said Sisodia, adding that implementation of a strong electric vehicles policy was a big step in that direction. “A real-time assessment system to monitor air, water and land pollution is being implemented in collaboration with IIT-Delhi and IIT-Kanpur,” the deputy chief minister added. Mechanical road-sweepers, bio-decomposers to manage stubble and shutting down of thermal plants are some of the measures in this direction, Sisodia pointed out. To maintain green cover in the city, he said, the tree transplantation policy implemented last year will ensure at least 80% of trees required to be cut for any project are transplanted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/steep-jump-in-green-budget-for-360-strike/articleshow/81418041.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||SIT to probe MP Mohan Delkar’s suicide in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Home minister Anil Deshmukh announced an SIT probe into the suicide of 7-time MP Mohan Delkar in a Mumbai hotel after the opposition turned up the heat demanding arrest of API Sachin Waze. Deshmukh said Delkar had named Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator Praful Khoda Patel in his suicide note. Patel was with BJP and had earlier served as minister of state for home in Gujarat when PM Modi was CM. “Delkar said he was facing harassment and insults from Patel, and he had threatened to destroy his image, which is why he was committing suicide,” said Deshmukh. He also said Delkar’s wife Kalaben and son Abhinav had written to him and made the same allegations. Soon after the SIT probe was announced, Delkar’s family including wife, son and daughter met CM Uddhav Thackeray, Dy CM Ajit Pawar and Deshmukh. “They have reposed faith in the police and have asked for police protection because they face threats,” said Deshmukh. Deshmukh also said that in his suicide note, Delkar mentioned that though he was being harassed in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, he had chosen to commit suicide in Mumbai as he had faith in the MVA government. “He was tortured there but he chose to commit suicide here. It shows how much faith he had in Maharashtra and its government,” said Deshmukh. Deshmukh also said an IAS officer Rajkumar Srivastava from MP had come to Nagpur and committed suicide. “This shows people are choosing to come to Maharashtra to commit suicide because they have confidence in the police and government,” Deshmukh said. Fadnavis said an administrator does not belong to a party but is a neutral role. Taking a dig at tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, he added, “Will Mumbai now go from being tourism capital to suicide capital?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sit-to-probe-mp-delkars-suicide/articleshow/81419364.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||District admin to hold local body bypolls for 31 seats within two weeks||NAGPUR: The district collector, following a Supreme Court order, has cancelled the membership of 31 OBC candidates elected in the local civic body polls in January. The re-election process of these vacant seats, as per the apex court order, would be required to be held not later than two weeks from the date of the order, which was March 4. The bypoll would be conducted for the open or general category in the 16 seats of zilla parishad and another 15 of panchayat samiti as the collector’s order has rendered these seats vacant. The memberships were cancelled after justice Khanwilkar, disposing off the civil suit before the Supreme Court, adjudged the reservation pattern in the local body elections of Washim, Bhandara, Akola, Gondia and Nagpur was in contravention of the laid down norms. The court had also stated that the seats of the elected members would be deemed vacated following the judgment. The state election commission too was directed by the apex court to issue notifications on the basis of the order. The court had underlined that ‘reservation in favour of OBCs in the concerned local bodies can be notified to the extent that it does not exceed aggregate 50 percent of the total seats reserved in favour of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes (OBC) taken together’. As per the petition, the reservations of the special categories was 27% but in the last election the OBC quota had exceeded the permissible limits following which the process was challenged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-admin-to-hold-local-body-bypolls-for-31-seats-within-two-weeks/articleshow/81419379.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmer groups not on same page on panel, future course||BATHINDA: It is learnt that farm organisations in Punjab are not on the same page over formation of a smaller committee to negotiate with the Central government. It is learnt that while some farm organisations are in favour of forming a small committee, others are vehemently opposing it. Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, in a statement issued on Tuesday evening, denied any talks for formation of such a committee. The Centre has often asked farm organisations to form a small committee for negotiations. It is also learnt that farm organisations are divided on three points of view. One group wants to fight till the agri laws are repealed. The other is fine with the farm laws being kept in abeyance and the third group wants the formation of a smaller committee to conduct negotiations with the government. A big section is against adoption of a hard stance to take the protest forward while others want strong steps to move further. It is also learnt that farm organisations are holding talks to decide on future plans. Some want to plan a march towards Parliament on the martyrdom day of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on March 23. Others want some action at Hussaniwala that day. A few senior members of farm organisations conceded to such differences of opinion on condition of anonymity. They told TOI that there is division on the issues pertaining to the future of farm protest, with some groups against holding the protests for long. Meanwhile, in view of the no confidence motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government in Haryana on Wednesday, Sanyukta Kisan Morcha decided to postpone its full member meeting on March 11, said farm leader Surjit Singh Phool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmer-groups-not-on-same-page-on-panel-future-course/articleshow/81419371.cms||Neel Kamal
March 10, 2021||Goa||Gokulam Kerala spice up I-League title race with Churchill scalp||The race for the I-League title was thrown wide open after Gokulam Kerala FC handed Churchill Brothers their first loss this season and kept themselves in the hunt. For 11 matches, Churchill couldn’t do anything wrong. At the Kalyani municipal stadium on Tuesday, they did nothing right as Kerala registered a comfortable 3-0 victory. After Mamit Vanlalduatsanga conceded an own goal in the fourth minute, Dennis Antwi added two more for the winners, although with 10 shots during the game, and some gilt-edge chances, the Ghanaian striker could have had more. Kerala won’t mind. With three matches left to be played, they have moved second on the table, just three points behind leaders Churchill. Crucially, they now have a head-to-head advantage, having won this battle comfortably after a 2-3 loss in the first phase. TRAU’s win earlier in the day also sees them move just three points behind the league leaders. So how did it go wrong for Churchill? With a six-point cushion at the top and a win in the first phase against the opponents, Churchill should have had it easy. Instead, they made it difficult for themselves right at the start when Vanlalduatsanga conceded an own goal. It was all created by Antwi. The burly-built striker bulldozed his way after Ronald Singh snatched a ball on the right and sent it through. Churchill defenders Suresh Meitei and Vikas tried to close down the Ghanaian. But while Antwi didn’t get a shot on goal, his cross for Philip Adjah was turned into his own goal by Vanlalduatsanga. The goal stunned Churchill. They had not encountered this situation before. Kerala simply grew in confidence, knowing this was their chance to seize the initiative. With the young Emil Benny controlling proceedings, Adjah troubling with his pace and Ronald joining the party, Kerala were calling the shots. There were no more goals, though, till the end of the first half as Antwi went close three times. Churchill looked out of sorts. With 14 goals between them, Luka Majcen and Clayvin Zuniga tried to make things work but could not find a way past a sturdy Kerala defence, led by Awal Mohammed. All that the striking duo could do was try their luck from distance. In the second half, Kerala scored their second after Ronald was adjudged to have been brought down by Suresh inside the danger zone in the 55th minute. Antwi stepped up to take the penalty and made no mistake. With the match slipping out of their hands, Churchill coach Fernando Varela – formerly with Kerala – was forced to act. He had surprised everyone with a first half change, and now there was a triple substitution, including substituting the substitute. Two minutes later, it were Kerala who tasted success, again, as Antwi made amends for his earlier misses with an impressive finish. The Ghanaian striker calmly controlled a ball from the left and with Fredsan Marshall policing him, muscled his way past. Almost immediately, Suresh tried to close him down, without success, and before another defender could snatch the ball away, he finished with the outside of his foot past Churchill goalkeeper Shilton Paul. By their own high standards, this was a poor night for Churchill. But in the race for the I-League title, they are still in the driver’s seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gokulam-kerala-spice-up-i-league-title-race-with-churchill-scalp/articleshow/81437080.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
March 10, 2021||Agra||Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to hold mahapanchayats in poll-bound Bengal, first rally in Kolkata on March 12||AGRA: Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a forum representing at least 40 farmers’ unions, will hold five back-to-back mahapanchayats in poll- bound West Bengal starting with Kolkata to highlight the “pro-corporate agenda” of the central government.  The rallies will be held in coordination with West Bengal Kisan Coordination Committee in Kolkata, Nandigram, Singur and Asansol. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and outfit’s general secretary Yudhvir Singh will lead the mahapanchayat in Kolkata on March 13. SKM leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Darshan Pal, Manjit Singh, Himanshu Tiwari, Avik Saha and Yogendra Yadav will also take part in the mahapanchayats. Yudhvir Singh told TOI, “Farmers in West Bengal are also facing several problems. Their issues should find a way in the manifestos of political parties who intend to come to power. Farmers in that state also are not getting appropriate prices for their crops, while those involved in fisheries are also facing problems. We will update farmers about the pro-corporate agenda of BJP behind introducing the three laws and will urge them to vote for candidates of any other party,” he said. “We will campaign against BJP candidates, requesting people of West Bengal to vote for any political party except the BJP. The central government will have to withdraw the farm laws and provide legal guarantee of MSP to the farmers," he added. In West Bengal, polling to 294 assembly seats will be held in eight phases starting March 27 to April 29. Senior farmer leader from West Bengal and secretary of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Avik Saha said, “In West Bengal, 90% farmers are small harvesters. They feel connected with the ongoing agitation at Delhi borders. Farmers in West Bengal strongly believe that the new laws will undermine their livelihood and open the path for the corporate sector to dominate agriculture.” “Our teams are going to villages to strengthen the farmers’ protest and are getting overwhelming support. We are delivering handwritten letters of farmers from northern India to tillers in each constituency of West Bengal. Most of these letters highlight reasons not to vote for BJP. Thousands of farmers from across the state will participate in the kisan mahapanchayats to mark their protest against the anti-farmer policies of the Modi government,” Saha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sanyukt-kisan-morcha-to-hold-mahapanchayats-in-poll-bound-bengal-first-rally-in-kolkata-on-march-13/articleshow/81416855.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 10, 2021||Surat||Rape-accused man thrashed to death in Surat||SURAT: A 23-year-old man accused of raping a minor girl succumbed to severe internal injuries on Sunday at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) in Surat, about 10 days after he was arrested by the Kosamba police. The deceased Kalpesh Vasava was thrashed allegedly by the father of the 15-year-old girl and her kin in Kathwada village of Kosamba in Surat district on February 26 before handing him over to the police. The girl’s father was arrested and two other unidentified persons booked for murder following a complaint filed by Vasava’s sister Hiral with the Kosamba police station. The video of the accused thrashing Vasava had gone viral on social media after the incident. But cops claimed that they did not have the video till it was submitted by family of the deceased. On February 26, Vasava, a labourer in a textile unit at Siyalaj, was caught trying to sexually assault the minor girl in a farm on the outskirts of Kosamba. When the girl shouted for help, her father and two others reached the farm and beat up Vasava. They later tied Vasava to stairs and shot his video in which he is heard pleading to the accused. On the same day, Vasava was handed over to the police and an offence of rape and sexual assault under Indian Penal Code and POCSO was registered at Kosamba police station. The next day police registered a non-cognizable offence complaint based Vasava’s complaint without naming the accused. Later he was produced in court through video conference. “The deceased did not complain of thrashing by the police in the court. He was sent to judicial custody in Lajpore Central Jail as he did not complain of injuries and there were no visible injury marks,” said Usha Rada, Surat rural SP. After being shifted to LCJ, Vasava’s was found to be critical during medical check-up and was referred to NCH. He was operated upon for internal injuries. His internal organs were found badly damaged, sources in the hospital informed. Vasava was unconscious since March 2 and died on Sunday. Meanwhile, police had to deploy bandobast in Kathwada village following tension between people of two communities. “The situation is normal in the village and the bandobast has been withdrawn,” said Rada. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Rape accused gets thrashed to death by victim’s kin in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rape-accused-thrashed-by-girls-kin-succumbs-to-injuries-after-10-days/articleshow/81416876.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra government’s ‘Swadhyay’ initiative helps students in remedial learning||Nagpur: The state government’s ‘Swadhyay’ initiative to help students in formative assessment and remedial learning has received a good response from tier-2 and tier-3 cities. Launched in November by school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, the free-to-use online edtech tool engages students in various academic activities in three languages. Within four months of the statewide roll-out, over 18 lakh students of Std I-X in Maharashtra have started doing the weekly formative assessments and remedial learning activities under the Swadhyay program. The content and platform for this initiaitve is driven by ConveGenius, an edtech social enterprise, which is providing students with the option of completing the academic activities in either Marathi, Urdu and semi-English (maths and science taught in English). Shashank Pandey, co-founder of ConveGenius said, “The most satisfying part is the student engagement from non-metro locations like Jalgaon, Chandrapur, Satara, and Dhule, with each of these districts having one lakh-plus active students using the edtech platform.” He added that the program specifically targets low-income families and students studying in government and aided schools to provide high-quality digital learning with minimal cost. Started in 2014, ConveGenius has also partnered with states like Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Goa to provide digitial learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maharashtra-governments-swadhyay-initiative-helps-students-in-remedial-learning/articleshow/81429005.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Uttam dares BJP to order CBI probe||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Tuesday slammed BJP for not taking up the issue of advocate couple’s murder at the national level although Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy is from the state. “If BJP Telangana leaders are really against the ruling TRS, they should convince Narendra Modi government to order a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the double murder. Both BJP and TRS leaders are levelling allegations against each other to divert people’s attention from real issues and hide their failures,” Uttam said. Uttam and party candidate from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates’ MLC seat G Chinna Reddy joined the dharna at Indira Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-dares-bjp-to-order-cbi-probe/articleshow/81419402.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||Cruise industry delays sailings, may send some seafarers back||PANAJI: Over 800 Indian seafarers who had undergone rigorous Covid-19 tests and had boarded Norwegian Cruise Line’s (NCL) Norwegian Escape in anticipation of the cruise industry resuming operations, face the prospect of being sent home with the international cruise market delaying resumption till mid-2021. Goa, which is home to 8,000-10,000 seafarers, had begun to see a ray of hope after the Norwegian Escape docked at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) in late 2020 to pick up crew. The crew members will now have to wait till June and July till they can find employment aboard cruise liners. “The next three to four months look bleak for the cruise industry but as summer starts in Europe, by July-August, cruises will start,” said founder president of Goa Seamen’s Association of India (GSAI) Dixon Vaz. Cruise companies had planned to start sailing in January and February, but with the second wave of Covid-19 spreading across Europe, itineraries began to be cancelled. Some cruise companies such as Dream Cruises, Royal Caribbean International, TUI Cruises, MSC Cruises and Costa Cruises have either started sailing or have announced plans to resume sailing from this month. The cruise itineraries, however, are restricted to a specific region such as the home port of the vessel. Besides this, Goan seafarers have been flying out to various parts of the globe to man cruise vessels that required to maintain a skeletal crew — 20% of the regular staff — at all times. According to industry insiders, at least 100-200 crew members fly out of Goa via Dubai every month to replace crew aboard ships. The cruise industry, forced into a 10-month shutdown because of the pandemic, may appear in the doldrums, but stakeholders expect the sector to return to high seas by June with demand for cruise tourism still strong. Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA), the world’s largest cruise industry trade organisation, says shipping firms have invested $23.5 billion in new ships while Oceania Cruises saw its 2022 World Cruise, a six-month journey, get sold out within a day. Cruise industry veterans told TOI that several hundred Goan crew members have already moved to Europe and North America and have boarded cruise vessels, but a lack of clarity in guidelines by the Centre of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has kept the vessels anchored at port. “The cruise industry was gearing up to commence operations and was supposed to start from February, but the CDC guidelines that the cruise companies were waiting for haven’t come. That’s the reason they’ve made an announcement on board that the crew will be sent back to their home countries and then brought back once clear instructions come,” said managing director of Kamaxi Overseas Consultants, ParixitPai Fondekar. Kamaxi Overseas is the official recruiter for Oceania Cruises, Regent Seven Seas, NCL, Virgin Cruises and FTI Cruises, among others. “CDC norms require 10% of the ship’s capacity to be kept aside as a quarantine facility. At the same time, the CDC has permitted only 40-50% of the capacity to be booked, but this will be a loss for the cruise companies,” said Vaz. The fact that senior citizens form a major portion of the guests on cruise liners is a factor that works in favour of the industry. “At the rate at which governments are vaccinating their population, there is going to be an explosion in the tourism market. Pensioners are the largest market when it comes to high-end luxury cruises and they are also the priority group for every country when it comes to vaccination,” said Fondekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cruise-industry-delays-sailings-may-send-some-seafarers-back/articleshow/81419405.cms||Newton Sequeira
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers seek support of MLAs in no-trust vote against BJP-JJP govt||Ambala/Kurukshetra/Yamunanagar: Farmers across Haryana, on Tuesday, staged protests outside the residences of MLAs and submitted memoranda seeking their support in the no confidence motion to be held in the state assembly on March 10. In Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar, farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana (Charuni) staged protests. They raised slogans against the Centre government’s three agri-marketing laws. Heavy police force was deployed and protests remained peaceful. Farmers left after submitting memoranda to MLAs or their representatives. During their protests, farmers warned BJP and JJP MLAs of social boycott if they did not support the no confidence motion. They also said such MLAs would have to suffer political consequences as they would not be allowed to enter villages in their constituencies. In Ambala, farmers carried out a bike rally and gathered outside the house of Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel. They also staged a protest near the house of Ambala Cantonment MLA-cum-home, health minister Anil Vij in Shastri Colony, and handed over a document of demands to Ambala Sadar municipal council executive officer Apoorv Chawdhary in his absence. BKU Haryana (Charuni) Ambala district president Malkiat Singh Sahibpur said, “We have asked MLAs to support the no-confidence motion and vote for farmers.” In Kurukshetra, the document of demands was handed over by protesting farmers to JJP’s Shahabad MLA Ram Karan Kala, to a representative of BJP’s Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha at his house in Thanesar City and to a representative of BJP’s Pehowa MLA-cum-state sports minister Sandeep Singh at his office in the rest house of the irrigation department office in Pehowa. In Yamunanagar, farmers held a protest outside the house of Jagadhri MLA-cum-education, forest minister Kanwar Pal and submitted the document of demands to his representative. A similar protest was held outside the house of Yamunanagar MLA Ghanshyam Dass Arora. In Jind, farmers and khaps submitted a memorandum to deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s ‘chowkidar’ in Uchana segment of Jind district and pasted a copy of the memorandum on the wall outside the local JJP office. In the memorandum, they sought support for the no confidence motion. There are five MLAs in Jind district and three, inlcuding Ramniwas Surjakhera from Narwana, Amarjeet Dhanda, of Khark Ramji and MLA from Julana as well as Dushyant belong to JJP. Mounting pressure on MLAs, farmers warned these leaders to vote against the BJP government or be ready to face social boycott. Farmers in Kaithal district handed over their memorandum to all four MLAs’ representatives, including two of BJP, one JJP and one independent. They also handed over the memorandum to a family member of local BJP MLA Krishan Middha. In Hisar, farm activists demonstrated in front of MLAs’ houses and submitted a memorandum. With inputs from J K Singh, Vijender Kumar and Kumar Mukesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-seek-support-of-mlas-in-no-trust-vote-against-bjp-jjp-govt/articleshow/81419385.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three youths held for double murder in Goa||Mumbai: Three youths who had brutally killed a 65-year-old labour contractor, Minguel Miranda, and his 85-year-old mother-in-law, Catrina Pinto, with a hammer in Goa on Monday has been arrested by the city crime branch on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Ravinkumar Sada (18), Akash Gosh (20) and Aditya Kumar Kharwal (18). Acting on a tip-off, the city crime branch, unit 4, arrested the accused from Shivaji Park in Dadar. During interrogation, the accused said that they were employed by Miranda. However, the accused had a financial dispute with Miranda. Due to this, they hatched a plan to kill him. The city police will hand over their custody to their Goa counterparts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-three-youths-held-for-double-murder-in-goa/articleshow/81419453.cms||Ahmed Ali
March 10, 2021||Goa||Doctors seek more patient details as Covid cases rise||PANAJI: Till now, while investigating a Covid patient doctors have always looked at travel history, however, they are now also specifically seeking to know if the person had attended a function. The health services is insisting on the added information following a surge in infections these past few days. From less than 50 cases a day last month, Goa’s tally for the last few days has gone up to 60 to 70 cases a day. “Our query doesn’t end with the patient’s travel history. If the person had married recently, then that needs to be revealed to us, because we want to know if the source of infection was a function that he/she attended. We have no interest in their social life otherwise,” a health officer said. The officer, however, said that they try to be discreet as it could be embarrassing to the patient. He said that the Covid infections are rising because people think there are few cases reported in the state. “With 30 to 40 cases spread across the state, most think they won’t contract the virus. You may have a chance encounter with one of the 40 or 50 cases and get the infections and so should take precautions,” the official said. Adding to it is also people’s attitude that has seen them give up on wearing face masks when in public places and not social distancing. Another officer said that at weddings in rural areas hardly anybody wears masks. Neither the guests nor the bride and groom’s family. And those few who do wear it are seen with it pulled under the nose, which serves no purpose, the officer said. For Hindus, the wedding season has started and normally the months of April and May see the maximum number of weddings. “I’m keeping my fingers crossed. Last year this time, people shivered to think about Covid, but today they have given up all worries. Worrying is not good, but people need to take precautions since Covid-19 is still here,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doctors-seek-more-patient-details-as-covid-cases-rise/articleshow/81419460.cms||Bindiya Chari
March 10, 2021||Agra||Young couple found hanging from tree in Kasganj||AGRA: A young man and a girl were found hanging from a tree on the outskirts of Barsoli village under Kotwali police station in Kasganj district on Tuesday morning. Local police were alerted by passersby. The duo was identified as Shailendra Singh (20) and Ranjana Singh (18), both residents of the same village. According to villagers, the two were in a relationship. Shailendra was married whereas Ranjana’s marriage was fixed for April 26. The two had wanted to get married but Shailendra’s family married him elsewhere on June 14, 2020. Sources said Shailendra was not happy with his marriage. His wife had returned to her parents’ home a few months after the marriage. Manoj Kumar Sonkar, superintendent of police, said, “The respective family members had informed that the couple was missing since Monday evening. They were found hanging from a tree by villagers. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination. It seems that they committed suicide. The matter is being investigated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/young-couple-found-hanging-from-tree-in-kasganj/articleshow/81416870.cms||Deepak Lavania
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Health dept exam results held: Min||State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said results of recently held exams for the posts of health assistants and drivers (Class C & D) will be kept on hold till a probe into complaints of malpractices is completed. Several legislators had complained of malpractices in the exam. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-health-dept-exam-results-held-min/articleshow/81421156.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||NORI mom can return to India, but 6-month-old son needs visa||NAGPUR: Six-month-old Reyansh Udasi’s crossover to India from Pakistan is again entangled in procedural hassles. First, the list of persons to repatriated to India on February 26 had Reyansh’s name but not that of his mother Sonya. A fresh list of persons to cross over on Monday had had both the names, yet Reyansh could not enter the Indian side. The authorities at Indian embassy said Reyansh, who was born in Pakistan, would now need a visa, though his mother could cross over. Reyansh’s case has been reported by TOI twice. The child belongs to Kailash and Sonya Udasi, who are Indian and Pakistani citizens, respectively. Sonya was living in Jalgaon on a long-term visa after marriage with Kailash. The couple had gone to Pakistan for a visit in February last year when Sonya was pregnant. They were stranded as borders shut due to Covid lockdown. Kailash returned when Indian citizens were repatriated in July, leaving behind Sonya, who gave birth to Reyansh in August. Sonya had gone on a no-objection return to India (NORI) visa granted to Pakistanis living in India, but are not citizens. With NORI, they can return to India in three months and continue living on long-term visa (LTV). Now, the list has names of NORI-holders. So, technically, Sonya being a NORI-holder can return, but not her son. This is because Reyansh is a Pakistani citizen due to birth there and had not gone on NORI. For entry into India, he will need a fresh visa. “We came to know only when a phone call was made to the Indian embassy in Islamabad to understand the procedure. They said a visa will be needed. With barely three days left after the list was released, it was not possible to gather the documents,” said Udasi. The embassy officials later said they can get the visa done on an urgent basis if someone reaches Islamabad. However, Islamabad is 1200km from Hyderabad in Sindh where Sonya and Reyansh are staying, he said. As the rest of the persons named in the list reached India on Monday, Kailash is preparing documents for the visa. “I am sure that the visa will be issued soon as said by the officials so that the names are included in the next list,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nori-mom-can-return-to-india-but-6-month-old-son-needs-visa/articleshow/81419459.cms||Shishir Arya
March 10, 2021||Goa||Supreme Court hears parties, reserves order in council poll plea||PANAJI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday heard arguments in the special leave petition (SLP) challenging the high court order cancelling elections to five municipalities over reservations of wards, and reserved judgment in the matter. “Judgment will be given soon as the election process is on,” advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI. The SC heard arguments in the case the entire day. Pangam also said that the state argued that courts cannot interfere in the election process. The respondents pointed out that the court can intervene. Last week, the Supreme Court stayed the high court order, paving the way for polls to be conducted to the five civic councils on March 21. Immediately after the apex court stay, the state election commission issued new schedules for Mapusa, Margao, Mormugao, Sanguem and Quepem, which were kept in abeyance. Refuting the government’s stance that the court cannot interfere when elections are declared, the high court stated, “We have ensured that the election programme which would be notified after rectifying the order issued by the director, thereby prescribing the reservation in different wards of the municipal councils, is done with utmost promptitude, so that the entire election process is completed on or before April 15, 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-hears-parties-reserves-order-in-council-poll-plea/articleshow/81419447.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Late hosp admissions on the rise again, caused 10% of deaths: Docs||Mumbai: In a worrying trend, city hospitals are again witnessing deaths due to delayed hospital admissions. Averseness to get tested and general laxity towards the disease itself are contributing to this shift, doctors believe. Importantly, it has caused deaths among younger patients lately. The city’s Covid-19 death audit committee has found late diagnosis and admissions responsible for 10% of fatalities reported in the last month. The death of a 15-year-old girl from Antop Hill who came to Sion hospital eight days after developing symptoms has raised serious concerns. The hospital has treated two more patients in their 20s who required non-invasive ventilators and Remdesivir as they developed Covid lungs. “As many as 50% of our daily admissions appear to be late presentations. It is worrying as it shows people are not getting tested or taking their symptoms seriously,” said Dr Nitin Karnik, head of medicine at Sion hospital. He said the Antop Hill teenager, with no comorbidities, couldn’t be saved as her disease had advanced and affected the heart. “She had fever for five days and was breathless for another three. By the time she reached us, she had viral myocarditis where the heart muscles are so inflamed that its ability to pump blood is badly compromised,” he said. Deaths in teenagers have mostly been seen among those with underlying conditions. Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the death audit committee, said even if the city’s death rate is low and 90% is among the older age groups with comorbidities, fatalities among young patients is concerning. “A small number of patients are coming late and dying suddenly,” he said, addi-ng that such presentations were seen at the start of the pandem-ic when people were scared to get tested for fear of being quar-antined. “Now, it’s mostly the diminishing fear of the disease.” Dr Karnik said the two patients in their 20s who developed Covid lungs were fortunate to have sought treatment at the right window. “It shows the virus could still complicate thin-gs, if there is a delay,” he said, adding that people should get tested within a day or two of developing symptoms. At SevenHills Hospital, dean Dr Balakrishna Adsul said they are witnessing delays of up to 10 days in some cases. In January, of the 173 deaths, 9.8% had succumbed within 48 hours. The share of 48-hour deaths rose to 13% in February though the number of deaths declined to 117 compared to January. “We continue to see patients who have to be put on oxygen on arrival,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-late-hosp-admissions-on-the-rise-again-caused-10-of-deaths-docs/articleshow/81418169.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||MPSC Exams: Minority candidates to get free coaching||Mumbai: Association of minority employees in the state will arrange for free coaching and guidance to minority candidates and help them crack Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exams. Haj House will initially provide accommodation and library facilities to 30 candidates who qualify for preliminary exams to be conducted soon. “Our organization is registered and we have a mandate to carry out activities that can empower minority students. For the first time, we are providing free coaching facilities to candidates to help them crack the exam. We will hold a written exam and after interviews 30 will be selected for free coaching,” said Maharashtra Rajya Alpsankhyak Karmchari Association president Haji Saipan Jitkar. Community leaders appreciated the move. “It is a good step which will encourage students of minorities to prepare for MPSC exams and qualify for deputy collector, tehsildar, and other posts. This will encourage other NGOs to come forward,” said city Congress general secretary M Asif Farooqui. Haj House CEO M A Khan said since they already accommodate and coach IAS aspirants, it agreed to accommodate and provide library facilities to the initial batch of MPSC aspirants. “We have a rich library and other reading material for candidates preparing for civil services exams. Accommodation for MPSC exam aspirants is temporary,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-minority-candidates-to-get-free-coaching-to-crack-mpsc-exams/articleshow/81423067.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||‘Maha budget neglected Vidarbha, favours only Mumbai & Pune’||NAGPUR: Maha Vikas Aghadi’s second budget evoked mixed reactions from the city’s political and business class. A majority of them, including leaders from the ruling dispensation, flayed chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and finance minister Ajit Pawar for neglecting Vidarbha region. According to them, the budget is heavily tilted in favour of western Maharashtra with the government allocating crores for various projects there, particularly in Mumbai and Pune, native places of Thackeray and Pawar, respectively. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis had already slammed the MVA government saying the state budget was meant only for two regions, while rest of Maharashtra was neglected. A senior cabinet minister, who wished not to be named, also blamed the government for meagre allocation for Vidarbha, while favouring developed cities Mumbai and Pune. Reminding the CM and his deputy of their assurances to Vidarbha people that MVA government wouldn’t let any project suffer due to fund shortage, Congress leader and former MLA Ashish Deshmukh criticized the government for neglecting the region. He also took potshots at home minister Anil Deshmukh saying he (Deshmukh) failed to convince both the top leaders for allocating more funds for the backward region. “It seems, the government has a zero budget policy for Vidarbha. It should have allocated funds for much-needed industrial development here in view of huge percentage of unemployment in the region,” he said. Endorsing his views, city BJP president Pravin Datke accused the MVA government of deliberately side-lining the state’s second capital — Nagpur. “This is the worst budget for Vidarbha in last many years. No steps were taken to generate employment, nor were any big ticket projects announced. A meagre allocation has been made for metro project completion. People here are asking whether the government ignored Vidarbha deliberately as the opposition BJP has maximum number of legislators from the region.” Disappointed with the budget, business and industry circles termed it as directionless. “The government could have allocated funds for development of tourism and mining in Vidarbha that would have led to huge employment generation. But, the MVA failed to utilize the opportunity. Tourists from India and abroad prefer to visit adjoining Pench and not Vidarbha, as the government has failed to develop tourism here. There’s nothing to boost the mining sector. The budget lacks vision on GST and other sectors,” said Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) chairman BC Bhartia. According to chartered accountant Julfesh Shah, the budget has nothing to offer for industries in the region, although the announcement of an administrative building in the city is a welcome move. “Allocation of modest Rs3,500 crore for the ministry of industries won’t give much stimulus in these challenging times. Incentives under various schemes are pending since long and no announcement in this regard was made,” he said. MLC Parinay Fuke said the MVA has meted out injustice to Vidarbha farmers, particularly in his constituency — Bhandara-Gondia. “There’s nothing for soyabean and paddy growers. Pawar announced only Rs1,000 crore for Gosikhurd, but allocated thousands of crore for projects in Mumbai and Pune. There’s not a single penny for development of Bhandara and Gondia and even pilgrimage centres there are ignored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-budget-neglected-vidarbha-favours-only-mumbai-pune/articleshow/81440516.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 10, 2021||Goa||Bakre withdraws consent for appt as Goa Lokayukta||PANAJI: Former high court judge U V Bakre on Tuesday withdrew the consent he granted to the state government for his appointment as Goa Lokayukta, citing “personal reasons”. Bakre is currently chairman of the Goa human rights commission (GHRC). “Yes, I have informed the government,” Bakre responded to a query if he withrew his consent. On Sunday, TOI had reported that the state government had shortlisted his name for the post of Lokayukta. The high court had directed the state to appoint a new anti-corruption ombudsman by December 2020. An advocate, Aires Rodrigues, had approached the court seeking a direction to the government to select a Lokayukta. Rodrigues told TOI that he and other advocates sought an appointment with Bakre to urge him not to take up the post of Lokayukta as it is a toothless body after the recent amendment to the Act. Bakre’s name was sent to the leader of opposition, Digambar Kamat, for his consent. After his consent, the government was to write to the chief justice of Bombay high court. During the hearing of the matter in the high court on Monday, Rodrigues said that eroding the powers of the Lokayukta was an irreversible downward spiral to bad governance, giving public officials a free hand to continue indulging in impermissible acts of gross corruption and maladministration. “In the given circumstances, no worthy person would want to be Goa Lokayukta and occupy what is now just a farcical position by way of a powerless chair only with pay and perks but with its hands tied, acting as a lame duck Lokayukta dancing to the tunes of those in power,” Rodrigues said The term of the previous Lokayukta, PK Misra, ended on September 17, 2021. Misra also held the position of chairman of human rights commission before being appointed as Lokayukta. There are at least 75 cases pending before the Goa lokayukta. In January, the high court extended the time-frame by two month for the state government to appoint a new Lokayukta. The state government had approached the high court seeking an extension after being unable to find a retired Supreme Court judge or retired high court chief justice willing to move to Goa to take up the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bakre-withdraws-consent-for-appt-as-goa-lokayukta/articleshow/81419480.cms||Murari Shetye
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops experiment, traffic crawls on SoBo road||Mumbai: The traffic police’s experiment to divert the north bound vehicles led to massive congestion on N S Patkar Marg (formerly called Hughes Road) in south Mumbai on Tuesday morning. The area has been facing traffic snarls since a landslide was reported in August last year. The ongoing storm water drain work begun by the BMC recently added to the snarl, said the police. The traffic police decided to carry out an experiment on Tuesday to relieve congestion by diverting north-bound vehicles to Nana Chowk from the RTI junction. But local residents and motorists said it did not work out well. “There was bumper-to-bumper traffic for around two-and-half hours on Tuesday morning. I couldn’t move out of the Khareghat Colony and had to skip office,” said a colony resident. The traffic experiment should have been conducted on Sunday instead of a weekday, he added. “If motorists are going to be diverted at RTI junction, why not put up signages at Girgaum Chowpatty itself?” said a motorist. The storm water drain work that added to the snarl was part of the reconstruction undertaken after the landslide, said BMC officials. “The drain works are part of the road work that is currently underway,” said Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner, D Ward. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cops-experiment-traffic-crawls-on-sobo-road/articleshow/81419519.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||India||Court extends arrest shield for Nikita & Muluk in toolkit case||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court extended on Tuesday protection from arrest granted to lawyer Nikita Jacob and activist Shantanu Muluk till March 15 in the toolkit case that also involves activist Disha Ravi. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana extended interim relief after senior advocate Rebecca M John and advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for both Jacob and Muluk, submitted they required time to go through the reply filed by the Delhi police on their applications before arguing the case. After hearing both sides, the court directed the police not to take any coercive action against both the accused till March 15, when the court will hear the matter. “At (counsels’) joint request, list the bail applications for arguments on March 15, 2021. Till then, no coercive action be taken against the applicants/accused persons. However, the applicants shall continue to cooperate in the on-going investigation,” the court said in its order. Judge Rana had on February 23 granted bail to Disha Ravi, who had been arrested by the Delhi police from Bengaluru in connection with the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-extends-arrest-shield-for-nikita-muluk-in-toolkit-case/articleshow/81421577.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||English schools move High Court for RTE reimbursement||NAGPUR: Maharashtra English School Trustees Association (MESTA) has approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court seeking directives to the state government to release grants under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009. A division bench comprising Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice Anil Kilor issued notices to the respondents, including the school education and sports departments, asking them to reply before March 18. Government pleader Ketki Joshi waived off notices on behalf of the respondents. “Whether a combined petition can be prosecuted or individual ones for each institution should be heard, would be considered after the respondents put in their appearance on the next date,” said the judges. According to the petitioner’s counsel Swapnil Shingane, MESTA is a registered association of non-grant-in-aid English teaching schools having registered office in Aurangabad. Shingane contended that under the RTE Act, schools are supposed to keep 25% seats for children from weaker and deprived sections of the society. As per Section 12 of the Act, government would reimburse the schools on expenditure incurred by them on every such child. Accordingly, MESTA members have submitted a proposal for reimbursement from time-to-time for 2017 to 2020. However, for 2017, 100% reimbursement wasn’t made, while for 2019 and 2020, not a single instalment has been paid. On January 6, 2018, the petitioner association had made a representation to the respondents to release reimbursement for 2017-18 and expressed inability to proceed with admissions under the RTE quota. Over two-and-half years later, i.e. on November 25, 2020, the association was informed that for the academic year 2017-18, 69% amount was reimbursed and 32% for 2018-19. Alleging breach of rules, MESTA members claimed that till date, full reimbursement wasn’t done, thus forcing them to knock the judiciary’s doors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/english-schools-move-hc-for-rte-reimbursement/articleshow/81419517.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 10, 2021||Goa||Despite late start to admission season, aided schools see surge in new enrolment||PANAJI: The admission process by aided and unaided schools, which usually begins in December, saw a late start this season due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The process began in January-February amidst some apprehensions that there may be a low turnout of new students for admissions to Class I and Class V. However, most aided schools across Goa have seen a normal admission season, with nearly all seats taken, institutes informed. All this, despite there not being clarity yet on when physical classes for students of lower classes could begin in Goa. Offline classes have begun only for students from classes IX to XII. Schools felt that though initially many parents had stated that they would prefer to let their child skip a school year than risk them getting infected, the general opinion has changed after the vaccination drive in the state commenced. “Honestly, we were apprehensive about the response, but all our seats in KG-I and KG-II and Class V are full,” said Rahul Deshpande, managing trustee of People’s High School, Panaji. “ The response was overwhelming this year; in fact, better than the last admission season. There are still some seats left in Class I, but enquiries are on. I presume, parents have realised that schools may start soon due to the vaccination drive, and also as normal classes are being held in most other states.” Due to the pandemic, schools altered their admission process to ensure there was no queuing or crowding for collection and submission of forms, or for the payment of admission confirmation fees. Unlike before, where schools announced only two or three specific dates for forms to be collected, which led to queuing and crowding, institutes kept a wider window period open, of nearly a month, for collection of forms. Most schools discouraged walk-in enquiries, with some prominent schools giving appointments even for form collection. “At the time of admission, it is important for the institute to at least meet the parents and the child once. So strict precautions were taken. When parents submitted the form, they were told they would receive a call when to report to the school for further processes. The appointment alloted to the parents and the child was to be strictly adhered to, so there is no crowding. Of course, wearing of masks was compulsory, we had placed sanitisers at prominent locations and there were staffers posted to ensure there is no crowding at any time,” said the representative of another aided school. Most aided schools said they saw normal enquiries, on par or more than the admission seasons before the pandemic. Some believe that as parents are unable to afford fees of unaided schools, this could have resulted in higher response for admissions to aided institutions. Deepak Khaitan of All Goa Government Recognized Unaided Schools Association said that unaided schools have seen lower enquiries than usual as of now. “The admission process started late this year. Enquiries are still on, hopefully they will pick up,” Khaitan said. Meanwhile, new admissions to government schools will begin in the later months as per their usual schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-late-start-to-admission-season-aided-schools-see-surge-in-new-enrolment/articleshow/81419515.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi budget 2021-22: Of Rs 3,227 crore proposed for energy, 96% goes into subsidies||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s “zero power bill” scheme for consumers utilising up to 200 units of electricity, irrespective of their power load, has been a tremendous success, claimed deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia while presenting the budget on Tuesday. The scheme, according to Sisodia, was a major contributing factor towards energy conservation, apart from other subsidies, and accounted for the lion’s share of budgetary allocation for the energy sector. The deputy CM has proposed Rs 3,227 crore for the sector in Budget Estimates 2021-22 and proposed an amount of Rs 3,090 crore in the budget for electricity subsidy. He said that subsidy of Rs 800 was given to consumers consuming 201 to 400 units of monthly electricity and approximately 90% households in Delhi were availing the benefit on power consumption. According to the minister, Delhi government also provides 100% subsidy to the victims of 1984 riots for power consumption of up to 400 units. The Special Electricity Subsidy Scheme has also been extended to lawyers’ chambers within the court premises and all agricultural consumers in the city are also given subsidy for electricity connection. Sisodia claimed these schemes were the hallmark of the ‘Kejriwal model of governance’. To promote solar energy, Sisodia said the state government has conceived the Delhi Solar Energy Policy and till January 2021, approximately 4,664 solar power units with an aggregated capacity of 193 MW had been installed in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/of-rs-3227-crore-proposed-for-energy-96-goes-into-subsidies/articleshow/81418238.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 49 new cases, zero deaths for second day||DEHRADUN: With 49 new cases of Covid-19 reported on Tuesday, the coronavirus tally reached 97,529 in Uttarakhand. While no fatality was reported in the last two days, 98 patients recovered from the infection taking the recovery tally to 93,813 in the state. Among the new cases, 24 were reported from Dehradun followed by 8 in Haridwar, 7 in Udham Singh Nagar, 5 in Nainital, 3 in Pauri and 1 each in Almora and Chamoli districts. Meanwhile, 12,624 elderlies, above the age of 65 years, were vaccinated in the state on Tuesday. The state has managed to fully vaccinate over 66,000 healthcare and frontline workers while a single dose of Covid vaccine has been administered to over 1.5 lakh people so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-49-new-cases-zero-deaths-for-second-day/articleshow/81418216.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 10, 2021||Rajkot||Three arrested for robbery confess to 10 temple thefts||RAJKOT: The arrest of three farm labourers for robbing an aged couple last month has revealed that they were involved in a series of temple thefts carried out around Rajkot and Jamnagar cities in the last six months. On Wednesday, the Rajkot (rural) local crime branch arrested Harsang Bhabhor and his friends Ishwar Damor and Gattu Parmar. They had beaten up Nanji Singala and his wife Vaji in their farm in Thoriyali village near Padadhari on the Rajkot's outskirts on February 24 and robbed Rs three lakh cash and gold ornaments worth Rs 45,000. "During preliminary interrogation, they also confessed to have carried out thefts in 10-11 temples near Jodiya, Dhrol and Padadhari in the last six months. However, in none of these loots, any complaint was lodged," said AR Gohil, inspector, LCB. Their fourth accomplice, Par Singh Vahuniya, who is still at large, is wanted in a murder and loot case near Jodiya of Jamnagar district. Bhabhor was working in the farm of Singala's son Vinu for few months and he was aware that the couple used to live alone there. Moreover, they always kept cash as the harvesting season was on. He tipped off his friends and they executed the robbery. Police recovered Rs 1.55 lakh cash from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-arrested-for-robbery-confess-to-10-temple-thefts/articleshow/81416047.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Promise of free Covid vaccine for all, women-only mohalla clinics||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will provide Covid-19 vaccine free to everybody at its hospitals, finance minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday. While private hospitals are charging Rs 250 for the procedure, the same is already available for free at government facilities to senior citizens and those above 45 years but with certain comorbidities. For healthcare and frontline workers, it’s free everywhere. While presenting the 2021-22 budget, Sisodia said Rs 50 crore was being allotted to ensure that the rest of the population could also get the vaccine free at government facilities. Currently, the government has the capacity to apply vaccines to 45,000 people daily, which will be increased to 60,000 in the next few days, he said. The budget also proposed starting mahila mohalla clinics from next year. “It is a fact of our society that women tend to neglect their own illnesses. The result of this is that many women live with ailment, assuming it as destiny. Delhi government will now undertake the responsibility of having a mahila mohalla clinic around every woman in Delhi and services of gynaecologist and related diagnostic tests etc will be free,” Sisodia said. In the first phase, 100 clinics are to be set up in different parts of Delhi, “which will be progressively increased to at least one in each ward”. Out of the total outlay of Rs 69,000 crore, Rs 9,934 crore — 14% — has been kept for the health sector as against Rs 7,485 crore in 2020-21. Of this, Rs 5,192 crore is meant for various schemes and projects. The deputy chief minister added that Delhi government had allocated Rs 1,293 crore for expansion of health-related infrastructure in view of the Covid experiences. “These projects include construction of hospitals in Jwalapuri, Sirspur, Madipur and Vikaspuri and redesign of 19 existing hospitals.” The number of beds will increase by more than 14,000 once these projects are complete, he said. The share of the health sector in the budget has increased significantly over the past few years. In 2012-13 and 2013-14, the allocation to the sector under the plan outlay was Rs 2,124 crore and 2,490 crore, respectively. Dr Arun Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council, said the increased expenditure on health was a step in the right direction. Delhi government also reiterated its plan to issue health cards to all citizens next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/promise-of-free-covid-vaccine-for-all-women-only-mohalla-clinics/articleshow/81418251.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
March 10, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara cops in Rajasthan to trace astrologers named in family suicide case||Vadodara: The cops are hot on the trail of the astrologers who had duped the Soni family that committed mass suicide some days ago. A team of cops has been sent to Rajasthan to track down the nine astrologers accused in the cheating case. “Our team is camping in Jodhpur, as most of these astrologers stay in that region. We have got some details of their whereabouts. They stay in Rajasthan but their work area is in Vadodara and Ahmedabad,” said P D Parmar, Sama police inspector. Narendra Soni had contacted these astrologers over the period of last two years and sought help from them as he was facing financial crisis. The astrologers misguided Narendra by telling him that there is wealth buried under his house in Sama area. The accused then sent their men to dig up the kitchen floor of the house and pretended to have found urns full of silver.The astrologers then charged lakhs of rupees from Narendra for performing the rituals to help him sell off his house for paying off his debts. Narendra’s son Bhavin had told the cops that they had found a customer for their house and also got Rs 23.50 lakh payment. But their house was already mortgaged and hence they couldn’t sell it.When the customer sought his money back, the Soni family decided to commit suicide on March 3. Narendra bought insecticides and mixed them in the cold drink that was consumed by all the six members including a three-year-old kid. Five members have already died while Bhavin’s wife is still in critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-cops-in-rajasthan-to-trace-astrologers-named-in-family-suicide-case/articleshow/81416467.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Guardian minister says cannot rule out night curfew, partial lockdown||Mumbai: A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a review meeting with district administrations from across the state and empowered them to declare a lockdown in all such pockets that were seeing a rise in cases of Covid-19, Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh on Tuesday said that if cases continued to rise in the city the possibility of a night curfew or partial lockdown could not be ruled out. “If the spike in cases of coronavirus disease among people continues like this, there is a possibility of nightclubs being closed down first in the city,” the guardian minister said. “We cannot rule out the possibility of a night curfew or partial lockdown. We may also have to keep out of bounds places like beaches and the Gateway of India, where people come and gather in the evenings,” Shaikh said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-guardian-minister-says-cannot-rule-out-night-curfew-partial-lockdown/articleshow/81418253.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-bound Express derails||A coach of the Howrah-Mumbai Gitanjali Express derailed in Akola district on Tuesday, disrupting traffic on the route, said officials. No casualty was reported, they added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bound-express-derails/articleshow/81421176.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Sops to boost trade, give push to Delhi startups||NEW DELHI: To promote trade activities, Delhi government has announced several schemes like reducing the interest rate on delayed payments towards industrial properties, digitising registration, introducing award for outstanding exporters and formation of council for speedy disposal of applications of micro and small enterprises. “State Export Award has been introduced for outstanding export performers who are contributing considerably to the state economy by earning foreign exchange through export of their goods and service,” said Delhi finance minister Manish Sisodia in his proposed budget for 2021-22. “Interest rate on delayed payments towards any matter related to industrial properties allotted on lease hold basis by the industries department/DSIIDC has been reduced to 10% from 18%. To promote the spirit of entrepreneurship and startups, the government has prepared a draft startup policy and is in the process of finalising it,” he said. “To facilitate dispute resolution of applications received from micro and small enterprises on Samadhan Online Portal, a single Micro Small Enterprises Facilitation Council has been reconstituted in 11 districts under the chairmanship of district magistrate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sops-to-boost-trade-give-push-to-city-startups/articleshow/81418294.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||BMC allows 24x7 vaccination in Mumbai, targets 75k shots every day||MUMBAI: The BMC on Tuesday gave blanket permission to hospitals to carry out 24x7 vaccination provided they have the resources. The decision came on a day when hundreds of senior citizens waited for hours as Co-WIN stopped working at several centres, bringing the drive to a halt. Due to the glitch, vaccination numbers for the city were only marginally higher than Monday. A total of 43,581 were immunised, up from Monday’s 40,502. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said they aim to accelerate the drive. “In addition, we have written to the Centre to allow another 49 private hospitals to participate,” he said, adding, “Our plan is to push the daily numbers to 75,000.” City nears 4.5 lakh vax shots, Co-Win still slowing it downOn Tuesday, a majority of those vaccinated in the city were senior citizens (30,624); the next biggest lot were healthcare workers (6,356), followed by those above 45 and with co-morbidities (3,877), and 2,724 frontline workers. Since the beginning of the drive on January 16, the city has completed vaccinating 4.34lakh. The state government did not release any updated data on Tuesday. Hospitals will also be allowed to operate on Sundays. “Our only requirement is that centres have adequate manpower at all times, specially to deal with serious adverse events,” he said. Currently, 68 centres, including 24 BMC facilities, six state and Central government hospitals and 38 private hospitals are vaccinating through 184 booths. Among private hospitals, Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines has said they are keen to run extended hours. Dr Gautam Bhansali said preparations are being made to run the centre till10pm. “As soon as Co-Win allows us to run sessions beyond 6pm, we will start extended hours,” he said. Among the civic facilities, the biggest centres like the BKC jumbo field hospital, SevenHills and a few medical colleges may start extended hours. Dean of BKC Dr Rajesh Dere said running two shifts 7am-2pm and 2pm-9pm would be feasible and only requires some additional manpower. “People are unlikely to come to vaccinate at 1am, so running it for 16 hours could help increase coverage too,” he said. On Tuesday, chaos ensued at several centres when the software failed to work. A Mulund resident said he spent over 3.5hours to get his mother inoculated. “I had taken my aged mother who has a knee problem and uses a walking stick to a local vaccination centre. There was a long queue for which I was prepared. But the frustration began when we were informed that the server was down ‘All India’ for 30 minutes,” he said, adding that some elders who were waiting for nearly 2 hours decided to leave. The resident further said that rescheduling appointments was not a choice as the next slots are in April. Surgeon Dr Parthiv Sanghvi, who took his parents, aged 80 and 77 years, to VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz found his online appointment didn’t matter as the hospital had issued 200 tokens, their quota for the day in the morning itself. “There were scores of senior citizens waiting. I somehow managed to get them vaccinated but many went home without taking the vaccine. What is the whole point of Co-Win if hospitals will be running parallel systems?” he said. VN Desai authorities couldn’t be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-nears-4-5-lakh-vax-shots-co-win-still-slowing-it-down/articleshow/81419549.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 10, 2021||Goa||3 casualties on Tue, mortality count crosses 800-mark||PANAJI: With three casualties reported during the day, Goa’s Covid-19 mortality count breached the 800-mark on Tuesday. Two women – a 78-year-old from Majorda and a 55-year-old hailing from Pune – both having co-morbidities succumbed to the virus. The woman from Pune was under treatment at a private hospital in North Goa while the other woman died at Goa Medical College (GMC). A 59-year-old man from Margao, also having co-morbid conditions including diabetes and hypertension, died in GMC. The state’s caseload rose to 662 with 75 fresh infections reported, while 41 were declared cured. The state’s case positivity rate increased marginally to 4.7%. The day saw 43 patients home isolate themselves while 13 were hospitalised. The tally of the Panaji urban health centre, which was below the 100-mark for over a month, rose to 103 on Tuesday. Margao’s count also increased to 103. These two centres have the highest caseload as compared to other centres. Other centres that witnessed a marginal rise in cases were Mapusa, Vasco, Ponda, Porvorim, Ponda and Chimbel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-casualties-on-tue-mortality-count-crosses-800-mark/articleshow/81419543.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||‘Swift Action To Reduce Impact Of Covid On Economy Worked’||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia who presented Delhi budget for 2021-22 in the legislative assembly for the seventh consecutive term on Tuesday said that the Delhi government’s ‘Deshbhakti Budget’ is designed to make people better citizens who follow rules and regulations of the state without deceiving anyone, working with honesty and not engaging in illicit activities like bribery. In a written interview to TOI, Sisodia said the government is taking a number of measures to elevate Delhi’s per capita income to the level of Singapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/swift-action-to-reduce-impact-of-covid-on-economy-worked/articleshow/81439450.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: With Rs 1,550 crore of funds, unauthorised colonies to get a major boost||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister and finance minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday proposed to allocate a budget of Rs 1,550 crore for development in unauthorised colonies. Sisodia said in his budget speech that the Delhi government has always emphasised the work of constructing roads, sewers, parks, CCTV cameras, streetlights, etc for people residing in unauthorised colonies and slums of the city. The deputy CM said that before the Aam Aadmi Party government came to power in Delhi, this work was done at a very small scale—in only 895 unauthorised colonies. He said that since 2015, the work of providing these facilities in every unauthorised colony and slum has been done rapidly. The total budget proposed for housing and urban development projects in 2021 is of Rs 5,328 crore. In the previous budget, Rs 3,723 crore was allocated for this sector. Sisodia said that so far, construction work had been completed or was in progress in 1,345 out of 1,797 unauthorised colonies. He also said that due to the efforts of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), all the slums of North, South and East Delhi Municipal Corporations have been declared “open defecation free”. Sisodia also said that 20 new slum development centres have been built. He further said that the government was committed to ‘Jahan Jhuggi, Wahan Makaan’ and in Sultanpuri, the work of allotting 1,060 houses to the people living in the nearby slum settlements was in the final stage, apart from start of construction work of 784 multi-storey houses for people from economically weaker section in Dev Nagar in Karol Bagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-rs-1550cr-of-funds-unauthorised-colonies-to-get-a-major-boost/articleshow/81418267.cms||---
March 10, 2021||World||Feni river bridge to link Tripura to Bangladesh; Hasina calls it ‘historic’||NEW DELHI: India and Bangladesh on Tuesday inaugurated a bridge over the river Feni connecting Tripura to Bangladesh even as a new World Bank study said transport connectivity between the two South Asian neighbours would increase national income by as much as 17% in Bangladesh and 8% in India. Inaugurating the bridge virtually, PM Modi said, “Agartala will become the closest city in the country to an international sea port.” Describing it as historic, Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina said, “Opening of any bridge is testimony to Bangladesh’s continued commitment to support our neighbour India in strengthening connectivity in the region... the bridge will also help Bangladesh’s trade with Nepal and Bhutan.” A World Bank report also found that improved connectivity could yield a 297% increase in Bangladesh’s exports to India and a 172% increase in India’s exports to Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/feni-river-bridge-to-link-tripura-to-bangladesh-hasina-calls-it-historic/articleshow/81421674.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Feni river bridge to link Tripura to Bangladesh; Hasina calls it ‘historic’||NEW DELHI: India and Bangladesh on Tuesday inaugurated a bridge over the river Feni connecting Tripura to Bangladesh even as a new World Bank study said transport connectivity between the two South Asian neighbours would increase national income by as much as 17% in Bangladesh and 8% in India. Inaugurating the bridge virtually, PM Modi said, “Agartala will become the closest city in the country to an international sea port.” Describing it as historic, Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina said, “Opening of any bridge is testimony to Bangladesh’s continued commitment to support our neighbour India in strengthening connectivity in the region... the bridge will also help Bangladesh’s trade with Nepal and Bhutan.” A World Bank report also found that improved connectivity could yield a 297% increase in Bangladesh’s exports to India and a 172% increase in India’s exports to Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/feni-river-bridge-to-link-tripura-to-bangladesh-hasina-calls-it-historic/articleshow/81421672.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Rs 600 crore for free 20,000-litre plan||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board has been allocated Rs 3,274 crore for water and sanitation projects this fiscal, a reduction of Rs 450 crore from last year. About Rs 600 crore (18.3%) have been set aside for the free 20,000 litres scheme that is expected to benefit six lakh households every month. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said that the goals of providing piped water supply to each household and cleaning the Yamuna were well within sight. The river would be cleaned within three years, while the remaining unauthorised colonies could get water supply network coverage within two years. “In all, 93% households are connected through pipelines of about 14,500km. While 1,622 unauthorised colonies have been covered, the remaining will get connected to the water supply network within the next two years, except for 113 colonies that have not yet received the NOC from Archaeological Survey of India or fall in forest areas,” Sisodia said. The economic survey data showed that coverage had gone up from 83.4% to over 93% with two million additional people getting access to piped water supply. “The interceptor sewer project is nearly 99% complete. With the help of sewage treatment plants and the interceptor project, the Yamuna can now be cleaned completely within the next three years,” said Sisodia. In last year’s budget, the progress of the much-delayed interceptor project was 98%. The basic idea behind this project is that a trunk sewer running along large drains would intercept smaller sewers and block them from meeting the main drains, while diverting raw sewage to treatment plants. Last fiscal, the budgetary allocation to DJB was Rs 3,724 crore, which was 5.7% of the overall budget. However, this year it has reduced to 5%. In comparison, the allocation was 5.4% in the 2014-15 budget presen ted by Arun Jaitley, when the city was under President’s Rule. Providing updates on some key projects, Sisodia said, “To keep track of the water supply, 3,170 bulk-flow meters have been installed and 121 are in the process of installation. Under the Mukhyamantri Free Sewer Connection Scheme, 4.9 lakh sewer connections were regularised. This scheme will continue this year too. DJB has installed rainwater harvesting systems in 585 of its 771 establishments. The remaining work is expected to be completed before this monsoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-600cr-for-free-20k-litre-plan/articleshow/81418303.cms||Paras Singh
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||Fully online ‘21K School’ introduces IGCSE curriculum up to Std XII||Nagpur: A completely-online school in India is now offering IGCSE curriculum for Grades VI to XII, through a partnership with UK’s Nisai Global School. TOI was the first to report about how online schools, which exist only in the virtual world with no alternate brick-and-mortar buildings, are gaining acceptance in India. Students of ‘21K School’ will now be taught by teachers from abroad, with a maximum of eight students per class. An official statement by the school mentioned that this initiative will be beneficial for “grades XI and XII as this will give them an opportunity to graduate with IGCSE and grade AS-A level qualification”. Yeshwanth Raj Parasmal, co-founder and principal director, 21K School said, “We are delighted to partner with Nisai Group and believe that joining forces with them will take us a step closer towards contributing to the Indian education industry by bringing secondary and higher education in the concept of online schooling. The programs will ensure the overall development of the students through co-curricular activities and leadership opportunities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fully-online-21k-school-introduces-igcse-curriculum-up-to-std-xii/articleshow/81429121.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 10, 2021||Patna||Oppn slams govt over promotion of dead docas CS of Sheikhpura||Patna: The opposition RJD cornered the government in the state legislature on Tuesday over promoting and transferring a doctor, who had died in February this year. RJD MLA from Sheikhpura Vijay Samrat displayed outside the assembly premises the March 8 notification through which the government had transferred Dr Ram Narayan Ram as the civil surgeon of Sheikhpura district, even though he had died in February 7 this year when he was posted as incharge of Bikramganj sub-divisional hospital. Earlier, RJD MLA Lalit Kumar Yadav raised the issue on the floor of the House during the zero hour. Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said the government had taken serious note of the matter. RJD MLCs also raised the issue in the Upper House. After much criticism, the health department issued a fresh notification on Tuesday, giving additional charge of civil surgeon to Dr Krishna Murari Singh, the medical officer of Sheikhpura Sadar hospital. Dr Singh also handles the additional charge of additional chief medical officer, Sheikhpura. Raising this issue in the House, RJD MLC Subodh Kumar said the episode has exposed the functioning of the health department. Health minister Mangal Pandey said it was a serious issue and a show-cause notice had been issued to the officials concerned. “Notification in this regard was issued on Monday and the moment the fact came to our knowledge, the show-cause notice was issued,” the minister added. Another RJD MLC, Sunil Kumar Singh, said appointment of a dead doctor as civil surgeon was not an ordinary issue and the government must come up with a proper explanation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-slams-govt-over-promotion-of-dead-docas-cs-of-sheikhpura/articleshow/81417021.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||C-Vax for over 20 from old-age home at Janakpuri hospital||NEW DELHI: Nearly two dozen senior citizens from an old age home in west Delhi district were vaccinated at Janakpuri Super Speciality Hospital on Monday. The immunisation, officials said, was carried out as part of a special initiative by the local administration. “Staff were sent to the old age home for online registration on the orders of district magistrate Neha Bansal. They took 22 senior citizens to the hospital and got them vaccinated,” said an official. She added that eight such old age homes have been identified where similar exercise will be carried out to immunise the vulnerable population against Covid-19. The west district administration has issued a helpline number — 011-20850950 — on which the intended beneficiaries can call for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/c-vax-for-over-20-from-old-age-home-at-janakpuri-hosp/articleshow/81418312.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Thane||Thane civic body clarifies curbs limited to buildings||THANE: The Thane Municipal Corporation on Tuesday evening executed a turnaround from its Monday announcement of lockdown in 16 hotspots and issued new guidelines tapering restrictions to the respective floors of a building or wings depending on the caseload till the end of the month, said officials. A clarification given by the corporation said that micro containment zones will henceforth be restricted to the respective floors of a building or the entire wing or annexe if the volume of cases exceeds more than five at a time. The revised notification said there were three containment zones in Kalwa administrative wards, one each in Naupada and Wagle ward, and four buildings were identified as such zones in Majiwada-Manpada administrative wards. The Vartak Nagar administrative ward has two containment zones while Lokmanya-Sawarker Nagar administrative ward and Uthalsar have three each. The flip-flop by the administration caused confusion among residents and traders on Tuesday. Some traders said they did not open their units in the morning as they learnt about the Thane Municipal Corporation having announced a lockdown in 16 hotspots with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-thane-civic-body-clarifies-curbs-limited-to-buildings/articleshow/81418402.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Debris on floodplain: Activist cites proof||New Delhi: Yamuna activist Manoj Mishra on Tuesday wrote to secretary of Union ministry of Jal Shakti alleging that the site where soil and debris from the Central Vista project were being dumped was part of the Yamuna floodplain, with Google Earth images to prove his point.“After every flood in the river, a wetland gets created and the site in question is clearly seen in the 2011 image that is post the Yamuna floods in 2010. The work done by PWD for the Barapullah elevated Mayur Vihar corridor has played havoc with the floodplain morphology while it was supposed to be sensitive to the same and actually restore it post the work,” said Mishra, the convener of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan.Some activists had on Monday alleged that soil and debris from the Central Vista project were being dumped in huge quantities in the Yamuna floodplain near Mayur Vihar Phase-I. The area forms a part of the floodplain where encroachments and construction activities are prohibited, they claim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/debris-on-floodplain-activist-cites-proof/articleshow/81418330.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||Sudden spurt in Canacona, 34 active cases||POINGUINIM: Following 34 active Covid-19 cases in the taluka, an awareness drive has been started by Canacona health officer Dr Jose Tavares and his hospital staff in Covid hotspots. The sudden rise in cases is alarming since till the last week of February, there were just a couple of cases. Currently, there are 14 active cases in Agonda, four in Colomb, six in Loliem, four in Gaondongrim and six in Chaudi, Covid incharge Dr Classie Furtado said. The Canacona community health centre has so far recorded 886 Covid-19 cases in the taluka. Barring two patients who have been treated at the South Goa district hospital, other positive patients have opted for home isolation. Furtado further informed that a total of 234 healthcare workers have received their first vaccination dose so far while 156 of them have alsoreceived the second dose. Among frontline workers, 382 have so far received their first dose. Administering of the second dose will commence from March 10. Among senior citizens and persons with comorbidities, a total of 204 have already received their first vaccination dose, Furtado said. Canacona Covid incharge Dr Classie Furtado said that among senior citizens and persons with comorbidities, a total of 204 have already received their first vaccination dose||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sudden-spurt-in-canacona-34-active-cases/articleshow/81419556.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Will submit to Centre Aurangabad renaming proposal: CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Facing strong opposition from Congress over renaming Aurangabad city as Sambhaji Nagar, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday assured that as the state government has no right to rename village or city, it will submit the proposal to the Centre. In a written answer to questions raised by BJP legislator Yogesh Sagar in the legislative assembly, Thackeray said that the state had received a detailed proposal of renaming Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar from the Aurangabad divisional commissioner in March 2020. The CM said the government will seek opinion from the law and judiciary department and accordingly, with all proper documentation, submit the proposal to the Centre. In 1995, when the Shiv Sena-BJP government was in power in the state, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation passed a resolution to rename the city as Sambhaji Nagar and forwarded it to the government, which issued a draft notification seeking public suggestions and objections. However, then Congress corporator Mushtaq Mohammad challenged the draft notification before the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court, which disposed of the matter stating that no decision has been taken by the state. Mohammad then moved the Supreme Court which granted a stay on the draft notification and status quo was maintained. In 1999, when the Congress-NCP took over the reins of the state, it withdrew the draft notification as the government cannot take a final decision on renaming a village or city. The case was finally dismissed in the SC after the state cancelled all notifications related to the renaming of Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cm-will-submit-to-centre-aurangabad-renaming-proposal/articleshow/81421197.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Gymkhana Club moves SC over administrator||NEW DELHI: The 108-year-old Gymkhana Club on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court challenging the apex company tribunal's decision to appoint an administrator to manage the private club’s affairs on the Union government’s allegation that it was practising discriminatory practices to keep the club restricted to the elite. In the appeal before the SC, the club and GC members said, “There was no occasion to replace the GC of the club which was duly elected at the AGM held on December 31, 2020, when the allegations, if any, do not pertain to the working of this GC, but admittedly to the period between 2013-2018. The replacement of duly elected GC with a sole administrator is extremely prejudicial to the autonomy and functioning of the club.” The appeal, filed through solicitors Karanjawala & Co, said, “Appointment of an administrator is a drastic order and has far-reaching consequences. Such a direction must only be considered as a remedy of last resort and supplants corporate democracy, which in any case cannot be done at an interim stage.” “Much has been made about the fact that the club is situated on government land in a prime location in New Delhi, which seems to be the fulcrum of the Centre's case. This fact is wholly irrelevant for the purposes of the provisions of law invoked to wrest control of a private club,” the plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gymkhana-club-moves-sc-over-administrator/articleshow/81418344.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Three women among 6 held for beating man to death in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested six persons, including three women, for allegedly beating to death a man during a violent scuffle in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar. Police have identified more suspects and efforts to arrest them are under way. The arrested persons have been identified as 48-year-old Ravinder and his wife Anita (45), Ravinder’s son Tarun (23) and his wife Priyanka (21), 30-year-old Deepa and Gaurav (19), all residents of Raghubir Nagar. Puneet, Kaju and Summi, residents of the same area, were also allegedly involved in the murder. According to police, a call was received at Rajouri Garden police station at 11.44 pm on Monday regarding a quarrel in Raghubir Nagar. On reaching the spot, they found that an injured person had already been taken to Guru Gobind Singh Hospital. The cops reached there and identified the victim as 32-year-old Rupesh who was declared brought dead. Mukesh, the brother of the deceased, told police that their neighbours Tarun and his wife Priyanka were having a heated argument between them around 11 pm. It was Rupesh’s son’s birthday party and the argument caused disruption in the area. “He said the argument was later joined by Tarun’s father Ravinder, his mother Anita, brother Puneet, his cousin sister Deepa and they all were creating ruckus in the residential area. Mukesh said when his mother objected to the ruckus, the family members started using unparliamentary language against her also. On this, Rupesh, his father Rajbahadur and maternal uncle Rajbir also reached the spot. Puneet, Deepa and Ravinder then called their associates Nitin, Kaju, Summi and Gaurav and all of them thrashed him, his brother Rupesh and other family members with sticks and rods,” said a police officer. “Rupesh and his other family members were taken to a hospital where Rupesh died,” police said. Rupesh’s family members stated that they never picked up a fight with anyone in the area. On the day of the incident, they only asked their neighbours to lower down their tone, they claimed. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said that a case under relevant sections, including that of murder and attempt to murder, was registered against the accused and six of them had been arrested. “Our teams acted immediately and arrested the suspects. We have identified more persons and teams have been formed to arrest them. Rupesh’s body has been sent for a postmortem examination to ascertain the exact cause of death,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-women-among-6-held-for-beating-man-to-death/articleshow/81418386.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Two ‘pickpockets’ caught, beaten to death in Delhi; 2 held||NEW DELHI: Two men who were suspected to be pickpockets were caught and allegedly beaten to death by a group of men at Azadpur on Tuesday morning. Two accused, Rakesh (47) and Sunil Kumar Pandey (28), were arrested in the evening for the crime. The family of one of the deceased alleged that Rakesh had tried to dispose of his body by stuffing it into a sack. The incident was reported around 7.30am wherein the caller informed police that two men who were trying to pickpocket had fallen unconscious after being thrashed at Azadpur wholesale market. The victims were identified as Lokesh alias Loki (24) and Ved Prakash alias Bhaiya (24), both residents of a slum cluster in Jahangirpuri. A police team reached the spot and found the two men lying on the ground bleeding. Bhaiya’s hands were tied and his legs had multiple injuries. They were rushed to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital where the doctors declared them dead. Their families were informed by police and the bodies were sent for autopsy. A case of murder and destruction of evidence has been registered. DCP (Northwest) Usha Rangnani said, “Bhaiya was found booked in cases of robbery, snatching and under Arms Act. We are checking Loki’s records. Rakesh said Loki had stolen money from his pocket. Pandey said he caught Bhaiya trying to pickpocket him. A separate case has been lodged based on their complaints.” Loki’s family members alleged that when they reached the spot, they found his body stuffed in a sack. “A friend informed me that my brother had been thrashed and was lying unconscious. Had we not reached on time, his body stuffed in a sack would have been dumped somewhere. We opened the sack and took out his body. We called police, but when no one came, we took the suspects to the cops,” alleged his brother. Rangnani, however, said a police team reached the spot as soon as they got information about the incident and took the victims to the hospital. “Multiple teams are checking CCTV footage to identify more suspects. We will take action accordingly after getting the postmortem reports,” added the DCP. Loki used to play dhol in weddings. He is survived by his wife and a one-year-old son. Police said an initial probe has revealed that the two men were caught and thrashed by the accused and others for pickpocketing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-pickpockets-caught-beaten-to-death-2-held/articleshow/81418377.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Gurgaon||Rural areas in Gurugram account for just 1/5th of Phase 3 jabs||GURUGRAM: Rural areas in Gurugram account for only 22% of the total vaccinations in the third phase for the 60-plus population and the 45-plus with comorbidities. So far, 24,497 people have been inoculated in this round. The majority of the jabs — 19,055 — were given in urban areas while just 5,442 shots were administered in rural areas. Till now, a maximum of 20 session sites have been created in rural areas. The areas that have inoculated less than 150 recipients include Ghangola, Hailey Mandi, Kasan, Garhi Harsaru, Gurugram village and Daultabad. In comparison, there are 48 session sites in urban areas at present as the majority of the private hospitals are located in the city. Among urban areas, Manesar has vaccinated less than 150 people so far. The trend is mirrored in Haryana’s predominantly rural districts, which have vaccinated fewer people compared to the urban belts in the state. For instance, Nuh (294), Charkhi Dadri (410), Kaithal (690), Jhajjar (767), Jind (799), Palwal (879) and Fatehabad (982) have inoculated less than 1,000 people in the ongoing phase. To encourage more people to come forward for the shots in rural areas, the Gurugram health department plans to hold vaccination camps in its sub-centres, which are branches of primary health care centres. Also, more cohort facilities to inoculate target groups will be organised in the coming days to ensure the drive picks up pace. “We will organise cohort facilities in rural areas where Asha workers will mobilise people to come for vaccination. Also, we will use more than 30 sub-centres located in rural areas to step up the drive,” Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav said. At the same time, he pointed out that the population in Gurugram’s rural areas is lower compared to urban areas. “As per the 2011 Census report, which is the yardstick for carrying out all Covid-related activities, such as tests and vaccination, there are 12.25 lakh people in Gurugram city and 4.7 lakh people in the rural areas. Therefore, the turnout in rural areas is less compared to urban areas. However, we are taking steps to increase the overall vaccinations and also strengthening our teams in rural and semi-urban areas of the district,” Yadav said. Meanwhile, the pace of Phase 3 vaccinations has picked up in the city’s private hospitals. By now, 9,439 recipients have been given shots in government set-ups while 15,058 people have got their first doses in private facilities. Private hospitals said the numbers have seen an upswing after they have started giving time slots and registering people on their own helplines. “We have inoculated more than 350 people in the last three sessions. We were able to manage the process better after we started giving out tokens and time slots to the recipients,” said a senior doctor from a major private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rural-areas-in-ggn-account-for-just-1/5th-of-phase-3-jabs/articleshow/81419573.cms||Ipsita Pati
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Black buck rescued from poachers||Hyderabad: Acting on a tip-off, the Hyderabad police on Tuesday rescued a three-year-old female black buck and arrested three persons involved in hunting deer and selling its meat to customers in different parts of the state. In a joint operation with the forest department, police also recovered body parts of another deer the accused is alleged to have killed. The officials who busted the poaching racked arrested Chavan Shanker Baba (36) from Nirmal district, along with Md Zubair (26) and Md Salmanuddin (27), both residents of Nizamabad district, while another accused—Imran—is absconding. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said that the prime accused in the case, Chavan Shanker Baba, who is a farmer by profession, decided to hunt deer and other wild animals to make easy money. Additional DCP Chakravarthy Gummi added that the preliminary inquiry into the case revealed that Baba and Zubair have been involved in 10 similar wildlife poaching cases in the past. Earlier in January 2018, the forest department had charged Baba in a case under the Wildlife Protection Act for a similar offence. The rescued buck was handed over to the Nehru Zoological Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/black-buck-rescued-from-poachers/articleshow/81419562.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Goa||3-year culinary course gets varsity nod||PANAJI: Goa University (GU) has granted approval to the Verna-based Kamaxi College of Culinary Arts (KCCA) for a three-year degree programme focused exclusively on culinary management. The programme will be referred to as the Bachelor’s in Vocational in culinary management. While GU had granted nod for the course last year,it could not be launched due to the pandemic. The course will now be offered from June 2021. Students with Class XII certification from any stream are eligible to apply. There will be 30 seats on offer, the institute said. The selection process will include a counseling session and a written test, followed by an interview. “The programme is designed for aspirants of culinary entrepreneurship and management,” said KCCA chairman Parixit Pai Fondekar. He said the institute has partnered with GU and the Tourism and Hospitality Sector Skill Council to help students gain knowledge from the industry. Among the subjects that will be covered are food safety and sanitation, food and nutrition, intellectual property rights, culinary skills in banquet and buffet, wine pairing, human resource management, guest centric service orientation and business plan for entrepreneurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-year-culinary-course-gets-varsity-nod/articleshow/81419591.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chennai||After Perungudi, Kodungaiyur may breathe easy||Chennai: After launching a bio-mining programme, using microbes to quicken decomposition of solid waste, at the Perungudi dump yard, the city corporation is set to begin the process at Kodungaiyur where legacy waste totalling seven million cubic metres has piled up in the last two decades. “It was posing a huge problem as 3,000 tonnes of solid waste is dumped at the Kodungaiyur yard daily. Now, we have set up a 50-tonne capacity bio-CNG plant and a windrow composting plant to treat bio-degradable waste. With micro composting centres ensuring more than 250 tonnes of bio-degradable waste is treated, we have considerably reduced the solid waste entering the dump yard. We will clear at least 100 acres of the 257 acres of the dump yard that has bio degradable waste,” said an official. IIT-M studies conducted at the dump yard showed that more than 50% of the waste dumped at Kodungaiyur over the past 30 years is bio-degradable. About 30% is recyclable. “Once bio-mining is done, bio-degradable waste will turn into compost and the rest of the plastic waste will either be recycled or incinerated based on the quality. Construction and debris (C&D) waste will be transferred to the 400-tonne capacity waste plant being set up in the yard,” said an official. At Perungudi, which has 3.63 million cubic metres of legacy waste and where bio-mining has begun, about 125 acres will be cleared in the next three months and the remaining 200 acres cleared in the next five years. N S Ramachandra Rao, president of Ever Vigilant Citizen Welfare Association, said that despite talking about it for more than a decade, only Bengaluru and Ahmedabad had completed biomining. Ganesan Perumal, a resident, said that for more than a decade they had been exposed to air and water pollution due to the dump yard. “Frequent fires are another issue. Unless the project is completed, it is hard to believe the corporation’s promises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-perungudi-kodungaiyur-may-breathe-easy/articleshow/81399719.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Parties promise the moon to voters||Hyderabad: As the election campaign for MLC Graduates constituencies reaches a crescendo, political parties are promising the moon in a bid to woo voters. In the neck and neck fight in Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda, major political parties and independents alike are raising issues right from local to hyper local level. The issues vary differ from irrigation facilities, tribal university to Bayyaram steel plant and employment. For instance, in Mahbubabad—which is part of Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency—local TRS leaders are raising the issue of Podu lands. “I won’t come for seeking votes next time, if the Podu land issue is resolved. The state government will give directions to the forest department not to interfere in the Podu lands, which are being cultivated by the tribals on the forest lands,” minister Satyavathi Rathod said a few days ago. “Like in GHMC elections, some parties have made promises that were not connected to civic bodies. In this election too, some candidates have been making promises on issues such as jobs to all unemployed youth in Mahbubnagar district,” Chandrakadhar Biravabhatla, who runs an NGO, said. MLCs candidates are not talking about the educational facilities in the district and self-employment schemes, which is their core area, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parties-promise-the-moon-to-voters/articleshow/81419585.cms||Koride Mahesh
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Remote help for long-distance, but locals hit||Kolkata: Eastern Railway managed to resume most of its online booking system on Tuesday morning with the help of a disaster recovery server at Secunderabad. But some lines that are directly fed by servers at New Koilaghat continued to remain delinked in the aftermath of Monday’s fire. Most of the online railway booking system that had gone on the blink after the UPS ran out of power was restored on Tuesday morning. But hundreds of commuters, especially those, who travel by local trains, had a trying time on Tuesday. There were serpentine queues at Sealdah North and South sections and Koilaghat, where servers of the electronic booking system are installed. .Eastern Railway officials said the booking system at Sealdah normalised at 6.40pm. “We have managed to restore most of the system through backup servers in Secunderabad railway office. Except for the PRS system in two or three points in Howrah and Sealdah, most of the online booking process has been restored with the help of this disaster recovery system. In most places, where there are passenger reservation system (PRS) centres, bookings are on,” Eastern Railway’s general manager Manoj Joshi said. Normalcy is expected as soon as electricity is back at New Koilaghat Building, said Eastern Railway’s spokesperson, Kamal Deo Das. “PRS ticket counters are operational in six zonal railways under Kolkata PRS, except a few locations directly connected with communication network from New Koilaghat Building, which is expected to be restored soon,” he said. Many commuters though had a harrowing time in long queues. Rashbehari Saha, a commuter for Lalgola Passenger at Sealdah station, was in the queue for 90 minutes but the booking counter was still far off. A staff at Sealdah station said the system speed was slow, so issuing tickets was taking time. Computerized booking for train travel in eastern India was disrupted from around 7.30pm on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/remote-help-for-long-distance-but-locals-hit/articleshow/81418448.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||10,000 vax doses from Wardha & rural Nagpur bail out city||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday received 5,000 doses of Covaxin from Wardha district, which averted break in inoculation at two centres at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in city. Only 400 doses of Covaxin were left with the GMCH on Tuesday, which were enough for one more day. GMCH is the only centre in the district administering Covaxin. The state government had provided 5,200 doses of Covaxin — 2,000 on January 15 and 3,200 on January 28. These doses were meant for healthcare workers (HCWs) of GMCH and Superspeciality Hospital. Less than 50% of the HCWs from these hospitals took the first dose and very few turned up for the second jab. After the government started vaccination of age-appropriate group from March 1, NMC allowed inoculation of people in 60 years and above age group and those above 45 having comorbidities at GMCH. The move evoked good response from age-appropriate group as around 400 persons were being administered the vaccine at GMCH per day. The government had sent more doses of Covishield for the district on March 2, but not of Covaxin. With no further supplies of Covaxin, officials of the state’s public health department (PHD) here had requested Gadchiroli district administration to send 5,000 doses of Covaxin to the NMC as these were lying untilized there. As Gadchiroli administration did not respond, the PHD contacted Wardha authorities for the doses. NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI, “As we have received 5,000 doses of Covaxin from Wardha district, there is no worry.” Six districts of Vidarbha — Bhandara, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Amravati, Buldhana and Washim are reportedly having sufficient number of Covaxin doses. TOI had on Tuesday highlighted that NMC was left with doses enough for 1.5 days only. Good response to vaccination continued in the city with 9,078 persons from age-appropriate group, HCWs and frontline workers (FLWs) taking the jab in city on Tuesday. Dr Chilkar said, “NMC also received 5,000 doses of Covishield from Nagpur Rural. We were having 14,000 doses of Covishield after the inoculation on Tuesday. There is nothing to worry now as 19,000 Covishield doses and 5,400 of Covaxin are available as on Tuesday night.” PHD officials said, “We have sent a vehicle to Pune on Tuesday and the doses are likely to arrive on Wednesday. Another lot of doses is also likely by Saturday. Vaccination will not stop due to shortage of doses.” All 11 districts of Vidarbha had received total 7,97,560 doses till March 2. The government used to deliver the doses. However, for the first time, PHD has sent a vehicle to bring the vaccine from Pune. On Tuesday, vaccination was done at 58 centres — 18 in NMC and government-run hospitals and 40 in private ones. The NMC has added two more centres in private hospitals taking the total number to 60 for Wednesday. NMC reportedly did not give vaccine vials as per demand to a few private hospitals on Tuesday, despite advance payment to the government. Dr Chilkar said, “We are providing vials based on past performance of private hospitals. We cannot allow hoarding of doses. We will ensure there is no shortage of doses at private as well as government hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10000-vax-doses-from-wardha-rural-nagpur-bail-out-city/articleshow/81418469.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports over 1,000 Covid cases 7 days in a row||MUMBAI: The spike in Covid-19 cases continued as Maharashtra registered 9,927 cases on Tuesday, up from 8,744 a day back. Deaths more than doubled from 22 on Monday to 56 on Tuesday. Total caseload of the state rose to 22,38,398 and fatalities touched 52,556. Mumbai seemed to be stable at 1,012 cases --two cases less than on Monday -- and two deaths. The city now has a tally of 3.35 lakh cases and 11,510 deaths since the pandemic began in March 2020. Mumbai has been reporting over 1,000 cases for the last seven days in a row. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said though cases are rising, death rate in Maharashtra has been lower than 1 in 2021. “While case fatality rate (CFR) in Maharashtra is 2.35 if cases since March 2020 are considered, it is time to look at CFR only for 2021 while planning strategies to beat Covid-19,” he said. Dr Rahul Pandit, who heads intensive care at Fortis Hospital and is also a member of the same task force, said it would take another week or 10 days for a clearer picture to emerge. “The need of the hour is to aggressively vaccinate vulnerable sections such as senior citizens within the shortest possible time,” he said. Senior citizens account for a majority of mortalities in 2020. “Vaccinating them would help us control the damage that a Covid-19 surge can cause. Vaccinating is as important as masking right now,” Pandit added. There has also been a rise in daily discharges. On Tuesday 12,182 people were sent home, taking total discharges to over 20.8 lakh. With this, active cases in the state and city have dipped. There are 95,322 active cases in the state now, of which 9,330 are in Mumbai. The highest cases have been reported from the Pune circle (2,291)while the highest daily fatalities have been reported from Akola (16). The Mumbai region reported a total of 1,940 cases and 11 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-reports-over-1000-covid-cases-7-days-in-a-row/articleshow/81419587.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Why did Trivendra Singh Rawat have to go?||DEHRADUN: Although the demand for Trivendra Rawat’s replacement had started barely a few months after he took over and was repeated almost every year, his detractors finally managed to have their way 10 months ahead of the assembly polls when they were able to convince the central leadership that the party will fare badly if Rawat continues to stay at the helm. The recent trigger was the massive protest by residents of Ghat area of Chamoli on the first day of the budget session on March 1, which saw pelting of stones by protesters and a cane charge by police. Another recent episode, which went against Rawat was the decision to make Gairsain a new administrative division, with two districts each of Garhwal and Kumaon. According to political analyst Jay Singh Rawat, the CM took the decision without even consulting his party MLAs as a result of which many of the BJP MLAs from Kumaon were miffed. “This is not for the first time that party MLAs have been displeased with the CM’s decision. Three cabinet berths have been lying vacant for a long time. Some MLAs had accused the bureaucracy of dictating terms, and others have claimed that development works were not being carried out in their constituencies as bureaucrats were not listening to them,” Rawat said. He added that the signs of trouble for Trivendra Rawat had been there since a long time as a number of MLAs had met the party’s national leadership in Delhi on previous occasions, too, and expressed their resentment. “Several BJP MLAs like Lohaghat MLA Puran Fartyal — who raised the issue of corruption in a road project — were attacking their own government in the assembly as well. It is therefore not surprising that the resentment of the MLAs eventually snowballed and cost Trivendra his chair,” he said. Meanwhile, social activist Anoop Nautiyal said that not having a good team of advisors also cost the CM dear. “With the exception of one or two advisors, lack of calibre, poor public acceptability and arrogant attitude of most of his advisors is one of the reasons behind his untimely departure. Having an experienced, diversified and grounded team is a prerequisite for success.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/why-did-tsr-have-to-go/articleshow/81418434.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||3 leopard cubs found in sugarcane field reunited with mother in Pune||Nagpur: Three leopard cubs were rescued in a joint operation by NGO Wildlife SOS and the forest department from a sugarcane field in Vadgaon Kandali village in Otur forest range of Junnar division, Pune. The eight-week-old cubs were kept under observation for a few hours and later successfully reunited with the mother. With the onset of sugarcane harvest season, the state that houses a large population of leopards records an evident rise in unavoidable human-leopard encounters. As it turns out, harvest season happens to coincide with the breeding season of these big cats and female leopards rely heavily on the tall crop to shield their offspring from predators and human intervention. On Sunday, sugarcane farmers in Vadgaon Kandali village located in Otur forest range, stumbled upon three tiny leopard cubs while harvesting their crops. Most farmers are familiar with the leopard presence in this region, so they immediately alerted members of the village rescue team, trained by the Maharashtra forest department and Wildlife SOS. In the meantime, two rescue units from Wildlife SOS and the forest department rushed to the location with the necessary equipment and medical kits to conduct an on-site examination of the cubs. Wildlife SOS veterinary officer Dr Nikhil Bangar identified them as one female and two males, estimated to be about 8-weeks-old. After their health examination, the team arranged for the cubs to be reunited with their mother and went back to the field where they were found. As the team stood close by and hidden, expecting a long time before the leopard mother would find her cubs, the waiting time was cut short. Within 30 minutes, a leopardess emerged from the sugarcane field. After gently knocking off the cover from the safe box, she picked up her cubs one after the other by the scruff of the neck and relocated to a safer area. Dr Bangar said, “We placed the cubs in a safe box and observed them from a distance as the mother slowly approached the field after being drawn out by their distinct scent and vocalization. We installed camera traps to document the happy reunion.” Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder & CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “It is reassuring to see that instead of harming the helpless cubs, the farmers reached out to the rescue teams for help. Our team of experts has years of experience and we’ve found that minimizing the time of separation between cubs and mothers is an important contributing factor for a successful reunion.” Yogesh Ghodake, RFO, Otur, said, “Such encounters are reported more frequently during the pre-harvest and harvest seasons. The sugarcane fields provide a suitable shelter for the leopards to breed in and to nurture their cubs. We are grateful to the Wildlife SOS team for helping us make this reunion a success.” Wildlife SOS (WSOS) is a non-profit charity established in 1998 with the primary objective of rescuing and rehabilitating wildlife in distress across India. “We actively run wildlife and nature protection projects to promote conservation, combat poaching, and illegal wildlife trade. We also work in partnership with the government and indigenous communities to create sustainable, alternate livelihoods for erstwhile poacher communities,” said Arinita Sandilya, communication officer, Wildlife SOS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-leopard-cubs-found-in-sugarcane-field-reunited-with-mother-in-pune/articleshow/81429241.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||BJP has virtually conceded defeat before 2022 polls, says AAP||Dehradun: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday reacted sharply over the change of guard in Uttarakhand saying that by replacing the chief minister, BJP has conceded defeat before 2022 assembly polls. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted, “In the last four years, BJP has not done even a single work on the basis of which they can seek votes from the people. They are changing the face of the CM to actually hide their incompetence and poor performance in the last four years.” Just nine days before his government was due to complete four years in office, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday rendered his resignation to governor Baby Rani Maurya — a day after his meeting with party’s top functionaries in the national capital. Uttarakhand AAP in-charge and Sangam Vihar MLA Dinesh Mohaniya said that the BJP has in a way accepted its mistake of placing Rawat as the CM four years ago, adding, “BJP should apologise to the people for cheating them for four years.” Mohaniya also said that the AAP has been calling him a “zero-work CM” and his removal from the post has now put a stamp on the stand taken by the party. He reiterated his claim that a serving minister and four MLAs of the ruling party are in touch with AAP and have given their consent of joining them ahead of the assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-has-virtually-conceded-defeat-before-2022-polls-says-aap/articleshow/81417121.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: All eyes on techies’ vote||Hyderabad: Candidates in the fray for the graduate MLC polls are on a mission mode to get graduates to come to their hometowns and cast their on March 14, reports Sushil Rao. As WFH was continuing, Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA) president Sundeep Kumar Makthala urged IT professionals not to give the elections a miss. Sundeep added that techies also face several issues and urged the MLC candidates in the fray to show interest in raising their matters when elected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-all-eyes-on-techies-vote/articleshow/81419593.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Bandi dares KTR to a debate||Warangal: BJP Telangana state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday dared TRS working president KT Rama Rao to an open debate on the Telangana agitation, reports Shiva Kumar Pinna. He was addressing a gathering of graduates voters of Wangaal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency. He also alleged that the state government is claiming many central schemes as its.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-dares-ktr-to-a-debate/articleshow/81419595.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Couldn’t help teachers due to money crunch’||Hyderabad: TRS working president and IT minister KT Rama Rao on Tuesday said the state government could not come to the rescue of 12 lakh teachers working in private educational institutions during lockdown due to state’s financial constraints. “It is not that we ignored them. Since they are in huge number, the state government could not help them financially during the lockdown,” he said at an interaction programme at a college in Secunderabad. Taking potshots at the BJP and Congress for raising private schools teachers’ problems now, he wondered why did they not help the teachers in the states ruled by their parties. KTR said the BJP government at the Centre has done nothing for Telangana. “The Centre has failed to give what was promised to Telangana in the AP Reorganisation Act. While Telangana has contributed Rs 2,72,000 crore to the Centre in the form of various taxes in the last six years, it has given only Rs 1.40 lakh crore to the state in the form of various schemes,” KTR said. KTR said that in 65 years, before Telangana was formed, five government medical colleges were set up. But within six years, the TRS government has set up five new government medical colleges in Suryapet, Mahbubnagar, Nalgonda, Siddipet and Adilabad. “This is a testimony to the work we do,” he added. Repeating his charge, KTR said the Centre did not grant a single institution like IIM, National Institute of Design, Navodaya Vidyalaya and medical colleges to Telangana in the last six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couldnt-help-teachers-due-to-money-crunch/articleshow/81419589.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Tillari reserve makes it to Queen’s Canopy||Mumbai: The Tillari Conservation Reserve in Sindhdurg district has been selected for the Queen’s Commonwealth Canopy. It is the first project in India to be selected for the initiative of all the 54 Commonwealth countries to protect and increase the native tree cover. The initiative will begin in May 2021 in honour of the platinum jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II in 2022, to mark her 70 years on the throne. The reserve, declared as such in June last year, is a key wildlife corridor for elephants, tigers and other animals at the tri-junction of three states including Goa and Karnataka. It protects 29.53 sq km of tropical forests in the ghats. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “It is a special moment for us as this important reserve...is part of an international conservation effort.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-tillari-reserve-makes-it-to-queens-canopy/articleshow/81421213.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||Supreme Court stays arrest warrant against BJP candidate||NEW DELHI: In a relief to BJP member and former IPS officer Bharati Ghosh, who is to contest West Bengal assembly elections, the Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered that the non-bailable arrest warrant against her for alleged poll violence in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections be kept in abeyance till the conclusion of the assembly polls. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S Abdul Nazeer and Hemant Gupta restrained the West Bengal police from taking any coercive action against Ghosh so that she can contest poll and campaign for other candidates of her party. The bench noted that the apex court had granted her protection in the last Lok Sabha elections and agreed to grant relief. Senior advocate Nieeraj Kishan Kaul, appearing for Ghosh, contended that the state government was targeting her to ensure that she did not contest the assembly polls, He said around 30 FIRs had been filed against her. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the state, clarified that the warrant was issued by a lower court and police were supposed to comply with the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-stays-arrest-warrant-against-bjp-candidate/articleshow/81421701.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man who collapsed seconds after vax jab was eager to visit Punjab hometown||Mumbai: The family of the Goregaon man who died on Monday soon after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine said the 69-year-old was eager to get inoculated as he had planned a trip to his hometown in Punjab this month.Harjit Singh Kartar Singh Nagi, a retired businessman, had collapsed on the chair within seconds of being administered the 0.5ml vaccine dose at Millat Nursing Home, Oshiwara, on Monday afternoon. Doctors said he crashed even before the syringe could be withdrawn from his arm. Attempts to resuscitate him in the adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) room attached to the vaccination area on the hospital’s first floor and later at its ICU failed. He was declared dead at 5.05pm. He was given the vaccine at 3.37pm.Nagi didn’t go with the plan to get vaccinated, rather he only wanted to find out about the steps. A known case of diabetes and hypertension, he had developed left ventricular dysfunction about six years ago. The family, though, said he was completely fit at present and had even got a go-ahead from their family physician to get vaccinated. “He had gone only to enquire, but on reaching Millat, he found out that it was not too crowded, and he had the necessary documents to get vaccinated,” said Nagi’s son-in-law Pratik Desai. The next thing they heard was that he was critical. Civic officials said his cause of death was under investigation. An autopsy was carried out at Byculla’s J J Hospital on Tuesday. Dr T P Lahane, head of medical education, said the cause of death will be finalised after the histopathology and chemical analysis reports arrive. Dr Talha Dhukka, CEO of Millat Nursing Home, said his doctors believe the death could have been caused by cardiac arrhythmia (heart beats too slowly or too fast). “But it is our assumption, and only autopsy findings can tell definitively. We gave him adrenaline injection too, which should have shown some effect if it was a case of anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction),” he said, adding that the hospital had a physician and cardiac care expert attending to him. Dhukka said the drive at Millat remained unaffected as over 200 got vaccinated on Tuesday. Veteran cardiologist Dr Dev Pahlajani, who consults with Breach Candy Hospital, said a sudden cardiac event can be precipitated by fear or anxiety. “Vaccination is safe even for cardiac patients. In selected cases, those on anticoagulants, may stop their medicines for two days before taking the vaccine,” he said. The family said he was looking forward to his trip to Ludhiana. “He visited a gurudwara every year and had been preparing for the trip,” said Desai. “We hope to get some answers. We still don’t know why he died so suddenly,” he said. The family carried out Nagi’s final rites on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-who-collapsed-seconds-after-vax-jab-was-eager-to-visit-punjab-hometown/articleshow/81418523.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Success with Sweet Pills||Eight years ago, when Sumedha, then 28, decided to have a baby, she did not know what was in store. Unable to conceive, a series of tests and visits to gynecologists for five years only brought her pain and heartbreak. “In 2017, I was diagnosed with a condition called ‘anti-sperm antibodies’. My body was mistakenly fighting my husband’s sperm and not letting me conceive. My doctor said there is no treatment for it. I was distraught,” she says. Sumedha had almost given up when someone suggested homeopathy. Although the initial reaction was that of doubt, at the state-run National Homoeopathic Medical College & Hospital in Lucknow, she met senior homoeopathic medical officer Dr Sangita Bhatia. Dr Bhatia had experience in the field and studied Sumedha’s condition. Her treatment began and almost two years later, she was blessed with a baby boy in 2019. “Sumedha’s antisperm antibodies made it extremely difficult for her to conceive. However, with homeopathy, her condition could be managed, and she had a complication-free delivery,” says Dr Bhatia, who has treated several rare cases of infertility over the years. One such case was that of Suman Rastogi, 40, who was diagnosed with fibroids in her uterus. Having undergone three miscarriages, half a dozen gynecologists told her she would either not be able to bear children or it would be with many severe conditions. “The doctors told me I will first have to get surgery and then conceive. The conditions included long bed rest and premature delivery with no guarantee of a healthy baby,” she says. After years of turmoil, Suman reached out to homeopathy. Within months of medication, she conceived. She had a baby girl in 2011 and in 2015, had a second daughter. Over the past decade, Dr Bhatia has treated several patients for infertility. Though she adds that there is no guarantee of anything, she says that for many women, homeopathy has proved to be life-changing. “When patients of infertility come to me, they are in a broken state. They first and foremost need counselling and assurance that there is some hope,” she says. A practising obstetrician and gynecologist in Aliganj for 30 years, Dr Geeta Dwivedi says, “There is a concept of unexplained infertility that we come across. Some of these patients conceive with the help of homoeopathy. All pathies are good and allopathic medicines may not suit some patients, so they turn to homeopathy. I have heard of many other such cases too.” Homeopathy, say experts, works on the principle of individualisation. This means that the patient as a whole needs to be studied for treatment. It is not about a few symptoms or one condition. “My focus is on keeping the uterus and surrounding organs healthy for the growth of the fetus. For three-six months, the objective is not on conceiving but on making the environment for the fetus safe for its arrival. All this while, medicine and counselling is on,” says Dr Bhatia, who specially orders medicines of 50 millesimal potency from Kolkata. She recalls the case of her first patient who was not being able to conceive after the treatment of renal stones. “She asked me if homoeopathy could give her a solution. That is when I thought why not? Because there was nothing wrong with her, I decided to begin with making her uterine cavity healthy. Some months later, she conceived and now has two teenage children,” said Dr Bhatia. After the first success, came the case of Richa Arora. Suffering three miscarriages, no gynecologist could explain why the fetus would not grow. “Over five years, I went to many doctors; it was torture. There were weight gains and hormonal problems. Finally, I turned to homoeopathy,” says Richa, adding, “I conceived after one year of homeopathic treatment. Even my gynecologist was surprised. Dr Bhatia also helped Richa’s sister-in-law Ekta who had had three miscarriages but went on to have two children after homeopathic treatment. According to Dr Bhatia, counselling of both husband and wife plays a vital role in treatment. “This is because, in many cases, stress is the cause of infertility,” says Dr Bhatia, who also runs a YouTube channel on solutions that homeopathy has to offer, whether it is for depression or anxiety. Stress as a culprit is perhaps what explains the case of 27-year-old Preeti, who conceived but within weeks, underwent an abortion and could not conceive again. Thereafter, she took IVF treatment and conceived again. But, the fetus lost heartbeat. “I was traumatised after these two tragedies and depressed for four years,” says Preeti who then tried to homeopathy on the advice of a colleague. Within months of treatment and counselling, Preeti got pregnant and now has two healthy children. So, what is it in homeopathy that goes right in all these cases? Dr Bhatia says that because homoeopathy is constitutional medicine, its range is wide. Factors like her patient’s lifestyle, food habits, thought process, history of parents, dislikes and personality are important when deciding the course of treatment. Counselling here plays a key role because there is social stigma attached to infertility and ridding the patient of stress is vital, says Dr Dwivedi. To conclude, Dr Bhatia says that for any treatment to work, stress should be kept away, and family support must be strong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/success-with-sweet-pills/articleshow/81419597.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||Apex court likely to hear Goa’s mining case today||PANAJI: The Supreme Court is likely to hear the crucial mining matter on Wednesday, advocate general Devidas Pangam said. While mining companies have filed a special leave petition (SLP) for resumption of mining in the state, Goa government has filed a review petition against the February 2018 order of the apex court that had brought the entire industry to a halt in the state. In 2018, the Supreme Court had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. Twenty-six village panchayats have approached the SC with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. The mining companies had filed a SLP in the Supreme Court after the high court of Bombay at Goa dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese rule, the appellants (mining companies) were granted mining concessions, which were then converted into mining leases under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, (MMDR Act). The SLP had stated that the act should be made applicable from 1987 instead of 1961. The state government had also told the Supreme Court that the companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the MMDR Act, they are entitled to extend their leases to 2037, but that they would abide by the court’s order. The state had said that the mining concessions were converted into mining leases under the MMDR Act from 1987, and consequently the 50 mining leases would be extended to 2037. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that the both Centre and the state have started adopting measures to restart mining Sawant had said that if the apex court agrees with the stand of the state government then mining leases will be allowed to operate in the state till 2037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/apex-court-likely-to-hear-goas-mining-case-today/articleshow/81419603.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||BMC allows 24x7 vax in Mumbai, targets 75k shots every day||Mumbai: The BMC on Tuesday gave blanket permission to hospitals to carry out 24x7 vaccination drives provided they have the resources. The decision came on a day when hundreds of senior citizens waited for hours in line as Co-Win abruptly stopped working at several centres, bringing the drive to a halt. Due to the glitch, vaccination numbers for the city were only marginally higher than Monday. A total of 43,581 were immunised, up from Monday’s count of 40,502. Majority were senior citizens (30,624); the next biggest lot were healthcare workers (6,356), followed by people above 45 years and with co-morbidities (3,877), and 2,724 frontline workers. Since the beginning of the drive on January 16, the city has completed vaccinating 4.34lakh. The state government did not release any updated data on Tuesday. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the decision to allow immunisation centres to operate 24x7 was taken to accelerate the drive. “In addition, we have written to the Centre to allow another 49 private hospitals to participate,” he said. Currently, 68 centres, including 24 BMC facilities, six state and Central government hospitals and 38 private hospitals are vaccinating through 184 booths. “Our plan is to push the daily numbers to 75,000,” Kakani added. Hospitals will also be allowed to operate on Sundays. “Our only requirement is that centres have adequate manpower at all times, specially to deal with serious adverse events,” he said. Among private hospitals, Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines has said they are keen to run extended hours. Dr Gautam Bhansali said preparations are being made to run the centre till 10pm. “As soon as Co-Win allows us to run sessions beyond 6pm, we will start extended hours,” he said. Among the civic facilities, the biggest centres like the BKC jumbo field hospital, SevenHills and a few medical colleges may start extended hours. Dean of BKC Dr Rajesh Dere said running two shifts 7am-2pm and 2pm-9pm would be feasible and only requires some additional manpower. “People are unlikely to come to vaccinate at 1am, so running it for 16 hours could help increase coverage too,” he said. On Tuesday, chaos ensued at several centres when the software failed to work. A Mulund resident said he spent over 3.5hours to get his mother inoculated. “I had taken my aged mother who has a knee problem and uses a walking stick to a local vaccination centre. There was a long queue for which I was prepared. But the frustration began when we were informed that the server was down ‘All India’ for 30 minutes,” he said, adding that some elders who were waiting for nearly 2 hours decided to leave. The resident further said that rescheduling appointments was not a choice as the next slots are in April. Surgeon Dr Parthiv Sanghvi, who took his parents, aged 80 and 77 years, to VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz got a rude shock when they said his online appointment didn’t matter as the hospital had finished issuing 200 tokens, their quota for the day in the morning itself. “There were scores of senior citizens waiting. I somehow managed to get them vaccinated but many went home without taking the vaccine. What is the whole point of Co-Win if hospitals will be running parallel systems?” he said. VN Desai authorities couldn’t be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-allows-24x7-vax-in-mumbai-targets-75k-shots-every-day/articleshow/81421223.cms||Sumitra Debroy
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Fire brigade counts toll, vows to carry on fight for safety||Kolkata: Stirred and shocked at the tragic death of four of their brightest colleagues on line of duty, the first such high toll in recent memory, firemen across divisions in the city were in mourning on Tuesday, paying homage to the lost souls. They stacked their helmets over boots — a symbol of mourning in the fire department. To boost the morale, senior fire officials rushed to the headquarters and stood by them reminding the officers the motto of the department — ensure fire safety, save life, save property. “Their death should be our inspiration to work harder and be more alert. We are a disciplined force. We will stand stronger after this incident and will be more adept in our job. Whatever may come in our way, we will have to keep moving forward,” said Jawed Shamim, DG (fire), before a congregation of firemen paying homage to the deceased four at the state fire and emergency services headquarters. Sub officer Girish De (40) and the three auxiliary fire personnel, Gaurav Bej (35), Aniruddha Jana (29) and Biman Purkait (24) were among those who responded early to the blaze at New Koilaghat building on Monday. They accidentally reached up to the 13th floor, got trapped and died. Five others — a policeman and four railway employees — also died. Since early hours of Tuesday, colleagues and family members of the firemen took to social media to mourn the loss. While some broke down in tears while paying homage in front of their photographs outside the headquarters on Free School Street, some even staged a demonstration for better facilities for contractual staffers like the auxiliary fire personnel. But senior officials calmed them down. “I have never seen a dedicated force like the fire department. No question can be raised against the commitment of you all. I can understand how you all are feeling at the loss of your four colleagues. I also have the same feeling. But I just want to say, we are all with you and we will ensure you all get the best facilities at workplace,” said Sujit Bose, the state fire and emergency minister while addressing the crowd at the Free School Street office. Remembering the lost souls, senior firemen spoke of similar experiences but at the same time wondered how experienced firemen fell prey to such an incident on Monday. “I remember back in 2013, I, along with Girish (the sub officer killed in Monday’s fire), were attending to a high-rise fire on Park Street. That time too we had converted one of the building elevators as fire lift and asked the lift man to drop us two floors below the floor on fire. But the lift man had accidentally pressed the floor that was on fire and we were engulfed in flames the moment the doors opened. Luckily, we could break open a wooden door and run to another part of the building,” said Debtanu Bose, the divisional fire officer of North 24 Parganas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fire-brigade-counts-toll-vows-to-carry-on-fight-for-safety/articleshow/81418520.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Parents upset over new state panel on Fee Act||Mumbai: Parents in the state are upset with a government decision to set up a review committee to suggest amendments to fee regulation Act. They said it was an eyewash and government had not addressed their current concern of students being locked out of e-classes and exams due to non-payment of fees. Parents’ representatives had met school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, demanding a reduction in fees, an audit of schools and action against defaulting schools. After many meetings, Gaikwad, at a review meeting in February, directed education officers to probe fee-related complaints and set up a committee to suggest amendments in Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011. Jayant Jain, president, Forum for Fairness in Education, said, “This is a total eyewash. When we met Gaikwad, our demands were about exorbitant and unjustified fees and to take action against schools debarring children from online education and exams, or even filling forms for board exams.” Another parent said they had no representation in the new committee. “In 2019, a committee was set up to recommend amendments, so there was no need for a new committee. All new committee members are government officials,” said Anubha Sahai, member, India Wide Parents’ Association. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-parents-upset-over-new-state-panel-on-fee-act/articleshow/81421220.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||Special teams to monitor containment zones in rural areas||NAGPUR: The district administration and it’s health team, along with the local body officials, have pressed into actions special inspection and enforcement squads to monitor around 202 micro-containment and 46 containment zones in the rural areas. District collector Ravindra Thakare said earlier this week, the special squads under the supervision of local tehsildars and incident commanders, were deployed for surveillance around the micro-containment and containment zones where norms are strictly being enforced. “We have deployed auto rickshaws fitted with public announcement systems for containment and micro-containment zones. Those living in containment zones would be repeatedly warned through the public announcement system against any breach of restrictions,” said Thakare. Resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanji said Rs 9 lakh fines were collected from around 3,300 violators who were found not wearing masks in the last one month. “We have collected fines of around Rs 2.80 lakh from 137 cases slapped on the establishments like malls, restaurants, hotels and such commercial places,” he said. He added that around 80 auto rickshaws with public speaking systems have been pressed into action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/special-teams-to-monitor-containment-zones-in-rural-areas/articleshow/81418526.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||IMA doctors reaching out to home isolated patients for advice||NAGPUR: The district and civic administrations have revived a WhatsApp group of over 100 doctors under the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nagpur chapter, to offer free of cost tele-consultation to new Covid patients who have been advised home isolation. The move comes amid rising cases and complaints of asymptomatic positive persons breaching home isolation norms. The initiative is in addition to the civic body’s stringent stand against violators. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI that apart from the IMA doctors, local call centres have also started calling up positive persons urging them to follow norms. Kumar said the people testing positive now are well to do and have isolation place at home and hence, there is no need to make institutional quarantine compulsory for them. The civic administration too ruled out any immediate quarantine of asymptomatic patients. NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said unless the two existing centres — at VNIT and Pachpaoli — are 50% full, no additional quarantine centres would be started. If needed, the new centres can come up within two days, he said. IMA city president Dr Archana Kothari said the group ‘Mission Covid Care’ had taken a back seat as cases came down in recent months. “It wasn’t all that active after the Covid peak. The group was formed in September. Once again, our members have resumed full-fledged service,” she said. Kumar said the zone-wise list of patients is posted on the group and an NMC official allots number of patients to doctors who then call them up. “The doctors also post their feedback after counselling the patients,” he said. Kothari said the IMA team has so far counselled more than one lakh patients in the city. Dr Anand Bhutada, a member of the group, said it is a satisfying task. “The patient is happy for being reached out. Doctors feel good to contribute in the Covid fight. Earlier, some used to get doubtful on getting our calls. Some patients even call back if they experience any issues,” said Dr Bhutada. He said they manage the phone calls in between their working hours and call up as many as they can.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ima-doctors-reaching-out-to-home-isolated-patients-for-advice/articleshow/81418556.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: From shortness of breath to anxiety, ‘post-Covid is very much a reality’||Mumbai: Shortness of breath, joint pains, sleep disturbance and anxiety attacks are some of the common post-Covid problems that hospitalised Covid-19 patients have had to deal with in the year since the first case was detected in the city. In many city hospitals with post-Covid clinics, a steady stream of patients keeps returning for periods ranging from three to six months. Not surprisingly then, the state budget on Monday listed plans for a post-Covid centre in each district. “Post-Covid is very much a reality,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, an intensivist who is a member of the state task force on Covid. “People have been scarred physically as well psychologically. Some are unable to cope with the lingering effects of the disease or the loss of a family member,” he said. Consider BMC’s jumbo hospital in BKC where 1,100 patients visited the post-Covid OPD between October and February. An analysis of the data of the 1,100 patients showed the commonest complaints were weakness, body ache and joint pains, but around 30% showed psychiatric issues. BKC jumbo hospital dean Dr Rajesh Dere said, “Of the patients with psychiatric problems, nearly 10-15% had post-Covid psychosis. They feared contracting the disease again or dying from its complications.” Clinical psychologist Gauri Raut, who is attached to L H Hiranandani Hospital in Powai, said some patients even showed signs of post-traumatic stress disorder and needed medication. “Not only is there is a fear of getting infected again, some who were in the ICUs keep recollecting images of seriously ill patients in the next bed.” Doctors said isolation itself adds to the stress. Raut, who has counselled post-Covid patients for over 10 months, said some had rage for getting it despite being careful. Physical problems, too, weigh down recovery. Around 60% of BKC post-Covid clinic patients came with complaints of cold, cough, and nasal blockage. Nearly 600 of these patients needed help with medication for diabetes or hypertension or both. “Covid is known to mess with sugar levels. It takes a while for the levels to normalise for many,” Dr Dere said. In a third of Covid recoverees, the heart rate is above the normal range of 60 to 100 “for about a month after recovery”. Three of Dr Pandit’s patients were on oxygen support at home for three to six months. The one positive sign is many who had extensive lung scarring have recovered. “Although it takes nine months or so to resolve, there is little or no scarring on the lungs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-from-shortness-of-breath-to-anxiety-post-covid-is-very-much-a-reality/articleshow/81418617.cms||Malathy Iyer
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Invoking PASA for lockdown violation: HC seeks reply||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday questioned the Junagadh district authorities for invoking PASA against a family of six persons, including two female members of the family, for a lockdown violation in April last year.Justice Paresh Upadhyay sought an explanation for invoking the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act merely on basis of one FIR by terming all the family members as “dangerous persons”. This happened when the last member of the family, Firozsha Rafai, who was still in prison, requested the high court to revoke PASA and release him from jail. The high court has temporarily suspended the detention order and ordered him to be released soon.According to the petitioner’s advocate Nipul Gondaliya, the six family members were booked for lockdown violation as well as under the Atrocity Act on April 30, 2020. Firozsha’ brother, Rafiqsha was repairing his autorickshaw outside his house and a police party objected to his being outside his house during the lockdown. The Rafai family quarrelled with the police and a PSI lodged an FIR against them for hurling a caste slur against him.A month later on Mary 31, the Junagadh district collector invoked PASA against the family including two women members. The PASA Board later revoked PASA against the women. On January 10, the authority passed the PASA execution order for Rafai and he was detained.In his petition, Rafai complained that his entire family was booked under PASA and the female members were also not spared. This was because when they were detained for lockdown violation and for an altercation with the police party, his brother, Rafiqsha, made a complaint before the court against the police officer. Authorities invoked PASA against the family to wreak vengeance for the complaint against the police officer, he alleged.Besides, it was also argued that the high court has repeatedly said that the government should not invoke PASA against a person on the basis of a single FIR.The state government defended the PASA order stating that “sufficient material” was available for the detaining authority to invoke PASA.The court has sought a reply from the government by April 4 and said that till then the detention order against Rafai would remain suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/invoking-pasa-for-lockdown-violation-hc-seeks-reply/articleshow/81418578.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||Ongoing drive not enough, mass vaccination needed: Docs||NAGPUR: The city alone has a vaccination target of around 5 lakh in the age-appropriate group besides HCWs and FLWs under phase III, which has to be completed by April 30. Doctors in the city feel as the beneficiary rush is increasing and the second wave looming, mass vaccination needs to be undertaken. Sengupta Hospital director Dr Shantanu Sengupta said the government can follow the US model, where thousands of beneficiaries took the jab within an hour in a football stadium. “We have different stadiums and playgrounds in every area, which can be converted into vaccination centres. This will drastically speed up the process,” he said. Recently, America’s National Football League offered US President Joe Biden 30 stadiums for mass vaccination. Paediatrician Dr Satish Deopujari said, “More centres can come up at different institutes. I strongly feel that the country’s huge healthcare system has still not been fully utilised.” He added, “We must utilise all hospitals. Also, veterinary colleges have adequate spaces, which are suitable for Covid vaccination. Human resource from ayurveda and homeopathy has already been deployed in managing patients. Now, they can be trained for vaccination too. We can also use various colleges and schools, which are closed right now. Different entry and exit points for beneficiaries can be put in place there.” KRIMS director Dr Ashok Arbat said the government must reach out to people, the masses. “We will have to create more centres and provide facilities. Many hospitals can’t do it because they don’t have infrastructure. Mobile vans too must be deployed for those who can’t come to the hospitals. These vans can also go around villages.” Urologist Dr Sadashiv Bhole, one of the directors of Seven Star, said, “Till we simplify the process and empower all health care facilities, we won’t be able to bring down the number of Covid cases. High case reporting areas like Nagpur should immediately be allowed mass vaccination. The vaccine must be made available in open market and restrictions on who can take the jab must be removed.” Dr Bhole added that every registered doctor, clinic, nursing home and hospital need to be part of the drive now. Kingsway Hospital Covid team incharge Dr Harshvardhan Bora too said the government control over vaccine must go, though it can cap vaccine price. “All formalities and restrictions must be removed in receiving vaccine. If one wants to get vaccinated, s/he must be allowed.” Dr Bora cautioned that the government must not wait for its system to cripple. “Initially, the government ordered that only its hospitals will treat Covid patients. Then its system crippled and it was forced to rope in all hospitals,” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ongoing-drive-not-enough-mass-vaccination-needed-docs/articleshow/81418601.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC jails two senior officials, fines one||HYDERABAD: In yet another instance of Telangana high court convicting senior officials, the court on Tuesday sentenced two bureaucrats to jail for contempt as they had not implemented an order on land acquisition. A third officer was fined for not following orders. The court also ordered that an adverse entry be made in the service records of two collectors among the three for their ‘wilful disobedience’ of court orders. On a request from the state counsel, the judge suspended the conviction order for six weeks so that they could file appeals Justice M S Ramachandra Rao pronounced the order after hearing a contempt petition of Gandla Thirupathi and another petitioner from Vemulaghat village of Thoguta mandal in Siddipet district. The petitioners had complained that they were forcibly dispossessed of their land for constructing Mallanna Sagar reservoir as part of the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project and that the requirements of the Land Acquisition Act were not met despite orders by the court. Finding fault with the government and the revenue authorities for unlawfully dispossessing Siddipet farmers, the judge awarded three months jail for Siddipet district collector P Venkatarami Reddy and imposed a fine of Rs 2,000. He was also directed to pay Rs 25,000 to the farmers towards legal costs. Special deputy collector, Kaleshwaram land acquisition, Jayachandra Reddy was awarded four months jail along with a Rs 2,000 fine plus Rs 50,000 costs to be paid to the petitioner farmers. Rajanna Sircilla district collector Krishna Bhaskar, who served as a collector of Siddipet between August 2018 and June 2019, was slapped a fine of Rs 2,000. The petitioners along with 13 farmers filed the writ petitions challenging the award inquiry notice issued under the new Land Acquisition Act in May 2018 arguing that their objections were not heard. They sought details of the reservoir for which their land was under acquisition. Though the Act says that such information should be furnished and their objections should be heard before passing an award, it was not done. An assurance was given in court by the government and its counsel that they would furnish the material and hear the farmers. But this was also not done properly, the court was told. Later, the farmers were dispossessed from their land and construction of the reservoir commenced without paying them compensation and offering rehabilitation benefits. Following the contempt cases filed by the farmers, the revenue authorities tried to convince the court that the land of the petitioners was intact and even went to the extent of creating a panchanama to show that the land of the petitioners was not disturbed. But their claim was exposed when the owner of the land came out and charged the officials with misleading the court by showing his land as the land of the petitioners. The judge said he was not ready to believe the theories put forth by the authorities concerned and convicted them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-jails-two-senior-officials-fines-one/articleshow/81421240.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||7-hr agonising wait on Strand Rd praying for my friend||I spent the most agonising seven hours of my life on Monday evening standing on a dark stretch on Strand Road and praying to find my colleague and relative Sudip Das to emerge alive from the inferno. Both of us left office around 5.30 pm. Sudip who would come on his bike left for home and I was chatting with a friend at a tea shop. I went back after I heard that office was on fire. I tried calling Sudip but could not get through. I rushed to the spot where he would park his bike which wasn’t there. I though he must have left for home. But when nobody could get through to home I started feeling uneasy. His son came over and we contacted cops who told us to visit the SSKM morgue. We went there and even tried identifying but the bodies were charred beyond recognition. Sudip’s son fell ill and we returned to Strand Road and started praying again for Sudip. Around 1.30am, Sudip’s bike was located inside the building after which I gave up hope. Conversations with police and fire personnel revealed he had rushed to the thirteenth floor with others on the lift and probably died after reaching the 12th floor. (Aditya, an ER employee who works at the Strand Road office, spoke to Sudipto Das)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/7-hr-agonising-wait-on-strand-rd-praying-for-my-friend/articleshow/81418634.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Three killed as speeding SUV rams into median||VIJAYAWADA: An SUV rammed into a divider, resulting in the deaths of three persons and grievous injuries to two others near Srinivas Nagar under Tripuranthakam mandal in Prakasam district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Suresh, Ranga Rao and Madhukar – all from Krishna Devarayanagar in Guntur. According to police, the incident happened in the afternoon when they were heading towards their native place. Eyewitnesses informed police that they spotted the car speeding, hitting the side of the median and rolling to the other side of the road. Cops had to cut the car in half to recover the bodies from the wreckage. Cops said that they have sent the bodies to a local hospital for post-mortem and sent the injured to a private hospital for treatment. Cops said that both are in critical condition. A case has been registered under IPC section 304A (death due to negligence).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-killed-as-speeding-suv-rams-into-median/articleshow/81417002.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Gurgaon||Three years on, Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway has no fuel pumps, eateries or toilets||GURUGRAM: The Haryana government may have planned five cities along the 136km long Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway, but commuters travelling on it do not have access to even basic amenities such as a restroom. Inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November 2018, the expressway does not have a single petrol pump or a food joint either. Even the FASTag is yet to make a debut here, despite around 30,000 vehicles using the stretch daily. Developing the facilities was part of the expressway project, but no progress has been made in this regard in the two years since it was ready for use. Between Kundli and Manesar, there are four designated sites each for petrol pumps and food plazas. The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), which manages the expressway, had even floated tenders for them in 2019, but there were few takers. HSIIDC has now issued fresh tenders for the fuel pumps. Truck drivers rued that the lack of a restroom or an eatery forced them to park their vehicles along the expressway. Mohammed Saddam Ashrafi is one such. The truck driver from Firozpur Jhirka, who works for a logistics company in Manesar, has been travelling the stretch almost every second day for the past two years. “There are no food plazas on this stretch. Every other highway has some dhaba or an eatery, where we can stop and take rest. Such stops are crucial in long-distance travel,” he added. OP Kataria, who often uses this route to go to his farmhouse in UP, said only about 50% of the expressway is illuminated, which not only poses a risk to the safety of travellers but also raises the possibility of accidents.“It has been two years since the Manesar-Palwal section of the KMP Expressway has become operational, but there are still no petrol pumps or food plazas here. There are no car repair shops as well. Since there are no designated stops, truckers mostly park along the highway to take a break,” Kataria said. “This lack of basic facilities is disappointing, considering that the state government is planning to build five new cities along both sides of the expressway. Not just residential areas, it is also planning industrial and commercial hubs along the stretch,” he added.With no eateries or petrol pumps, the volume of traffic on KMP is decreasing with each passing day. It has dwindled all the more since FASTags were introduced in February. The reason is that a majority of vehicles has shifted to FASTags and want to avoid the queues and hassles at the toll booths on the expressway, which still take cash. A senior official of the company operating the booths said they provide water and toilet facilities at all the 11 toll plazas on the stretch.A senior HSIIDC official said there were four sites each for petrol pumps and food plazas on the expressway and tenders had already been floated for the fuel stations. “The sites will be allocated to government oil companies and it would take them around two months to start the pumps. Streetlights and FASTag facilities are to be provided by the concessionaire. We have already asked them to work on it. FASTag services will be introduced this month and we have set up solar panels for lighting the stretch,” the official said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3-years-on-kmp-has-no-fuel-pumps-eateries-or-toilets/articleshow/81419713.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Complete ABV enquiry by April 30: SC to govt||Vijayawada: The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the AP government to complete the enquiry against senior IPS officer AB Venkateswara Rao by April 30. The SC bench headed by Justice Ajay Manikrao Khanwilkar, which heard the petition filed by the government challenging the AP high court order lifting Venkateswara Rao’s suspension, asked the government to explain how much time it would require to complete the enquiry on the suspension of Venkateswara Rao. The counsel for the state government submitted that the government needs six months to complete the enquiry. The court disagreed and asked the government to take up day to day enquiry as complete data and documents are available. Directing the government to complete the enquiry as per stipulated time, it posted the matter to May 3 for further hearing. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/complete-abv-enquiry-by-april-30-sc-to-govt/articleshow/81417044.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP gets 92 projects worth Rs 85k cr under Sagarmala||Visakhapatnam: Union minister of state for ports, shipping and waterways Mansukh L Mandaviya has told the Rajya Sabha that 92 projects worth Rs 85,576 crore have been sanctioned to Andhra Pradesh under the Sagarmala project. Out of them, as many as 40 projects are meant for north Andhra. Replying to a question by Vijayasai Reddy, Mandaviya said 22 port modernisation projects have been initiated at an estimated cost of Rs 4,717 crore, 54 projects in which Rs 47,854 crore would be spent will enhance connectivity, while the remaining projects would be initiated at a cost of Rs 952 crore to develop coastal community. Out of the 92 projects, around 28 projects with an estimated cost of Rs 25,000 crore have been completed. Works worth Rs 51,000 crore for 29 projects are going on, while another 35 projects with an estimated cost of Rs 8,945 crore are at different stages of completition. Detailed project reports (DPRs) are being prepared for Visakha port development projects under the supervision of the port. As part of these projects, a road link to NH-16 from Sheela Nagar junction to Anakapalli, Sabbavaram to Pendurthi at an estimated cost of Rs 2,352 crore has already got NHAI approval. The government is also examining the four-lane beach road development project from Gangavaram port to Atchutapuram SEZ at an estimated cost of Rs 138 crore. A proposal to develop the four-lane road into six-lane road from Gangavaram port to Gajuwaka on NH-16 is under consideration. A flyover from Mindi to Natayyapalem on NH-16, four-lane coastal road project linking Gangavaram port to Visakhapatnam port, a flyover to link Sea Horse junction to Dock area are also under consideration. The government has already approved a four-lane road at an estimated cost of Rs 500 crore from outer harbour to convent junction in Vizag city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-gets-92-projects-worth-rs-85k-cr-under-sagarmala/articleshow/81416834.cms||Siva G
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Khar murder case: Court rejects accused’s bail plea||Mumbai: Sessions court rejected the bail plea of Diya Padalkar in the teen murder case at Khar. The photographs of the spot and other documents clearly show that the deceased was brutally murdered, said the court. Judge M M Umar said, “From CCTV footage it is seen that soon after the incident, the applicant (Diya) left the place of occurrence. Considering the facts and overall circumstances, it cannot be said ... that applicant is falsely implicated in the case.”The court said considering the “gravity”of the offence, Diya, 18, has not made out a case for bail. Also, there is apprehension of evidence tampering, as chargesheet is yet to be filed in the Janhavi Kukreja murder case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-khar-murder-case-court-rejects-accuseds-bail-plea/articleshow/81419672.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||Daycare unit for critically ill children at JLNMCH soon||BHAGALPUR: Realizing the need for treating critical ailments among children such as haemophilia, thalassaemia, sickle cell anaemia and other illnesses, a daycare unit at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) will be set up soon. The six-bed centre will have an outdoor unit, blood storage unit and research laboratory, besides a play zone for entertainment of children admitted. JLNMCH medical superintendent Dr Ashok Bhagat said that a team of state health committee comprising Dr NK Gupta, Dr Pramod Kumar of Care India, Dr RK Singh (head of the paediatrics department at JLNMCH) and others made on the spot verification at JLNMCH’s Mayaganj hospital campus and gave their approval for opening of the daycare unit. “The unit will be able to cater to the paediatric (child) patients of several districts including Katihar, Purnia, Kishanganj, Khagaria, Begusarai and others of Kosi-Seemanchal region,” Dr Bhagat added. Referring to the rare diseases, Dr Bhagat said that haemophilia is a rare inherited disorder in which blood does not clot normally as it lacks sufficient blood-clotting proteins. “Similarly, thalassaemia also is an inherited blood disorder that causes one’s body to have less haemoglobin than normal,” Dr Bhagat added saying haemoglobin enables red blood cells to carry oxygen and therefore thalassaemia can cause anaemia and leave the patient fatigued.  Referring to sickle cell anaemia, Dr Bhagat said that it is also an inherited red blood cell (RBC) disorder, in which there aren’t enough healthy RBCs to carry oxygen in the body. “Children suffering from such diseases need specialized treatment and therefore the daycare unit will be able to provide proper healthcare to such patients,” Dr Bhagat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/daycare-unit-for-critically-ill-children-at-jlnmch-soon/articleshow/81418750.cms||Kumar Rajesh
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||High Court for razing illegal structure in Kachipura||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has called for demolition of an illegal religious structure in Kachipura area as no one has staked claim on it. It’s in the form of a platform in the middle of an open space, which is hampering playing activities in the ground. Petitioner New Ramdaspeth Kachipura Nagrik Mandal knocked the judiciary’s doors for demolition of the platform on which an illegal temple was once built and later demolished after nearby residents complained. However, the platform remained as it is. In 2018, it was included in Category ‘B’ by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for demolition as per HC’s directives in the PIL related to illegal religious structures. However, the civic officials changed its category to ‘A’ structures which were to be made permanent without informing the residents in 2019. Aggrieved by the development, the petitioners moved HC contending that children weren’t able to utilize the playground due to the illegal platform. Moreover, all religious festivals are organized on it due to which the children can’t play. The open space is already reserved as a playground as per Section 57 of the NMC Act., according to petitioners’ counsel ST Harkare. Sudhir Puranik and Rohan Chhabra argued for the respondents in the case. “It’s not disputed that construction of a platform with installation of religious nature is without requisite permission and is unauthorized. To a query, as anyone claimed any right or interest on it, petitioner and NMC are unable to answer,” a division bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor said. The bench added that if no one is staking any claim, action can be taken for its demolition. “The appropriate course of action could be to put up a notice that the structure is unauthorized and is liable to be demolished/relocated. If any person has any interest, s/he can lodge objections with NMC and it can then be decided as per law,” the judges said before adjourning the hearing till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-for-razing-illegal-structure-in-kachipura/articleshow/81418631.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Ensure free power for farmers: Jagan to officials||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to prepare an action plan to ensure release of adequate funds for supplying free electricity to farmers, subsidy power to aqua farmers and free electricity up to 200 units for SC and ST households. The CM took stock of power generation situation in the state with the senior officials at the camp office on Tuesday. He instructed the officials to expedite the works of the proposed thermal power plants in Krishnapatnam and Vijayawada. Jagan said the delay in completion of the projects would become a burden on the exchequer and public as it would increase cost of power generation. He directed officials to ensure no power outages in the coming summer months. “Make plans ready for sufficient generation of power to meet requirements. Take precautions to see that none of the 15 thermal units operated by AP Genco trip during the peak-season,” he said. The CM also asked the officials to keep sufficient coal stocks ready to meet the growing generation demand in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ensure-free-power-for-farmers-jagan-to-officials/articleshow/81416894.cms||Samdani MN
March 10, 2021||Patna||Ara Junction set to get a facelift||PATNA: Railways is working on a plan to develop Ara Junction as an extension of Patna Junction in near future. The move is aimed at decongesting Patna Junction and other stations falling under the jurisdiction of Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR). As of now, the Ara Junction is being given a facelift with an expenditure of Rs 18 crore. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said a second entry-cum-exit point is being built at the southern end of Ara Junction on the pattern of Karbighaiya end of Patna Junction to facilitate free movement of passengers from north and south ends of the junction. “A new station building has been built at the southern end of Ara Junction. It will be inaugurated by April. The second station building will have all kinds of passenger amenities, including ticket booking counters,” the DRM said. According to the DRM, railways has also decided to shift goods shed at Ara to Kulharia in future so that vacant area could be utilised for the extension work. “The goods shed is located on the highway. It obstructs smooth traffic flow,” he said. The railways is planning to extend services of several pairs of mail and express trains from Danapur to Ara in future. “Since new washing pit is being developed at Ara , there will be no problem in rake maintenance of passenger coaches,” he said. “If everything goes according to plans, several pairs of superfast trains will start running from Ara in future,” the DRM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ara-junction-set-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/81418865.cms||Kumod Verma
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||AP aims Rs 5k cr revenue from sale of minerals||Amaravati: The state government is aiming to collect nearly Rs 5,000 crore from the sale of precious minerals, including Barytes reserves in Kadapa district in the next fiscal year. This is a nearly 100% increase from the revenue fetched during the ongoing financial year. Minister for mines and geology, Peddireddy Ramanchandra Reddy on Tuesday took stock of the auction of various quarries in the state with senior officials. The minister asked officials to explore the avenues to increase demand for Mangampet Barytes as the stock has huge demand in the international market. He said that the AP Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC) should try to rope in big firms to pick up barytes to improve the revenue. The minister also asked the officials to route the bids to judicial preview to maintain transparency. The officials explained that several firms have filed bids for exploration of about 12.2 lakh metric tonnes of barytes from Mangampet region in Kadapa district. They said they were expecting to garner at least Rs 550 crore revenue from finalisation of bids. The officials also said that they were readying proposals to increase the exploration from 3 million tonnes to 5 million tonnes to fetch additional revenues. Although, the department projected annual revenue from the mines department for the next fiscal at Rs 4000 crore, Peddireddi asked them to up the targets to Rs 5000 crore by implementing better policies and performance. The officials said they were expecting to make Rs 300 crore from coal mining from Suliyari coal block in Madhya Pradesh which APMDC bagged through auction. They said that they have secured environmental clearances for coal exploration in last September and mining would commence in next September. Although Andhra Pradesh bagged Madanpur coal block in Chhattisgarh, the process was stalled as it was located in reserve forest area. The state government has already requested the Centre to allocate an alternative coal block. The state government is also expecting at least Rs.50 crore revenue from Brahmadiha cooking coal block bagged by APMDC. Senior officials GK Dwivedi, G Venkata Reddy and others were present during the review.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-aims-rs-5k-cr-revenue-from-sale-of-minerals/articleshow/81416912.cms||Samdani MN
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||HC suspends RGUKT recruitment notification||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday passed interim orders suspending the recruitment notification issued by Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies to fill up faculty posts on contract basis. Some lecturers working on contract basis in RGUKT had moved court challenging the notification for recruitment of lecturers by terminating them from service. They submitted to the court that no recruitment of full time and permanent lecturers and faculty took place in the university after 2012 and it is affecting the quality of education provided to students. The court expressed displeasure towards the attitude of the government and the administration of universities in the state in not filling up vacancies of teaching posts on permanent basis for years together. “Running universities by engaging teaching staff on contract basis every year is not a welcome move. The object to achieve meritorious rural youth from the universities will be defeated by not recruiting qualified and eligible persons in teaching posts on permanent basis in sanctioned posts,” the court said. Besides not taking steps to make recruitments on permanent basis for posts in universities, terminating those who are engaged on contract basis every year and issuing notifications every year for appointment on contract basis appears to be unreasonable, the court said, protecting the petitioners from termination from their contract service till further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-suspends-rgukt-recruitment-notification/articleshow/81417013.cms||Venu Lanka
March 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Village unites to help man cremate wife||Vijayawada: In a heartwarming gesture, villagers of Chowtapapayapalem in Guntur district on Monday helped a man with limited means perform his wife’s last rites. According to local police, the man identified as Anjaneyulu received his wife Ravanamma’s body from a local government hospital after she succumbed to her fatal injuries sustained in a road accident. The ambulance dropped the body on the side of the road after Anjaneyulu told them that he had no place to keep his wife’s body before the funeral rites. Feeling helpless, Anjaneyulu hid her body among the bushes on the side of the road and left the place. Locals, who spotted the the body wrapped in a white cloth, alerted the police. The police visited the spot and identified the body as that of Ravanamma based on hospital records. They then traced Anjaneyulu and questioned him about the incident. He broke down, stating that he did not know what to do with his wife’s body as he did not have any money. Police said that Anjaneyulu and his wife worked at a poultry farm in Nalgonda in Telangana. She met with a road accident on March 5 and suffered fatal injuries. She was first shifted to Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad and then another hospital for better treatment where she succumbed to the injuries. Later, Anjaneyulu decided to bring his wife’s body to his native village. But he neither owned a house nor did he have a place to keep her body and decided to hide the body and leave the place. Moved by Anjaneyulu’s plight, villagers of Chowtapapayapalem came together, pooled in money and gave it to him to conduct his wife’s last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/village-unites-to-help-man-cremate-wife/articleshow/81416986.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||Man, two sons shot at in Bhojpur village||ARA: One Dinbandhu Bind (60) and his two sons – Vishnu Bind and Bhagwan Bind – were shot at following a dispute over illegal sand mining in the diara area of Phuha village in Bhojpur district on Monday night. Dinbandhu, a sharecropper, is a resident of Phuha village under the Barhara police station area in the district. His two sons, who received grievous injuries, were referred to Patna Medical College and Hospital from sadar hospital here. Sadar SDPO Pankaj Kumar Rawat said there was a conflict between two groups indulged in illegal sand mining and extortion of money from sand-laden tractors. “The injured people were indulged in illegal extortion of money. They were probably shot at as a result of an enmity between the two groups indulged in same illegal trade,” Rawat said, adding efforts were on to arrest those involved in the crime. Dinbandhu, on his part, said, “I have taken a 10-bigha agricultural land as a sharecropper from a man. I was returning home along with my two sons with the mustard-laden tractor on Monday night when we were attacked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-two-sons-shot-at-in-bhojpur-village/articleshow/81418839.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||BMC got 9,500 encroachment complaints in pandemic, razed just 466 structures||MUMBAI: In the pandemic year, BMC’s dedicated website to report encroachments, removalofencroachment.mcgm.gov.in, received as many as 9,558 complaints from citizens. The civic body has managed to demolish merely 466 of these structures so far. Maximum complaints were received from BMC’s L Ward (Kurla) followed by MEast (Mankhurd and Govandi). The fewest complaints were from A Ward (Churchgate, Marine Drive) and D (Malabar Hill, Walkeshwar) of 24 and 87, respectively. The data was obtained by Shakeel Ahmed Shaikh, in reply to a Right to Information (RTI) application for details on complaints received from March 25, 2020, till February 28, 2021. It shows a total of 13,325 complaints were received, of which 3,767 were due to duplication. Of the final 9,558, BMC issued notices to 2,730 structures. It had arranged to demolish 485 but razed 466. Shaikh said, “The civic body needs to act quickly against illegal constructions before they mushroom further, to serve as a deterrent. This becomes an eyesore in the city.” Civic officials said complaints include vertical extensions, amalgamation of rooms and building of internal walls. “Many of our staff came together to work against Covid-19. Despite this, wherever possible, action was taken. But some complaints are against properties in litigation, so we could not demolish them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-got-9500-encroachment-complaints-in-pandemic-razed-just-466-structures/articleshow/81416336.cms||Richa Pinto
March 10, 2021||Patna||PM fish rearing scheme attracts many in Katihar||KATIHAR: Many people in the district are taking financial assistance under the Prime Minister Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) for constructing ponds to rear fish of different sizes. The Centre and the state government provide financial assistance to the beneficiaries in the 60:40 ratio. Katihar district fisheries officer (DFO) Shambhu Prasad Nayak said fish farming in the district generates revenue to the tune of Rs1.41 crore annually. “Fishermen cooperative societies have been functional in 16 blocks of the district,” he said and added: “Under the Jal Jeevan Hariyali Mission, a pond is constructed on 10 hectares of land.” Indian major carp, which is also known as indigenous fish species rohu, katla and mirgal, are reared in a pond. The district has around 877 government-controlled waterbodies. Makhana (gorgon nuts) farming as well as fish rearing is done on 250 jalkars, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-fish-rearing-scheme-attracts-many-in-katihar/articleshow/81418696.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Sathankulam: HC reserves orders to expedite trial||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday reserved orders on a plea, which sought to expedite the trial in the case of custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district during last year. Justice K Murali Shankar reserved orders in the petition filed by Selvarani, wife of the deceased Jeyaraj. The petitioner stated that the CBI, which took over the investigation, filed the final report before the Madurai chief judicial magistrate and after the committal proceedings the final report was taken on file by the I additional district and sessions court at Madurai for trial. She stated that since all the accused are policemen, there are possibilities of tampering with the witnesses who are common people and subordinate police personnel. Stating that a delay in completing the trial would vitiate a fair trial, the petitioner moved the HC seeking to expedite the trial within a stipulated period. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sathankulam-hc-reserves-orders-to-expedite-trial/articleshow/81418637.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Rajkot||Five held for thrashing CA student, sister||RAJKOT: An accidental collision with the bike of a man led to the thrashing of two sisters and their retired policeman father in Rajkot city on Monday Police on Tuesday arrested five persons, one of whom even slit the hand of one of the sisters with a scissor, as the altercation over the accident snowballed. There was a collision between the scooter of victim Darshana Parmar, who was on way to her chartered accountancy (CA) classes and Dharmarajsinh Zala, who was going on a bike. Darshana fell on the road due to the collision and asked Zala to drive carefully. As verbal altercation ensued, she called up her father Popat Parmar, a retired cop and sister Padmini who came to the spot. In the meantime, Zala also called his four friends. Even as Darshana was writhing in pain on the road, they started scoffing at her. They then started raining blows on Parmar and Padmini and one of them even attacked her with a scissor. She had to take some stitches on the finger. On Wednesday, University police arrested Zala, Yogesh Chavda, Nimesh Dhamelia, Yagnik Bhatti and Pavan Parmar, all in their early twenties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-held-for-thrashing-ca-student-sister/articleshow/81416106.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Raipur||In effort to go green, Gonds give up cremations & embrace burials||RAIPUR: In a revolutionary step towards environmental conservation, the Gond community in Chhattisgarh’s Kawardha district has broken from tradition and vowed to bury their dead instead of cremating them to save trees. Though liquor is part of tribal tradition, the community has decided to ban it during festivals and events and fine violators Rs 2,000-5,000. Offering liquor to God is part of tribal culture, but Gond families will offer mahua flowers instead. The community took these decisions at a ‘mahasammelan’ (mega-gathering) in Kawardha and has prepared a 60-page “constitution” to implement progressive ideas — including a complete ban on dowry. The community also wants to avoid crowds at weddings and has limited the number of guests to 50 at weddings and 20 during the engagement ceremony.  “Mitti sanskar (burying) of the deceased was always part of our tribal culture, but people had switched to cremation in the past few years. So, we are resuming our tradition of burial. The whole idea is to save the environment as lakhs of trees are felled to prepare pyres. This will send out a strong message and might inspire others,” Siddhram Meravi, Kawardha district general secretary of Gond community, told TOI. Hundreds of community representatives from five districts of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha participated in the two-day mahasammelan to discuss ways of unifying the community. “For now, the rules will be implemented in Kawardha district because it has been initiated by the local group. Then, it will be adopted in other parts of the state,” said Meravi.  “We have vowed not to allow consumption of liquor during festivals and family functions as it triggers chaos and unpleasant atmosphere. Also, the community won’t encourage acceptance of dowry and follow only the ‘Pachahar’ ritual wherein brides are given five kinds of utensils. No liquor will be offered to the groom’s party either, as it often leads to brawls,” Meravi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/tribals-go-green-give-up-cremations-embrace-burials/articleshow/81421705.cms||Rashmi Drolia
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Insurance killing: 5 held in Nalgonda||Hyderabad: Five persons allegedly involved in a murder to claim Rs 1.2 crore insurance money were arrested on Tuesday by the Nalgonda police. According to police, the main accused reportedly faked murders and natural deaths as road accident fatalities to claim insurance. In the past decade, he along with his associates had allegedly killed four persons, faked them as road accident fatalities and claimed insurance. The main accused, D Raju, a resident of Rallavagu thanda in Nalgonda, worked as an insurance agent. Nalgonda police came to know about Raju’s activity when he allegedly committed the murder of liquor store worker, D Koti Reddy, in February, 2021. In January 2020, Raju came to know that Koti Reddy of Kondrapole in Nalgonda was an alcoholic and his wife was reportedly having an affair. Raju met Reddy’s wife and her alleged paramour Kondal to discuss about killing Reddy after obtaining an insurance policy on his name. Raju along with Reddy’s wife Harika had taken three insurance policies on his name for Rs 1.2 crore and paid premium between May 2020 and June 2020. Raju then made a deal with his friend Shiva of Miryalaguda to kill Reddy by offering him Rs 2 lakh, police said. As per the plan, on February 24, 2021, Shiva along with his friend Sai picked up Reddy in their auto when he was returning home from the liquor shop. At an isolated place near Kondrapole, Sai held Reddy tightly and Shiva gave severe fist blows on his chest, killing him on the spot. They dumped the body on the road and Raju, who was following them, drove a tractor over the body to make it appear like a road accident death, deputy inspector general (DIG), Nalgonda, AV Ranganath said at a media briefing. However, the doctor, who performed the autopsy, informed police that the injuries on the body indicate that it might not be a road accident death. Cops then dug deep and unearthed Raju’s criminal activity and arrested him along with Shiva, Sai, Reddy’s wife Harika and Kondal. “In the past one decade, Raju along with his associates claimed insurance in the name of six people out of which four were killed by the accused and two were natural deaths, faked as road accidents. Raju along with his associates attempted to claim Rs 3.39 crore insurance amount over the years and they were successful in claiming Rs 1.59 crore amount,” the DIG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/insurance-killing-5-held-in-nalgonda/articleshow/81418640.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Patna||Mob lynches criminal in Darbhanga||PATNA: A 25-year-old youth was lynched by a mob when he he was fleeing after robbing a trader and killing a local youth in Darbhanga town around 10.30pm on Monday. The incident took place when a trader, Narayan Gami, was on way to his residence after closing his shop at Masaraf Bazar under Town police station area. Two bike-borne criminals intercepted Gami, the nephew of former MLA Amarnath Gami, and snatched the bag containing cash and keys of the shop. A youth identified as Dipu Sah, 23, rushed to the spot on hearing an alarm raised by Gami. He chased the criminals and caught hold of one of them despite resistance. Apprehending trouble, he shot at Dipu leading to his death. Enraged over the incident, some local residents thrashed the assailant mercilessly. However, his associate managed to escape on the bike. The police somehow managed to rescue the criminal and admitted him to the DMCH where he succumbed to his injuries. The deceased was yet to be identified. Additional SHO BD Ram said an illegal weapon was recovered from the the possession of the deceased criminal. Darbhanga Sadar DSP Anoj Kumar said raids were on to arrest the criminal who managed to escape. He said three separate FIRs were lodged in connection with the incident. While the first FIR deals with the loot, the second one is related to the killing of Dipu and the third FIR is regarding the recovery of illegal weapon. Dipu was stated to be a resident of Masaraf Bazar. Earlier, the former MLA assailed the state government over the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mob-lynches-criminal-in-darbhanga/articleshow/81418654.cms||Ramashankar
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Tribal woman set on fire succumbs in Telangana||HYDERABAD: After battling for life for nearly 24 hours, a 45-year-old tribal woman, who suffered severe burns after a butcher set her ablaze at Gadipeddapur village in Medak on International Women’s Day, succumbed to injuries on Tuesday. The woman claimed the butcher owed her money. The 45-year-old widow had suffered 60% burns and she succumbed while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital in the city in the early hours of Tuesday, Medak DSP P Krishna Murthy said. Police arrested the accused, P Sadat of Gadipeddapur, and produced him before court for judicial remand. The woman, who hails from Antaiahpalle village in Tekmal mandal, went to Gadipeddapur, 17 km away, to collect money. Sadat allegedly doused the victim with petrol and set her ablaze near agricultural fields when she asked him to return the money he had borrowed. While the victim did not specify how much Sadat had borrowed from her, the accused contradicted the victim’s statement. On interrogation, he claimed that she came to the village to borrow money from him, police said. Police said Sadat had purchased petrol in Gadipeddapur to drop the victim at her village on his neighbour’s moped. However, later the neighbour refused to give him the two-wheeler and while walking the victim to her village, the accused set her ablaze. “The attempt to murder section of the case has been altered to murder after the death of the victim. Apart from Section 302 of the IPC, the accused has also been booked under relevant sections of the SC & ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” the DSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-woman-set-on-fire-succumbs/articleshow/81421243.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Strand Road opened after 14-hour closure||Kolkata: Closed up to Fairlie Place for over 14 hours owing to the New Koilaghat Building blaze, Strand Road limped back to normal around 8am on Tuesday, helping cops ensure that there was no traffic disruption in the central business district. Cops did not allow any bus or car to stop near the building, but that did not deter commuters and other people from catching a glimpse of the building, with its window panes crumbled due to extreme heat. Police sources said the first thing that they did after the cooling operation was to open the road. “The entire area was clogged after we had restricted the movement of vehicles towards Dalhousie. We resumed traffic on the road as soon as we got a green signal from the fire department,” said an officer. “We kept a bay ready for the movement of fire tenders. We also made a stop gap arrangement of fire tenders to the extreme left lane so that they could function without any hindrance,” said Arijit Sinha, DC (Traffic). Officers from both the headquarter and Howrah Bridge traffic guards said things would have turned for a worse, had they shut down Fairlie Place.  “There are a few lessons that we learnt from this fire incident on traffic management. We realized that we should open as many roads as possible to avoid traffic snarls,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/strand-road-opened-after-14-hour-closure/articleshow/81418644.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Central government allays VSP staff’s fears||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur assured that concerns of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant’s employees and stakeholders are addressed through appropriate provisions made in the share purchase agreement .  “Cabinet committee of economic affairs, accorded in-principle approval for 100 per cent disinvestment of government of India shareholding in RINL,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-government-allays-vsp-staffs-fears/articleshow/81418647.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rs 50L plea by wife of doc who died of Covid rejected||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Tuesday dismissed a petition by the wife of a doctor who died due to Covid-19, seeking Rs 50 lakh insurance for Covid warriors under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, holding that the scheme was only for private doctors whose services were requisitioned for Covid-19 duties. The verdict by a bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla came on a petition by Koparkhairane resident Kiran Surgade. On March 31, 2020, Dr Bhaskar Surgude got a notice from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to open his clinic to treat patients, and was warned of prosecution if he did not. He opened his clinic at Turbhe and treated Covid patients. He got infected and died on June 10. On September 7, the insurance company rejected her claim, saying he did not serve in an hospital designated to treat only Covid-19 patients. The judges took note of a Union Department of Health and Family Welfare’s October 15 reply to a letter by state government to include all private healthcare providers/workers who continued delivery of healthcare during Covid-19 under the scheme. “This letter categorically states that for a private healthcare provider to be covered under the scheme, he or she must be ‘drafted’ by the state/Centre for Covid-related responsibilities,’’ they said, adding that it stated that no other group of healthcare workers can be included under it. While her advocate Ajit Karvande relied on NMMC’s notice, the judges said it cannot be construed as a notice requisitioning Dr Surgade’s services for a specific purpose of treating Covid-19 patients and/or working in a Covid-19 centre/hospital. “There is a difference between specifically requisitioning/drafting services and directing private practitioners to not keep their clinic closed,’’ they added. The judges said the overwhelming record showed that Dr Surgude’s services were not requisitioned and the widow had not produced other documentary proof to establish it. “As a result, we hold that Dr Surgade’s services were not requisitioned as required under the scheme, and therefore the scheme would be inapplicable in the present matter,’’ they concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-rs-50l-plea-by-wife-of-doc-who-died-of-covid-rejected/articleshow/81418650.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 10, 2021||Madurai||HC dismisses plea to cover siddha in insurance policies||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed a plea which sought to ensure that the treatment under the siddha system of medicine is covered under all types of policies issued by the insurance companies on a par with ayurvedic system of medicine.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by J Kokilam, a resident of Madurai district.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice R Hemalatha observed that the petitioner subscribes to a particular system of medicine and wants the whole world to be converted to such philosophy.“The petitioner may use whatever channel that may be available to the petitioner to propagate her views. The court does not have either the expertise or the inclination to promote a particular form of medicine unless there is a legislation in such regard,” observed the judges.The judges observed that it may also serve the petitioner well to approach the policy makers so that an appropriate legislation may be brought.Observing that the matter has nothing to do with any public interest, the judges dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-to-cover-siddha-in-insurance-policies/articleshow/81418641.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||Man who had 5 women in life found murdered||NAGPUR: Laxman Malik, 65, who was allegedly linked to five women from whom he fathered seven children, was found murdered at a flat at Rajat Sankul apartment in front of Ganeshpeth bus stop on Tuesday. Police are still trying to ascertain the motive behind the murder. They also rounded up many suspects, including four sons, for questioning. He also accepted money from many aspirants to help them get jobs, leading to several disputes. Malik was found murdered in a seating position on the chair with a deep gash in the throat and hands tied behind with a handkerchief. A ‘peda’ was found near the chair which police feel could be laced with some sedatives. Police said the assailant might have known Malik, who allowed him to come inside the house and also accepted the sweet from him. “The assailant may not be a goon who would not have dithered to murder more brutally. He just stabbed Malik a few times on the throat,” said an officer. Malik was staying with his friend Dharmarakshit Sharade, who was the first to discover the body after coming to his office. Sharade had repeatedly called Malik a day ago in the afternoon but there was no response. Malik took voluntary retirement from service (VRS) from ESIC hospital in 2011. He had helped the first wife’s son to get a job after taking VRS, which angered the two sons of the second wife. Malik ensured the second wife got the job of his father at a government office, but still the family wasn’t happy with him. It’s learnt that Malik’s fourth wife, with whom he had a son, had ditched him for another man and moved on. Malik too moved back with the third wife with whom he fathered two daughters. Later, he got into rift with the third wife and decided to stay at Sharade’s office where he worked with him in the business of herbal medicine. In between the third and fourth wife, there was yet another woman in Malik’s life. In 2016, Malik had lodged a kidnapping complaint against three persons — Yogesh Barapatre, Satish Malvi and Madhukar Hatwar — at Sitabuldi police station. He had a dispute with them a monetary loan of over Rs3 lakh. Malik had taken the cash from Barapatre. In another incident, a non-cognizable offence was registered against Malik at Ganeshpeth police station following another monetary dispute. Sources in police said Malik had taken money from many people assuring them jobs but could not keep his promise on most occasions. Ganeshpeth police have now registered a murder case against unknown persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-who-had-5-women-in-life-found-murdered/articleshow/81418642.cms||Soumitra Bose
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Protect public land, waterbodies from encroachments: HC||Madurai: Emphasising that public land and waterbodies must be protected and revenue officials and others tasked with the maintenance of such places must ensure that no encroachment is allowed, the Madras high court has observed that encroachments, if made, are dealt with expeditiously and effectively in accordance with law. The court was hearing a petition filed by Prabhu who sought to remove the encroachments by private people in the irrigation water pond named Sadayan Endhal situated at Seyayanam village in Pudukottai district. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice R Hemalatha observed that ordinarily, the court will not be minded to receive every petty complaint of encroachment unless there is a larger element of public interest involved. The judges observed without in any manner belittling the problem of encroachment on public land that exists in this state, if courts were to get into every tiny encroachment in every village of the state, there would be hardly any time to address other matters of pressing need. Disposing of the petition, the judges permitted the petitioner to submit a fresh representation to the block development officer within a fortnight, whereupon the said authority will consider the matter upon affording an opportunity of hearing to all concerned who might get affected by the resultant order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protect-public-land-waterbodies-from-encroachments-hc/articleshow/81418645.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Rajkot||Future of five girls in Banaskantha secured||Palanpur: Five girls aged five and below received a unique gift on Monday to mark International Women’s Day in Banaskantha.Future of these girls, either orphaned or those having single parents from poor financial backgrounds have been secured with a fixed deposit (FD) of Rs 25,000 each. The FDs which were gifted by collector Anand Patel will double at the time of maturity in ten years and ten months.The amount has been donated by friends and family of Mumbai-based Dr Vikram Mehta, who is chairman of a local college and also runs many charitable hospitals.The five girls include a five-year-old daughter of a Asha worker from Tharad taluka’s Bardwa village who died in an accident and is being raised by her father who is a labourer and another five-year-old who has lost her parents and is being brought up by her grandparents.Similarly, there are two other five-year-old girls from Tharad whose parents are HIV positive and another two-year-old girl who is being raised by her mother as her father has passed away.The FD will mature when the girls attain 18 years. The interest earned from it will be spent on their education, welfare and health.“The Mahila Kalanidhi Trust plays an important role when fate disowns the unfortunate,” said Patel.“So far, 45 children have been supported through the scheme that was started to help the downtrodden in 2012-13,” said Rashmiben Hada, chairpersons of Mahila Kalanidhi Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/future-of-five-girls-in-banaskantha-secured/articleshow/81399856.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Inspect land donated by SCs for school bldg: HC||Madurai: Taking a serious view in an issue over a land donated by people belonging to the scheduled castes not used for construction of an additional building for a government school in Karur district, the Madras high court on Tuesday directed the authorities to submit a report after inspection on the suitability of the land for construction of the building. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by K Andiyappan, a retired government employee and a resident of Bommanayakanpatti village in Karur district. The petitioner stated that after the government school at the village was upgraded to a higher secondary school, 44 people belonging to the scheduled caste community had executed a gift deed in favour of the school by donating 1.85 acres of land for construction of additional buildings for the school. He stated that the proposal for construction for additional buildings in the donated land was not proceeded citing that the land was situated near a quarry and as there was an objection from the people belonging to the intermediate community. He stated that while 44 scheduled caste people belonging to economically backward families have joined together and donated land for the development of the school, refusal to construct buildings in the land donated by scheduled caste people is nothing but a form of untouchability. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that it is one more case of class struggle. The judges orally remarked that they would have come down hard on the officials if not for elections. The judges directed the Karur district administration officials, education department officials and PWD officials to inspect the land and directed them to submit a report on the suitability for construction of additional buildings for the school. The case was adjourned to April 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/inspect-land-donated-by-scs-for-school-bldg-hc/articleshow/81418653.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC nixes customs’ notice to APSEZ||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has quashed a demand notice issued by the customs department to the Adani Port and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) because the related documents went missing while shifting of department’s office and it did not act on the notice for 11 years. While quashing the notice demanding Rs 25,03,414 from the company, the court said that the department did not take any action with regard to the notice and did not even inform APSEZ about the status of the notice for 11 years after issuing the notice. After so many years, the company cannot be expected to defend its case by gathering details merely for the fault of the authorities. In this case, the customs issued Less Charge Demand Notice in August 2007 to APSEZ asking for Rs 25 lakh duty over certain goods temporarily imported by the company in 2004. The government policy granted 15% rebate on duty on re-export of these goods. The department claimed that the conditions for duty exemption was not fulfilled and prohibited the company from selling the goods in India. The company replied to the notice in 2007 only, but it did not hear anything from the department in this regard later. In 2019, APSEZ moved the HC and sought quashing of the notice and submitted that it had fulfilled all duty exemption conditions. When the court sought explanation from the department, it said that the joint commissioner of customs office at Mundra was upgraded to the office of principal commissioner. There was a shifting of the office and the documents related to the notice was never traced. It, however, told the court that the company ought to have approached the department first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-nixes-customs-notice-to-apsez/articleshow/81418655.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chennai||Infra projects in west Chennai stopped midway, commute made cumbersome||CHENNAI: Four infrastructure projects promised to make commute easier for residents of Annanur, Veppampattu and Pattabiram on Chennai’s western fringe have missed deadlines, making travel in these areas around Chennai-Tirupati High (CTH) Road cumbersome. Three rail over-bridges (ROB) and a subway to replace level crossings between Annanur and Veppampattu, a 14km stretch on Chennai-Tiruvallur railway route, are incomplete. While the state highways department blamed problems in land acquisition and slow work by railways for the delay, residents said incomplete infrastructure has made their lives more difficult. The subway in Sekkadu near Hindu College, road over-bridges in Annanur, Veppampattu and Pattabiram are incomplete. The delay in finishing the projects, which would have eliminated long waits at level crossings, has forced residents to drive on battered roads near work sites that are not barricaded. The subway work at Sekkadu was progressing until the lockdown stopped it. Nine months later, it got flooded in the rain and till date the contractor has not drained out the water to resume work. Pillars of the ROB at Pattabiram have been raised on either sides of the level crossing and the facility at Annanur is still under construction. The Veppampattu ROB has made little progress in 10 years, stuck in a land acquisition litigation after almost 40% of the work got completed. Pillars of the bridge were built when work stopped eight years ago. At Annanur and Pattabiram level crossings, two-wheeler riders risk their lives to cross the tracks when the gates are closed. Long queues of heavy vehicles waiting to cross the tracks are a regular sight. L Karuppaiah, president of Abdul Kalam Residents Welfare Association in Sekkadu, said: “Students carry bicycles and cross six tracks to reach the other side in the morning. There’s been no work for the past one year. In between they tried to resume but stopped as the subway was flooded.” The ROB at Annanur near Avadi could be a vital link to Ayappakkam from CTH Road and can end the miseries of motorists who now wait for more than an hour at the level crossing. With the work incomplete, local authorities are not relaying the 60 Feet Road that joins CTH Road. V Sivaraman, president of Sivasakthi Nagar Welfare Association, said the Avadi corporation has said the road will be re-laid only when the ROB is complete. “It has remained broken making it risky for two-wheeler riders. Moreover, people cannot cross the level crossing even during emergencies at Annanur as the gates are closed most of the time,” he said. When contacted, Avadi corporation commissioner P Narayanan said work orders for construction of roads worth `30 crore have been issued in the corporation areas. “The 60 Feet Road at Annanur is also covered under the road works project,” he said. M Kandhan, an autorickshaw driver at Veppampattu, said the ROB will give easy and direct access from CTH to Thirumazhisai-Tiruvallur High Road. When contacted, a state highways department official said the ROB at Annanur will be completed by April. “Though the project started in 2011, much of the time went in land acquisition and the construction was sped up in 2018,” the official said. On the Veppampattu ROB, the official said a case on land acquisition is pending at the Madras high court. The final hearing is in March, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/infra-projects-in-west-chennai-stopped-midway-commute-made-cumbersome/articleshow/81418666.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||BJP MP’s fugitive son accuses wife of ‘honey-trapping’ him into marriage||Lucknow: The son of BJP MP Kaushal Kishore, Ayush, who is accused of staging an attack on himself in connivance with his brother-in-law, added a new twist to the tale by accusing his wife for the mess and claiming that she “honey-trapped” him into marriage. Releasing a video statement, Ayush said he was coming to Lucknow to surrender before the police. “Take legal action against me if I am wrong. I am innocent and not afraid of surrendering,” he said. Ayush was shot at in Madiaon area on March 2 after which Lucknow police had claimed that he had staged the attack on himself in connivance with his brother-in-law Adarsh Singh of Bahraich. Police had arrested Adarsh, who is a trained shooter, and recovered a countrymade pistol from him. Ayush went underground after being discharged from hospital. A case was also registered against Ayush for misleading the police and conspiring with Adarsh. In the video, Ayush accused his wife, Ankita, of “honey-trapping” him into marriage and alleged that she forced him to sit on a railway track and make a video call to his father to force him to give consent for the marriage. “My wife, who is older to me, often used to beat me up and gave me sedatives in food and drinks. On the day of the incident, I would have died had I not left the house,” he claimed. Alleging that some people are trying to tarnish the image of his father, Ayush said: “Why would I get myself shot on my vital organ? Had the firing angle been slightly different, the bullet would have pierced my lungs and I would have died.” Countering allegations, Ankita said Ayush should show the proof to buttress his claims. In an interview to a news channel, Ankita said she wanted the status of ‘bahu’ (Ayush’s wife) but the BJP MP was the biggest hurdle. “If Ayush is innocent, why is he running away from the police,” she asked. The BJP MP had also claimed that his son was innocent and police should investigate the case properly. Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said investigations were on in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mps-fugitive-son-accuses-wife-of-honey-trapping-him-into-marriage/articleshow/81419698.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Police and fire officials inspect gutted railway office||Kolkata: Thirteen hours after a blaze engulfed the 13th floor of Eastern Railway’s New Koilaghat building on Strand Road, a joint team comprising fire officials, cops and disaster management officials entered the railway office and found that it was completely gutted. The officials tiptoed their way inside the building with the help of flash lights and cleared the debris with batons to launch another search operation to find whether any more person had been trapped and needed to be rescued. The fire that broke out on Monday evening claimed nine lives, including fire personnel, an assistant sub-inspector and railway officials. The floor that housed the commercial section of Eastern Railway had several computers, printers, server rooms and other equipment. “Everything has been gutted. It is impossible to recognise most of the things,” said a fire official. Firemen were spraying water on the façade of the building to bring down the temperature inside till Tuesday afternoon. “Temperature inside the building has gone up. Currently, none is being allowed to go inside,” said another official. Howrah-bound vehicles slowed down at Koilaghat crossing with people catching glimpses of the top floor of the building. Traffic cops rebuked bus and taxi drivers for slowing down near the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-and-fire-officials-inspect-gutted-railway-office/articleshow/81418682.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Army man gets 10 years jail for cheating woman||Tuticorin: A mahila court in Tuticorin on Tuesday sentenced an army man to 10 years imprisonment for raping and cheating a woman. The incident took place in July 2009. Special public prosecutor of the court V Subashini said T Rajkumar, who is 42 years old now, is from Keela Sinthalacheri in Chinnamanur in Theni district. The man, who was serving as a havildar in the Indian Army in Bengaluru, was a friend of a woman working in a private firm in Coimbatore. The woman hailing from a village near Ottapidaram in Tuticorin district worked in a private firm in Coimbatore and stayed with Rajkumar’s friend. The army man and the woman got to know each other through a mutual friend. In 2009, the woman went to Tuticorin and Rajkumar came to see her. “After promising to marry her, he sexually exploited her. He tied a mangalsutra around her neck at a local temple and then left her. He never returned,” said Subashini. After waiting for him and all efforts for reconciliation failed, the woman lodged a complaint with Thoothukudi Central police station in May 2010. A case was registered against Rajkumar under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 498(a) (husband or relative of husband subjecting a woman to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2002. He was arrested and granted bail. “Rajkumar later married another woman with whom he has two children,” Subashini said. On completion of the trial, mahila court judge V Pandiaraja on Tuesday awarded 10 years imprisonment to the accused and slapped a fine of Rs 2,000 on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/army-man-gets-10-years-jail-for-cheating-woman/articleshow/81418674.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Bell rings, theft hangs up at bizman’s house||CHANDIGARH: Ringing of a doorbell saved a businessman living opposite the house of MP Kirron Kher in Sector 8 from a theft on Tuesday, but his two servants were not that lucky. Satpal Singh (52), a security guard at the house of businessman Rupinder Brar, said he was stationed at the main gate. Around 11am, two men claiming to be municipal corporation (MC) employees and wearing surgical masks and caps said they had to check the water meter. Satpal and Himanshu, one of the servants, ushered them in. After a few minutes, they allegedly took out a knife and pistol and pointed them at the two. The accused forced them inside the house and told them to show the almirah in which money and jewellery were kept. Satpal tried to free himself, leading one of the accused to attack him with a knife. He locked Satpal, who received injuries on his hands, in a washroom and took his mobile phone. In the meantime, a garbage collector rang the doorbell, distracting the accused and allowing Himanshu to save himself by jumping from the first floor of the house. He ran out and raised the alarm. The two accused jumped from the rear boundary of the house and fled with mobile phones of Himanshu and Satpal. Servants said the owner and his family had gone to Ludhiana to attend a wedding three days ago. As he received information about the robbery, he returned to the city. Cops from Sector 3 police station reached the spot and rushed Satpal to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Police checked the footage from CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene. Cops found that both the accused reached on foot and no third person was with them. However, Himanshu claimed the accused were talking over phone and overheard saying that after completing the work, they would call again. Police registered a case and are scrutinising CCTV footage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bell-rings-theft-hangs-up-at-bizmans-house/articleshow/81417352.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||AP sets up 94 base camps to protect national parks||Hyderabad: The Andhra Pradesh government has set up 94 base camps and stationed eight strike forces in national parks and sanctuaries to curb mining, human encroachment, hunting, poaching in these protected areas. These activities are being carried out as per the approved management plans to maintain the delicate biodiversity balance in the national parks and sanctuaries, Union minister of state for environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), Babul Supriyo said in Rajya Sabha on Monday. Responding to questions raised by RS MP Parimal Nathwani, the MoS also said that the management of these protected areas is done by the state as well as Union Territory governments as per the provisions of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972. Nathwani had sought details of national parks and sanctuaries in India, especially AP, as well as the steps to curb the menace of mining, encroachment, hunting, poaching in these areas. In his statement, Supriyo also said that timely payment of ex-gratia is being made in case of death or injury due to human-wildlife conflict in these areas. He said AP has 16 national parks, of which Nagarjuna Sagar-Srisailam sanctuary, spanning 1402 square km, Sri Penusila Narasimha Sanctuary, spread over 1031 sq km and Papikonda National Park covering an area of 1013 sq km are among the largest.  The MoS said that the management of these protected areas is done by the state as well as Union Territory governments as per the provisions of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-sets-up-94-base-camps-to-protect-national-parks/articleshow/81418659.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||Motibagh workshop partially closed as 10 test +ve||NAGPUR: At least six sections of Motibagh workshop under the Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR) were closed temporarily after 10 employees were tested positive for Covid-19. The workshop is engaged in maintaining LHB coaches. Motibagh chief works manager Lalit Kumar Dhurandher confirmed that on Monday, samples of 57 employees were tested by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Of this, 10 workmen from different sections tested positive. On Tuesday, samples of 60 were taken and results are awaited for Wednesday. “With employees testing positive, we have asked the entire workforce of 500 to undergo tests. All the staff will be covered in the next four days as NMC’s mobile testing van is doing the needful,” said Dhurandher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/motibagh-workshop-partially-closed-as-10-test-ve/articleshow/81418652.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||Jumbos break free of radio collars ahead of Kumbh||Dehradun: With barely a month left for Maha Kumbh to commence in Haridwar, the forest department’s plan to rein in ‘rogue’ elephants by tagging radio collars to prevent man-animal conflict seems to be going astray. Out of the four pachyderms that were radio-collared in the area, the first one reportedly dropped its collar in Ganga river, the second one “broke it off”, while the third radio-collared jumbo died due to electrocution. According to sources familiar with the development, divers are still searching for the radio collar that drowned in the Ganga river near Shyampur range. This is even as the forest department plans to radio collar 11 elephants. The latest development comes in the backdrop of four people, including a forest guard, losing their lives in the jumbo attack within 14 days. Responding to the matter, DFO of Haridwar, Neeraj Verma said, “The issue of rogue elephants in Haridwar remains a big cause of worry for the forest department. We have formed eight forest posts, erected five watch towers, solar fenscing, walls, deployed Rapid Response Teams (RRT) and Quick Response Team (QRT) in the identified areas that are frequented by jumbos,” said Verma. Officials at the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, who have been radio-collaring elephants, said they plan to begin the exercise soon. “Our teams had collared male jumbos and they are mammoth in size and known for their aggression. Dropping of radio collar is a very random thing. We are planning to start the exercise in conjunction with the forest department to collar the jumbos again,” said director of WII, Dhananjai Mohan. Meanwhile, a senior IFS officer, who has been closely monitoring the situation, linked the spate of elephant attacks to their burgeoning population, which stands at 2,026 as of now. “The forest department should come up with a temporary mechanism to drive these elephants inside the forest and prevent them from haveing any human contact. Also, best way is to ensure adequate water and food availability in their prime habitat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jumbos-break-free-of-radio-collars-ahead-of-kumbh/articleshow/81417349.cms||Shivani Azad
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Denotified tribes in MBC protest internal quota for vanniyars, threatens to boycott voting||Madurai: Members of the denotified tribes in the Most Backward Classes (MBC) have resorted to various protests in the southern districts against the AIADMK government’s decision to allow 10.5% internal reservation to the vanniyars, who have been grouped along with them in the MBC class. They feel that they have been deprived of all their basic rights. State treasurer of the Denotified Tribes Welfare Association P Thavamani Devi said that the government had abruptly destroyed a struggle with a single GO depriving 68 communities, who were labelled as criminals by the British. “The only crime that these people committed was standing up against the British, who invaded our country. The sufferings of these people were untold,” she said. “The British denotified us, but the AIADMK government is refusing to give us a DNT community certificate, and instead, continues to classify us as denotified communities, depriving the youngsters of all benefits. So we have decided to fight against this injustice by not voting for any party in the coming election. What we are seeking is only the DNT community certificate,” she said. There are around 50 lakh voters in the piramalai kallar and maravar communities spread across the state, and around 35 lakh voters in the valayar community. Other community members will come around one to two lakh and they are trying to take the message of AIADMK’s treachery to the people, Thavamani Devi said. K Gowthaman, the advocates’ wing secretary of the association, said that people have realised that the government had cheated them by allowing quota only to the vanniyars. “As the code of conduct is in place, they are trying to express their dissatisfaction by any means. Members of the community at Appipatti in Cumbum constituency in Theni district took an oath to defeat the AIADMK,” he said. At Chinnamanur in Theni district, people swore on a pot of milk that they would not vote for the AIADMK. “Our people take an oath in temples very seriously, so it will definitely impact the election,” said Gowthaman. Meanwhile in Rajapalayam, people tied black flags in villages in Virudhunagar district as a protest. Similar protests were seen in Kamudhi in Ramanathapuram district. People in Usilampatti, which has a large piramalai kallar population, started protesting against the internal reservation for vanniyars. “Many of us did not study, but it is now that after forty years, when some of the educated people in the community retire from government jobs, that we realise how we have been cheated,” said T Thangadurai, a retired teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/denotified-tribes-in-mbc-protest-internal-quota-for-vanniyars-threatens-to-boycott-voting/articleshow/81418677.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyberabad cops seek MEA, MHA aid to plug loopholes, stop passport frauds||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police have written to the ministry of external affairs (MEA) and ministry of home affairs (MHA) recommending certain measures to plug loopholes in passport issue mechanism to weed out collusion at local level following the Bodhan fraud where 72 passports were illegally issued to Bangladeshis and people of yet-to-be-verified origins. The regional passport office (RPO) has already cancelled all the 72 passports and LoCs have also been issued. The verification for these 72 were done by one SI and ASI, who have both been arrested. Six others, including main accused Parimal Bain, a Bangladeshi, have been arrested.The two arrested cops processed about 4,000 passport applications between 2016-21, a probe by Bodhan and Cyberabad police revealed. “But only 72 passports were issued through fraudulent means. The rest were issued to locals,” said a Bodhan police official. To begin with, 37 out of 72 passports were issued from a single residential address in Bodhan town between 2017 and 2021. The remaining 35 passports were issued from six other addresses in the town. Police also wrote to the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to cancel the Aadhaar cards of all the 72 persons. For the 72 passports, five mobile phone numbers and four email IDs were used by the applicants. All the mobile numbers and emails belong to Parimal Bain who had managed to obtain an Aadhaar card and a passport after illegally settling down in Bodhan in 2017. After investigating further into the passport racket which was busted in January, Cyberabad police recently wrote to the MEA and the MHA asking them to tighten the process while issuing the passports. “We suggested a mechanism which would raise an alert and stop passport issue process if multiple passport applications use a single address or phone number or email address,” said an RGI Airport police official. The same security features are being incorporated into Telangana state police department software used by the Special Branch cops who do police verification of a passport applicant. At a recent press conference, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar had said that the accused claimed they were going from India because Gulf countries offered better employment quota to Indian citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-seek-mea-mha-aid-to-plug-loopholes-stop-passport-frauds/articleshow/81421245.cms||Mahesh Buddi
March 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Lockdown will cause total collapse, warn multiplexes||PUNE: The multiplex industry — among the worst-hit due to the coronavirus pandemic — on Tuesday said a fresh lockdown, even a partial one, would be disastrous. Multiplexes, hotels, and malls are still struggling to recover from last year’s months-long shutdown. Representatives said even a partial lockdown could cause a complete collapse. Prakash Chaphalkar, secretary of the Multiplexes Association of India, told TOI that many had pinned their hopes on the post-March period, when film producers had lined up fresh movie releases. “Barring two to three multiplexes in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the others are closed. They are awaiting a revival once new movies are released from April. If a closure is announced, it would make it difficult for us to set up the entire system again. Revenue-sharing between distributors and multiplexes has already become a major problem — distributors are demanding a larger share, which multiplexes cannot afford, especially with the 50% seating rule. This is forcing most multiplexes to stay shut,” said Chaphalkar. He said producers were not releasing new movies as most multiplexes in Maharashtra have yet to open. “Multiplexes across India cannot bounce back unless Maharashtra opens its multiplexes at 100% occupancy. This is one of the biggest markets. The right content will come to the market only when multiplexes in the state become fully operational,” he added. The Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) warned that another lockdown could sound the death knell of roughly half the restaurants in the city. “Hotel occupancy has dipped below 10% and footfalls at restaurants are down 30-40%. We must realize we have to live with the pandemic. Extreme lockdown measures now will lead to a total collapse for many industries,” PRAHA vice-president Vikram Shetty said. The association lobbed criticism at the state government for adopting extreme measures, even though other states witnessing a similar surge in cases have not done so. “Earlier we did not have streamlined treatment protocol or infrastructure to deal with a pandemic. The situation is much different now, especially with the rollout of the vaccines. Government should look ahead, instead of adopting regressive measures like closures and lockdowns,” Shetty further said. Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, chief operating officer of Amanora Mall and member of the Shopping Centres Association of India, said a lockdown in any part of the state would be a huge setback to the entire industry. “The enforcement of the limited lockdown in parts of Thane is likely to adversely affect footfalls. Sentiments are very negative again and footfalls have dropped these past few days. Any further lockdown would be a body blow to the malls business,” Rajpurohit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-will-cause-total-collapse-warn-multiplexes/articleshow/81418684.cms||Neha Madaan
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||10 out of 12 Covid patients never got free meds distributed by NMC staffers||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) staffers claim to have visited homes of most Covid positive patients in January and February, noted their oxygen saturation, pulse rate and temperature, and handed over free medicines worth around Rs Rs 2,800 for each patient. However, a TOI investigation found at least 10 out of 12 patients on NMC’s ‘visit list’ were never visited by any NMC staffers and never got the medicines. This appears to be a case of misappropriation of medicines using fake entries of home visits. NGO Together We Can, which used to contact patients on behalf of the civic body from the control room, also said tablets of favipiravir were never distributed to patients. The state government had supplied 5.58 lakh tablets of favipiravir and 38.51 lakh tablets of Calcium D-3 for distribution to positive patients in home isolation free of cost in September 2020. NMC had procured 8 lakh tablets of Vitamin C, 7 lakh tablets of zinc and 6 lakh B-complex tablets. A set of all five tablets was to be given to each positive patient in home isolation. The favipiravir tablets are the costliest, with one box of 34 tablets costing Rs1,292. Each patient was supposed to get two boxes of favipiravir, besides the other four medicines, to be taken over 10 days of home isolation. TOI identified 12 patients, who were in home isolation in January and February, and residents of NMC Dharampeth Zone. Five from the Padhye family had tested positive, though only four names are mentioned in NMC’s home visit record. A family member told TOI, “We got favipiravir tablets when we collected our positive tests report at Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya. Rest of the medicines we purchased from outside. No NMC employee ever came to check our vital parameters. Only two staffers from NMC public works department came and fixed a Covid warning board on our gate.” As per NMC’s records, Rapid Response Team (RRT) visited the Padhye house on February 25, took oxygen saturation level of four members and also distributed medicines. In two cases at Ram Nagar and Gokulpeth, RRT made fake entries of temperature, pulse rate and oxygen saturation level, and also showed distribution of medicines, while patients say no one from NMC visited them. In case of four members of a family from Dabha, RRT team visited their house. “We tested positive in rapid antigen test at NMC KT Nagar Hospital, where we were given five types of tablets for 10 days. Therefore, we refused the tablets when NMC people visited our house,” said a family member. As per NMC records, RRT also gave medicines to this family. Remaining two patients said they were given tablets. Thus, 10 of 12 patients were not given medicines by NMC staffers, but fake entries were made and medicines misappropriated. TOI identified three more patients of Dharampeth zone, who too said NMC team never visited them or gave medicines. NMC’s RRT record too does not show any visit to their homes. However, these patients were deprived of medicines purchased by the government and NMC for them. Also, NMC’s claim of regular contact tracing and testing is proved wrong in these cases. NGO Together We Can operated NMC’s control room from August to November. NGO president Joseph George told TOI, “We used to call all patients on first, third, fifth and tenth day. NMC people did not visit all homes. Some patients told us they received vitamin-C, Zinc and B-complex tablets. But no one got favipiravir tablets from NMC team,” he said. George also said checking oxygen saturation, temperature and pulse by RRT teams is a big fraud. “RRT may have visited positive patients, but never checked these parameters,” he said. George said this is cheating people during the pandemic. “Thorough inquiry should be conducted and action taken,” he said. The tablets purchased by the government and NMC do not have any warning that they are part of government supply and cannot be sold outside. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “We will check thoroughly home visits and distribution of medicines by RRT. Responsibility will be fixed in case irregularity is found.” IN A NUTSHELL * State supplied favipiravir and Calcium D-3 tablets, while NMC procured vitamin C, zinc and B-complex tablets for distribution to patients in home isolation free of cost in September 2020 * NMC staffers claimed to have visited homes of most patients, checked oxygen saturation, pulse rate and distributed medicines * 10 out of 12 patients identified by TOI from NMC’s home visit records say no one visited them or gave medicines * NGO contacting patients on NMC’s behalf also alleged no patients were given favipiravir tablets * Each patient was to get two boxes of favipiravir worth Rs2,584 and four other medicines for 10 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-out-of-12-covid-patients-never-got-free-meds-distributed-by-nmc-staffers/articleshow/81418679.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
March 10, 2021||Patna||3 robbers held after bank loot in Munger||PATNA: In a daredevil act, a probationer DSP along with two constables chased and nabbed three out of the five armed robbers who were fleeing after looting Rs 5.54 lakh from the Dakshin Bihar Grameen Bank branch at Mansoorganj under Asarganj police station area in Munger district around 4pm on Tuesday. The team led by DSP Kaushal Kishore Kamal also recovered Rs 4.36 lakh of the looted cash and seized four countrymade pistols and six live cartridges from their possession. Kamal, who is the Asarganj station house officer on training, said he along with constable Mantu Kumar and unarmed Prabhat Ranjan were engaged in an anti-encroachment drive at Sajua when they received information about the bank robbery. “We rushed toward the spot and spotted two suspicious bikes at Kushwaha Tola, about 3km away from the bank,” he said. The DSP said they opened the doors of the patrol vehicle on the narrow village road to block the passage of criminals. “Three criminals on one bike collided with the patrol vehicle and fell down,” he said. Kamal said one of the criminals tried to open fire but his pistol got jammed. “I opened fire in the air from my service pistol while Mantu opened fire from his self-loading rifle. One criminal was nabbed immediately while two more were arrested after chasing them at least 5km in the fields,” Kamal said. Munger SP Manavjit Singh Dhillon said the arrested criminals were Chotu Kumar, Suraj Kumar and Anvik Raj. “The other two criminals have been identified. Raids are being conducted on their suspected hideouts. The district borders have been sealed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-robbers-held-after-bank-loot-in-munger/articleshow/81418698.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 42-year-old killed, 4 injured as speeding SUV hits tempo||CHANDIGARH: A 42-year-old man was killed and four others injured after a SUV rammed into a tempo at the light point of sectors 8-9-16-17 in a hit-and-run in the early hours of Tuesday. The victim is Kishan Pal, a resident of Hoshiarpur, Punjab. The injured are Raju, Deen Dayal, Sonu and Kishan, all from Hoshiarpur. They were going to the Sector 26 grain market to buy fruits and vegetables. As they reached the light point, a speeding Mahindra Scorpio SUV coming from Sector 17 rammed into their vehicle. The victim and three others were sitting on the back seat, while Sonu was driving the tempo. A PCR (police control room) vehicle took the injured to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where Kishan succumbed to his injuries. He is survived by his wife and five daughters. Police found a broken registration number plate of the SUV from the accident site. A case was registered. The driver is yet to be arrested. Police on Tuesday handed over the body to family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/42-year-old-killed-4-injured-as-speeding-suv-hits-tempo/articleshow/81417367.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||2nd short-term course in Japanese at Goa University||PANAJI: Having received an overwhelming response the first time around, Goa University’s School of International and Area Studies (SIAS) is offering its second short-term Japanese language programme in collaboration with Japan Foundation, New Delhi. The beginner’s level-one certificate course will commence from April 5 and will be conducted by a certified instructor from the Japan Foundation. Anyone who has completed Class XII is eligible to join. The course will be of 100 hours duration, comprising of 50 two-hour sessions. Those interested must apply at the SIAS by March 20, GU said. Even those with no prior knowledge of Japanese are eligible to join. While a fee of Rs 9,700 will be charged for students of the state board, others will have to pay Rs 12,600 for the course. “The course is recommended for students or anyone planning to visit Japan, study in Japan, work in Japan or those engaging in business with Japanese companies,” SIAS has said.A beginner’s level-one course,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2nd-short-term-course-in-japanese-at-gu/articleshow/81419770.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||No pollution in Nagpur, says EIA report, greens disagree||NAGPUR: There has been no pollution or environmental damage in Nagpur city, says the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) report of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) prepared for the inter-modal station (IMS) proposed at Ajni. The report is in sharp contrast to the city’s air quality which has been constantly deteriorating, making it one of the most polluted cities in the country. As per the centre’s norms, EIA is done to assess the impact of any project on air, water, land and other environmental aspects. Environment activists, who procured the report for the IMS, Ajni, through the Right to Information (RTI) Act, are of the view that the assessment is inaccurate and does not present the correct picture. The report has been prepared by a private consultant. Regarding crucial questions like the use of land, the agency replied by saying, “Union minister Nitin Gadkari and the then state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had finalized it…”, which according to the experts is unethical. “What are the names of politicians doing in an environment report? The consulting agency has bypassed important questions by laying stress on their names. Are they environment experts?” said environmentalist Jaydeep Das. The report further states that the timber of felled trees will be used to make railway carriages or sleepers. However, as per the activists who cited some media reports, the railways decided to stop using wooden timbers in 2018. “This proves that the content has been copy pasted from old environmental reports. Moreover, the wrong baseline data of 1,900 trees has been used. When it is clear that over 7,000 trees will need to be chopped for the project, this EIA becomes faulty,” said environment activist Anasuya Kale Chhabrani. As reported by TOI, the NHAI recently called for tenders for preparing a DPR for the project. While IMS is proposed to come up at an area of 44 acres, the total project area which includes four phases is around 490 acres. “This is evident from NHAI’s own presentation. We demand that EIA should be carried out again, and this time for the entire 490 acres. Why are the authorities telling us about the impact on the environment in bits and pieces? We want to know the overall damage,” said Das. Activists have been demanding shifting of the IMS project to Khapri to ensure minimum environmental damage. Around ten days ago, NHAI submitted a proposal to the Central Railway, stating that schools, residential buildings, offices etc can be relocated to the Concor depot land at Ajni where there is no green cover. However, IMS will come up at the lush green patch at Ajni and this proposal has been strong opposed by activists who claim that over 3,000 age-old trees will still be destroyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-pollution-in-nagpur-says-eia-report-greens-disagree/articleshow/81418688.cms||Manka Behl
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||With mudgals, he’s keeping fitness freaks fit||Nagpur: Beside the road at Unthkahana Chowk, Sohel Shaikh skilfully swings the clubbell (mudgal), teaching a customer how to use it. In his twenties, Sohel is no trained wrestler himself yet he wields a mudgal with ease. When gyms were closed due to Covid, Sohel from Aurangabad, found a business opportunity selling the Indian mudgal or Persian meel as it is known in the fitness world. Mudgal, found in old world akharas, is slowly gaining ground in the online market as well. “The wooden pieces are fast gaining a market among youngsters and seasoned pehelwans alike,” he says. Sohel now runs a chain of street shops in Mumbai, Pune and Nashik apart from Nagpur. There was also a shop in Amravati which has now been closed. “We have mudgals of all weights and sizes. The rates are carefully fixed considering the competition on e-commerce portals,” he says. At Aurangabad, he has a furniture workshop close to an akhara where the gear is made. “We had seen wrestlers working with the mudgals and knew about the benefits, but hadn’t made one at our factory earlier. When places shut down due to Covid, one of our workers tried making a mudgal and succeeded. Till then I had only seen a mudgal but not wielded or made one,” says Shaik Sohel says he started with Nashik and soon spread to other cities including Nagpur. “The other shops are manned by my employees,” he says. The highest demand was in Nashik where he could sell 1,000 pieces in three months. In Nagpur, he has been able to sell 200 in over a couple of months. There is a similar score in other places too, he says. Ashish Bokde, a customer, said he was always fascinated by the mudgal seeing his father and grandfather work out. He did not get a chance due to a busy life. Now as he came across the shop, he purchased one. “Apart from veterans, youngster stop to ask what is it. I tell them it’s perfect for your complete upper body exercise, and show them how to use it. Some buy right away as others come back after a little research on the Internet, he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-mudgals-hes-keeping-fitness-freaks-fit/articleshow/81418692.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
March 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Wanowrie residents want SRPF to reopen closed link||PUNE: Wanowrie residents want the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) to reopen the internal road linking Vikasnagar and Jagtap Chowk. The residents said the road was out of their bounds since September last year, as the SRPF closed it for public use on the ground that the property was owned by them. SRPF commandant Mangesh Shinde (Group II) told TOI, “A piece of land on which the road was built is owned by us. Our superiors have taken a policy decision to close a small stretch of road to prevent public from misusing the property and creating encroachment.” Local corporator Prashant Jagtap said, “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had constructed the road on over an acre of land starting from Gwalior Palace, Jagtap Chowk, Vikasnagar and Azadnagar in Wanowrie long back. But the process to offer compensation or transfer of development rights facility to the SRPF in exchange of the land is pending till date.” Jagtap said, “I will discuss the matter with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar for finding out a permanent solution to the frequent closure of the road by the SRPF. The civic body is ready to offer compensation as per the government policy. The issue is expected to be resolved by April-end.” Maithili Manakawad, secretary of the Wanowrie residents’ association, said, “Blocking the road is causing huge traffic congestion, especially during peak hours. We have been using this road for more than a decade now, as it is convenient to take this shortcut to Fatimanagar orJambulkar Chowk. We did not have to take Shivarkar Road.” She said, “Since it is a DP road, the land should have been acquired by the PMC by now. We fail to understand why the elected representatives have not done anything about this. We hope this issue is resolved on a priority.” Local garage employee Aijaz Shaikh said,“The SRPF had constructed a new gate when the lockdown was enforced and stopped vehicles from entering the area. The road closure has compelled many tenants to shift to other places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wanowrie-residents-want-srpf-to-reopen-closed-link/articleshow/81418864.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Major LU colleges to conduct entrance||LUCKNOW: Prominent associated colleges of the Lucknow University will admit undergraduate students through their own entrance tests or on the basis of Class XII marks. The colleges will not admit students through LU’s centralised admission system introduced last year. Application forms of a number of colleges will be available from this month, while that of National PG College, the only autonomous college, and Avadh Girl Degree college are likely to be out next month. Shri Jai Narain Misra PG College (or KKC), the only associated college with NAAC ‘A’ grade, will make the online admission forms available for BA, BSc, BCom, and UG management courses from March 25. Online admission forms of Bappa Shri Narain Vocational PG College and DAV College are likely to be out from March 10. Admission to all three colleges will be done on merit basis. “We will be admitting students like previous years by conducting our own admission process. Admission to UG courses will be done on the basis of class XII marks. Entrance test will be held only for BBA (IB) and BPEd,” said college spokesperson Vijay Kumar Srivastava. “Being an autonomous college, we will follow our own system of admitting students through our entrance test. Application forms will be available online and entrance test will be held in June,” said National PG admission coordinator Rakesh Jain. The colleges shared that they don’t want to be a part of the varsity’s centralised admission system as they are charged hefty fees and often don’t get students through the system. “The university charges a hefty amount to be part of its centralised admission system. This fee is wasted when a student does not opt for the college. A candidate filling the form through LU hopes to get admission in LU. When he or she is allotted a college far away from their place, they don’t lock seats and prefer to go in other private colleges,” said a senior professor from a prominent college. He said, a college receives more students through a decentralised system as students apply after considering its locality, brand and infrastructure. Since admission form sale is the main source of earning for colleges to support their infrastructure, they opt for conducting their own admission process. Meanwhile, Isabella Thoburn College and National PG college will conduct their own entrance test in June for admitting students to its UG courses. Admission forms will be available from April first week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/major-lu-colleges-to-conduct-entrance/articleshow/81419710.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No contact with Hiran, haven’t met Waze: Ex-Sena corporator||Mumbai: Former Shiv Sena corporator from Nalasopara Dhananjay Gawde, whose name has been linked to API Sachin Vaze and the Mansukh Hiran murder case, said he had no involvement in the case. He said he had never come into contact with Hiran and had not met Vaze though he has heard and read about the cop. Gawde (45), who had been absconding since 2018 after a series of FIRs were registered against him in the Vasai-Virar region for extortion from builders using the RTI Act, said he has got interim anticipatory bail from the Supreme Court on February 15. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-contact-with-hiran-havent-met-waze-ex-sena-corporator/articleshow/81419736.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Mahashivratri amid Covid safety norms||Lucknow: The festival of Mahashivratri will be celebrated amid Covid safety protocols in the city on Thursday. At the Mankameshwar temple, ‘jalabhishek’ of Lord Shiva will be performed in the wee hours with holy water from 11 rivers, including the Ganga, Yamuna, Alaknanda, Kalyani, Gomti, Brahmaputra, Sutlej, and Karnali. Barricades will be put up to ensure social distancing among the devotees. “Like every year, the temple will take out the Shiv Baraat. Only limited number of devotees will be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum at a time,” said Mankameshwar temple’s head priest Mahant Divyagiri. About 100 families will perform ‘maha abhishek’ at the Shivalaya Dwadesh Jyotirling Dham in Sadar. “The main shivalinga will be decorated like the shivalingam at Maheshwaram Sri Shiva Parvathy Temple in Kerala. A bhajan sandhya will be organised in the evening, followed by maha aarti,” said Alok Singhal, one of the temple’s community members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mahashivratri-amid-covid-safety-norms/articleshow/81419772.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Over 7k eldery, 45+ with comorbidities jabbed in 5 days||Chandigarh: Over 7,000 elderly and those above 45 years of age with co-morbidities have been vaccinated during the first five days of Covid-19 vaccination. It took almost a month for healthcare workers, while more than three weeks for the frontline workers to achieve almost the same target. Till date, 10,889 elderly people and those with co-morbidities have been vaccinated. The vaccination schedule for this group started from March 1 and 12,318 healthcare workers have been covered for the first dose. This priority group had started taking the vaccination from January 16. As many as 12,508 frontline workers have been inoculated with the first dose from February 3 till date. “For this group, there are 29 sites and will increase two more sites every week as there is a huge demand. Most of the people prefer on the spot registration which is offered at all the sites,” said director of UT health services Dr Amandeep Kang. Moreover, the elderly are coming mostly at private hospitals than government hospitals. There are 18 government sites and 11 private sites for the vaccination. Also, on Monday, the highest takers of 2,524 were reported from the third priority group. As many as 556 people from this group were vaccinated on the first day which has increased by 95% in a week’s time. “The healthcare workers were reluctant and we had to counsel them. Still there was hardly an increase. Same was the case with frontline workers. But the elderly have been aware of the significance of vaccination more than any other priority group. They do not need to be sensitised,” said Dr Kang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-7k-eldery-45-with-comorbidities-jabbed-in-5-days/articleshow/81417378.cms||Shimona Kanwar
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Drama as MC house rolls back hiked water tariff||CHANDIGARH: The BJP-led general house of the municipal corporation (MC) in its meeting on Tuesday passed a resolution to roll back the revised water tariff amid high drama that saw councillors from the saffron party and Congress shouting slogans, arguing with each other and waving bangles to mock each other. The house approved a gradual hike in the rates after the Covid-19 pandemic was over and gave a nod to decrease the sewage cess from 30% to 5%, prompting municipal commissioner K K Yadav to register a dissent note, saying the reduction was not justified. He conveyed to the house that the matter would be sent to the UT administration for the final decision. Earlier, while discussing the matter, Congress councillors blamed BJP for putting a huge financial burden on the public. Congress said they will not give up till a complete rollback is announced. Some of the Congress councillors took off their bangles and waved them at their rivals. The BJP responded by coming to the well of the house while holding placards against the Congress. A heated argument too broke out between leader of opposition and Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla and BJP city chief and councillor Arun Sood. “We need to look at other ways to generate income. We have to take control of RLA from the UT and ask the central government to release our share as per the 4th Delhi finance commission report. We will back BJP in seeking money via these methods. But we will not tolerate the hike in water charges,” Babla said. Sood replied, “Congress in its 15 years of regime in the MC did not think about generating revenue. That is why the MC has reached such a bad financial position. We still managed to get Rs 502 crore in grant-in-aid, which is a record”, All five Congress councillors later walked out of the house. While explaining the revision in the tariff, BJP councillor Shakti Parkash Devshali said, “The revision will be implemented after the pandemic is over. Till then, previous charges prevailing from 2011 to 2019 will be implemented.” Box: CHARGES LESSER THAN DELHI, HRY: YADAV Municipal commissioner K K Yadav said, “The UT administration has clearly asked to consider revision keeping revenue loss in mind. In normal course, the bill will not come to more than Rs 1,100 per month in a 10-member family. But the problem is that since majority of houses are on rent, which is commercial usage, people expect normal charges.” “The average water consumption per person is around 135 kl per day, but we have around 245kl per day. We will first study this resolution and then send it to the UT administration. Our charges are quite less as compared to Delhi and Haryana. We also need to reconsider the supply of afternoon hours, as we have to spend around Rs 12 crore to 14 crore. I feel this should be stopped and instead the supply increased for one hour more in morning and evening.” RATES AFTER COVID Residential Quantity | Current | Revised 31 to 60 kl| Rs 12 kl | Rs 9 kl Above 60kl | Rs 24kl | Rs 16kl Commercial Unit | Current | Revised Industrial, semi industrial, commercial| Rs 30kl | Rs 25kl Irrigation purpose| Rs 30kl | Rs 25kl Booth | Rs 1,500 | As per actual consumption SCO/SCF/bay shop(general trade |Rs 1,000 | As per actual consumption SCO/SCF/bay shop (water consuming business) Rs 2,000| As per actual consumption Hotel, cinema, shopping mall | Rs 5,000 | As per actual consumption Annual increase of 3% every year | Annual increase of 10% after 3 years Box: Rs 125cr loss? If the approval comes from the UT administration and the MC starts charging the water tariff prevailing from 2011 till 2019, it will bear a financial loss of Rs 125 crore annually, according to records of the engineering department. And, if the UT approves the revised tariff that the house proposed to impose after the pandemic, it will cause a loss of Rs 85 crore annually. Even after increasing the rates, the MC is bearing a loss of Rs 65 crore over generation of water and revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/drama-as-mc-house-rolls-back-hiked-water-tariff/articleshow/81417382.cms||Deepak Yadav
March 10, 2021||Pune||Four men arrested for extortion bid||Pune: The anti-extortion cell of the city crime branch has arrested four men for trying attempting to extort Rs5 lakh from a scrap vendor. A team headed by inspector Balaji Pandhare and sub-inspector Vijay Zanjad arrested Rahul Jadhav (28) and Yogesh Chandane (28) on Monday after the vendor, Habib Rayani (34) of Lohegaon, lodged a complaint. The police team continued their search and on Tuesday arrested Rama Mane (30) of Chandannagar and Pravin Gulab Kadhav (27) of Vadgaon Shinde, Pandhare said. The Police said the suspects first contacted Riyani on Friday, threatening to disrupt his business and kill him if he didn’t pay them. They told him to bring the cash to a spot in Vimannagar. After Riyani approached them, the police swung into action.tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-men-arrested-for-extortion-bid/articleshow/81418699.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||‘Schools hiding Covid cases among teachers to avoid shutdown’||NAGPUR: Teachers’ associations in the city have charged schools authorities with hiding positive cases of Covid-19 among teachers just to avoid their school buildings being sealed for a week or so by civic body authorities. This has left many schoolteachers vulnerable to infection in schools, with authorities virtually forcing them to come to campus even if schools are closed for students. Last month, civic officials had sealed a college near Deekshabhoomi after some of its staff tested positive. A CBSE school teacher said, “Shockingly, no such action is being taken against schools. We know about more than a dozen teachers testing positive in various schools across the district but the authorities are forcing all other staff members to report to school. Technically, all such schools should be sealed.” Another teacher, from a prominent CBSE school with multiple branches in both city and rural Nagpur, said their management is also “ignoring” all Covid-19 guidelines. “A total of six teachers have tested positive in last 30 days. We are hearing rumours that two more tested positive this week. But our principal is asking the rest of the teachers to report to campus. The school is not informing the civic authorities,” she said. CBSE Schools Staff Welfare Association (CSSWA) president Deepali Dabli told TOI that majority of teachers were scared to report to work because of their colleagues testing positive. “It is the responsibility of the management to report positive cases to local authorities and seek guidance on what is to be done next. I don’t blame teachers for not wanting to make their complaint official, because they may lose their job,” Dabli said and added that her association can take the issue up on behalf of teachers. “I know that they can’t go to NMC’s zone office. So, they can contact me on 9422808151. Our organization will file the complaint on their behalf,” Dabli said. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said in such cases teachers can report the same to local authorities directly. Assistant municipal commissioner Prakash Warade said, “Teachers can contact the zone office and inform about such cases. Civic body will definitely follow up on that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-hiding-covid-cases-among-teachers-to-avoid-shutdown/articleshow/81423221.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Constable acquitted in two cases of absenteeism||Ahmedabad: A retired police constable has been acquitted in two cases of absenteeism nearly three decades after he was booked because the complainant, investigator and an important witness in the cases could not remain present in the court. The complainant and investigator passed away during the long pendency of the cases and the important witness could not be traced after his retirement. The case involved police constable Hasmukhbhai Oad (61), who was posted at Dariapur police station. He was booked twice for failing to report on duty without obtaining leave or without giving proper explanation. He was first booked for his unauthorised leave between November 7 and December 6, 1991. An FIR was registered against him under section 145(2) of the Bombay Police Act. While the case for absenteeism was pending against him, Oad once again did not report on duty between September 28, 1993 and January 9, 1994. He was booked once again. The metropolitan court recorded the evidence in the cases against Oad close to three decades later. By then, the complainant in the case S R Yadav, investigating officer P N Barot had passed away. One witness named Dhanraj Khumaji had retired and he could not be traced to his native place on a summons issued by the court. The only witness that could be examined was one constable Chhotalal Patel, who was in-charge of attendance register of Dariapur police station. Patel supported the prosecution’s case, but the court did not find enough evidence to establish the constable’s absence from the duty for a month in 1991. So far as the second case of absenteeism against Oad was concerned, the court found the prosecution claims unsubstantiated and granted benefit of doubt to the constable. In its order, the court noticed that the prosecution also failed to place on record any evidence of departmental proceedings initiated against the accused for his unauthorized absence from duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/constable-acquitted-in-two-cases-of-absenteeism/articleshow/81418702.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Madurai||338 active cases in south TN, 318 in central dists||Madurai: Southern districts recorded 42 fresh cases and a death while central districts reported 52 on Tuesday. For the first time after February 21, southern region recorded a Covid-19 death. The patient, a 76-year-old man from Madurai tested positive on February 27. He was admitted in a private hospital here on March 4. With complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for 11 days, he died in the early hours of Monday. With seven fresh cases each, Kanyakumari and Dindigul recorded the highest in the region. The lone imported case in the region is in Kanyakumari district. Ramanathapuram (1) recorded the lowest in the region, followed by Sivagangai (2), Tuticorin (2), Virudhunagar (3), Tenkasi (3), Tirunelveli (5), Madurai (6) and Theni (6). Active cases in the region is now 318, climbing for the third day in a row. Madurai (60), Kanyakumari (52) and Dindigul (51) account for more than 50% of the active cases in the region. The central region comprising eight districts including Trichy registered 338 active cases . Though the number of fresh cases was down by four compared to Monday when 56 cases were reporter, the region maintained its number of fresh cases above 50 today too. On Sunday, the region had 34 fresh cases. Thanjavur recorded 20 fresh cases to make it the highest the region with 18,253 cases till now - highest tally in the region. Trichy came next with 13 fresh cases taking its tally to 15,061 which is the second highest one in the region. Tiruvarur which had 19 fresh cases on Monday reported only six in the last 24 hours. Nagappattinam reported seven cases taking its tally to 8,655. Pudukottai and Ariyalur recorded each two fresh cases while Ariyalur and Perambalur reported one case each. The number of active cases of the region stood at 338 with Thanjavur having 122 active cases and four active cases in Perambalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/338-active-cases-in-south-tn-318-in-central-dists/articleshow/81418700.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||2k fined for not wearing masks||Pune: A total of 2,024 people in the district were penalized for not wearing face masks and for violating Covid-19 norms on Tuesday. A total fine of Rs7,64,000 was recovered from them. The Pune police penalized 896 people and recovered Rs4,33,600 from them as fines. The Pimpri Chinchwad police took action against 394 people and recovered Rs1,97,500 as fines from them. The Pune rural police penalized 734 people and collected Rs1,32,900 as fines. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2k-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/81418690.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||BJP has fallen in same pit that it had dug for Congress in 2016: Harish Rawat||Dehradun: Terming the change of chief minister as an admission of its failure by the BJP, former chief minister Harish Rawat asserted that “BJP has fallen in the same pit which it had dug for Congress government in 2016. It will not return to power in 2022.” A total of 10 Congress MLAs had switched sides in 2016 to oppose the Harish Rawat-led government. Though Harish Rawat survived the floor test, Congress suffered a humiliating defeat in 2017 assembly elections as the party could manage to win just 11 out of 70 assembly constituencies. “A change of face at the top level is an open admission by the BJP that they have failed to deliver in the Himalayan state, which gave them an overwhelming majority of 57 seats,” Harish told TOI. The former CM claimed that he had in 2017 warned BJP leaders that though they had created a divide in the Congress “those who shifted sides would give them nightmares.” “My statement has come true today. The BJP neither could deliver its promise to the people nor could carry out any development work in the state,” he added. Taking a swipe at his successor, Harish Rawat said, “BJP needs to give a special award to Trivendra Singh Rawat for controlling his team for a period of four years. I have gone through such pain and, therefore, can understand Trivendra’s situation.” On being asked about the prospects of Congress after the change in the BJP government, he said, “Already, people have realised that BJP has failed to fulfill its commitment made to the state and its people. Making a change at a time when less than a year is left for the state polls has exposed the BJP. There was a massive revolt by BJP cadres as it has three ministers, who are from the saffron party, and five ministers who were Congress members but had joined hands with them to oppose me.” Kedarnath MLA Manoj Rawat stated that the strong opposition within the BJP and “some decisions taken by Trivendra Singh Rawat without consulting the party members led to his downfall.” Manoj pointed out that not only the people but even the BJP legislators were “feeling suffocated”. He added that a few legislators had earlier raised their voices against the Trivendra Singh Rawat government and many more joined them later. “Congress is confident of winning the 2022 polls. Now with BJP itself admitting its mistake, the message has gone to entire Uttarakhand,” remarked the Kedarnath MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-has-fallen-in-same-pit-that-it-had-dug-for-congress-in-2016-harish-rawat/articleshow/81417384.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: FIR against family for forging -ve result on +ve Covid report||Mumbai: The BMC on Tuesday filed an FIR against a family from Khar that tested positive for Covid-19 but altered the findings in the report and tried to fly to Jaipur. The forged report mentions Covid-19 RT-PCR not detected even though the original report states detected. Civic officials said the Khar residents, Lakhmichand Thawani (53), his wife, Leena (51), and a minor child had got themselves tested for Covid-19 on February 26.On February 27, around 8.30am, the family was informed about the findings on Lakhmichand Thawani’s mobile number. The civic official was informed that their report was negative. Suspecting something amiss, the official asked Thawani to send his report over WhatsApp on his mobile number. The official was also informed by Thawani that he along with his family were taking a flight to Jaipur.On the same day around 9.12pm, Thawani called up the civic official and said that he along with two members of his family were at the domestic airport in Vile Parle but their status on the Aarogya Setu app was showing red. At the same time the BMC officer received the report copy from the laboratory as well which indicated forgery by the family. The BMC official asked Thawani to head back home and get all quarantined.The police booked the family for forgery, disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, and negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. The offences attract a maximum punishment of two years and fine.“The BMC is working hard to control the spread of the infection and by such actions citizens are putting their own as well as the lives of other persons at risk. We lodged an FIR as we do not know who all were involved. We hope the police will carry out a detailed probe,” assistant municipal commissioner of H-West ward Vinayak Vispute said.Senior police inspector Gajanan Kabdule said: “The officials found out that the report was tampered using a software.”The BMC directed ward officials to put up notices on sealed floors mentioning the flat number where positive cases have been found. Neighbours will be asked to keep a vigil so that quarantined persons do not step out. Mumbai currently has 95 sealed buildings and 1033 sealed floors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fir-against-family-for-forging-ve-result-on-ve-covid-report/articleshow/81418712.cms||Richa Pinto
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Madurai to impose mask fines from today||Madurai: Masks and other Covid-19 prevention norms will become compulsory from Wednesday and a spot fine of Rs 200 would be imposed on those violating them, Madurai district collector T Anbazhagan has said. In a statement issued late on Tuesday evening, the collector said that though the Covid-19 lockdown was still in effect in the state till March 31, there was a complacent attitude among the public who were no longer wearing masks. The spread of the disease is still high in the states of Maharashtra and Kerala, and e-passes have been made mandatory for people coming from those states to Tamil Nadu. Though the prevalence of the disease was low in Madurai district, medical experts had said that there was a danger of the second wave occurring in the region if the people did not exert precautions. Hence, he said that masks were a must in public places and people not following social distancing in these places would be fined Rs 200 on the spot as per the disaster management rules of 1939. Frequent handwashing has also been advised by the collector, and he has asked the public to refrain from going to crowded places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-to-impose-mask-fines-from-today/articleshow/81418703.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Madurai||NBE may allot PG NEET candidates in home states||MADURAI: The National Board of Examinations (NBE) will try to accommodate NEET (PG)) candidates with their correspondence address in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and those who have chosen ‘Others’ as an option within the State/UT, if the required number of nodes are available, executive director of NBE, Pawanindra Lal has said. Lal said this in a reply dated March 3 to Madurai MP Su Venkatesan, who wrote to the NBE on February 24 seeking more examination centres in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry as they got filled up in less than four hours after the applications were opened online, thereby making it difficult for the aspirants to choose nearby centres. In that letter, the MP had also stated that centres in neighbouring states too got filled up in the first two days making it all the more difficult for the aspirants. In his reply, the NBE ED has stated that allotting in the state with the correspondence address of the candidate will be based on the availability of testing seats. In case of unavailability due to logistic, administrative, or other reasons, the testing centre shall be allocated in a nearby state. Lal said that alternate seats have been left vacant to maintain social distancing norms due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As March 15 is the last date for applying for the exam to be held on April 18, Venkatesan has once again written to Lal on Tuesday. The MP questioned the reason for not taking proactive measures to increase examination centres sufficient to accommodate the candidates in the same state. The MP pointed out that that traveling to other states in the Covid-19 situation is risky for the aspirants and those accompanying them when restrictions are tightened again by making e-pass mandatory for people coming from other states including Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nbe-may-allot-pg-neet-candidates-in-home-states/articleshow/81423409.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Maldives releases eight detained Indian fishermen||Tuticorin: Eight Indian fishermen who were detained by the Maldives authorities on February 24 for fishing in their national waters, were released on Tuesday following intervention of the Tuticorin district administration, Tamil Nadu government’s public department and the ministry of external affairs (MEA). “The fishermen have set off from Kulhudhuffushi Island, Maldives, at 12.05 on Tuesday afternoon and are expected to reach Tuticorin on Sunday morning,” Tuticorin collector K Senthil Raj said and added that they will be accompanied by the Maldives Coast Guard till they leave their national waters. The detained fishermen have been identified as S Antony Michael Bharat, G John Samuel, G Antony Arul Raj, T Ganagaraj and A Abisek Raj of T Saveriarpuram, A Antony Rabin of Vellaippatti all from Tuticorin district and S Jebamalai Raj of Narippaiyur and S Irudhayaraj of Kadaladi both from Ramanathapuram district. Last month, they went fishing in a mechanised multi-day fishing vessel by name ‘A. Sarolin’ from Tharuvaikulam in Tuticorin district. On February 24 they were detained while they were fishing near Kulhudhuffushi Island. The fishermen were detained on charges of intrusion and fishing in their waters illegally and for fishing by using gillnet, which is banned in that country. According to Joseph Kutty K the Attache (consular) in the High Commission of Indian in Male, the fishermen will reach Tharuvaikulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/maldives-releases-eight-detained-indian-fishermen/articleshow/81418714.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||ZP allocates more funds to boost rural health infra||PUNE: The Zilla Parishad (ZP), Pune, has doubled budgetary allocation for its health department to boost infrastructure and provide quality medical services in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in rural Pune. Ranjit Shivtare, vice-president, ZP, presented the budget of Rs266 crore for 2021-2022 on Tuesday. “This year, we have allocated Rs9.02 crore for the health department, almost double of last year. We want to make our health system more effective in the district,” Shivtare told TOI. The ZP has also focused on education, building and road departments by allocating more funds than last fiscal. “We have allocated over Rs49 crore for building and road development against last year’s Rs38 crore. Improving condition of roads in villages is necessary as road repair work could not carried out due to Covid restrictions last year,” he added. Shivtare, who is also the president of the education department, has allocated Rs22.36 crore for education. “Considering increasing use of computers for online classes, the ZP has decided to purchase computer for each school. We have allocated Rs1 crore in the first phase. We need to provide experts guidance on various subjects to students for which Rs10 lakh will be spent annually. We will also provide uniforms to students,” Shivtare added The ZP will face a massive revenue loss in the years to come as 23 big grampanchayats, which used to generate revenue in crores in the form of stamp duty and registration, have been merged in Pune Municipal Corporation limits. The ZP has already noticed a deficit in its income. Last year, the ZP had presented a budget of Rs303 crore, but due to Covid-19 it generated less revenue, thus reducing the budget to Rs266 crore. Sharad Butte Patil, ZP group leader, said the ZP will have to find new revenue sources to strengthen finances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-allocates-more-funds-to-boost-rural-health-infra/articleshow/81418723.cms||Sandip Dighe
March 10, 2021||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University postpones exam to April 11, clarifies format||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has postponed its first-semester examination for all courses from March 15 to April 11. The varsity has also decided to conduct only an online multiple-choice question (MCQ) examination for 50 marks for all its students, including those studying in the final year. Instead of the private agency that conducted the exam in October, an in-house company named SPPU EduTech Foundation (SEF) will examine all its courses this time. The decisions were taken during the Board of Examination (BoE) meeting on Tuesday. This is a marked departure from SPPU’s stance in the BoE meeting held in February when it had said that there would be both descriptive and MCQ-based examinations for final year students. SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “Instead of March 15, we will conduct the exam from April 11. The previous pattern that we had decided on has been changed. In the new pattern, will just be MCQ-based questions for 50 marks. The timetable for every examination would be declared by March 25. It would be an in-house examination, handled by SEF. All students will have to appear for a 50-mark MCQ-based exam.” The last date to fill examination forms is March 10 and there would be no postponement, said, officials. Until now, about 5.84 lakh students have filled the examination forms across all branches. The department is expecting around 6.25 lakh students to fill the forms by the end of the process. Students, appearing for the Semester I exam, would not be given a result in hand as their practical tests are yet to be conducted. They would just be told the marks they obtained in the Semester I exam. Practical tests will be held at the end of Semester II and results/mark sheets for both semesters will be given at the end of the term. The varsity conducts exams for 5,500 subjects for all its courses at colleges spread across Nashik, Pune, and Ahmednagar. Students would be allowed to appear for the exam from their homes using devices with cameras. “The SEF has conducted term-end examinations for students within the university department as well as some colleges. The total number of students that they have handled at a time is around 10,000. This can easily be scaled up to a larger number of students. Plus, since this is an in-house company, the cost will be reduced drastically,” said an official. However, another university official countered the argument stating that in the October 2020 examination, over 55000 students appeared in one session in some cases while 1.70 lakh students appeared for examinations in a day. “Even if the numbers are brought down to about 1.25 lakh students a day and 30,000-35,000 students in a session, it would be hard for a new company to conduct the exam. This company may need to seek external help to conduct the exam,” said the official. There were also discussions on conducting both Semester I and II examinations together. However, the suggestion was shot down in the BoE meeting. With the postponement of the Semester I examination, the second-semester exams may also be postponed, added an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-postpones-exam-to-april-11-clarifies-format/articleshow/81426202.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Colts beat Aryavart by five wkts to enter semis||Lucknow: Lucknow Colts Club defeated Aryavart Cricket Academy by five wickets to enter the semi-final match of the ongoing Gaurav Mehta Memorial Cricket played at Aryavart ground on Tuesday. Batting first, Aryavart were all out for 101 only in 31.3 overs. Rishi Vardhan of Aryavart scored highest 22 runs while Nishant contributed 13 runs. Kshitij and Subhash made maximum damage to the Aryavart batting line up claiming three wickets each for LCC. In reply, Shailendra's unbeaten 47-run knock helped LCC achieve the target in just 20 overs of the 40-over match. Mohd Zeban took three wickets for Aryavart. Kshitij was named the man of th e match. Brief scores: ACA: 101 (Rishi 22; Kshitij 3-13, Subhash 3-12); LCC: 102/5 (Shailendra 47; Zeban 3-13); Man of the match: Kshitij LNN Cricket: Lucknow Mahapaur XI defeated Jal Kal XI by 22 in a league match of the ongoing Lucknow Nagar Nigam cricket tournament at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Tuesday. Brief scores: Mahapaur XI: 162/3 (Anurag 57, Saurabh 38; Pankaj 2-20); Jal Kal XI: 140/3 (Ravi 38, Raja Dhanuk 32; Shailendra 1-9, Anurag 1-9); Man of the match: Anurag Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-colts-beat-aryavart-by-five-wkts-to-enter-semis/articleshow/81419790.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||Will vax lead to impotence, cancer or stroke? Docs face WhatsApp varsity-fuelled queries||NAGPUR: As more and more people are now getting ready to get Covid-19 vaccine, many queries are also being thrown at doctors to find answers. Family physicians are genrally the first ones accessible to common people. Family physicians, who run small dispensaries or one-room clinics in different parts of Nagpur, told TOI that they are flooded with phone calls and personal enquiries about the vaccines these days. Senior citizens are quite eager to get vaccinated, but they have a lot of questions in their minds. Many feel that messages on social media are genuine,” said Dr Naresh Kamble, who runs a clinic in Manewada.Most queries are triggered by ‘WhatsApp university’ knowledge and social media posts. “Senior citizens are quite eager to get vaccinated, but they have a lot of questions in their minds. Many feel that messages on social media are genuine,” said Dr Naresh Kamble, who runs a clinic in Manewada. “These queries include whether the vaccine will cause cardiac arrest or stroke or cancer. Some having severe comoribidities are worried about kidney failure too,” he said. Those from the 45+ age group are worried whether the vaccine will turn them impotent. “Some of my patients also asked me if they have to stop drinking or smoking post vaccination. They read it somewhere on social media and bombard doctors with queries,” said Dr Anil Kulkarni, a family physician. TOI also spoke to doctors and got their views on these questions. Patients having hypertension or cardiovascular disease are more worried. But, vaccines are absolutely safe for them, said cardiologist Dr Pankaj Harkut. “Patients taking blood thinning medicines after bypass and angioplasty have a common question whether the vaccine will cause blood clots in case bleeding doesn’t stop. However, this question is completely unfounded and the vaccine is safe even for bypass patients,” he said. “Anticoagulants need to be taken to thin the blood after heart valve surgery or if there is a clot in the heart. To such patients, vaccine can be given with a small needle. In addition, one should hold cotton on the vaccination site for a long time after the jab. Heart patients should not avoid the vaccine. Get vaccinated without any doubt, it will definitely be beneficial,” he added. “Covid vaccines, be it Covishield or Covaxin, both are completely safe. There is no chance of Covid infection due to vaccine. In fact, it saves most of us from the disease,” said Dr Meena Mishra, head of microbiology department at AIIMS Nagpur. “Even if you get detected Covid-19 positive after the vaccination, severity of the disease is very low and you have all chances to recover fully,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-vax-lead-to-impotence-cancer-or-stroke-docs-face-whatsapp-varsity-fuelled-queries/articleshow/81418710.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 10, 2021||India||After verdict, BJP fires Batla salvo at opposition||NEW DELHI: After a Delhi court convicted Indian Mujahideen terrorist Ariz Khan in the 2008 Batla House encounter case, BJP on Tuesday launched a fresh salvo against Congress and other opposition parties, including West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, for casting doubts on the encounter in which a decorated Delhi Police officer was killed and two cops were injured. At a press conference, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad sought apology from Congress functionaries like Sonia Gandhi, Digvijay Singh and Salman Khurshid besides Banerjee and said there should be a probe over the attempt to weaken the morale of Delhi Police in its fight against terrorism. There was a conscious, deliberate and consistent attempt to cast serious doubt on the authenticity of the Batla House encounter to weaken the morale of Delhi Police and give clear support to terrorist and their design. Why? For pure vote-bank politics,” Prasad said and quoted remarks by opposition leaders, including Khurshid, Digvijay Singh and Mamata Banerjee. IM terrorist Ariz Khan was on Monday convicted of killing Delhi Police inspector Mahesh Chand Sharma in the gunfight in south Delhi''s Batla House locality in September 2008. The encounter took place a week after five serial blasts hit the national capital on September 13, 2008, killing at least 30 people and injuring over 100. Two terrorists, including Ariz, had managed to escape. Several politicians had voiced doubts over the encounter. However, the NHRC had given a clean chit to the Delhi Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-verdict-bjp-fires-batla-salvo-at-opposition/articleshow/81421707.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Super-speciality hospitals to give vax shots 6 days a week||Lucknow: To expedite Covid vaccination drive, medical education institutes will also be part of the mass six-day immunisation campaign in the city every week. The three government-aided super-speciality medical education institutes and five private medical colleges started the drive from Tuesday itself. The remaining two private medical colleges will begin the campaign soon. Till now, these institutes used to house multiple booths and give jabs on mega days in a week when targeted beneficiaries were called in a bulk. After the six-day exercise launch, nine government hospitals in Lucknow were initially selected for the job. As many as 137 private hospitals empanelled under Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana in the city have also been given green signal for vaccination on six days a week provided they have cold chain facilities and procure vaccine vials in advance. “Now as per state government’s directions, government-aided super-speciality institutes will also provide vaccination on all working days. Private colleges will have to run the drive at least four days a week, in case they are not able to do it for six days. This will provide more options to beneficiaries and reduce overcrowding at centres,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. On Tuesday, 5,230 beneficiaries were vaccinated at 60 centres — 12 government and 48 private. Of these, 3,359 (64%) were in the age group of 60 and above and 663 (13%) persons aged between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities. Besides, 858 health and 350 frontline workers got the vaccine shots. The exercise went smoothly in most of the centres. Complaints of Co-WIN portal reported running slow were received from RSM Hospital and BRD Hospital, resulting in beneficiaries waiting for two to three hours. The CMO said, “There might be some network issues in these two centres, otherwise there were no such complaints from other centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/super-speciality-hospitals-to-give-vax-shots-6-days-a-week/articleshow/81419814.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
March 10, 2021||Pune||FLAME pupils raise Rs 14L for deprived kids||Pune: Support A Cause Team (SACT), a student-led initiative at FLAME University, conducted a crowdfunding campaign to raise over Rs14 lakh in support of education for rural underprivileged children at Parli, a backward tribal belt in Raigad district. The campaign lasted for 25 days and had 40 participants. The funds collected through the campaign will be used towards providing meals, education, uniforms, stationery, transport, e-learning, computer training, sports, health check-ups, etc for the underprivileged students. Dishan Kamdar, vice-chancellor, FLAME University, Pune, said, “The students have displayed exemplary social responsiveness and entrepreneurial spirit to make a difference to the lives of underprivileged children at Parli, which will support them.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flame-pupils-raise-rs-14l-for-deprived-kids/articleshow/81418726.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||Three-month-old leopard cub rescued from atop mango tree at Canacona||POINGUINIM: A three-month-old male leopard cub, which villagers in Patnem noticed on a tree, was rescued on Tuesday morning. According to range forest officer (RFO), Canacona Anand Velip, the cub must have been chased by the dogs after it strayed away from its mother during the night and to avoid the dogs, it must have climbed the mango tree. Aerted to its presence by the dogs barking, locals then informed the RFO. The rescue squad from Margao was led by assistant conservator of forest Minguel Fernandes and the staff of Cotigao Wildlife sanctuary. The cub is under observation at Hati-Pawl rescue centre at Cotigao. Velip and his staff have been trying to locate its mother trail so that the cub can be released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-month-old-leopard-cub-rescued-from-atop-mango-tree-at-canacona/articleshow/81419851.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kochi||Power use in Kochi, suburbs shows an upward trend||KOCHI: Indicating that businesses are on a path of growth with the opening of all commercial establishments, energy consumption has started to show an upward trend in Kochi city and its suburbs. The Kerala state electricity board (KSEB) has registered consumption of 11.23 crore units in June after lockdown restrictions were lifted in a phased manner. Though the consumption declined in the next few months due to various reasons, it again rose from December last year onwards, but slowly. The consumption came down to 11.15 crore units in August and 10.98 crore units in October due to interruptions like monsoon rains. But the consumption again rose to 11.85 crore units in December and then to 11.91 crore units in January this year. But the energy consumption has not reached to the level in the pre-Covid period indicating that the economic cycle of Kochi has not turned to its full capacity. Kochi city and its suburbs are falling under Ernakulam KSEB division, which records highest monthly collection of electricity charge in the state. “Almost all business establishments in Ernakulam have started functioning, but at what margins they are operating is yet to come out. Many issues are still plaguing the economy despite opening up of all commercial establishments. One of the current issues is soaring fuel price. Besides this, unavailability of containers is a big issue making exporting of products from Kochi a difficult task. This has affected all the sectors associated with it,” said president of Cochin Chamber of Commerce and Industry K Harikumar. The division had witnessed consumption of 12.78 crore unit in February in 2020 and 13.56 crore unit in December 2019. KSEB officials said comparing to the pre-Covid period, the number of people approaching for new commercial connections witnessed a dip. “Domestic consumption was high in May and June periods as people were staying in their houses and most of the commercial establishments remained closed due to restrictions. We had noticed power theft during that period as electricity charge was high due to high consumption,” deputy chief engineer (Ernakulam) Mohammed Kasim. “But the consumption in commercial connections started to pick up later while the same registering reduction in domestic level. We hope that the consumption will rise further as theatres and colleges have been opened,” added Kasim. The division had collected Rs 102 crore as electricity charge, including arrears from consumers in January alone, as against the normal collection of around Rs 85 crore/month in the post-Covid period, where shortage of 15% in collection used to report due to decline in the income at the hands of consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/power-use-in-city-suburbs-shows-an-upward-trend/articleshow/81417398.cms||T C Sreemol
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Save higher education movement comes up with manifesto for political parties||Madurai: The ‘Save higher education movement’ has come up with its own manifesto for political parties ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly elections that includes inquiries into allegations of bribery for senior positions at institutions of higher education in the state.Speaking to reporters in Madurai on Tuesday, state organiser of the movement, Dr R Murali said that the posts of vice-chancellors and professors in universities and colleges were being filled with political influence and lakhs of rupees was being obtained for the appointments. Hence, the party that comes to power should ensure a transparent inquiry into these appointments and that it should be stated in the election manifestos of the parties.Another demand was increasing the budget allocation for higher education in the state. He said that the state government should take steps to give full control of the Gandhigram Rural University to the central government. Transferring people who were appointed as professors to the Annamalai University, after receiving bribes, to other higher education institutes should be stopped immediately, he said.Retirement benefits should be given to university staff of many universities immediately, Murali said. Democratic rights should be protected by electing members to the academic council and senate through proper elections, he added. The Tamil Nadu higher education department should take control of the Thanjavur Tamil University, he said.Other demands included all political parties should promise to bring higher education under the control of the state government. Students from Tamil Nadu should be exempted from NEET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/save-higher-education-movement-comes-up-with-manifesto-for-political-parties/articleshow/81418727.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||Shirur centre gets 4 new classrooms||Pune: The Round Table India (RTI) Chapter 177 recently handed over a four-classroom project to the Zilla Parishad primary school at Mukhai village in Shirur. A statement by RTI said the school was equipped with modern facilities like provision for online classes in each classroom, CCTV cameras, televisions, projectors and water filters, among others. “The best way to develop the future of our country is to strengthen the education system. A second project would be started soon,” Rishu Baweja, chairman of RTI said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shirur-centre-gets-4-new-classrooms/articleshow/81418730.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Borivli management college students ‘asked’ to go on Dubai field trip||MUMBAI: In the middle of the pandemic, students from a Borivli-based management college are being allegedly asked to go on an industrial visit to Dubai this month. Students who want to opt out are being asked to attend an online certificate course from an Ivy League institute. Many are opposed to the trip and allegedly are not even keen on taking up the course and have asked the college to waive off the Rs 80,000 fees. On Tuesday evening, Post-Graduate Diploma in Management (PGDM) students of Aditya Institute of Management Studies and Research received an email from their department head informing them about a presentation by a Dubai Tourism executive scheduled on Wednesday. According to the mail, the trip was scheduled for students in two batches—on March 18 and March 21. The institute cancelled the presentation in an email sent two hours later. The international study tour is part of the Global Exposure Programme included in the curriculum. “How can the trip be an essential component of the programme in the middle of the pandemic? Who will take our responsibility if any of us catches Covid? The industrial visit was always a part of the curriculum. Around Rs 80,000 of the Rs 3.8 lakh fee charged by the college is for the industrial visit. Since we are in the middle of the pandemic, they should have cancelled the trip and waived off the fee,” said a student, adding the last day to pay the final instalment of Rs 80,000 is March 10. Another student alleged instead of cancelling the visit, they are making it optional. The student said over 70 students from a batch of 120 have agreed to go on the trip, but it could be mostly because they did not want to waste the money on the online course. They are adding the condition only because they do not wish to waive off the last installment of the fees, he alleged. Despite repeated attempts, department head Manoj Bhatia and institute director Sangeeta Srivastava did not respond to calls from TOI. Mumbai University senate member Sudhakar Tamboli said he had met the director on March 5 and tried to convince them to cancel the trip. “If colleges and schools are shut, classes and exams are being conducted online, how can the institute insist on an industrial visit? If something happens to the students, if they catch the Covid infection on the trip, will the institute take responsibility? They claimed the college has consent from the students and parents. They may have given their consent as they do not wish to take the expensive course. Some colleges have refunded the amount for industrial visits or postponed them,” said Tamboli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/borivli-mgmt-college-students-asked-to-go-on-dubai-field-trip/articleshow/81418737.cms||Yogita Rao
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Threat to Mukesh Ambani: Mumbai businessman Mansukh Hiran’s widow tells ATS she suspects cop killed him||MUMBAI: In her three-page statement to the ATS, Mansukh Hiran’s wife Vimala has said Sachin Waze had been using the same SUV (found with explosives outside the Ambani residence) for the past four months. Waze and her husband knew each other, she claimed. Waze declined to comment when electronic media tried to get a response. Meanwhile, an NIA team on Tuesday met senior ATS officials and collected documents pertaining to the explosives case. The Union home ministry had on Monday asked NIA to take over the probe into the planting of explosives. Vimala said her husband had purchased the car from one Peter Newton. The vehicle was given to Waze, a regular client of Hiran’s, in November last year; Hiran has an automobiles accessories shop in Thane. On February 5, Waze had sent the car back with his driver to Hiran’s garage for servicing. When Hiran took the car for a drive on February 17, the steering jammed and he parked it on Airoli-Mulund Link Road, from where the car was allegedly stolen. A week later, the car was found parked outside Antilia with gelatin sticks. Mumbai bomb case: Man wearing PPE kit spotted outside AntiliaIn the FIR, Vimala alleged it was Waze who insisted Hiran should draft a complaint saying cops and the media were harassing him. On March 2, Hiran had submitted a complaint to various authorities including commissioners of police in Mumbai and Thane. Read AlsoMansukh Hiran a good swimmer, says his friend, doubts drowning theoryThe body of Mansukh Hiran (48), owner of the Scorpio found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was found by police in a creek near Mumbra on Friday. The probe into the explosives-in-vehicle case, initially being overseen by Sachin Waze who belongs to the crime branch’s crimeOn March 4, Hiran returned home early and said he would be stepping out to meet one Tawde at Ghodbunder Road. She said Hiran left home at 8.30pm and when she called him at around 11pm, his two mobiles were found switched off. Her brother-in-law Vinod then called up Waze, who wondered how Hiran went to meet a policeman without informing him. Next day the family lodged a missing complaint. Read AlsoATS will solve mystery behind Mansukh Hiren’s death: Home minister Anil DeshmukhMUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said that the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) is investigating the Mansukh Hiren death case on the basis of the compliant registered by Mansukh’s wife. He added that the truth will come out following the probe by STF. Mansukh’s body wasVimla said it was impossible that her husband died of drowning as he was a good swimmer. She said Hiran had worn a gold chain, a finger ring, wrist watch, and carried a purse, mobile phone with two SIM cards and five ATM cards besides other identification documents which were missing. The ATS team on Monday recorded Waze’s statement. ATS officials said on Tuesday they may summon him in a day or two. “We will question him about allegations made by Hiran’s wife,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-my-husband-api-waze-knew-each-other-says-bizmans-wife/articleshow/81419838.cms||Mateen Hafeez
March 10, 2021||Pune||Teen detained for ATM theft attempt||Pune: Two alert policemen from the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch a 17-year-old boy from robbing a cash dispensing machine in Wakad early on Monday. Constables Dharmaraj Awate and Umesh Jaybhay caught the boy as he was removing the panel of the machine’s cash tray. The police recovered screwdrivers and other equipment from him. Awate told TOI that he and his colleague, Jaybhay, were on night duty on Monday. “We were checking ATMs during patrolling when we reached Ashtavinayak Colony in Wakad and found a person’s movements inside the non-bank operated ATM kiosk to be suspicious,” Awate said. The ATM is located at some distance from the main road. “When we reached the spot we saw that the person had already broken the cover of the machine and was busy removing the panel covering the cash tray,” Awte said. Suspecting that there could be accomplices of the person in the area, Awate alerted the police control room and detained the person. “A team of the Wakad police reached the spot immediately. We handed him to the Wakad police,” Awate said. The suspect already other cases of theft registered against him. He has been booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teen-detained-for-atm-theft-attempt/articleshow/81418728.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Illegal cash: Surprise checks at bus stands in Madurai||MADURAI: The city police conducted surprise checks in all the bus terminals targeting passengers and their bags to see if money and materials meant for distribution for the election, is being transported illegally. Teams from respective police stations conducted elaborate checks in Mattuthavani, Periyar and Arapalayam bus terminals. Passengers alighting from the buses and their luggage were checked before being allowed to leave the terminals. A police official from the Anna Nagar range said that the search was conducted based on an instruction from the city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha on Tuesday. Teams were formed for the purpose and dispatched to the Mattuthavani terminal. The officer said that they did not find any illegal transportation during the exercise. A higher police officer from the city police unit said flying squad and static teams were formed by the district election officer and collector T Anbalagan to check for money and materials transported illegally to influence voters. Suspected materials and cash without documents above Rs 50,000 are being seized by the teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/illegal-cash-surprise-checks-at-bus-stands/articleshow/81418729.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Patna||Man hangs self in Vaishali police lock-up||PATNA: A 32-year-old man arrested for thrashing his father and several others, allegedly hanged himself with a rope inside a police lockup in Vaishali district on Tuesday. The deceased, Amarjeet Choudhary, was detained at the Katahara police outpost under the Garaul police station. Neighbours from Choudhary’s village Bahbalpur held a protest against the incident alleging foul play. Katahara police outpost in-charge Krishna Dev Khatai said Choudhary was arrested and brought to the outpost around 9 pm on Monday. “However, he started to bang his head on the iron bars of the lockup and the wall. Fearing that he might cause injury to himself, he was taken out and kept at sirista where he committed suicide around 7.45 am on Tuesday. He had used a rope lying there to hang himself from an empty hook in the ceiling meant for hanging fans,” Khatai said. He said Choudhary, a daily wager, used to suspect that his father Shatrughan Rajak (60) has illicit relation with his wife. “He frequently used to thrash his father and other family members. On March 6, he had even bit some villagers after causing head injury to himself,” Khatai said, adding the deceased's behaviour was erratic. He said some villagers attempted to create a law and order situation over the custodial death but they were not allowed to gather near the police outpost. Vaishali SP Maneesh said prima facie it appears that Choudhary committed suicide. “However, as this is a case of custodial death, a medical team has been formed which would conduct a post-mortem. An inquiry by a judicial magistrate would be conducted in the case as per law,” he said. Maneesh said Choudhary was still breathing when some police personnel spotted him hanging at brought him down. “He was rushed to the hospital but doctors declared him dead,” he said. The SP said action would be taken as per the post-mortem report and if any police personnel are found guilty they would be punished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-hangs-self-in-vaishali-police-lock-up/articleshow/81418731.cms||Debashish Karmakar
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Temples get ready for festival rush amid Covid-19 concerns||Madurai: Temples are gearing up once again to manage the Mahashivarathiri rush on March 11, and temple officials have started making arrangements for the festival. But, with Covid-19 cases showing an increasing trend in the state, many people say that monitoring should also be enhanced at the temples.On Mahashivarathiri people from all over the state used to visit their family or village deities as it is considered auspicious. Many of the temples for native deities, like Ayyanar and Mariamman see huge crowds. At temples such as Kochadai Muthaiasamy temple in Madurai, people offer prayers and perform rituals staying the whole night there.T Elango from Anna Nagar said that as Covid-19 norms were relaxed and temples started witnessing normal crowds, thousands would gather at the small temples in the city and villages. Hence it would be better if the precautions were monitored properly during the festival.The Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple will remain open through the night on March 11 to enable people to participate in the night-long rituals. Joint commissioner of the temple K Chelladurai has said that rituals would begin at 10pm on March 11 and continue through the night and end by 5am the next day. “We will ensure that people wear masks, but now it is difficult to make them wear masks compulsorily. It would be better if the government laid down rules,” said temple sources.In Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Theni and Dindigul districts small temples are being spruced up and shelters erected for the devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temples-get-ready-for-festival-rush-amid-covid-19-concerns/articleshow/81418733.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||Cops recover 216 Mughal era gold coins from Pune's Chikhali||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police recovered 216 gold coins and a bronze crock dating back to the 18th century from two construction workers and a vegetable vendor, who had found these during the foundation work for a building in Chikhali three months ago. “Prima facie probe revealed that the coins were the currency of Muhammad Shah, the Mughal emperor from the 18th century. The coins date back to the 1720-1750 period,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash told a news conference on Tuesday. He said the words ‘Shah’s currency’ were embossed on these coins in Urdu and Arabic. The two construction workers and their relative, the vegetable vendor, did not disclose that they possessed the coins and were preparing to sell them off. “They, however, had a dispute among themselves over the sharing of the coins. This led to a tip-off to crime branch constable Jamie Tamboli. We recovered the coins before they could sell or melt them,” Prakash said. The police commissioner said the vegetable vendor, from Chikhali, had brought his father-in-law and brother-in-law from Parbhani district to Pune for the construction work about three months ago. “While the excavation work was going on by using an earthmover, the vendor’s father-in-law and brother-in-law found a few gold coins. They brought the coins home and showed them to the vendor,” he said. “The following day, the trio went to the site when no one was around and started digging again to recover a buried treasure in a broken bronze crock, which was full of gold coins,” Prakash said, adding that they found 216 gold coins weighing over 2kg. Inspector Shailesh Gaikwad of the crime branch said, “They wanted to sell them off, but did not know who to approach. Before they could proceed further, we recovered them. The coins and a bronze crock, with antique value, will be handed over to the Archaeological Survey of India. They will keep the items at the museum in Satara.” Muḥammad Shah was the Mughal emperor from 1719 to 1748. He was the grandson of Bahadur Shah 1 and popularly known as “Muhammad Shah Rangila”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-recover-216-mughal-era-gold-coins-from-chikhali/articleshow/81418734.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||Aspirants give a strong performance in JEE Main||PUNE: Several students from the city have scored over 99 percentiles in the Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE) Main. The JEE results were announced on Monday. From Bakliwal Tutorials, as many as 14 students scored above 99.9 percentile and over 68 students scored 99 while over 350 students scored 90 percentile and above. Director of the institute Vaibhav Bakliwal said, “The results have been very good so far. Eight students have scored a perfect 100 percentile in one of the three subjects. As for students scoring 99.9 and above percentile, their all India ranks roughly correspond within 620.” A student from the institute Shubhranil Chatterjee, who scored 99.98 percentile, said, “I was expecting this kind of result after attempting the exam. I had prepared for it but now I am looking forward to the next advanced examination” From IITian’s Prashikshan Kendra, two students, scored 99.9 percentile. Director of the institute Durgesh Mangeshkar said, “The cut-off percentile this year for JEE Advanced qualification may drop by 4-5 percentile points as compared to 2020, since there are fewer slots available this year although the number of aspirants per slot remains around 1 lakh. So, the cut-off for the general category may be estimated to be in the range of 85 percentile.” The National Testing Agency will, however, announce the cut-offs only in June after all four exam attempts. From Prime Academy, more than 75 of 105 students crossed 90 percentiles. Founder director of the academy Lalit Kumar said, “There is still a lot of time for JEE Advanced and subsequent JEE Main. Strategic revision plan and thorough analysis of February Main will make a lot of difference in the final result.” Omkar Soni, who scored 99.92 percentile, said, “I feel very happy and motivated for all the exams I will be attempting in the coming months. Achieving this score made me more confident about doing better in the future.” Another student from Allen Pune Kush Shah, who scored 99.91 percentile said, “The major reason that I scored marks above my expectation was minimizing my silly mistakes and the speed with which I attempted the exam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aspirants-give-a-strong-performance-in-jee-main/articleshow/81418739.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||MLA manhandles cop over towing||Ahmedabad: In a video which went viral on Tuesday, the BJP MLA from Asarwa, Pradip Parmar, was seen threatening a cop and manhandling him over an issue of towing vehicles near a hospital in the Shahibaug area. In the video, Parmar is seen abetting people to thrash the cop telling them not to worry as their MLA is there to protect them. Parmar is seen telling the ASI that he would be suspended and be eliminated if he does not behave properly with him and other people. Then, he was seen calling up DCP, traffic (admin), Tejas Patel, telling him that the cop identified as ASI Udesinh had towed people’s vehicle outside the hospital who came there with their ailing relatives and to buy medicines. Parmar told TOI, “Near Rajasthan hospital, the traffic cop and other employees of the towing contractor were towing away vehicles of people coming to get medicine.” “I first requested them to stop as they had come to buy medicines, but the constable misbehaved. In one case, the person with medicine was trying to move when the constable continued to pull his bike and hence I intervened. The constable first misbehaved with me,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mla-manhandles-cop-over-towing/articleshow/81418741.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Stray dogs still a cause for concern in coastal areas||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The newly-constituted committees in the coastal panchayats in the district continue to face the unsolved problem of stray dog attacks on local population. The latest instance at Kottukal panchayat where a stray dog turned violent and went around biting around 19 people last week is a repeat of what other coastal areas like Pulluvila had witnessed in the past. Assembly records presented in January show that 19 stray dog bite incidents were reported in the district in the past one year. The local bodies had to spend Rs 3.8 crore in one year as part of stray dog control measures in the district. Kottukal panchayat authorities said that they were planning a dog shelter on the panchayat-owned land to rehabilitate stray dogs which are being sterilized. “One of the major complaints of residents is that sterilized dogs are released back to places from where they are caught. These dogs often turn violent and attack people. In the recent attack, the dog bit people even on their house premises. We plan to have a shelter on our land so that dogs are kept safely in one place,” said C Jerome Das, Kottukal panchayat president and member of Adimalathura where the incident happened. He said that a decision would be made soon after the conclusion of assembly elections. Deaths due to stray dog bites were reported in 2016 and 2017 at Pulluvila in Karumkulam panchayat. In 2017, Josklin, 45, a fisherman had succumbed to injuries following stray dog attack at Pulluvila. Siluvamma, 65, had died of blood loss after she sustained dog bite injuries at the beach in Pulluvila in 2016. Another woman was grievously wounded in the stray dog attack. Waste management is cited as a main reason for the rising number of stray dogs in coastal panchayats. Das said the panchayat has taken note of the fact that unauthorized dumping of waste from abattoirs has increased over the past few months. “Once the code of conduct is lifted, we are planning to act against such people,” he said. It’s not just coastal panchayats, areas in the city and other rural panchayats have also reported stray dog bite incidents. Three members of a family, including a five-year-old kid, were injured in a stray dog attack at Kachani in 2018. An old man had succumbed to wounds from dog bite at Varkala as well. A stray dog had attacked pedestrians recently in front of Secretariat. The local self-government department had launched a comprehensive action plan along with the animal husbandry department to conduct animal birth control (ABC) across all local bodies in the state following the Pulluvila incident in 2016. However even by 2017, the project had fizzled out with many urban local bodies in the state even failing to implement the scheme. The figures reveal that the city corporation had allocated Rs 3 crore each for 2016-17 and 2017-18 under ABC. However, expenditure was limited to Rs 26.4 lakh in 2016-17 and Rs 13.9 lakh in 2017-18, respectively. The expenditure could improve considerably since 2018-19. Corporation spent Rs 47 lakh of the Rs 52 lakh in 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/stray-dogs-still-a-cause-for-concern-in-coastal-areas/articleshow/81417424.cms||Aswin J Kumar
March 10, 2021||Madurai||South TN villages frame rules to keep electioneering in check||Madurai: Electioneering is all about loud slogans, colourful festoons and rallies by political functionaries. However, such activities are not allowed in a few villages in the south which want to ensure communal harmony and peace even after the election. On such village is Othaveedu located next to Karuppayurani, on the outskirts of the city. There are around 250 houses and 650 voters in the village. People from villages near Thirumangalam, T Kallupatti and Perungudi in the district migrated here around 100 years ago. It has been a tradition here not to allow people stick posters and erect banners as it would create rift among themselves. Erecting flag masts, installation of loud speakers, entry of political leaders or candidates for canvassing and distribution of money to influence voters is also not allowed.“We welcome candidates at the village entry point with shawls, listen to their poll promises and send them back. We have been following this for three generations now. All the political parties know it and respect the village rules,” said R Muthu, a resident.“We will put forth requirements of basic amenities to the candidates when they approach us. This time we are planning to raise the issues such as distribution of salty water and bad roads,” said G Ilangovan, a retired TNSTC employeeUntil a few years back, people would not approach police stations for petty quarrels as the issues would be solved by village elders at the mandhai (public space) in the presence of parties involved and general villages. However, it has changed now, villagers say.There are a few such villages in Theni and Virudhunagar districts too. They have their own rules in order to safeguard unity among themselves.In Maruthangulam village near Amathur in Virudhunagar district, candidates are allowed to take out campaigns without any loud speakers, flex banners or festoons. “There are 414 houses and 926 voters. Telugu speaking communities form 75% of the village, however, almost 99% of the population including other communities speak in Telugu only,” said N Kasirajan, president of the village. “Candidates have to park their vehicles at the village mandhai and walk the streets,” he added.Badrakalipuram village in Dombucherry panchayat in Theni district allows political campaigns, but villagers say a strict no to flag masts, wall graffiti or campaign stages. There are around 1,200 houses and 3,500 voters in the village. More than 95% of the population in the village belong to Thevar community. After a series of political clashes in the 1980’s which divided the village on political lines, the village elders came together and framed rules to improve unity among villagers.“Political parties are allowed to canvas people, but there will not be any trace of campaigns once it is ended. They have to immediately remove flags and flex banners after the campaign. We will not allow shamina pandal or loud speakers at any cost,” said R Rajendran, a building contractor from the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-villages-frame-rules-to-keep-electioneering-in-check/articleshow/81418742.cms||V Devanathan
March 10, 2021||Madurai||Teppakulam boating draws huge crowds||Madurai: The boating facility at Vandiyur Mariamman Teppakulam continues to draw huge crowds even after two months of its launch. Mostly, city residents gather there to experience boating in the vast tank brimming with water. The recreational facility was inaugurated at the end of December 2020 after the Madurai Corporation filled the Teppakulam with the Vaigai water. The Hindu religious and charitable endowment department, which is in charge of the Teppakulam, is managing the boating facility. Hundreds of people from various parts of the city visit the site for boating during weekdays as the ticket price is fixed as low as Rs20 per head. On weekends, the crowd will grow to more than 1,000 people. Residents who visit late in the evening return disappointed, as the service is closed at 6 pm. “The view of maiya mandapam in the vast tank is spectacular. But, many are disappointed since only one round is taken around the tank. The officials should consider taking more rounds for a satisfying experience,” P Revathi, a resident of Anna Nagar, said. A Venugopal from Iravathanallur said boating was arranged a couple of times in the past too, but it was not as fascinating as this. Larger boat, which can take up to 15 passengers, and good water level are making the difference. An employee at the boating facility said the facility has just one boat at present. Additional rounds will take more time, which means many people will miss the opportunity. People can take as many rounds they want during lean hours on weekdays, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teppakulam-boating-draws-huge-crowds/articleshow/81418744.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra yet to sanction last year’s Stds V, VIII scholarship||PUNE: The state government is yet to sanction the scholarship amount for students who cleared Std V and VIII scholarship exams held last year. The examination was held in February last year and the results were declared in October. The state is also yet to decide on the proposal to increase the scholarship amount from Rs 100 and Rs 150 to Rs 500 and Rs 750 given to meritorious Std V and VIII students, respectively. Dattatray Jagtap, primary education director of the state, said, “It is true that the money has not been received yet, but we are sure it will be allocated soon. We had sent proposals to the government for allocating the money but there was some delay this time.” Securing Std V and VIII scholarships is considered a major achievement in the state with many schools providing extra coaching to students. Qualifying the exam also requires students to study beyond the textbook. However, despite putting in extra time and effort, and after competing with lakhs of students, the students are given very little amount as scholarship. “The students who qualify in Std V are given Rs 100 per month and students who qualify in Std VIII are given Rs 150 per month for about 10 months. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-yet-to-sanction-last-years-stds-v-viii-scholarship/articleshow/81418743.cms||Ardhra Nair
March 10, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Four inverters stolen from CID headquarters||PUNE: Four UPS inverters meant to provide back-up power supply to the computers were stolen from the state headquarters of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Pashan road. A senior CID officer has lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police station, saying some unidentified persons had stolen the UPS back-up power supply units worth Rs4,000 between Saturday and Sunday. The incident came to light on Monday morning, following which the CID officers decided to lodge a formal police. According to the FIR, the UPS back-up units were kept on the ground floor of the CID’s three-storey headquarters. The CID headquarters, according to a senior officer, is under the surveillance of the CCTV cameras installed at various spots. However, none of the CCTV camera has captured any suspicious movement of any person stealing the UPS units. After studying the CCTV footage, the CID officers, as well as the police, apprehended that it was an act of a person who frequently visited the investigation department’s office. The CID officers have not ruled out some insider’s role. A CID officer told TOI that the theft came to light after the office was opened on Monday morning. A search on the office premises was carried out, but the CID staffers failed to spot the UPS units. “We decided to approach the local police after we failed to find the unts,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-inverters-stolen-from-cid-headquarters/articleshow/81418747.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Go-getter women light up spirits with tales of toil, tears & success||Lucknow: On the occasion of the Women’s Day on March 8, Femina Spark, in association with the Uttar Pradesh government, celebrated women who have broken the glass ceiling and made a name for themselves. With the mission to ‘Light Up Her Spirit’, Femina Spark also released an anthem, dedicated to the inspiring women from the state, titled ‘Main Bhi Shakti’. The event also celebrated UP government’s ongoing Mission Shakti programme, aimed at women empowerment and self-reliance. The occasion was graced by deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, mayor Sanyukta Bhatia, Master Chef Pankaj Bhadouria, folk artist Malini Awasthi, and Rae Bareli MLA Aditi Singh among others. To outline the power of women, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma recounted the protests by Russian women on March 8, 1917, which led to the overthrowing of Tsar Nicholas. Since then, he said, the stories about women and their progress spread across the world. “Our past presents several examples of strong women. It is Indian tradition that we respect women and I have heard that where women are respected, it is there that God resides. In invoking Gods, we always mention the women before the men, like Radha Krishan, Sita Ram,” he said. Sharma read out a couplet penned by Mahadevi Verma: “Nari jeevan hai teri yahi kahani, aanchal mein hai doodh aur aankhon mein pani”, adding that since then there had been a significant change in the lives of women, especially in rural areas where there was a marked movement away from old traditions and narrow mindsets. “In urban areas, the change has been seen since much longer but it is now also visible in rural areas. Girls who have come from rural areas are proving themselves in every field. Meanwhile, the government has started several programmes for the empowerment of women. When we started the anti-Romeo squads, we wanted that there be control over those who misbehave with women, that affected women get prompt hearing that fast decisions are taken on their complaints,” he said. Under Mission Shakti, special training has been provided to women, especially in self-defence. Women who couldn’t speak out in front of people are now making a mark for themselves, he said. After the Centre passed the Triple Talaq law, several women stood up to speak about their issues and that the government was helping women from weaker sections progress in life, Sharma added. “To mark the International Women’s Day, the government has inaugurated 13 residential schools for girls and four new inter colleges. Women have made a mark in the army, air force, police. Now many women are single handedly running their homes,” he said. ‘Femina will give Mission Shakti added dimension’: Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma said Femina Spark is an initiative to ‘Light Up Her Spirit’. “Under this initiative, we have been doing many workshops to make women recognize their own honour, make them financially self-reliant, and to empower them. We believe joining hands with Femina will give Mission Shakti Abhiyan an added dimension. We all know Femina has been empowering the women of India for over 61 years now by mentoring them at various stages. With this association, we look forward to keeping that tradition going for the women of Uttar Pradesh,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/go-getter-women-light-up-spirits-with-tales-of-toil-tears-success/articleshow/81419861.cms||Neha Lalchandani
March 10, 2021||Pune||Gangster Ghaywal held under MCOCA||Pune: The city police crime branch on Tuesday arrested gangster Nilesh Ghaywal and booked others under the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA). The Kothrud police had recently registered a FIR relating to dacoity against Ghaywal and his aides for forcibly stealing a four-wheeler belonging to a garage owner to participate in a rally. The crime branch stated, “Probe has revealed that Ghaywal has 14 cases registered against him with the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police commissonerates. He was actively running an organized crime syndicate to obtain pecuniary benefits.” The investigating officer in the dacoity case had initiated a proposal to invoke MCOCA against Ghaywal and others. The additional commissioner of police (crime) considered the proposal and accorded a sanction to invoke MCOCA against Ghaywal and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gangster-ghaywal-held-under-mcoca/articleshow/81418745.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Commuter gets stolen gold back from rly cops after 14 yrs; 34 others get back cash, phones, laptops||Mumbai: Retired businessman Suresh Savaliya had given up hope of ever getting back his 22gm gold chain that was stolen along with his handbag during an Ahmedabad-Mumbai train journey in 2007. But much to his surprise, 14 years after the theft, the railway police gave him a 22gm gold brick at an event held to mark Women’s Day. Thirty-four other railway passengers got back their stolen laptops, phones, jewellery and cash collectively valued at Rs 14 lakh at Monday’s event. Recalling the day the chain was stolen, Savaliya said he went to sleep after tucking his handbag under the berth. But when he woke up, the bag, which contained the gold chain that he had bought soon after his wedding, was missing. “I got off at Borivli station in a daze and lodged a complaint at the GRP outpost,” he said. Twice, he was called to the police station whenever the GRP retrieved stolen gold ornaments from offenders, but his chain was not among the booty. “When we caught hold of the accused, he had already sold the chain to a jeweller. Our team tracked down the jeweller, but he had melted it. We then recovered a gold biscuit from him,” said a police officer. As years passed, the accused was released on bail and vanished. “He failed to appear for court hearings and we had to track him down again,” the officer said. But Savaliya doesn’t mind the delay. “I’m glad the police did not give up even after all these years,” he said. Unlike Savaliya, computer dealer Shripal Jain’s stolen phone was tracked down within two days. “On February 3, I was boarding a train from Thane station after an entire year of lockdown restrictions on travel. Just as I was getting into a CSMT local, I got a feeling that my pocket had been picked. I was concerned as all my digital wallets were logged in on the phone,” said the 37-year-old. “At the police station, the staff was polite and immediately escorted me to view the CCTV footage. They lodged my FIR within under an hour and solved the case by February 5. I was surprised. All my colleagues had rebuked me when I lodged a complaint because they assumed I would never see my phone again.” For some railway commuters, getting back their stolen possession was an emotional moment. “We come from modest means and my mother-in-law, Suhasini Bhogle, had saved every penny to buy a gold mangalsutra. She was upset when it was stolen in a long-distance train at Thane station in August 2019. We are grateful to the railway police for retrieving the mangalsutra for us,” said Thane resident Gayatri Bhogle. Bhogle spoke passionately at the Women’s Day event which was presided by additional DG Sandeep Bishnoi and GRP commissioner Quaiser Khalid. Last year, despite the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the GRP returned stolen valuables worth Rs 4.5 crore to over 3,400 rightful owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-after-14-yrs-man-gets-stolen-gold-back-from-grp/articleshow/81419898.cms||Nitasha Natu
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Auto driver’s son held as teen killed in crash||Mumbai: A teenager was killed after an autorickshaw crashed into him at Malwani on Tuesday morning. The vehicle tumbled down a construction pit excavated for drainage repairs. Auto driver Dilip Yadav (24) was arrested for negligence and rash driving by Malwani police. The crash was reported around 7am at Ambhujwadi slum in Malwani, when Yadav took his father’s auto for a spin, but was not well-versed with driving it, police said. As he was steering it along narrow lanes, he lost control. Wasim Ansari, a 17-year-old student, was walking along when it rammed into him. Some barricades collapsed on Ansari, grievously injuring him. Residents informed police, who took Ansari to hospital but he succumbed to injuries. Police said Ansari and Yadav are from Malwani. Yadav, who suffered minor injuries, was produced before a magistrate’s court on Tuesday. He was booked under IPC and Motor Vehicles Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-auto-drivers-son-held-as-teen-killed-in-crash/articleshow/81418766.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Showroom staffer slits wrists in Ahmedabad, blames owner||AHMEDABAD: A 39-year-old man, who works at a well-known saree showroom at Shivranjani Crossroads, has accused the owner of intentionally hounding and humiliating him to such an extent that he was driven to attempt suicide. According to the FIR, on February 25, Kanu Prajapati had slit his wrists and neck with a blade at a garden near Zero Point on Ahmedabad-Vadodara expressway. He was taken, bleeding heavily, to LG Hospital where he has been under treatment ever since. He filed his complaint on Monday, after he recovered. In his FIR, he named his employer Pradeep Shah, saying, “Shah had been intentionally harassing me to force me into quitting my job. He started by cutting 25% of my day’s wages if I was less than five minutes late to work and 50% if more than five minutes late,” Prajapati stated in his FIR. “He also made me come to work on Saturdays and Sundays. If I did not turn up, he would mark me absent on Monday too, saying, ‘here take your day off, never sparing any chance at causing me financial loss’,” Prajapati stated, adding that at any given chance, Shah would humiliate him in the presence of all other workers at the shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/showroom-staffer-slits-wrists-blames-owner/articleshow/81418751.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||One arrested on charge of damaging nine vehicles||Pune: The Sinhagad Road police on Monday evening arrested a 19-year-old unemployed man and detained three boys, all aged 17-years, for attempting to assault an individual and then damaging nine vehicles — including auto rickshaws and cars at Limayenagar in Dhayari, early on Monday. A local resident, Kedar Pathak (37), lodged a complaint in this regard. A team, headed by senior inspector Devidas Gheware and inspector Pramod Waghmare, conducted a search operation in the area and arrested Manoj, alias Nagraj Kattimani (19), and detained three minor boys. Police are searching another man in the case. Police said the five youngsters went to Limayenagar around 1.30am and they were armed with stones, iron rods, hockey sticks and sharp weapons. They then started issuing threats to the local residents and then damaged a couple of vehicles when Pathak came outside and attempted to intervene. One of the suspects charged at Pathak with an iron rod and attempted to assault him on his head but failed. Following this, the five youngsters damaged other vehicles parked on the road in that area. Police said the five youngsters damaged the windshields of nine vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-arrested-on-charge-of-damaging-nine-vehicles/articleshow/81418749.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||Pune airport slips to 110th spot in ACI-ASQ survey||PUNE: The Pune airport might have been adjudged the best airport in Asia Pacific region in the category of 5 to 15 million passengers by the Airports Council International (ACI) for good hygiene standards, but when it comes to Airport Service Quality (ASQ) survey, the airport has lost points as well as rank. This year, the ASQ survey of the ACI was held for the first quarter (Jan-March) and fourth quarter (Oct-December) due to the pandemic. While in the first quarter, the Pune airport ranked 76th in the Asia Pacific region, it nosedived to 110th spot in the fourth quarter. Times ViewThe AAI and PMC should find a temporary solution to the parking problem until the new parking lot is ready. Also, land transfers from the IAF to the AAI is a time-consuming process. It is also important to look at the new Pune airport project seriously, which has been only on paper for the last five years now. Political leaders should consult experts and solve the problems passengers facePassengers and frequent flyers said that the loss of ranking was not surprising. As Jaideep Malviya, a frequent flyer, said, “While it is good that the airport takes care of hygiene and cleanliness standards, some things which a passenger expect, are not up to the mark. The announcement system is poor, so are gate signages. This is in addition to haphazard check-in process.” If one looks at the parameters on which the airport has lost points, parking comes at the top. “Parking has been a nightmare for a year. How can the authorities allow parking to remain a mess until the new parking lot comes up by early 2023?” Anand Sehgal, a businessman and a frequent flyer, pointed out. Some of the other parameters on which the airport got less points than the first quarter are availability of trolleys, ease of connections with other flights, value for money for parking services, shopping facilities, comfort in waiting areas, ambiance, among others. “The airport is small in size and the pandemic has been challenging. Land availability has always been a challenge considering that it is a defence airbase. Most projects, which include the multi-storey parking lot and the new terminal building, are still under construction and will take at least two more years to complete. Given the challenges, the airport is functioning well and is strong on passenger traffic,” an airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-airport-slips-to-110th-spot-in-aci-asq-survey/articleshow/81418753.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Safety means freedom to move without any fear: Bedi||Lucknow: For Kiran Bedi, women safety means freedom to move anywhere anytime without any fear. Speaking in a virtual talk in The Times Group and UP government’s Mission Shakti event, the former cop and former lieutenant governor of Puducherry said: “To me, women's safety is when a person like me, any woman, feels free to go where she wants to go, at the time she wants to go. She doesn’t have to worry that it’s dark or she doesn’t have an escort, without worrying if... she’d be safe.” On what needs to be done to make this a reality, she said: “Governments will have to deal with the problem there and then. Investments may be made in building surveillance networks to keep an eye on miscreants and fine them on the spot to deter them from indulging in any kind of anti-woman activity.” Bedi suggested that the best way to fight domestic violence was to give girls the confidence to raise their voice against any kind of ill treatment whether inside or outside the walls of one’s home. She added that the real change can never be achieved till the mindset is challenged and changed. The event also saw a panel discussion on the role of family in empowering women. Panellists stressed on education and equal opportunity and making men understand that women were equal beings in achieving this goal. The event concluded with a musical performance by female band Meri Zindagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/safety-means-freedom-to-move-without-any-fear-bedi/articleshow/81419896.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||‘We are working towards having EWS quota’||Q. My spouse cleared her degree exam in open university from Dr BRAOU Hyderabad. But she has not pursued her intermediate exams. Is she still eligible for appearing CPGET 2021? -- Raghu S A. The essential eligibility condition for CPGET is that an applicant must have obtained a bachelor’s degree with 40% marks (or equivalent CGPA) apart from other specific conditions for a given subject. Open university degree is equivalent to any other university degree and hence your spouse is eligible to take CPGET provided she fulfils other conditions specified. You can refer to: http://cpget.ouadmissions.com/ for details. Q. I completed my BTech in ECE 2020. I want to go to the US for MSc in CSE. Right now, I have taken up a job for a year. Is it good for my career according to you? -- Aravind A A. You have to decide considering the following. If the job is sure to be extended and the salary is attractive from your point of view. Getting admission into a credible and accredited US university is important. Of late obtaining a US Visa has been made easier. If you can finance your studies, at least in the first semester, getting a job in IT in the US is not that difficult and the salaries are also very attractive. The final decision is yours. Q. Will the EWS quota be implemented in Telangana degree/professional colleges from this academic year? – T Govindraju A. The government of Telangana has already issued the GO for implementation of EWS reservations in admissions into educational institutions. The modalities are being worked out by examining the methods adopted by the Central Government and other state governments. The guidelines will be ready by the time of admissions. Q. As the syllabus for Telangana Eamcet 2021 has been reduced by 30%, I want to know whether the syllabus for ECET 2021 will also be reduced? -- Balaji Sai A. While the syllabus for Telangana Eamcet is reduced by 30%, the Telangana ECET syllabus is not reduced. It remains the same.  Q. I write to you from the government degree college in Malkajgiri where education is completely neglected. No classes are being conducted. They have not given us names of textbooks or even the syllabus. Please help. -- Akhil Naik A. Due to the pandemic, there are some problems in colleges. We will take it to the notice of the Commissioner of Collegiate Education and see that conditions are improved at the earliest. Regarding syllabus and textbooks, you can log on to https://www.osmania.ac.in/syllabi.php Q. When will the Telangana State Eligibility Test -- assistant professor entrance test be held? -- Ajay Kumar A. The University Grants Commission accords accreditation for TS-SET each time for a period of three years. The second cycle ended in 2019. For the third, the process is initiated. All the vacancy positions are ascertained through Telangana State Council of Higher Education Commissioner for Collegiate Education. The state government has to appoint a member secretary for TS-SET and write to the UGC for renewal of accreditation of TS-SET. Things are delayed due to pandemic but the next notification is expected in the next six months. Q. When are degree admissions expected to commence this year? Is the academic calendar expected to be delayed? – Varun Vardhan A. As the examinations of the qualifying intermediate programme are expected to be held in May and results in June 2021, the admissions into degree programmes through DOST are expected to commence in the first week of July 2021. Q. Any new courses/combinations that are expected to be introduced in degree colleges from the academic year 2021-22? -- J Annapurna A. Various career-oriented courses, such as data science, data analytics, food science, courses on IT and IT enabled services, environment, health education etc. are already introduced at UG level during the previous academic year. Some more courses are planned to be introduced in the next academic year. Q. When is the next academic year for degree/professional colleges expected to commence? Will classes continue to be held in the online mode or in physical mode? – Mohammed Irfan A. The teaching schedule for undergraduate courses is already underway with some guidelines in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As the massive vaccination programme is going on and depending on the situation, physical classes may be conducted in the near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/we-are-working-towards-having-ews-quota/articleshow/81418764.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: Mass testing in hotspots, superfast tracing part of new 7-point strategy||PUNE: State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas has prepared a seven-point Covid-19 containment strategy, a plan which includes universal or community-wide testing in hotspots (via RT-PCR or rapid antigen kits), extensive tracing of contacts within 48 hours and testing of all contacts of index cases. The plan has been prepared in consultation with a central team of experts, which reviewed the levels of Covid spread in Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai, Amaravati, Yavatmal and Thane. The team suggested that all districts should follow the same strategy. Also part of the plan are institutional quarantine facilities, audits of all Covid deaths at hospitals and restrictions on the size of social events. “All districts have to follow this protocol and collectors are expected to provide detailed reports,” Dr Vyas said on Tuesday. Over the past 12 days, the state has added over one lakh cases due to fresh surges in Vidarbha, Marathwada, Pune and Mumbai regions. The central team visited these regions and worked with state officials to chalk out the containment plan. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate the strategy applies to all districts, not just the ones seeing spikes. State technical expert Dr Subhash Salunke said scores have been ignoring Covid protocols. “People must follow the ‘SMS’ strategy, which means Sanitister, Mask and Social distancing. All non-essential services should be controlled and all large gatherings should be discouraged. Ideally, we should not have any gatherings for at least the next fortnight,” he said. Dr Salunke added that private medical practitioners too were ignoring protocols by not checking patients for symptoms. In his letter to authorities, Dr Vyas called for strict monitoring of all home-isolated patients. There have been numerous reports of patients at home stepping out without an all-clear certificate from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mass-testing-in-hotspots-superfast-tracing-part-of-new-7-point-strategy/articleshow/81421922.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 10, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Mass testing in hotspots, superfast tracing part of new 7-point strategy||PUNE: State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas has prepared a seven-point Covid-19 containment strategy, a plan which includes universal or community-wide testing in hotspots (via RT-PCR or rapid antigen kits), extensive tracing of contacts within 48 hours and testing of all contacts of index cases. The plan has been prepared in consultation with a central team of experts, which reviewed the levels of Covid spread in Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai, Amaravati, Yavatmal and Thane. The team suggested that all districts should follow the same strategy. Also part of the plan are institutional quarantine facilities, audits of all Covid deaths at hospitals and restrictions on the size of social events. “All districts have to follow this protocol and collectors are expected to provide detailed reports,” Dr Vyas said on Tuesday. Over the past 12 days, the state has added over one lakh cases due to fresh surges in Vidarbha, Marathwada, Pune and Mumbai regions. The central team visited these regions and worked with state officials to chalk out the containment plan. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate the strategy applies to all districts, not just the ones seeing spikes. State technical expert Dr Subhash Salunke said scores have been ignoring Covid protocols. “People must follow the ‘SMS’ strategy, which means Sanitister, Mask and Social distancing. All non-essential services should be controlled and all large gatherings should be discouraged. Ideally, we should not have any gatherings for at least the next fortnight,” he said. Dr Salunke added that private medical practitioners too were ignoring protocols by not checking patients for symptoms. In his letter to authorities, Dr Vyas called for strict monitoring of all home-isolated patients. There have been numerous reports of patients at home stepping out without an all-clear certificate from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mass-testing-in-hotspots-superfast-tracing-part-of-new-7-point-strategy/articleshow/81421923.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Lalitpur to get medical college and airport: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held Congress responsible for the lack of development in Lalitpur till now and said his government would provide all facilities, including an airport and medical college, to the people of the district. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the Bandai dam project in Lalitpur on Tuesday, CM Yogi said, “Development and welfare of the poor were never priorities for Congress. It always focused on its own development rather than uplifting the poor. Congress party also did everything possible to create obstacles in the construction of a grand Ram Temple at Ayodhya instead of supporting it,” the CM said. Lalitpur and other areas of Bundelkhand region lacked basic facilities before 2014, but BJP government was going to provide all amenities under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Yogi added. “By 2022, every family will be provided health insurance of Rs 5 lakh, home, cooking gas, electricity etc. Our government is laying a network of roads in Lalitpur. There will also be an airport here. After this, you will be able to cover the distance from here to Delhi in one hour and to Mumbai in two hours,” the CM said. There was rampant casteism in Lalitpur earlier, but the government would ensure those sections of society which were deprived of the benefits of government schemes till now, are included in all such schemes, he added. Lalitpur would also be getting an Atal Residential School where children of labourers will get free education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lalitpur-to-get-medical-college-and-airport-yogi/articleshow/81419924.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Mass testing in hotspots, superfast tracing part of new 7-point strategy||PUNE: State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas has prepared a seven-point Covid-19 containment strategy, a plan which includes universal or community-wide testing in hotspots (via RT-PCR or rapid antigen kits), extensive tracing of contacts within 48 hours and testing of all contacts of index cases. The plan has been prepared in consultation with a central team of experts, which reviewed the levels of Covid spread in Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai, Amaravati, Yavatmal and Thane. The team suggested that all districts should follow the same strategy. Also part of the plan are institutional quarantine facilities, audits of all Covid deaths at hospitals and restrictions on the size of social events. “All districts have to follow this protocol and collectors are expected to provide detailed reports,” Dr Vyas said on Tuesday. Over the past 12 days, the state has added over one lakh cases due to fresh surges in Vidarbha, Marathwada, Pune and Mumbai regions. The central team visited these regions and worked with state officials to chalk out the containment plan. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate the strategy applies to all districts, not just the ones seeing spikes. State technical expert Dr Subhash Salunke said scores have been ignoring Covid protocols. “People must follow the ‘SMS’ strategy, which means Sanitister, Mask and Social distancing. All non-essential services should be controlled and all large gatherings should be discouraged. Ideally, we should not have any gatherings for at least the next fortnight,” he said. Dr Salunke added that private medical practitioners too were ignoring protocols by not checking patients for symptoms. In his letter to authorities, Dr Vyas called for strict monitoring of all home-isolated patients. There have been numerous reports of patients at home stepping out without an all-clear certificate from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mass-testing-in-hotspots-superfast-tracing-part-of-new-7-point-strategy/articleshow/81418755.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Mass testing in hotspots, superfast tracing part of new 7-point strategy||PUNE: State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas has prepared a seven-point Covid-19 containment strategy, a plan which includes universal or community-wide testing in hotspots (via RT-PCR or rapid antigen kits), extensive tracing of contacts within 48 hours and testing of all contacts of index cases. The plan has been prepared in consultation with a central team of experts, which reviewed the levels of Covid spread in Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai, Amaravati, Yavatmal and Thane. The team suggested that all districts should follow the same strategy. Also part of the plan are institutional quarantine facilities, audits of all Covid deaths at hospitals and restrictions on the size of social events. “All districts have to follow this protocol and collectors are expected to provide detailed reports,” Dr Vyas said on Tuesday. Over the past 12 days, the state has added over one lakh cases due to fresh surges in Vidarbha, Marathwada, Pune and Mumbai regions. The central team visited these regions and worked with state officials to chalk out the containment plan. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate the strategy applies to all districts, not just the ones seeing spikes. State technical expert Dr Subhash Salunke said scores have been ignoring Covid protocols. “People must follow the ‘SMS’ strategy, which means Sanitister, Mask and Social distancing. All non-essential services should be controlled and all large gatherings should be discouraged. Ideally, we should not have any gatherings for at least the next fortnight,” he said. Dr Salunke added that private medical practitioners too were ignoring protocols by not checking patients for symptoms. In his letter to authorities, Dr Vyas called for strict monitoring of all home-isolated patients. There have been numerous reports of patients at home stepping out without an all-clear certificate from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mass-testing-in-hotspots-superfast-tracing-part-of-new-7-point-strategy/articleshow/81421921.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat reports 4th-highest GST frauds in India||AHMEDABAD: With rising number of fake billing scams and those involving illicit claiming of input tax credit (ITC), Gujarat reported fourth highest number of Goods and Services Tax-related frauds. According to data tabled in the Parliament by the Union ministry of finance, the state reported 2,848 cases of GST-related frauds from 2017-18 to 2020-21 (till January 2021) of a total of 27,000 cases reported across the country. Gujarat is behind Delhi (3,295), Tamil Nadu (3,220) and Maharashtra (3,195) in terms of the number of GST frauds reported. “GST evasion is a countrywide phenomenon. When the new tax regime was rolled out, no physical verification was required for obtaining GST registration. As a result, many obtained fake GST registrations,” said J P Gupta, state commercial tax commissioner. “Furthermore, many have illicitly claimed ITC using their GST registrations. The clause allowing a buyer to claim ITC only if the supplier has paid taxes was introduced only last year. Due to several such procedural reasons, tax evasion was rampant since the rollout of the new tax regime,” added Gupta. At least 50 arrests have been made by the state GST department alone in fake billing fraud cases since the rollout of the new tax regime. A nationwide special drive against unscrupulous entities for availing and passing on ITC fraudulently because of fake/bogus invoices is being carried out. From November 9, 2020 to January 31, 2021, GST fraud worth Rs 20,124 crore was detected across the country, of which, Rs 857.75 crore was recovered with 282 persons arrested from across India. Specific information pertaining to Gujarat is not available with either state GST department or DGGI about this drive. In Gujarat, the SGST department has unearthed fake billing scams worth Rs 18,000 crore involving a tax evasion of close to Rs 2,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-reports-4th-highest-gst-fraud/articleshow/81418760.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||65 invigilators get JNTU notice for ‘blinking’ at mass copying in exams||Hyderabad: In a crackdown against malpractice in examinations, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) has slapped show cause notice on 65 invigilators for neglecting mass copying by students during examinations held between October and December, 2020. JNTUH observed a rise in malpractice cases during the pandemic after students were allowed to take exams from parent institutions. During previous exams, some faculty members who had been invigilators, were served show cause notices for failing to flag malpractice. While the investigation is still in progress, the university found that many faculty members allowed students to indulge in mass copying. “The university deputed flying squads, that spent about 30 minutes at random exam centres, which identified some students indulging in malpractice. These squads found out that the invigilators were not doing their job,” Kamakshi Prasad, director, evaluation, JNTUH told TOI. The university has sought explanations from these faculty members and is reviewing them. College principals have been asked not to include them in the list of invigilators for semester exams that began on March 8. Sources however said it is college managements who are at fault. “Although faculty members were deputed to random institutions, college managements manipulated invigilators and asked them to give leeway to students in the pandemic,” said a source close to faculty members. Demanding a probe into the role of managements, a faculty member said there should be a mechanism to raise a complaint against them without faculty worrying about losing their job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/65-invigilators-get-jntu-notice-for-blinking-at-mass-copying-in-exams/articleshow/81420027.cms||Preeti Biswas
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Slower economic recovery slows vehicle sale in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Even though the demand for passenger vehicles including cars and two-wheelers has been improving month-on-month, the recovery in sale appears to be slow in Gujarat against the national average. While two-wheeler registrations fell by 16% pan-India in February 2021 year-on-year, the decline was at a steeper 22% in Gujarat. Similarly, two-wheeler registrations grew 0.8% in Gujarat against a handsome 10.6% pan-India growth during the same period. Automobile dealers attribute the slower growth to a relatively slower economic recovery in Gujarat. “Income shortfall hurt consumers of Gujarat adversely and therefore, growth is yet to revive fully. Vehicle registrations are growing month-on- month however, it is slow because overall economic revival in the state is low,” said Pranav Shah, chairman, Gujarat region, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA). “A significant number of two-wheeler buyers are students. With schools and colleges continuing to remain shut, most have not made two-wheeler purchases. That apart, others who purchase two-wheelers have faced income shortfall or pay-cuts due to which vehicle purchases have been impacted,” Shah further added. According to FADA, two-wheelers continued to see sluggish demand as the new wave of Covid in certain states kept customers away. Enquiry levels also narrowed as many educational institutions were still reluctant to open. Fuel prices are at its historic high and has put a dampener in sentiments. This in-turn has pressed brake on sale of entry level price sensitive category. Similarly, car sales have also picked up well, but the numbers are slow owing to fewer new model launches. However, dealers suggest that the turnaround time has increased due to short-supply from the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). Inventory shortage is a major problem impacting dealers, which has slowed sale of both cars as well as two-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/slower-economic-recovery-slows-vehicle-sale-in-gujarat/articleshow/81418798.cms||Niyati Parikh
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Mayawati to invoke Kanshi Ram’s legacy for UP panchayat polls||LUCKNOW: BSP chief Mayawati is planning to invoke the legacy of Kanshi Ram, who started pro-Dalit activism, to galvanise her party workers and supporters ahead of the panchayat elections by celebrating the 87th birth anniversary of the party founder on March 15 on a grand scale this year. Mayawati has directed party leaders to ensure the 87th birth anniversary of Kanshi Ram is celebrated on a grand scale and events are held not just at Kanshi Ram Smarak in Lucknow, but in all divisional headquarters across the state. Party sources said the grand event to mark Kanshi Ram’s birth anniversary would be the first large event being hosted by BSP in recent times and would help in rallying workers and supporters. The functions to be organized in the state capital and at all divisional headquarters would help in mobilisation of supporters at the local level. After the birth anniversary celebrations, Mayawati will be holding organizational review meetings and would streamline preparation for the elections. The party is also likely to openly declare support for candidates in the upcoming panchayat polls, which are not contested on party symbols. She held meetings with various divisional teams on Tuesday to chalk out strategy for the upcoming polls, including the 2022 assembly elections. “In earlier panchayat polls, two-three people from BSP contested against each other, which proved disadvantageous to all of them. This year, it has been proposed that candidates will be finalised by coordinators and their names will be declared by the party. BSP will fully back these candidates as this panchayat elections will be a stepping stone for the 2022 polls,” said a party member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mayawati-to-invoke-kanshi-rams-legacy-for-panchayat-polls/articleshow/81419974.cms||Neha Lalchandani
March 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Urban hubs outpace rural centres in inoculations||PUNE: Response to the Covid-19 vaccines remained steady on Tuesday at urban centres compared to rural facilities. More than 11,000 senior citizens got their first jabs at city sites, compared to the 2,395 in the rural parts of the district. Officials said the dip in the rural areas (from 4,289 on Monday) was due to the addition of public health centres (PHCs) that can carry out vaccinations only on alternate days due to limited manpower. A total of 80 PHCs have been roped in for the drive across 13 talukas. Officials said daily vaccination would not be feasible at PHCs as they form the backbone of healthcare systems in rural regions. Scores of patients use these centres for general care as well. As for daily coverage, Pune city reported 8,550 first doses for senior citizens. In Pimpri Chinchwad, officials recorded 3,071 beneficiaries. So far, according to the District Health Office (DHO) report, more than 42,000 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the urban limits of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. In the rural areas, the number of beneficiaries so far is at 13,000. The vaccine drive for senior citizens and those over 45 with underlying conditions began on March 1. Officials said the inoculation campaign will be more targeted in the rural areas. Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle, said, “The response to the vaccination programme in urban centres is naturally higher because of denser populations and good internet connectivity at sites. It has been slightly scattered in the rural parts, but we have the advantage of a ‘planned population’ in these regions. Thanks to large-scale health surveys, we know exactly how many senior citizens have comorbidities and where they live.” Deshmukh also said the administration is in no hurry to increase the vaccination rate in the rural areas. “We will go with its natural pace,” he said. Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health chief of Pune Municipal Corporation's health department said much of the early niggles have been resolved. “Vaccination has gone up in the last two days. We have set up elaborate arrangements at sites and the process will continue to improve with each passing day,” she said. (With inputs from Sarang Dastane)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/urban-hubs-outpace-rural-centres-in-inoculations/articleshow/81418781.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai doc booked for assaulting wife||Pune: The Hinjewadi police on Monday registered an offence against a surgeon from Navi Mumbai for attempting to kill his wife by banging her head on the car door. The woman’s sister, who was driving the car, also sustained injuries after the man smashed the windscreen with a stone. The incident occurred on March 4 near the entrance of a housing society, where the man’s in-laws stay. After treatment in a hospital, the woman, an Ayurveda practitioner, lodged a first information report (FIR) against her husband. Shashikant Dendge, assistant inspector, Hinjewadi police, said that the surgeon was harassing his wife as he wanted to marry someone else. The couple has a two-and-half-year daughter. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/navi-mumbai-doc-booked-for-assaulting-wife/articleshow/81420075.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||Private hospitals start to take the load off govt facilities||PUNE: The participation of private hospitals has started to improve the Covid-19 vaccination experience for scores of people in the Pune Metropolitan Region. Beneficiaries TOI spoke to said there has been a cut in waiting time for the shot. Paid vaccination at private hospital sites began last week to take the burden off government hospitals. There are now 40 operational private sites in Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad. Gangadhar Maruti Rokade (75), a recipient at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said, “They had a good number of registration counter. So we did not have to wait long. On Tuesday, I had to wait less than an hour for my shot,” he said. Dinkar Gangadhar Vani (80) said, “The staff at Deenanath were cooperative. I was given relevant information at every step of the process.” At Bharati hospital, its medical director Jitendra Oswal said they have roped in more manpower to pick up the pace. “We now have at least three times the standard capacity, which has reduced waiting time,” Oswal said. Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle, said good turnouts at private facilities will take the burden off government-run sites, which are offering free vaccinations. “Most of the urban population prefers private medical treatment for general ailments. Good vaccination turnout at these private hospitals should not surprise us,” he said. (With inputs from Shyam Sonar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-hospitals-start-to-take-the-load-off-govt-facilities/articleshow/81418790.cms||Piyush Bhusari
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||65 opt for dream application in IIM-A placements||Ahmedabad: A total of 65 dream applications were received for the cluster 3 of IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) placements, which concluded on Monday. Officials associated with the process said that in dream application, a student can explore sector or function of their choice, even after an offer on hand. “It demonstrates IIM-A’s unique cluster-cohort system places on candidate-recruiter fit,” said an IIM-A official. The placement for PGP students took place on March 2, 5 and 8 where over 150 recruiters participated. Some of the prominent firms that participated this year included American Express, Bain & Co., IBM, HSBC, Asian Paints, HUL, Lenovo, Samsung Electronics, RIL, RPG, Bharti Enterprise and TCS among others. The cohorts included investment banking & markets, management consultancy, advisory consulting, venture capital & asset management, advertising and media, consumer services, retail B2B & B2C analytics and IT consulting, pharma & healthcare, and government enterprises among others. The final placement of PGP-FABM (food and agribusiness management) was conducted on March 5. A total of 32 companies offered roles in sectors such as agri inputs and services, food and agri consulting, commodity trading, logistics and supply chain, retail, biomedical and pharmaceuticals. Some of the recruiters included Mahindra Logistics, IFFCO Group, Jio Platforms, Udaan, Hester Bioscience, NAFED among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/65-opt-for-dream-application-in-iim-a-placements/articleshow/81418786.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Maratha outfit seeks OBC status for community from Marathwada||Aurangabad: In a new twist to the ongoing agitation for reservation to socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC), Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) has now demanded that its community members from Marathwada be given the status of other backward class (OBC). “Marathas from Marathwada were listed under the OBC category when it was a part of the then Hyderabad state, before the Marathwada Liberation movement freed it from the clutches of Nizam rule,” MKM convener Kishor Chavan said on Tuesday. “The Maratha community, living in Telangana areas that came under the then Hyderabad state, even today is counted as OBC in that state. Similarly, Marathas from Belgaum-Nipani-Karwar-Dharwar areas, which were part of the then Bombay State, also enjoy the status of OBC. Only Marathas from Marathwada lost their OBC status after the annexation of Hyderabad state,” he said. Chavan, who has moved intervention application in the Supreme Court, said the MKM has different proofs in support of its demand for OBC status to Marathas. The apex court has grouped the hearing on multiple cases related to the SEBC quota Asked about making a selective demand for giving OBC status to Marathas from Marathwada, Chavan said the state government has already given reservation to the entire community under the SEBC quota, but the Supreme Court has put an interim stay on it. Notably, a state-level OBC meeting, held at Jalna in January, saw many strong voices, including that of Maharashtra relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, against inclusion of any community in the list of OBCs. The demand from MKM to give OBC status to Marathas from Marathwada and legal steps taken furthermore, could create tension between the two communities concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maratha-outfit-seeks-obc-status-for-community-from-marathwada/articleshow/81418774.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||SIDBI direct credit scheme to help MSME units in expansion||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Chapter of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) organized a virtual seminar to provide micro and small enterprises an insight into the working of medium and large enterprises and help them to grow their businesses. The webinar ‘E-Udyam Sangyan’ was held on Tuesday in collaboration with Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI). MSME department joint commissioner Sunil Kumar spoke about the challenges being faced by MSMEs due to Covid-19, and enumerated the initiatives taken by the state government to help them out. Vinamra Agarwal, director, Technical Associates Limited, pointed out the lack of financial support to MSMEs from the banking sector, shortage of skilled human resources, planning and process implementation. “Small industries should have a growth oriented mindset and plan. They should review progress periodically and adapt their business model as per the emerging situations,” he said. Praveen Wadhwani, business facilitator for the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) in UP, shared the advantages of the portal for buyers and sellers and called it a one-stop portal for facilitation of online procurement of commonly use goods and services required by various government departments, organizations and PSUs. SIDBI AGM Prakruti Pratay Choudhury highlighted the objectives of its direct credit scheme through which MSMEs looking to set up new unit in civil construction, acquiring plants and machinery or expanding existing units, can benefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sidbi-direct-credit-scheme-to-help-msme-units-in-expansion/articleshow/81420088.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region adds 2,112 new infections, 14 more dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday added 2,112 Covid-19 cases and 1,722 recoveries. Besides, 14 people succumbed to the coronavirus-related complications in the region in the last 24 hours, taking its toll to 9,330. So far, more than 4.22 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR, while over 3.99 lakh patients have successfully recovered. On Tuesday, the Pune municipal limits added more than 1,000 new cases, while the PCMC and rural areas reported 635 and 391 cases, respectively. The region recorded 13,177 tests on Tuesday, including more than 6,000 from the PMC limits and over 4,300 from the PCMC areas. With this, the tally of sample testing in the region has increased above 24.26 lakh. Health officials said even though the daily cases have reported an increase since the last few days, the fatalities have been less. Both municipal corporations of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas have continued to report daily deaths in single-digit mostly. A report released by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that tally of active patients in the region reached 14,518 on Tuesday evening. As many as 9,526 patients were in home isolation and 4,992 were being treated at various hospitals, the report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/region-adds-2112-new-infections-14-more-dead/articleshow/81418803.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Marine Drive gets steel barriers to avert attacks||Mumbai: BMC is erecting steel barriers since a week at Marine Drive, frequented by tourists and locals. The civic authorities said they were being erected based on intelligence inputs to avert terrorist attacks. Residents said they were worried that they would take away precious walking space, but the authorities said it would not be affected. Work is being carried out now on a stretch opposite Murli Deora Chowk. Civic officials said as Maharashtra government notified the area in May 2015 as a heritage precinct, Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee (MHCC) permission was taken. One option presented to the committee was bollards of steel barriers. Marine Drive is also nominated as a Unesco world heritage site. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “It was approved by heritage committee. The design, material and finish were shown to the committee before starting work. It was done based on intelligence inputs to avert terror attacks. The height has been kept to the minimum, it has been given a very subdued look. They will be erected till the part of the promenade before which Mumbai coastal road work begins.” Atul Kumar, vice-president of Nariman Point Churchgate Residents’ Association said it was challenging to strike a balance managing Mumbai’s security while ensuring unrestricted public access to the landmark. “Historically visible and active beat patrolling has worked very effectively,” he said. BJP corporator Harshita Narwekar said they want the promenade to be untouched, but one has to strike a balance between pedestrian safety and security. “Cementing is being done to ensure the barricades have a strong base,” she said. Marine Drive resident Mahendra Hemdev said it does not look appealing in the wide open stretch that Marine Drive boasts off, “but if there is genuinely a concern, we have to make do with it”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-marine-drive-gets-steel-barriers-to-avert-attacks/articleshow/81418842.cms||Richa Pinto
March 10, 2021||Bareilly||Uttarakhand-based trader, his wife & son booked for duping man of Rs 10L on pretext of selling house||PILIBHIT: An Uttarakhand-based businessman, his wife and their son were booked by Pilibhit police on Tuesday for allegedly duping a local of Rs 10 lakh on the pretext of selling him their property here. Police said the businessman family refused to transfer their Pilibhit-based house to the buyer, Jamal Ahmad of Tagore Nagar here, after receiving Rs 10 lakh in their bank account. The accused also refused to refund the money, said police. Ahmad said police had declined to register an FIR in this connection, but following the chief judicial magistrate order, a case was registered. In his complaint, Ahmad stated that he had agreed in October 2018 to buy a house in Pilibhit city owned by Julfikar Hussain, his wife Shabnam and son Mohsin, residents of Kichha town in Udham Singh Nagar of Uttarakhand. “The value of the property was assessed at Rs 11 lakh, of which I had transferred Rs 10 lakh to the bank account of Zulfikar. However, after receiving the money, they dilly-dallied when it came to executing the sale deed. On October 13, 2019, they finally refused to execute the sale deed and also did not refund the money. Zulfikar even dared me to take the legal course if I want to get my money back,” alleged Ahmad. Sungarhi police station SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the accused were booked under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing the delivery of property) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ukhand-based-trader-his-wife-son-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-10l-on-pretext-of-selling-house/articleshow/81416271.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 10, 2021||Aurangabad||2 cops get into a brawl, probe ordered||AURANGABAD: Two policemen, serving at the Soyegaon police station of Aurangabad rural, allegedly got into a brawl and assaulted each other on Sunday. They first got into a physical fight near the Soyegaon Bypass allegedly in public. Both their uniforms were torn in the process. On learning about the incident, their colleagues brought them to the police station, where another heated argument broke out and the two constables clashed again. The differences between the two had apparently cropped up after a Rs 500 transaction. One of the brawling policemen was injured and was taken to the Soyegaon rural hospital by constable Dilip Tadvi. Later, he was referred to the Sillod sub-civil hospital. Taking cognizance of the incident ‘tarnishing public image of the police department’, superintendent of police Mokshada Patil has issued a show-cause notice to the policemen. Patil said that a call on the nature and term of the punishment would be decided once the cops file their replies. Soyegaon police station’s assistant inspector Sudam Shirsath said, “There were some personal differences between the two.” Police sources said based on the statement given by the injured constable, a medico-legal case has been recorded. So far none of them has lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-cops-get-into-a-brawl-probe-ordered/articleshow/81418791.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||IKDRC to start 10 more dialysis centres||Ahmedabad: Ahead of the World Kidney Day, observed annually on March 11, city-based Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC) announced that it would add 10 more dialysis centres across the state as part of Gujarat Dialysis Programme (GDP). The state-run initiative has already crossed 12 lakh dialysis recently. Dr Vineet Mishra, director of IKDRC, said that 42 GDP centres are already active in 32 districts of Gujarat. “But our aim is to reduce the distance between the patients’ homes and dialysis. We want to bring it down from existing 50km to 30km. Thus, new centres will be established at Mansa, Kalol, Mandvi, Gandhidham, Wankaner, Jam Jodhpur, Mandvi (Surat), Vapi, Gotri and Anand in next two months,” he said. IKDRC officials said that the free-of-cost programme has 469 dialysis machines that performs approximately 22,500 dialysis every month. “Due to a centralized system, we could guide the technicians and even families of dialysis patients in patient care through video conferencing in initial phase of the Covid-19 pandemic. Fortunately, we had not recorded any dip in the patients’ number,” said Dr Mishra, adding that about 5,000 patients from the state had contacted Covid-19 infection. Dr Vivek Kute, professor of nephrology and transplant at IKDRC, said that Gujarat is the first state to introduce single-use dialyzer and blood tubing for every procedure. “The transport allowance of Rs 300 per procedure is also saving many lives. Earlier researches indicated that one-third of the renal patients die due to irregular dialysis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ikdrc-to-start-10-more-dialysis-centres/articleshow/81418810.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chennai||27 intersections choke highway||CHENNAI: It may take only a few minutes to reach Avadi from the Hindu College railway station by a local train, but a drive on Chennai-Tirupati High (CTH) Road running parallel to the tracks can test a commuter’s patience. Twenty-seven intersections are located within 4km, increasing the chances of accidents. Motorists say abrupt movement of vehicles to cross the road puts those driving on the highway at risk. The state highways department said the traffic police have opened these intersections. Around 50,000 vehicles cross the stretch every day. Almost every street branching out of CTH Road has an intersection for easy access to the other side of the road, something not seen on major roads. While such a design is beneficial to local residents, it inconveniences motorists using the main carriageway. E Murugaiyan, a resident of Pattabiram who takes a two-wheeler to work, said the stretch is vulnerable to accidents. “I witnessed a road accident at an intersection last month,” he said. K Narasimhan, an autorickshaw driver at Kamaraj Nagar in Avadi, said driving on the road was a challenge. “We drive carefully due to intersections at frequent intervals. But for outsiders it can be very difficult,” he said. However, state highways and police said the stretch was not accident-prone. “We have already closed four intersections. A review would be conducted involving the state highways department and local resident welfare associations on the existing intersections,” a police officer said. Speed breakers at vulnerable locations have been created and new streetlights have been installed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/27-intersections-choke-highway/articleshow/81418802.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||UP launches its first online show for global markets||Lucknow: UP launched its first online show for global markets on Tuesday, called Treasures of Uttar Pradesh. Organised to push exports from UP while travel restricts continue to be in place due to Covid-19, the online how will see 120 exhibitors from 23 districts put their products on display. . Around 320 global buyers from 60 countries have registered for the fair. The 15-day long fair will be divided into three segments with the first from March 8-12 focussed on textile and readymade garments, the second from March 15-19 on leather goods, footwear, carpets and rugs and the third from March 22-26 on beauty products and homeware.  “UP is among a leading state in the country in terms of exports with a contribution of 4.55%. The state government is looking to double its exports in the next three years by virtue of a number of strategic policy and institutional interventions to promote exports,” said MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh, adding that the UP Export Promotion Policy 2020-25 laid out several strategic institutional and fiscal incentives to promote exports. “The vision of ‘vocal for local’ and ‘local for global’ by PM Narendra Modi and implemented by chief minister Yogi Adityanath has resulted in enhancing industrial activity and enhancing business connects for industrialists. As a result, exports from UP have risen by 38% over the past three years from Rs 84,000 crore to Rs 1.20 lakh crore,” he said. Additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said that more than 100 exporters will take part in each segment of the fair while around 300 buyers have registered. “UP is exporting carpets from Mirzapur, glassware from Firozabad, terracotta products from Gorakhpur, pottery from Khurja. Due to the policies of the government, exports from UP continued even during the Covid-19 months and 28 products from 18 districts have been GI tagged. 80% of ODOP products are being exported,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-launches-its-first-online-show-for-global-markets/articleshow/81420168.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Nashik||Man gets 3-year RI for sexually harassing girl in Maharashtra||NASHIK: A 38-year-old man accused of sexually harassing a minor girl was found guilty of the offence and sentenced to three years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and was slapped with a fine of Rs 5,000 on Monday. The convict has been identified as Subhash Namdev Bhalerao, a resident of Samatawadi, Bhagur. A case of sexual harassment was registered against Bhalerao under sections 354A (1) (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) 506 (criminal intimidation) and other sections of the IPC along with relevant section of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Bhalerao had been physical with the minor girl at his residence in Bhagur in June 2018 and threatened her of dire consequences if she spoke about his advances to anyone. The proceedings of the case took place in the Pocso court of additional joint district judge D D Deshmukh. If the convict fails to pay the fine, he will have to serve another three months in RI as per the verdict. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-gets-3-yr-ri-for-sexually-harassing-girl/articleshow/81418814.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Covaxin safe, may be superior to similar vaccines: Lancet||HYDERABAD: India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, codenamed BBV152, is safe, immunogenic and has no serious adverse effects, medical journal Lancet has said while publishing the vaccine’s phase 2 trial results. The journal also said the vaccine, which uses an ingredient called IMDG along with alum (Algel-an aluminium salt) to boost the immune response, could be superior to other inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccines that use only alum as adjuvant. “Overall, Algel-IMDG-adjuvanted BBV152 was safe, immunogenic, and able to induce Th1-based T-cell responses and therefore could be a potentially superior vaccine over the alum-adjuvanted inactivated Covid-19 vaccines,” Prof Jing-Xin Li and Prof Feng-Cai Zhu of Nanjing-based Jiangsu Provincial Centre for Disease Control and Prevention said in a comment in The Lancet Infectious Diseases. However, Li and Zhu, in the comment titled “Adjuvantation helps to optimise COVID-19 vaccine candidate”, advocated setting up of a good pharmaco-vigilance system for BBV152 as this is the first time Algel-IMDG has been used as adjuvant in a vaccine and approved for use in a large population. Publication of the phase 2 trial results on Tuesday comes a week after its developers Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research announced vaccine had shown a nearly 81% efficacy in fighting Covid-19. On March 1, the PM too was administered Covaxin to send out a message that the vaccine was safe. Lancet also said the Covid-19 neutralisation antibody responses were significantly higher (nearly two-fold) in phase 2 trial, where two shots of Covaxin were administered at a gap of four weeks, than in phase 1. Follow-up data from phase 1 trial shows BBV152 induces durable humoral and cell-mediated immunity at three months after the second dose (day 104), researchers led by ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava, Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella and Bharat Biotech’s SARS-CoV-2 vaccine project lead Raches Ella said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-safe-may-be-superior-to-similar-vaccines-lancet/articleshow/81420223.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
March 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Drunk driver veers car onto footpath, kills financial firm vice-president walking with wife, son||PUNE: A 30-year-old Akurdi resident lost control over his car and killed the vice-president of a city-based financial services firm who was walking on the pavement at Kharadi with his wife and nine-year-old son in the early hours of Sunday. A preliminary medical report issued by the Sassoon general hospital stated that the car driver, Jovinson James, was under the heavy influence of liquor. James’s car jumped onto the pavement and crashed into Ankur Khandelwal (38), pinning him against the retaining wall of Kumar Primrose housing society at around 12.20am. Khandelwal suffered grievous injuries and died at a private hospital on Sunday evening. His wife Roshni (35) sustained injuries on her fingers while their son, Manan, escaped unhurt. The housing society’s wall and a four-wheeler parked on the premises were damaged in the incident. Khandelwal’s brother-in-law Vikas said the trio was going to a neighbour’s house in a nearby building when the car crashed into them. “We will request the police to invoke stringent charges against the driver,” Vikas told TOI over the phone from Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh. The Chandannagar police first arrested James on the charge of negligent driving and produced him before a magisterial court in the afternoon, where he was released on bail. Following Khandelwal’s death, the police charged him with causing death due to negligence under the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act. “We are consulting senior officers and seeking a legal opinion about invoking the stringent section 304 (II) (act done with knowledge, but without intention, that it will cause death) of the IPC,” senior inspector Sunil Jadhav said. The Sassoon hospital authorities have sent James’s blood samples for a chemical analysis. The report is awaited. Jadhav said James appeared unfazed about causing the accident. “He showed no sign of remorse after his arrest,” he said. “James holds an MBA degree in finance and works for an IT company. We suspect he was consuming liquor while driving home. We have impounded the car,” Jadhav added. After James got bail, Khandelwal’s friends took to social media, demanding stringent action against him. Kumar Primrose secretary Monag Shah said they had approached the police to lodge a complaint against James for damaging the wall and the vehicle. “Police told us to file a civil suit instead and recover damages,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drunk-driver-veers-car-onto-footpath-kills-financial-firm-v-p-walking-with-wife-son/articleshow/81418815.cms||Asseem Shaikh
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Apply online for Ecet from March 22||HYDERABAD: Telangana Engineering Common Entrance Test (Ecet) notification will be issued on March 17 and eligible candidates can submit online applications between March 22 and May 17 without any late fee. The exam is scheduled to be held on July 1, 2021, in two sessions (9 am-12 noon and 3 pm-6 pm). The Ecet would be a computer-based test by Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) on behalf of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education. The exam would be held at 18 regional centres (14 in Telangana and four in Andhra Pradesh) on online mode only, the convenor said in an official release issued on Tuesday. Detailed information regarding syllabi, list of courses, procedure for online application, mode of payment etc. has been given in the instruction booklet available on the website https://ecet.tsche.ac.in. The online application fee for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates is Rs 400, while it is Rs 800 for others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/apply-online-for-ecet-from-march-22/articleshow/81420149.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra sees three-fold jump in number of jab sessions||PUNE: There has been more than a three-fold increase in the number of vaccination sessions in Maharashtra for citizens. The state is currently holding more than 1,800 vaccination sessions compared to the 594 it had a week ago, state health officials told TOI on Tuesday. State immunization officer Dr DN Patil said Maharashtra added over 600 vaccination sessions within two to three days before March 8. Incidentally, the 1800-plus sessions conducted recently was also the highest number per day in the state since the Covid-19 vaccination drive opened for the general public on March 1. Dr Patil added that another increase in the number of vaccination sites in the state will only be attempted after the arrival of a fresh batch of vaccines. He said additional doses are expected to arrive by this weekend or by the first half of next week. The state had earlier requested the Centre to prioritise vaccine supply for regions currently registering spikes in Covid-19 cases. Officials had argued that faster dispatch by the Centre would help them organise “mega vaccination camps” that can inoculate a large number of people in affected communities Maharashtra currently has to vaccinate nearly 2 crore people, including those falling in the age groups of 45 and above with comorbidities and senior citizens. But officials said the current number of vaccination sessions should be enough. Dr Patil said, “Initially, we started with nearly 280 daily sessions. That went up to an average of 400, 550 and 600. The number of sites later hit a stable level of 800 to 850 and then touched 1,170 on March 5. On Monday, with CoWIN issues resolved significantly, the number of sessions reached 1,808. Essentially, we managed to increase the number of sessions by approximately 600 within the short period between March 5 and March 8.” He said the state cannot drastically increase the number of sessions again without considering factors such as beneficiaries at each site, vaccine wastage and manpower. “This increase of over 600 sessions is sufficient for now, until the state receives more doses,” Dr Patil said. On Tuesday, the Union health ministry reviewed the vaccination drive in each state, including factors such as capacity expansion across public and private sectors. States have been asked to leverage the private sector to the maximum to enhance coverage. Local authorities have also been told to ensure these private sites have enough vaccine doses in stock, and all the necessary assistance, to help boost coverage in communities. CoWIN system ‘is being fixed’ The CoWIN system at vaccine centres, which had triggered delays, has started to stabilise, officials said. State immunization officer Dr DN Patil, said sites were now reporting only minor niggles. “Only a few pockets are reporting issues. The Centre is fixing problems with help from the United Nations Development Programme,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-sees-three-fold-jump-in-number-of-jab-sessions/articleshow/81418834.cms||Neha Madaan
March 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||319 students receive job offers on Day 1 of Gujarat University placements||AHMEDABAD: On the first day of student placement at Gujarat University, 319 students received job offers. They were offered an annual pay package between Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per annum, the varsity said in a media statement. Some of the leading companies to participate in the recruitment process include NIIT Ahmedabad, Trident Financials and ZIP Hire. The work positions for the shortlisted candidates included graduate trainee, sales, accounts, reception and marketing, among others. The campus placement which began from March 9 will continue till March 25. A total of 38,177 students have confirmed their registration for campus placement this year as compared to 34,584 last year. There are vacancies for 53,704 positions this year as compared to 53,704 last year. In automobile sector, there are 1,563 vacancies this year, 8,483 in banking, 11,380 in insurance, 4,646 in engineering, 3,324 in IT and 6,933 in service sector. The insurance sector has seen a massive jump of 140% as compared to last year in terms of number of vacancies confirmed by companies participating in the placement process. The service sector meanwhile has seen a decline of 66% as compared to 20,243 vacancies confirmed for the year 2019-20. While the demand for BA candidates has gone down with only 3,484 vacancies for 2020-2021 as compared to 7,215 for 2019-2020, a sharp decline of 52%, the demand for MCA and ME has shot up this time around. In case of ME candidates, the number of vacancies has gone up from 105 last year to 231 this time around, a rise of 120%. Similarly, in the case of MCA, the number of vacancies has gone up by 118% from 195 in 2019-20 to 425 for 2020-21. For engineering graduates, there is a rise of 54% in vacancies. From 1,550 in 2019-2020, it has gone up to 2,391 this time around, according to data shared by GU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/319-students-receive-job-offers-on-day-1-of-gu-placements/articleshow/81418830.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Char Dham priests celebrate Trivendra Singh Rawat’s exit with firecrackers||DEHRADUN: The priests of the Char Dham shrines on Tuesday welcomed the ouster of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat by bursting crackers. The preists had bore resentment against Rawat after he sought to take over the management of 51 key temples in the state including the Char Dham shrines with the creation of the Devasthanam Board. “The CM played with the religious feelings of the teerth purohits as he tried to take over the management of temples. His exit is divine retribution,” alleged Suresh Semwal, convener of CharDham Teerth purohit Mahasabha. He added that the CM would have “lost his post soon after he had announced the Devesthanam Board, but he was saved due to the Covid situation". “We are serving the temples since generations and centuries. If anybody tries to take away the Lord’s assets and money, they will be punished,” added Semwal. While another preist said Rawat's failure to look after the welfare of preists during the pandemic cost him his post. “He had announced mere Rs 1, 000 for us even after knowing that our children slept hungry during the lockdown. The yatra didn’t work well last year and most of the priests were living in a hand to mouth situation,” said Shiv Prakash, head priest of Gangotri temple. The priests said they had expressed their resentment to the state government as well as to the BJP and RSS’s top brass several times, but the government had not backed off from its stand and had gone ahead with the constitution of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board. The priests had also approached the Uttarakhand high court where the matter continues to be heard. Watch Uttarakhand: Priests of Char Dham welcome ouster of Trivendra Singh Rawat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-priests-welcome-ouster-of-trivendra-singh-rawat/articleshow/81417531.cms||Ishita Mishra
March 10, 2021||Pune||Ather blames lack of quality EV products for slow sales||Pune: The co-founder of e-mobility firm Ather Energy, Tarun Mehta, has blamed lack of quality products for sluggish sales of electric vehicles in India.“The market has not taken off for EVs in India due to the lack of good products out there, even though EVs have been manufactured and sold for more than 10 years in the country. Besides, the consumers are still largely unaware about the reliability of an e-scooter, versus a conventional petrol-based two-wheeler,” Mehta told TOI.Ather, which has received investments from conventional two-wheeler manufacturers like Hero MotoCorp, went “live” in Pune in February.The firm, in its product line, has emphasized on the Internet-of-Things (IoT) approach, with all of their scooters using the Android platform on their dashboards, complete with mapping systems, and integration with the users’ phones through Bluetooth. Also available is an option for the users to upload their driver’s licence and registration certificate onto the scooter’s dashboard. “Inevitably, more vehicles will get connected to phones, and we are working on more innovations, such as a Bluetooth helmet. We will also reach out to independent developers for tech-based applications to control the lights, or for location-based services,” Mehta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ather-blames-lack-of-quality-ev-products-for-slow-sales/articleshow/81418813.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
March 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: 66% patients with ‘mild’ symptoms in home care||PUNE: A total of 9,526 or 66% of the total 14,518 active Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) are in home isolation, indicating more patients with mild symptoms. Health officials said as many as 9,526 patients in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural pockets have preferred home quarantine as against 4,992 patients admitted in various hospitals. More cases in home quarantine indicate that patients with mild symptoms were more in number, which also bodes well with the medical infrastructure, the officials said. The data showed that the Pune municipal limits had the highest number of active cases (7,020) in the region. However, neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad had the highest home isolation cases with 72% patients opting for home care. In the PMC areas, 62% patients have preferred to stay in home isolation. A PMC official said, “We are tracking the home isolation patients on regular basis. These patients are advised to be at home during the entire period of quarantine. The administration has started stamping the patients with home quarantine stamp. Also, we are telling their close contacts to get tested in case of any symptoms.” The PMC has set up a war room in every civic ward office. A team has been deployed to call the home quarantine patients to get health related updates. Sanjeev Wavre, assistant chief of PMC’s health department, said though patients in home isolation were more in number, the administration had kept the plan ready to provide hospital beds in case of further rise in Covid-19 cases. Health experts have said positivity rate was on the rise in PMR. “It was below 10% before the second surge began in February. Now it hs climbed to 16% after staying in the range of 10-13% for some time. There is nothing to panic as of now, but precaution should be the key word to bring down the positivity rate below 5%,” a health expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/66-patients-with-mild-symptoms-in-home-care/articleshow/81418806.cms||Sarang Dastane
March 10, 2021||Business||Hope to fix tracking issue, but encryption stays: WhatsApp||BENGALURU: WhatsApp head Will Cathcart has said he is hoping to find solutions to address the government’s traceability concerns on the platform without breaking end-to-end encryption. The statement follows the sweeping changes in India’s IT rules last month. He was talking on a US podcast with journalist Alex Kantrowitz on Friday, and was responding to questions on India. Over the last two years, the Indian government has been insisting that WhatsApp must disclose the source of a viral message on the platform if it triggers violence or is the cause of any other unlawful events. While the Facebook-owned platform has stuck to its stand on maintaining encryption, Cathcart’s comment marks the first time the platform is talking of finding a solution. He did not elaborate on what these potential solutions could look like. “We have court cases in India fighting on it (encryption). So, we’ve explained this to the government. We’ve explained why we have concerns about it, we’ll stand up, and continue to explain those concerns. Our hope is that we can find a way to end up with solutions that don’t touch encryption,” he said. The idea of traceability, he said, largely comes due to “concerns over misinformation”. Cathcart was asked if he would break encryption in India or exit the market in light of the new IT rules. In response, he said the company was still figuring out the exact meaning of the new laws, but he reiterated that WhatsApp will continue to resist breaking encryption. WhatsApp’s platform is end-to-end encrypted, which means only the people chatting can read the messages. Traceability will require that a third-person (say, WhatsApp itself, or a government agency) be able to read private chats. “We’ve been willing to make some really hard calls to defend encryption. If you’re talking about breaking encryption, it’s really hard for me to imagine being comfortable with it,” Cathcart added. A WhatsApp India spokesperson declined to provide any further details. According to government data, WhatsApp has 530 million users in India. The messaging platform recently faced severe criticism over its proposed privacy changes, largely triggered by concerns that the platform was breaking its encryption. Following that, Cathcart had told TOI in January that it will not break encryption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hope-to-fix-tracking-issue-but-encryption-stays-whatsapp/articleshow/81421713.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chennai||Highways files complaint against illegal dumping of sewage||Chennai: National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has taken cognisance of a complaint filed by a social activist against illegal dumping of sewage in storm water drains and waterbodies along the highways by sewage-cleaning trucks. Social activist Pugalventhan Venkatesan had complained to NHAI in January with a video and photographs showing a sewage lorry dumping waste into a storm water drain near Poonamallee. Three days ago, NHAI took cognisance of his grievance and said they have lodged a police complaint in the Poonamallee police station to take action against the trucks. “Assistant commissioner of police (traffic), Ambattur, was requested to take action on trucks being parked over the cover of the drain and to not allow vehicles to pump sewage into the drains,” the letter written by P T Mohan, project director, PIU, Kancheepuram said. NHAI has asked the collector of Tiruvallur to take action against people who are pumping sewage into the drain network and against those who dump garbage by the road. In Medavakkam, a video showed a panchayat truck dumping sewage into a drain right outside the panchayat’s office. A TNPCB official said smaller municipalities do not have the funds or manpower like Greater Chennai Corporation to enforce strict rules. “Extensive CCTV network is needed to ensure that people don’t dump garbage or sewage on highways,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/highways-files-complaint-against-illegal-dumping-of-sewage/articleshow/81418855.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Pune||As vax scaled up, vaccine company assure of ample supply||PUNE: Vaccine manufacturers have assured to scale up production to prevent any shortage in supply as Covid-19 vaccination has been scaled up across the country to cover a maximum of at-risk population. The Serum Institute of India (SII) will double its monthly production from 50 million doses in March to 100 million doses in April, while Bharat Biotech has announced annualized capacity of 700 million doses across its four facilities in Hyderabad (3) and Bengaluru (1). Besides, Bharat Biotech has also announced a donation of Rs 16.5 lakh doses to the government. SII has stated that with the country planning to vaccinate 300 million (30 crore) population in the coming months, they would require 600 million doses and the government was likely to procure 400 million from them. According to sources from SII, the company has supplied 33.3 million doses to the Indian government so far and exported more than 31 million doses to 29 countries all over the world, including Southeast Asia, Pacific region, South America, Africa and Middle East. State technical expert member Dr Subhash Salunkhe told TOI that it was about time that the Centre allowed states like Maharashtra to cover its 30% population (2.5 crore) in the next 3-4 months. “There is a need to speed up the vaccination further and supplies should be readied accordingly,” he said. Niti Aayog member (Health) Dr Vinod Paul said in the next few months, the focus would be to complete the vaccination of the priority population. Task force pushes for home vaccinationThe state Covid-19 task force in a review meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday requested the state government to seek the Centre’s permission to initiate home vaccination of the vulnerable population. State task force member Dr Shashank Joshi told TOI that home vaccination was essential, especially for those bed-ridden and living in old age homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/as-vax-scaled-up-vaccine-cos-assure-of-ample-supply/articleshow/81418862.cms||Nisha Nambiar
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||‘Govt schemes helped us in pursuit of self-reliance’||Lucknow/Gorakhpur: After receiving honour and words of praise from Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on International Women’s Day on Monday, women entrepreneurs vowed to achieve new heights of success and self-reliance with the support of the state government. Varsha Srivastava, an entrepreneur, said that she used to take up small sewing works at home but CM Yogi Adityanath’s One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme changed her life completely. She said after the honour and inspiring words from the CM, she intended to touch the sky in her field. “Three months ago, I took a loan of Rs 5 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Rojgar Yojana and set up a small factory of readymade garments by putting three machines at my residence. When CM Yogi Adityanath included readymade garments in Gorakhpur’s ODOP, it gave my work a big boost,” said Varsha, who is currently working on leggings manufacturing. “Moving on the path of self-reliance, I am giving employment to five persons. I will expand my business by taking advantage of government schemes,” she said, adding that women should avail benefits of schemes like ODOP. Ravi Ranjana Pal, founder of a self-help group and an assistant at Balinee Milk Producer Company said under the ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign, she was taking care of 16 SHGs of her village where she trains women in organic farming and animal husbandry. Ranjana was also felicitated by the CM on International Women’s Day for her contribution to the society. “When women and village will become self-reliant and strong, no one would be able to stop Bundelkhand from moving on the path of progress,” she said. By producing over 25 litres of milk through Balinee dairy, she is providing employment opportunities to other women. She has provided employment to 140 women and connected over 60 others to SHGs. “With the help of the state government’s National Rural Livelihood Mission, I am working towards making women self-reliant and self-dependent,” Ranjana added. Thanking the CM for launching Balinee Milk Production Company in Bundelkhand, she said it was a matter of pride for women of Bundelkhand that they did not have to depend on their husbands for earning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-schemes-helped-us-in-pursuit-of-self-reliance/articleshow/81420265.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man who hurled slipper at judge gets 2-year RI||Thane: A Navi Mumbai resident who had hurled a slipper at a judge in 2019 has been convicted by the Thane sessions court on Tuesday and has been sentenced to two-year rigorous imprisonment. District judge P M Gupta, while convicting the accused, Ganesh Gaikwad, said that in regards to the nature of offence, ‘the accused does not deserve sympathy’. He was pronounced guilty under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) and 294 (obscene acts or words in public) and of the IPC. — Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-who-hurled-slipper-at-judge-gets-2-year-ri/articleshow/81418876.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
March 10, 2021||Vadodara||New cases, vaccination race ahead in Vadodara||VADODARA: It seems to be a race between rising Covid-19 cases and vaccination in the city. The number of new Covid-19 cases registered in the city and citizens vaccinated is rising every day at a significant pace now. Data released by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) reveals that the number of cases that used to increase by one or two cases a day has been rising at a significant rate since Monday. Against 47 new cases on Sunday, 52 new cases were reported in the city and district on Monday. On Tuesday, 55 new cases were reported. The number of cases reported on Tuesday is equal to the number of cases reported in the city and district on January 29 when the cases were declining. It took 2,839 tests to identify 55 cases on January 29 but on Tuesday an equal number of cases were detected from much lower 2,446 tests. VMC official shave maintained since last month that there was a possibility that the number of cases would rise as that was the trend globally as well as nationally and Vadodara could not be an exception. Major relaxations offered over the past few months and the crowding is seen during the elections is also believed to be a possible reason for the rise. “People have also let down their guard. Many do not wear masks, do not follow social distancing and ignore sanitization. One will have to remain disciplined and follow Covid appropriate behaviour,” said chief district health officer Dr Surendra Jain. On the other end, the reluctance seen regarding getting vaccinated against Covid-19 seems to have gone down significantly. Sources said that many in the age group of 45 to 59years are also looking to get vaccinated even if they have minor ailments and have to be sent back. Only a list of serious comorbidities or combination of a couple of them is considered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-cases-vaccination-race-ahead-in-vadodara/articleshow/81416602.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Vaccination certificates follow Election Commission guidelines||Kolkata: The vaccination certificates that recipients in Bengal got on Tuesday did not have Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo on them. Three days ago, the Election Commission asked the Union health ministry to remove Modi’s photos from the Covid-19 vaccination certificates in poll-bound states. The Trinamool Congress last week knocked on the doors of the Election Commission of India, saying the PM’s photo on vaccination certificates was in violation of the model code of conduct, now that the election dates had been announced. “We got vaccinated at Desun Hospital on Tuesday and downloaded our vaccination certificate after coming back home. We found no photograph of the Prime Minster on the certificate. That’s alright. Getting the vaccine was important and we are relieved after being inoculated. The vaccination team did a wonderful job,” said Jadavpur resident Tapan Chakraborty (68), a former central government employee who, along with his wife Sankari Bhattacharya, was vaccinated. “What matters to me is the vaccine, which is expected to provide a safety net against the novel coronavirus so that I can go out to work and start normal activities. It is alright even if the certificate does not have the Prime Minister’s photograph as the model code of conduct is in place,” said Soma Kazi (60), an engineering consultant from Hindustan Park who also took the jab at Desun Hospital on Tuesday. The certificate, which can be downloaded from the Co-Win site after getting the shot, carries the details of the beneficiary, the name of the vaccine, the name of the vaccination centre, date of vaccination and the date for the second dose. Till Monday, those certificates had Modi’s photograph at the bottom of the page with a message ‘Together India will win Covid-19’.  “I am yet to download my vaccination certificate as I am not tech-savvy. I got my vaccine through the walk-in facility at Fortis Hospital. Their technical team will do that for me. It is alright even if I get my certificate without the PM’s photo. Rules have to be followed,” said retied state government employee Arati Ghosh (79), a Salt Lake resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccination-certificates-follow-election-commission-guidelines/articleshow/81418900.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Redevpt policy fundamentally wrong, says HC, calls for relook||Mumbai: Observing “something is fundamentally wrong” with the policy for redevelopment of old buildings and slums in Mumbai, Bombay high court on Tuesday told the state government to take a “relook” at its how tenants/occupants are directly appointing developers who have no expertise. “We may also take judicial notice of the fact that large number of litigants are knocking the doors of this court…It has created an alarming situation, to the effect that large number of citizens are homeless and are made to suffer at the hands of such developers,” said a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. They heard a petition by 37 out of 78 tenants of Bengali House on 5th lane, Kamathipura, which is on BMC land, over delay in construction. The petitioners urged high court to cancel the Letter of Intent (LOI) issued to construct a highrise and sought appointment of a new developer. The petition said Mithila Developers had approached the tenants in 2004 and promised 405 sq ft flats with amenities. After the tenants vacated the building in January 2015, it was demolished. Their advocate M A Khan said there has been no progress in construction. The judges asked BMC what action it had taken on the project, “This is corporation land. What is the corporation doing? This developer is taking your tenants for a ride. You have given a bonanza to the developer by issuing LOI,” said Justice Kulkarni. The developer’s advocate said “three slabs” had been put up before the lockdown and construction would be completed within two years. “We want the corporation to verify your credentials. We want to know how many projects you have and at what stage of completion they are,” said Justice Kulkarni. The judges said it is “time to introspect whether the system has become unfeasible.” “Who are these developers? What are their credentials? Buildings are demolished. People are waiting for years,” said Justice Kulkarni. The judges have sought the state and BMC’s reply on having a panel of “impeccable” registered developers to undertake redevelopment and complete constructions on time. “In our opinion, it would be a beneficial policy for the city of Mumbai,” they concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-redevpt-policy-fundamentally-wrong-says-hc-calls-for-relook/articleshow/81420432.cms||Rosy Sequeira
March 10, 2021||Rajkot||Broke cutlery shop owner ends life in Jamnagar||Rajkot: A 36-year-old cutlery shop owner facing financial crisis due to Covid-19-induced lockdown ended life by jumping into Lakhota Lake in Jamnagar. Police fished out the body of Ashok Narvani from the lake on Monday evening. According to Jamnagar A Division police, Narvani, a resident of Digvijay plot area, left home on Sunday night telling the family members that he was going for a walk. When Narvani did not return till next morning, his father Narandas approached the police and also began searching for him.Police sub-inspector RK Gosai said that Narvani’s body was found floating in the lake. He said that Narvani’s father in his complaint stated that his son was finding it difficult to make ends meet post the lockdown. His business didn’t pick up and he was suffering from severe financial crunch. Narvani is survived by his wife and three children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/broke-cutlery-shop-owner-ends-life-in-jamnagar/articleshow/81416067.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Aurangabad||9 injured in collision of three vehicles at Ahmedpur||AURANGABAD: A total of nine people sustained injuries after three vehicles — a private bus, a pickup and a sports utility vehicle (SUV) — collided against each other late on Monday at Hadolati village in Ahmedpur taluka of Latur. Out of the nine injured, three people, including the SUV driver, have sustained serious injuries and were rushed to a government hospital in Latur city. A case in this regard has been registered with the Jalkot police station. According to police, the SUV was heading towards Ahmedpur when it rammed into the bus that was coming from the opposite direction. At the same time the pickup van that heading towards Ahmedpur also collided with the SUV. Latur superintendent of police Nikhil Pingale said an offence for rash and negligent driving has been registered and statement of the survivors and eye witnesses are being recorded to know the exact chronology of the events. An officer from Jalkot police station said that one of the injured has claimed that the brakes of the SUV had failed due to which the driver could not control the vehicle and ended up colliding with the bus. The claims are however being verified. As per the preliminary inquiry, the private bus had started from Narsi in Hingoli district and was heading towards Pune. When the bus was passing from near Shirur Tajband to Mukhed toll plaza, the SUV coming from the opposite direction rammed into it. This was followed by the pick-up van ramming into the SUV from behind. Those travelling in the bus did not get injured, while all the nine injured were either travelling in the SUV or pick-up van.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/9-injured-in-collision-of-three-vehicles-at-ahmedpur/articleshow/81418874.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Finally, Malkajgiri colony becomes garbage-free||Hyderabad: After a year of dealing with the sanitation crisis, residents of Malkajgiri finally heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday when civic fixed the problem. The issue was highlighted by a concerned citizen, using TOI’s citizen reporter app. Hours after it was published in these columns, GHMC officials, on Tuesday, swung into action and cleared the garbage. Locals said that about 60 families living in Yadav Nagar, Malkajgiri have been suffering because of the problem. "Despite several complaints to authorities, nothing was done about it. I thank TOI for helping us bring the issue to the notice of officials," said Vasanth, the citizen reporter, adding, "We were forced to stay indoors and close our doors and windows round the clock due to sanitation woes." Residents complained that garbage was being dumped by vendors who set up vegetable markets in the lane. Dirty streets, cattle and strays eating the garbage on the roads, traffic menace, rancid smell and mosquito menace were the primary concerns, said locals. "Due to dumping of garbage, the place had become dirty and locals had started avoiding it. Some people who visited the toddy shop located in our area were throwing bottles there, further littering the place," said a senior citizen. According to officials, the demand to install bins in the area mentioned by the citizen reporter cannot be done as it is against the sanitation concept taken up by GHMC. "We are striving for a bin-free city. So, we have pressed into service Swachh Auto Tippers to collect garbage from households," said Srinivas Reddy, zonal commissioner, Secunderabad, GHMC. Officials also said that the onus of keeping the city clean lies with people too. "The garbage was piled up as people were littering the place. People want public washrooms but no one wants them to be installed in their area. To attain good sanitation standards people’s cooperation is a must," said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/finally-malkajgiri-colony-becomes-garbage-free/articleshow/81418888.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||UP ropes in more private hospitals for vaccination drive||LUCKNOW: To speed up Covid-19 vaccination in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to add more private hospitals which were excluded in the criteria of Union health ministry. Till now, private hospitals empanelled under CGHS and Ayushman Bharat could extend the vaccination facility. But following a policy decision to promote Covid-19 vaccination services in the state, the government will allow other private hospitals to join the drive. “The criteria to accommodate the other hospitals are being finalized and the order is expected over the week,” said a senior health officer. As per the proposed criterion, hospitals having cold chain maintenance facilities and trained vaccinators willing to vaccinate at least 100 persons for a minimum of four days a week can volunteer for the task by submitting a proposal to the local district administration. “More than 100 proposals have already been received so far and each one will be examined thoroughly before permission is granted,” said sources. On why a need for this was felt, officials stated that more than 1.9 crore elderly are to be vaccinated in the state of which 25% are to be immunized in March alone. In addition to this the state has to vaccinate persons with co-morbid conditions which adds another 1.25 crore persons (approximately) to the target list. Achieving the goal is impossible without the private sector’s engagement. Sources said that the process will be finalized in a week so that the new hospitals get cracking from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-ropes-in-more-private-hosps-for-vaccination-drive/articleshow/81420415.cms||Shailvee Sharda
March 10, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: 3 years and Rs 50 crore later, T Nagar pavements still encroached||CHENNAI: The purpose of laying footpaths in and around Pondy Bazaar to help shoppers have a better experience, with more than Rs 50 crore spent since 2018, has been defeated, with the city corporation unable to curb vehicles and vendors from encroaching them. A visit by TOI to North Usman Road, South Usman Road, Venkatanarayana Road, Pinjala Subramanian Road, Nageswaran Road and others leading to Pondy Bazaar showed the footpaths completely taken over. A Greater Chennai Corporation official said a drive was held every 15 days to remove them but that they were unable to find a permanent solution. “Even two weeks back, we conducted a drive.” The corporation last month wrote to the city police asking them to ensure that vendors and vehicles removed do not return to the plaza. Raj Cherubal, CEO of Smart City Limited which implemented the project, said expanding on-street parking management was the only solution. “We have held meetings with all stakeholders and have written to the home department asking permission to allow the consultant implementing on-street parking management to enforce penalties and ensure footpaths remain encroachment free,” he said. A corporation engineer said that without police support or a special agency, this would be a recurring problem. Ashok Kumar, who owns a jewellery store, said since he parked his car on the plaza, at the junction with Nageswaran Street, as parking on Pondy Bazaar was paid. A huge chunk of road is eaten up by garbage bins. “With plazas encroached and roads becoming narrow, the road is a mess during peak hours,” said Karthik A, a commuter. The corporation has people to check illegal parking on the Pondy Bazaar plaza, but none to enforce rules on Venkatnarayana Road, North Usman road and other streets. “The multi-level car parking has also been inaugurated and slowly we are seeing owners using it. We are forming a dedicated parking cell in Ripon Buildings to resolve the issue,” said Meghnath Reddy, deputy commissioner (works). Alwarpet resident P Chandrasekaran, an activist, said the corporation should earmark spaces, collect deposits or monthly rental to regularize vending. “A plan was put in place and committees were formed in 2018 but it is again on the backburner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-yrs-and-50cr-later-t-nagar-pavements-still-encroached/articleshow/81400246.cms||Komal Gautham
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Lockdown taught me to be more productive||This lockdown has taught me many things -- from how to be patient to how to handle different things while being at home. But the most important lesson has been on the productive usage of time (if one plans in a proper way). In my case, being an IT professional, I realised that even with my regular work hours I had enough time to spend with family and friends and also indulge in research and analysis on various societal issues and policy analysis – something that I enjoy. I can proudly say that I have published various pieces, based on these researches, on sectors such as education, employment and healthcare. While I always wanted to do this, it used to be very difficult while working from office. But thanks to work from home, it’s given me a lot more time to do things, along with regular work assignments. Apart from writing, another thing that I finally managed to accomplish is – bidding goodbye to junk food. Staying home, made me realise the importance of a balanced diet – complete with the required proteins and vitamins – and helped me move to more wholesome meals. I also won my battle with boredom. Though in the initial days it was a struggle – not knowing just what to do when – a proper plan chalked out subsequently, made things simple and easy. And since I started utilising most of my time doing productive things, which I enjoyed, I didn’t feel bored anymore. So, today, if someone asks me if the lockdown was a boon or a bane? I’d say it was a healthy mix of both. It came with its advantages and disadvantages. In the early stages, it was really nice to spend time with family and do some productive work but over time, organisations especially the IT sector has unknowingly increased the workload on its resources leaving them little time for anything else – and this is still being experienced by almost everyone around us. Just like a coin that has two sides, this lockdown too had good and bad sides. But then, a balanced and successful life is about experiencing both these things. The experiences and learnings that I gathered through the lockdown, will help me through my journey in the future. (The writer is an IT professional)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-taught-me-to-be-more-productive/articleshow/81418905.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Bareilly||Man held a year after he killed 9-yr-old daughter||PILIBHIT: In a fit of rage, a 40-year-old man allegedly strangled his nine-year-old daughter with the scarf she was wearing and disposed of the body in a drain near a brick kiln on February 16 last year. After police recovered the girl’s body, the man alleged that his daughter was raped and then murdered to mislead the investigation. Based on the autopsy report, a case was registered against an unidentified person under section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code. As the investigation progressed, said Amaria police station SHO Udai Veer Singh, the suspicion that the girl’s father — Huzoor Ahmad, a permanent resident of Gargaiya village under Devrania police station in Bareilly who worked in a brick kiln in Dhundhari village — was involved in the murder became firm as the autopsy report had also pointed out that the girl was strangled to death and rejected the rape charges levelled by the father. Ahmad somehow sensed that police were suspecting his involvement and he, consequently, wrote a letter to the then DIG of Bareilly range urging him to get the matter investigated by any other agency as he had “lost his trust in the Amaria police,” said the SHO. Following Ahmad's request, the investigation was transferred to the crime branch six months ago, said the SHO. The crime branch investigation, too, took the investigators to draw the same conclusion. “Huzoor Ahmad himself had killed his daughter,” concluded Rajesh Kumar, a Bareilly-based crime branch investigating officer. “While confessing that he had killed his daughter, Ahmad told the crime branch that she was disobedient to him. On February 16, 2020, he strangled her with the scarf she had around her neck out of irritation and dumped the body in the drain to mislead the police,” said Kumar. Ahmad was arrested and booked for murdering his daughter under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) on Tuesday, added Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-held-a-year-after-he-killed-9-yr-old-daughter/articleshow/81416356.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||ED attaches ex-BSP MLC’s 7 sugar mills worth Rs 1,097 crore||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow wing of Enforcement Directorate attached seven sugar mills worth Rs 1,097 crore, owned by former BSP MLC Mohammed Iqbal and his family members under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, reports Pathikrit Chakraborty. In 2019, the CBI had also booked two sons of Iqbal -- Wajid and Javed -- in connection with the sale of 21 state-owned sugar mills in 2011-12 in UP by the BSP government, causing a loss of Rs 1,800 crore to the state exchequer. They had allegedly bought seven of these mills through shell firms. The ED had filed case under PMLA, 2002, against Iqbal, and others based on the investigations conducted by SFIO relating to acquisition of assets through illegitimate means in 2010-2011. The ED said that during the probe it surfaced that Namrata Marketing Private Limited and Giriasho Company Private Limited, the companies controlled by Iqbal and family members, participated in the bidding process of disinvestment of sugar mills of the UP government during 2010-2011 acquired seven sugar mills through laundering of illegitimate money through various shell companies having dummy directors and sham transactions. “The CAG's Performance Audit Report on Sale of Sugar Mills of Uttar Pradesh State Sugar Corporation Limited for the year end 2011 also highlighted the administrative and financial irregularities in the disinvestment process of the sale of sugar mills at Bareilly, Kushinagar, Hardoi, Deoria and Barabanki which were acquired by Namrata Marketing Private Limited and Giriasho Company Private Limited companies both under the control of Mohammed Iqbal and his associates,” said the ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-attaches-ex-bsp-mlcs-7-sugar-mills-worth-rs-1097crore/articleshow/81420482.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||No CM, except N D Tiwari, able to complete full 5-year term in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Since Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in November, 2000, only one chief minister, Narayan Dutt Tiwari of Congress, has been able to complete his full term of five years. Trivendra Singh Rawat was a close second, as his tenure was nine days short of four years. The first CM of Uttarakhand, BJP’s Nityanand Swami, held the post for 354 days from November 9, 2000 to October 29, 2001. The second CM, BJP’s Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s term was of 122 days, from October 30, 2001 to March 1, 2002. Then came N D Tiwari, who completed the full term by staying chief minister from March 2, 2002 to March 7, 2007, a total of five years and five days. Tiwari’s successor Major General B C Khanduri (retired) from BJP was CM for two years and 111 days from March 7, 2007 to June 26, 2009. His successor Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank was CM for two years and 75 days from June 27, 2009 to September 10, 2011. Khanduri was again made the CM for a period of 184 days from September 11, 2011 to March 13, 2012. In 2012, Congress won the assembly polls and Vijay Bahuguna, the then MP from Tehri, was chosen as the chief minister by the party’s central leadership. Bahuguna was the CM for one year and 324 days from March 13, 2012 to January 31, 2014. After his tenure drew considerable flak, especially his handling of relief operations post the 2013 Kedarnath floods, Harish Rawat, another veteran Congress leader, took over as the CM on February 1, 2014. Even though Rawat’s chief ministership was also fraught with rebellion by his own party’s MLAs, he completed the rest of the term till March 18, 2017, before BJP won the elections in 2017. Within months of him taking oath as chief minister on March 18, 2017, Trivendra Singh Rawat faced resentment from his party’s MLAs for his alleged centralised style of governance. Political analyst Udit Ghildiyal told TOI, “Uttarakhand has close proximity to Delhi and the politicians in the Himalayan state are well connected with the national leadership (of BJP and Congress). Even the smallest of issues and differences take no time to reach the national leadership. Internal bickering within both leading parties, Congress and BJP, has always existed as a result of which most CMs have failed to complete the full term.” Another analyst Jay Singh Rawat said, “Uttarakhand is a new state and people have high expectations from the ruling party, which it often fails to fulfill and therefore the resentment against the ruling party is usually high. And it does not take long for issues to reach Delhi, which has been the case with a majority of the CMs in Uttarakhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-cm-except-n-d-tiwari-able-to-complete-full-5-year-term-in-ukhand/articleshow/81417575.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||IIM-Calcutta forms search panel for selection of new director||KOLKATA: Search for a new director for Indian Institute of Management Calcutta has started. The board of governors has formed a search committee to select the candidate and an advertisement has been put up on the site. Applications will have to come in by April 10. The current director, Anju Seth, will be 65 in February 2022 and retire. The selection for the new director will be over before that. The search for the new director was not expected to begin before June. But breaking an old tradition of setting up the search committee nine months before the end of the present director’s term, the board, headed by chairman Shrikrishna Kulkarni, formed the panel and published the ad on the IIMC website on Tuesday, around a year earlier. The present director and the board have been in disagreement and the board has reportedly taken steps against the director. Certain decisions were taken at a recent meeting of the board. The details have, however, been kept under the wraps. Seth apparently wrote to the ministry, complaining about her inability to function properly due to the board’s interference. The chairman reportedly took exception to this. The search committee comprises the chairman of the board and three others, two of whom are board members and one person is a distinguished educationist from outside the board. The board has written to chairmen of other IIMs, too, to encourage candidates from there to apply for the position. The ad invites applications from academics with a PhD or equivalent qualification, having at least 15 years of teaching or research experience, who have worked as a full professor in a reputable institute for at least seven years. Those with industry experience of at least 15 years at a senior level are also eligible. The ad stresses on “strong academic leadership” so that the person can be a “significant contributor to policy making at the national level”. Overseas citizen(s) of India are also eligible to apply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iim-c-forms-search-panel-for-selection-of-new-director/articleshow/81418983.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Upper primary attendance less than 50%||Hyderabad: Two weeks after physical classes started for the upper primary students in Telangana, the attendance percentage has crossed over 40% in the state. While 42% of students attended classes on Tuesday, on March 8 and March 6 the attendance percentage was 40%. While the highest percentage, 49%, was recorded in government and local body schools, in model schools it was 42% and in private schools, the attendance percentage was 39%. In residential schools such as KGBVs and TREIS, the attendance was 26% and 15% respectively as of March 9. As per the data released by the department of school education, of the total 14,34,962 students enrolled in the class to class 8 in Telangana, 6,09,070 are attending physical classes. On February 24, day 1 of the reopening of physical classes for upper primary students, hardly 9% of the total enrolled students attended classes. Teachers said that the attendance might not increase much as there is hardly any time left for the end of the academic year. “I don’t think we are going to over 70% of attendance among upper primary students for this year. Even now, many parents are scared and don’t want to send their children to school. The situation might improve in the next academic year,” said Jyothi V, a teacher. When it comes to class 9 and class 10 students, 74% of them attended regular classes as of March 9. In the state, there are 11,747 high schools and 10,10,361 students are enrolled in class 9 and class 10. The SSC exams will be held between May 17 and May 26. The schools in the state will break from the summer vacation on May 28 and will remain closed till June 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/upper-primary-attendance-less-than-50/articleshow/81420488.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||No water supply for residents of Subhash Rd, New Rd for 9 days||sasaDehradun: Residents of Subhash Road and New Road have been living without water supply for more than a week. They claim that the road had remained unrepaired for three to four months for construction work, and when it was levelled-up, the water supply in the area got disrupted.  Ishaan, a resident of New Road, told TOI, “The problem started in the month of February with irregular water supply, and later, the residents were forced to take water from tankers. We have filed a complaint but there has been no restoration of water supply yet.” Another resident, B S Bisht, said, “The inconvenience caused to the residents in the name of development projects is unacceptable. We have to leave work to stand in a queue to fetch water. The authorities must look into the matter and get it fixed at the earliest.” Tejpal Chopra, another resident, added, “Does it take so long for the officials to identify a fault and fix it? First, they dug up the roads, and then, without notice, water supply got discontinued. Our lives have become miserable.” When queried about the issue, Ajay Verma, a Jal Sansthan employee, said, “The water pipeline had got damaged during ongoing construction work near Convent Road due to which the pipeline got choked with debris. While we have removed most of it, the remaining work will be completed at the earliest. The water supply will be restored soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-water-supply-for-residents-of-subhash-rd-new-rd-for-9-days/articleshow/81417627.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Bareilly||Former IAS & IPS officers support farmers’ agitation||Pilibhit: A former IAS officer, Vijay Shankar Pandey, known as a crusader against corruption, and UP’s former additional director general of police SN Singh, in a joint statement, called upon farmers on Tuesday to continue with their stir for the repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws.Taking to TOI on phone, Pandey said he, along with his group comprising a number of former government officials, fully supports the farmers’ demand for a law that guarantees minimum support price (MSP). He confirmed that SN Singh was a signatory to the joint statement.Pandey said he has been expressing his concerns through the media over the stubborn attitude of the Union government in finding an unanimously acceptable solution to the farmers' issues.“The Narendra Modi government should make a fair introspection of its mistakes without any further delay and listen to the protesting farmers in an unbiased manner, and take prompt corrective measures, as the issues affect 70% of the country’s population which is engaged in agriculture. After all, the growth of this largest segment of population will ultimately reflect in the overall national prosperity and increase in GDP (gross domestic product). The government needs to ponder about this with a fair perception,” he said.Pandey said his group has also decided to support the Uttar Pradesh Kisan Majdoor Morcha, consisting of 22 farmer unions in UP and agitating at the village level for the repeal of the three farm laws and for passing a legislation that guarantees MSP.“Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced on various platforms, including in Parliament, about the continuation of MSP, we are of the firm opinion that the farmers’ agitation should also continue till the procurement of the forthcoming wheat crop is ensured at full MSP across the country," Pandey said.The former civil servants and other prominent persons would now be deputed as observers for the cluster of districts to boost the morale of the protesting farmers and to ensure that farmers are not harassed by government procurement agencies, Pandey said.“These functionaries will also interact with the respective district magistrates and other officials concerned to ensure that middlemen are eliminated from the procurement chain and that farmers get full MSP," he said.The district-wise visit schedule of former civil servants would begin on March 15 primarily to safeguard the interests of the farmers, Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/former-ias-ips-officers-support-farmers-agitation/articleshow/81416397.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 10, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: DMDK quits alliance, Sudhish says AIADMK will lose all seats||CHENNAI: Vijayakanth’s DMDK on Tuesday quit the AIADMK alliance over disagreement on the number of seats and choice of constituencies, after protracted negotiations failed to produce any result.  Vijayakant, in a statement declaring his decision, said, “Since the AIADMK refused to allot the number of seats and constituencies (sought by the party) and a consensus could not be reached, the DMDK has decided to quit the AIADMK-BJP alliance.” This was based on a unanimous decision taken at the party district secretaries meeting, the statement said. Sources confirmed that the AIADMK’s final offer was 13 assembly seats and one Rajya Sabha seat, but the DMDK stood firm on its demand for 18 seats. Soon after the talks failed, the DMDK directed its district secretaries to submit probable candidates list for all the 234 constituencies, indicating its keenness to go it alone. DMDK workers welcomed the decision by setting off firecrackers at the party office at Koyambedu in Chennai. “It is Deepavali for us today. “The AIADMK will forfeit deposits in all constituencies,” said DMDK deputy secretary L K Sudhish. He slammed AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy, one of the key members of the AIADMK seat-sharing committee, accusing him of being a ‘sleeper cell’ of the PMK which got 23 seats in the alliance. Senior minister D Jayakumar criticised Sudhish for his comments against his party and said the DMDK had gained recognition in 2011 by winning 29 seats only because of the AIADMK. “Our party has seen several elections and we are well aware of the strengths of others and their popularity. It was on that basis we allotted seats.” The DMDK has no right to question the allotment to other parties,” the minister said. “If their expectations are huge, what can we do?” said the minister, adding that the DMDK quitting the alliance would have no impact on the AIADMK. BJP national women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan urged the parties to hold talks to iron out their differences and find an amicable solution. “The decision of the DMDK is worrisome,” she said in Chennai. The emergency consultative meeting convened by Vijayakanth lasted for two hours on Tuesday. Three rounds of talks had been held with the AIADMK in the last 10 days. Sudhish informed the secretaries the ‘humiliation’ meted out to the leaders by the AIADMK. He had met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy CM O Panneerselvam at their residences last week. At the DMDK meeting, several district secretaries spoke out against the AIADMK. “Finally, captain made a one-line announcement of quitting the alliance, which was received with huge applause,” a district secretary told TOI. Sources said the DMDK leadership was upset with the AIADMK forcing them to accept constituencies, considered DMK bastions. Initially, the AIADMK started with an offer of nine seats citing the poor performance of the DMDK in the last election, but later offered 13 seats. Vijayakanth insisted on 25 seats during the first round of talk, pointing to 41 seats offered by former CM J Jayalalithaa in 2011. “Later we came down to 23 which was not agreed upon. Finally, we agreed for 18 seats, and a demand for constituencies where we are strong. The AIADMK, however, did not agree to anything,” said a senior DMDK leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmdk-quits-alliance-sudhish-says-aiadmk-will-lose-all-seats/articleshow/81418963.cms||Julie Mariappan
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||No courtesies, come to court: HC to IAS officer for ignoring its mkt order||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Tuesday summoned IAS officer A Sharath to be present before the court on March 17 to explain as to why he has failed to implement a court order on Gudimalkapur market when he was commissioner of marketing department. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing the bureaucrat’s contempt appeal urging the court to set aside the order of a single judge that convicted him in a contempt case with Rs 5,000 penalty. The bench made it clear that it was not happy with the scant regard shown towards the order of the single judge in respect of addressing the grievances of members of the vegetable commission agents welfare association, Gudimalkapur. When state counsel A Sanjeev Kumar requested the bench to allow the accused officer to purge himself from the contempt, the judges said: “We will not show courtesy towards you. Be prepared to receive the same treatment you meted out to the single judge order. When you do not show such courtesies towards us, why should we show it to you.” The bench asked all the contemnors in the case to be present before the court on March 17. The single judge, in his order, had directed then marketing commissioner Sharath to allot shops to long-standing traders either on an outright sale basis or on a long lease. The traders made a representation that they be extended same benefits on a par with other fruit markets. But, their representations were resolved. Instead, the commissioner referred to a representation made by the traders’ association and passed an order rejecting the claims of all the traders. Sanjeev Kumar argued that the officer complied with the order of the single judge. “We considered it and rejected it. Rejection is also a decision and hence we cannot be charged with either inaction or indecisive attitude,” he said. The bench then told the state counsel that the commissioner was not expected to pass an omnibus order on the basis of a representation made by the association. “He was asked to deal with the representation of each of the traders,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-courtesies-come-to-court-hc-to-ias-officer-for-ignoring-its-mkt-order/articleshow/81420519.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 50L paid to 76 kin of dead BEST staff||BEST on Tuesday announced that families of 76 staffers who had died due to Covid -19 have been given Rs 50 lakh while 55 “next of kin” of those who died have been absorbed in jobs in the transport undertaking.  A BEST spokesperson said, “As many as 2,834 of the 2,958 staff who got the virus are cured and many back on duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-rs-50l-paid-to-76-kin-of-dead-best-staff/articleshow/81418992.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi gifts Rs 1,650crore projects to Bundelkhand||Lucknow: Promising to turn Bundelkhand into a “heaven on earth” and a hub of solar power, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated projects worth Rs 1,100 crore and laid the foundation stone for projects worth another Rs 564 crore in the area on Tuesday. On a two-day tour to the region which began on Tuesday, the CM inspected a bridge being constructed over the Yamuna River in Jalaun as part of the Bundelkhand Expressway, inaugurated a solar project and a dam project in Lalitpur and various other infrastructural projects in Jhansi. Addressing a public meeting in Jhansi, the CM said that the upcoming defence corridor would change the face of Bundelkhand and where the fighter planes, tanks and guns manufactured here would destroy enemy camps, the youth of Jhansi would crush the enemy and remind the world of the valour of Rani Jhansi. “After India got freedom, the government that came to power used Bundelkhand’s natural resources for themselves and their families. The bridge that we are making over the Yamuna would have ordinarily taken six years but we are making it in 7-8 months. The projects I inaugurated for Lalitpur will benefit 11 villages and help to irrigate 3,500 hectare agricultural land. There is no alternative to development,” he said. Lashing out at those who are opposing the Centre’s farm laws, the CM said that these are people who are jealous of the acclaim and appreciation which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is getting internationally. “These people have no knowledge of farming but are commenting on farm laws. In 2020, these laws were made and an ordinance passed for which we made suitable amendments in our laws. No mandi has closed, no land will be taken away and nobody is doing away with MSP. These are all lies. When PM Modi’s efforts are appreciated at an international platform, those people in India who are living off foreign funding cannot digest it,” he said. The CM said that nobody would have thought that Bundelkhand would one day have an expressway that would connect it with Delhi and Lucknow, industrial development and jobs for the youth. In an area where youth migrated from due to drought, his government was providing not just good roads and air connectivity but also fighting malnutrition by giving Rs 900 per animal to poor families who would look after stray cattle, while addressing the problem of stray cattle itself. He said that the government was going to empower women self-help groups through a newly launched Mahila Samarth scheme and said that more than 2 crore labourers living in UP and in other states would be provided with a Rs 2 lakh insurance cover and covered under the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat Scheme. He also asked the Jhansi administration to prepare a plan for the renovation of the 100 year old National Inter College building in Jhansi for which the government would provide complete support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-gifts-rs-1650crore-projects-to-bundelkhand/articleshow/81420514.cms||Neha Lalchandani
March 10, 2021||Nashik||FDA seizes edible oil worth over Rs 9L||Nashik: The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) raided an oil mill in Trimbakeshwar and seized four tanks containing 7,000kg of refined soybean oil worth over Rs 9 lakh on Monday. C D Salunkhe, the joint commissioner of FDA, Nashik, said they had received information that an oil mill owner was violating the government rules of manufacturing oil and not storing the edible oil in hygienic conditions. The raid was conducted by food officers S S Deore, A U Raskar under the guidance of Salunkhe and assistant commissioner (food), zone 3, U S Lohokare. “Edible oil is consumed extensively everywhere. Hence, it is necessary to ensure that it is sold in a way such that it is safe for consumption. Those into manufacturing should ensure that the edible oil is stored in hygienic conditions. In this case, our food safety officers found that the concerned owner was not just far from observing hygienic practices during the manufacturing process but was also selling the oil in loose, which is against the rules,” said Salunkhe. In certain situations, the state government relaxes the rules for selling edible oil in packed condition only. It had done so six months back. “However, this relaxation ended in February. Thus, it was necessary for the oil mill owner to ensure that post February, the oil he manufactured was sold only in packed condition and not in loose,” said Salunkhe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fda-seizes-edible-oil-worth-over-rs-9l/articleshow/81418956.cms||Santosh Sonawane
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Did BJP govt err on quotas, asks Chavan||Mumbai: State minister Ashok Chavan raised questions against the previous BJP government led by Devendra Fadnavis, on whether it erred while passing an Act which gave reservation in education and jobs to Maratha community. In the legislative council on Tuesday he said questions on passing of the Act during the previous government are being raised after Centre on Monday told Supreme Court, hearing pleas against quota, that as per constitutional amendment 102, only Union government can offer reservation to a community. Chavan, who heads a state government sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said the President signed the amendment in 2018. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-did-bjp-govt-err-on-quotas-asks-chavan/articleshow/81420547.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Can’t describe the joy of feeding people||he pandemic is something that we will never forget. It has certainly changed many lives – mostly in a good way -- and I am no exception. Prior to Covid-19, I used feed breakfast to people living on the pavement – simple bread and bananas – once in a while. When the lockdown happened, I continued doing it. I took bread (was most difficult to find as all bakeries were closed) and some bananas and went around the city. Once, while I was distributing it among people sleeping on the pavement, some people from the other side of the road shouted out to me and asked me to wait. They wanted breakfast too. Soon, I saw a huge group of labourers coming out of their shanties. Within minutes, the food was over. Some got one loaf of bread and some divided the banana between two and ate. I was dumbfounded. Suddenly, I felt helpless for not being able to do anything more. I went back thinking of coming back with more food the next day. When I returned, I saw the labourers peeping out to see if I had come. And just like the previous day, they rushed out and everything was over again, in minutes. This went on for a while. Though I tried to increase the quality, with my limited savings, I clearly wasn’t enough. Word had spread among other people and many started coming to the spot, at times half an hour before time. Such was the situation, that the police had to intervene a few times to ensure people maintained social distance. Though many of my relatives and friends came forward to finance the meals, sadly, none of them wanted to be on the ground fearing the pandemic. So, I politely turned all requests down and continued my solo work. It gave me immense satisfaction. But then, things changed all of a sudden. Tired of being stuck in the city without work, the labourers started to walking back to their hometowns. The crowds thinned. Then the GHMC also issued a circular asking people not to distribute food directly to the needy and instead give the same at GHMC designated food centres. That’s when the curtains came down on my efforts. I suddenly felt that my life had lost purpose. It left me unsettled for a while, but then I decided to continue doing what I did earlier – feed those on the pavements, even if their numbers were limited. (The writer is an advocate at the High Court of Telangana)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cant-describe-the-joy-of-feeding-people/articleshow/81418948.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Gurgaon||30% hike in allocations likely in this year’s MCG budget||GURUGRAM: The MCG’s budget for 2021-22 is set to see around 30% hike in allocations as compared to this fiscal year. Sources said a proposal of expenditure pegged at Rs 3,031 crore was tabled in the pre-budget meeting chaired by mayor Madhu Azad and attended by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Tuesday. These figures, however, are likely to change as the budget will be discussed with the councillors in a meeting at PWD Rest House on Wednesday. The officials who attended the pre-budget meeting on Tuesday also suggested several changes. The proposed revenue is estimated to be 5% more than the last fiscal’s estimates. While the revenue was estimated to be Rs 4,604 crore for 2020-21, it could be Rs 4,874 crore for the next fiscal year, according to sources. The budget proposed for the coming fiscal year will, however, could be tweaked as the MCG commissioner asked the accounts department staff who attended the meeting to also factor in the revenue estimates and expenditure of the newly added MCG areas. The commissioner also sought details of expenditure and revenue generated till February 28 in 2020-21. Singh in the meeting gave orders to auction scrap lying with the enforcement and engineering wings. Chief accounts officer Vijay Singla said a separate bank account has been opened so that stamp duty from the government directly goes to that from the next fiscal year. Also, he said development charges are now linked with property registration. The payment of development charges before property registration in tehsils have now been made mandatory, he said. The civic body has pegged the revenue from development charges at Rs 30 crore for the next fiscal year as against Rs 15 crore in 2020-21. The civic body in its pre-budget meeting also discussed the proposed allocations under several heads. The budget allocation for sports and health may double from Rs 92 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 200 crore in 2021-22. However, it also includes the allocation for Wazirabad stadium. For environmental projects, the MCG may increase the allocation from Rs 102 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 200 crore for the next fiscal year. While allocation for roads and bridges could remain the same as this financial year (Rs 210 crore), the MCG has proposed to increase that for sewerage and drainage to Rs 200 crore. In 2020-21, the allocation was Rs 147 crore. An MCG official said the overall expenditure and allocations under different heads may change after the feedback from councillors and departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/30-hike-in-allocations-likely-in-this-years-mcg-budget/articleshow/81420545.cms||Vishakha Chaman
March 10, 2021||Chennai||‘Revolutions do not happen in a day, give me a chance’||Film director-turned politician Seeman launched his Naam Thamizhar Katchi in 2010. But his journey as an ardent Tamil nationalist and follower of LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran began when he was a young student. In an interview to D Govardan and Jaya Menon, the 54-year-old talks of new age politics and his dream of an utopian state where there would be autonomy, one party rule and prosperity.Q: You are riding two horses, with Tamil nationalism as the common target.The concept of Tamil nationalism (Thamizh Desiyam) revolves around the need to secure the rights of Tamils in Tamil Nadu. This is in terms of their language and culture, economic uplift and development. They deserve respect for their way of worship, traditional farming activities that sustained them for centuries, method of safeguarding natural resources. The people deserve access to education, employment as per their qualification and fair remuneration. The people also should be given basic amenities such as uninterrupted power supply, clean drinking water and a pollution-free environment. Tamil nationalist politics revolves around all this. In the case of Eelam (the demand for a separate independent state for Tamils), the push is for Tamil nationalism.Q: Vaiko was not so successful in advocating Tamil nationalism.Vaiko did it for politics. I am doing it for ideology.Q: Even a Dravidian major like the DMK has dropped the idea of a separate Tamil nation. Why are you taking up such a demand?I am not asking for a separate nation. Dravidian parties too only sought a Dravida Nadu. During the Indo-China war of 1962, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru sought to ban divisive elements and DMK president Anna (C N Annadurai) dropped that demand. We are only asking for a government that will ensure equality and one that will be based on self-governance or autonomy (Thannaatichi). With the thrust on privatisation there is no national asset left. As a citizen of this country, what do I have to fall back on, when everything is either being sold or privatised?Q: What is your ideology?My ideology is the welfare of the people of this state. The Centre is deliberately doing certain things. How can we remain silent, after knowing the crisis that such actions will lead to? The Centre gives lessons on patriotism, but they themselves will not follow them. If only the media had given me enough space, there would have been a revolution.Q: You are talking about the welfare of Tamils. But your vote share has not risen beyond 3%. Why?In 2016, when I got 1.1% vote, people said I will not be able to go beyond that number. Now I have already crossed 3%. A revolution cannot happen in a day. Lenin said as and when the situation comes, when people start thinking that the life they had lived cannot be lived again, the revolution will happen. But we cannot remain silent until then. We have to work for it. Around 17 lakh people have voted for me now. When Kamal Haasan, who acted for 60 years in the film industry, entered politics, the media celebrated him, but kept me at a distance. Even T T V Dhinakaran hogged the limelight and spent several crores of rupees to get only 5% votes. I have no background. Only youngsters are backing me.Q: You are fielding 234 candidates. But isn’t fighting elections expensive?We are going to spend only 3 lakh per constituency. We used to spend only 1 lakh or 1.5 lakh earlier. Now that we have grown, we will be spending more. Even Election Commission officials who see our expenditure reports wonder how we are running a political party by spending so little. Q: But how do you manage that?We seek donations, well-wishers contribute ₹10,000-₹50,000. Now, we have created an election fund and are seeking help. We have collected ₹12.5 lakh so far and expect to raise 50 lakh. We are literally begging, but we are doing it discreetly. Tamils from here, who are working in the Middle East, and only Sri Lankan Tamils, who are members of my party, contribute.Q: Why did you call on V K Sasikala?She is a relative on my wife’s side. Since, she was unwell, I went to ask about her health. There was nothing political about it.Q: Your opposition to the DMK is more strident than others?I oppose them for letting Tamils down in their hour of need for the DMK’s political goals. I was brought up with Dravidian principles. After seeing what happened to the Tamil brethren in Sri Lanka, I realised the harm the DMK caused them. My path and my journey became clearer and the person who showed it to me was my brother (LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran).I was an atheist. But if I have to follow the path of Tamil nationalism, I have to take along our people’s religious beliefs and culture. It is like a farmer pulling a plant out of soil, without damaging its core roots, to replant it for better growth. Not just the DMK, even national parties are not needed for this country. When states become autonomous, where is the need for a national party. Between the Congress and the BJP, there is only a party change, no policy change. It is the case with the two Dravidian parties — DMK and AIADMK — too. We are directly fighting the mother of all Dravidian parties — the DMK. When the DMK falls, there is no place for the AIADMK too. What will a hero do without a villain?Q: How long will you continue to contest alone?An alliance is required only when a party does not trust its people. When people get fed up with these two Dravidian parties, they will look for a real alternative. I would have emerged by then. My message to people is clear — I did not commit the mistake of joining hands with others for a few seats and money because I believed in you. When I talk of change, it is not just about change of government. It is about changing the approach to politics and the way a government runs. I consider politics a life science, while others see it as trade. Defeat is only when I change my policy and not by the number of seats I win or lose.Q: Who is your political opponent?I do not have any opponent for my principles. I want to politically defeat the DMK and ideologically defeat the BJP. In 2026, you will see me heading an alliance with like-minded parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/revolutions-do-not-happen-in-a-day-give-me-a-chance/articleshow/81418996.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Disasters keep striking but no lessons learnt||Kolkata: Monday evening’s blaze in the office of Indian Railways on Strand Road that claimed nine lives has brought back to the fore a familiar story of criminal neglect of fire safety norms, which leads to lack of preparedness when a disaster strikes. A day after the fire, several uncomfortable questions — over the fire safety measures in the building, absence of a proper floor plan and the rationale behind the fire, police and RPF personnel taking the lift — raised their heads with authorities struggling to provide any satisfactory answers. Fire minister Sujit Bose has already raised several questions over the fire safety preparedness in the New Koilaghat building office of Indian Railways. “Fire fighters were not provided with any floor plan of the 13th floor. We are also investigating why the power connection was not severed immediately following which the lift would have stopped automatically. It seems the fire alarm and water sprinklers were either not installed or were defunct because the fire spread quickly,” said Bose. But this is not a rare occurrence. In the last few years, the central business district has witnessed several blazes and the predominant causes have been similar — like complete laxity by the occupiers in implementing fire safety measures, malpractice in granting and renewing fire licences and complete lack of monitoring by the administration. The wholesale and retail markets in central Kolkata are stashed with inflammable goods, mesh of overhanging electric wires, encroached stairs and common areas and absence of emergency exits. In 2018, Bagri Market burnt for over 90 hours. In October last year, two people died in a fire in a residential-cum-commercial building on Ganesh Chandra Avenue. “Most markets in the central business district are operating illegally, without any proper safety measures. We have urged the traders to implement all fire-fighting measures but very few of them have responded. At many markets, even the washrooms and stairs have been sold off for commercial purposes. Traders use unscientific measures of storing inflammable goods so that they don’t have to spend on safety. The attitude towards fire safety is lacking,” said a divisional fire officer. According to traders, most buildings in the heart of the city are old and it is difficult to implement fire safety rules. “It is difficult to make reservoirs in the basement because there is no space. There is no space for emergency exits as well,” said the secretary of a prominent market inBurrabazar. Questions have also been raised on why trained fire personnel took the lift to the 12th floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/disasters-keep-striking-but-no-lessons-learnt/articleshow/81417661.cms||Zeeshan Javed
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||Who will be new Uttarakhand chief minister? List of probables||DEHRADUN: After four days of intense political parleys, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat tendered his resignation to governor Baby Rani Maurya at the Raj Bhawan in Dehradun on Tuesday afternoon. A BJP legislative party meeting has been called on Wednesday morning to decide the name of the new CM. An official notification issued later in the day by chief secretary Om Prakash said that the governor has accepted the resignation of the chief minister and his cabinet and they have been asked to look after the portfolios held by them till the time a new government is formed. Soon after meeting the governor, Rawat said he was thankful to the party for giving him a chance to be at the helm for four years. “I come from a very humble background and it is only a party like BJP which gives a chance for a common man to head the state. The party has now decided that it needs a new face and, therefore, I am stepping down. Our government has initiated a number of development schemes and the people of the state will definitely get the benefits. My successor will take these projects ahead and I would like to wish him good luck for his tenure,” he added. Rawat further said he had “never thought of getting so much respect, love and affection from the party and people alike.” He added: “My tenure is just nine days short of four years and I will term it as the golden phase of my political career.” Asked about the reasons which led to his resignation, Rawat said, “The decision was taken in Delhi and I accepted the party’s directions.” Earlier, Rawat, accompanied by state party president Bansidhar Bhagat and a few MLAs like higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat and Dehradun Cantt MLA Harbans Kapoor, had gone to Raj Bhawan through the rear gate and met the governor. With Rawat’s exit, a guessing game began on possible candidates for the CM’s chair. Among the names in speculation for the top post are those of higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat, regarded as Trivendra Rawat’s protege, Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, RSS general secretary Suresh Bhatt, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Lok Sabha MP Ajay Bhatt and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. BJP national vice-president and former Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh, appointed as observer by the party along with state in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, was expected to reach Dehradun late on Tuesday to attend the legislative party meeting scheduled for Wednesday. The party’s Lok Sabha MPs are also likely to attend the meeting. Speculations of change of guard started with the unexpected and urgent core committee meeting of the BJP called on Saturday evening in which Raman Singh and Dushyant Kumar Gautam took feedback from party MLAs on the state government’s functioning. Later they submitted their report to the central leadership. Rawat was summoned to Delhi on Monday morning and during the course of the day had a video-conferencing with PM Narendra Modi and later met party president JP Nadda and home minister Amit Shah. Meanwhile, commenting on the CM’s resignation, Dushyant Kumar Gautam said, “Trivendra Singh Rawat is an asset to the party which needs him at the national level and this is why he has been asked to resign as CM so that he can help the organisation in poll-bound states. There is no other reason for his resignation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rawat-resigns-as-ukhand-cm-capping-days-of-uncertainty-drama/articleshow/81417662.cms||Kautilya Singh
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||140 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 142 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths. With this, the total count of cases so far in the state has touched 3,00,153. The death toll now stands at 1,644. Telangana currently has 1,769 active cases while a total of 2,96,740 patients have so far recovered from coronavirus. The case fatality rate is currently 0.54% in the state, as against the country average case fatality rate of 1.4%. The recovery rate meanwhile has touched 98.86%. This is better than the country average of 96.9%. Of the 3,00,153 positive cases so far, 2.1 lakh have been asymptomatic while 90,000 were symptomatic patients. On Tuesday 32,189 samples were tested. Telangana has now completed testing 90 lakh samples and has reached 2.42 lakh sample testing per million population. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 31 new cases on Tuesday.  This was followed by 12 new cases in Rangareddy and 10 new cases in Medchal Malkajgiri. Barring Wanaparthy, Mulugu, Nagarkurnool and Jogulamba Gadwal all the remaining districts in the state recorded new cases on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/140-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-in-t/articleshow/81420544.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||India||Japan PM Yoshihide Suga takes up China in Modi call||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the first Quad summit, Japan Tuesday ramped up the rhetoric against China as it said that PM Yoshihide Suga in a phone conversation with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi expressed serious concerns regarding unilateral attempts to change the status quo in the East and the South China Sea, the situation in Hong Kong and Xinjiang and also China's new coast guard law. The Indian readout of the conversation was silent on these issues even as official sources said the security situation in the region was discussed in the 40-minute conversation. The Indian government said in its statement that Modi and Suga emphasised their engagement with like-minded countries such as Australia and the US in the form of Quad consultations holds value and agreed that these useful discussions must continue. Seen by both China and Russia as an exercise meant to contain China, Quad is expected to hold its first-ever summit in the virtual mode later this week. Read AlsoFirst Quad summit: India, US, Japan, Oz leaders’ talks on FridayKeeping the China challenge squarely in their sights, the first summit meeting of the Quad — India, US, Japan and Australia — will take place virtually on Friday, the foreign ministry announced on Tuesday. An official readout said the meeting of PM Narendra Modi, President Joe Biden, PM YoshihideEast China Sea, where Japan is embroiled in a dispute with China over the Senkaku/ Diaoyu islands, has seen tensions resurfacing with frequent incursions into the Japan-held territorial waters by Chinese coast guard vessels. Both Japan and US are worried about the new Chinese law which apparently allows Chinese coast guard to use firepower against foreign vessels. Both countries are likely to bring up a similar mention of Hong Kong and Xinjiang, both seen by Beijing as a domestic issue, in a joint statement following their 2+2 dialogue this week. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi had again asked the US in his annual press conference on Sunday to abide by the principle of non-interference in each others’ "internal affairs." Read AlsoRange of global issues to be discussed at Quad summit: White House"That President Biden has made this one of his earliest multilateral engagements speaks to the importance we place on close cooperation with our allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific," White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference."The two leaders shared the recognition that cooperation towards realizing a Free and Open Indo-Pacific is becoming increasingly important and to this end, shared the view to steadily advance both Japan-India bilateral cooperation and Japan-Australia-India-US quadrilateral cooperation,’’ said the Japanese readout of the conversation. According to Japan, Modi and Suga also "confirmed’’ in their conversation that they have grave concerns over the situation in Myanmar and that they would closely work together in that regard. While inviting Suga to visit India at the earliest for the annual summit, Modi also noted that the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) project was a "shining example’’ of India-Japan bilateral strategic partnership and expressed his commitment to its successful implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/japan-pm-takes-up-china-in-modi-call/articleshow/81421738.cms||Sachin Parashar
March 10, 2021||Chennai||Nilgiris tribal village becomes model for clean drinking water||The unfailing efforts of the tribal women of Banagudi Kurumba village near Kotagiri in the Nilgiris has paved the way for the community to sustain successfully as ‘Nanneer gramam’ for a year.Banagudi was the first tribal village in the state to get purified piped water using ultra-filtration membrane-based purification system in March last year. The village was chosen as a pilot project for the technology developed by Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC). On March 9, 2020, Junior Chamber International, a part of the NGO, Nilgiri Adivasi Welfare Association (NAWA), took the initiative to provide safe water to its adopted Banagudi village.Before this initiative, the water source was open wells. "For the past one year, we have been drinking safe water. Earlier, we had to fetch water from wells and filter it manually to drink," says B Latha, who feels it’s a boon to families as water-borne diseases are kept at bay now.Since the technology required piped water, the district administration under one of the schemes provided water connection to each of houses in the village. "Access to clean drinking water had never been easy, so when the user-friendly technology was introduced, the women took the initiative to learn the process of maintenance of the water purification system," says A Viswanathan, head of the tribal village. The BARC purification system, installed in each of 42 households of the village, does not require electricity or any annual maintenance. Only the water filter candles need to be cleaned."Earlier, people from NAWA came for maintenance of the water purifier and taught us the method. Now, a group of women in the village, do the maintenance periodically," says L Kamala, a villager.The water purification system has made Banagudi a model tribal village, says eminent nuclear scientist J Daniel Chellappa. "The Banagudi habitation has created a record of becoming the first model tribal village of the state to operate, maintain and get piped supply of safe drinking water in all its houses."According to him, unlike conventional RO units, BARC’s UF based online water purifiers do not reduce the essential minerals. The NGO came forward to sponsor 44 water purifiers to the hamlet. Besides the 42 dwellings, one each were provided to the community hall and the anganwadi in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nilgiris-tribal-village-becomes-model-for-clean-drinking-water/articleshow/81419007.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||Criminal carrying reward of Rs 25,000 arrested by Uttarakhand STF||Dehradun: Uttarakhand Special Task Force (STF) on Tuesday arrested a wanted criminal carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head from Jwalapur area of Haridwar district. The arrested accused, identified as Satendra Mukhiya, was wanted in over two dozen criminal cases registered in Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh. “He was hiding in Haridwar district,” said an STF official. "Mukhiya is a member of Dharmendra Kirthal gang active in western UP. Baghpat police had announced a reward of Rs 25,000. STF received a tip-off regarding his presence after which he was arrested," said Ajay Singh, SSP (STF). The SSP said that Kirthal’s son is lodged in Dehradun jail in cases of rape and murder, and Mukhiya was trying to influence the witnesses in the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/criminal-carrying-reward-of-rs-25000-arrested-by-uttarakhand-stf/articleshow/81417673.cms||Gaurav Talwar
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||3 held for burglaries, booty worth Rs 24L seized||Hyderabad: Medipally police arrested three persons including two burglars and recovered Rs 24 lakh worth stolen property from their possession on Sunday. Police arrested the accused, M Rama Rao, 52, and K Srinivasa Rao, 54, near Kakathiya Hospital in Medipally on Tuesday and based on their confession, recovered Rs 24 lakh worth stolen property from the receiver, S Saritha, 27, of Medipally. The accused committed five burglaries and thefts since 2019 at Medipally and Guntur. Rama Rao and Srinivasa Rao met in prison in 2011 and after their release from jail they committed several property offences. In August 2020, they were arrested by Rajendranagar police and sent to Cherlapally jail. They came out of prison in January 2021 and committed multiple offences. Police said that at Cherlapally prison the duo met Saritha’s husband, Ganesh, a burglar who is an under-trial prisoner and struck a deal with him to arrange money for legal process to cancel PD Act imposed against him. The duo took shelter at various lodges after committing property offences and handed over the stolen booty to Saritha for disposal. Police recovered 520 gm gold, 500 gm silver and two bikes, all worth Rs 24 lakh from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-held-for-burglaries-booty-worth-rs-24l-seized/articleshow/81419014.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||16 test +ve in Udaipur govt girls hostel||UDAIPUR: The spread of Covid among students living in hostels has become a cause of concern for the district administration. After 28 inmates of a residential government blind school at Ambamata tested positive on March 5, 16 girls were found infected at Kasturba govt hostel here at Madhuban on Tuesday. The district administration has sealed the entire area surrounding the hostel and started contact tracing of persons who had come in contact with the inmates. The hostel building was intensely sanitised and the infected students have been quarantined in the building. Collector Chetan Ram Deora, SP Rajiv Pachar, CMHO Dinesh Kharadi and higher officials of the medical department went to the hostel to take stock of the situation. Kharadi said five girls fell ill and on Monday and on testing two of them were found infected. Later, samples of 168 other students were taken and on Tuesday, 14 were found positive. The hostel inmates went to three different schools for studying and hence the medical department would trace all the contacts in these schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/16-test-ve-in-udaipur-govt-girls-hostel/articleshow/81419016.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Paddy procurement 16% more than last yr’s||Lucknow: Amidst the farm unrest against new farm laws, data from UP food and civil supplies department show paddy purchase shot up by more than 16% during the pandemic-hit 2020-21 fiscal in comparison to 2019-20. Statistics shows state government agencies procured 65.79 lakh metric tonnes paddy in 2020-21 to benefit 12,78,900 farmers — nearly nine lakh metric tonnes more than in 2019-20, when 56.57 lakh metric tonnes was procured from 7,06,549 farmers. Paddy procurement in 2020-21 was 30 lakh metric tonnes more than during the previous Samajwadi Party regime in 2016-17 when 35.14 lakh metric tonnes was purchased from 4,35,320 farmers. A senior official in food and civil supplies department said, higher procurement was possible by setting up more procurement centres and ensuring transparency through digital payment. “These measures helped the state government to build confidence among farmers,” a senior official told TOI. As a matter of fact, minimum support price for paddy was raised from Rs 1,815 per quintal in 2019-20 to 1,868 per quintal in 2020-21. Notably, wheat procurement registered a dip from 37.04 lakh metric tonnes in 2019-20 to 35.76 lakh metric in 2020-21. This was despite the state raising wheat MSP from Rs 1,840 per quintal in 2019-20 to Rs 1,925 in 2020-21. The dip in procurement is significant in comparison to 2018-19 when 52.92 lakh metric tonnes of wheat was procured from over 11 lakh farmers at a MSP of Rs 1,735 per quintal. In comparison, wheat procurement in 2020-21 benefited only 6.63 lakh farmers. The department, the official said, would begin wheat procurement for 2021-22 fiscal from April 1 after cabinet’s nod. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturevdi, said, the state government has set a target of setting up 6,000 procurement centres for wheat. “The government would ensure transparency and see that no farmer faces problem,” he said. Maize procurement, on the other hand, recorded a jump from 25.3 metric tonnes in 2019-20 to 1,06,412.68 metric tonnes in 2020-21. Food commissioner Maneesh Chauhan said, the massive difference was because the market rate was higher than government rate, which allowed farmers to sell their produce in the open market, instead of government centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/paddy-procurement-16-more-than-last-yrs/articleshow/81420574.cms||Pankaj Shah
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Want to share info: Pujari; cop custody extended till March 15||Mumbai: A special MCOCA court on Tuesday extended till March 15 the remand of extradited gangster Ravi Pujari, who is wanted in more than 49 serious offences in the city. Before the court, Pujari expressed his wish to share some “undisclosed information”. He was produced before the special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court judge D E Kothalikar in connection with the 2016 firing at Gajalee restaurant in Vile Parle. While seeking his remand extension, special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves submitted that some “important revelations are required to be elicited”. These revelations, he added, will “unearth the entire conspiracy”. Gonsalves had earlier submitted that the gangster had been absconding for over a decade.The gangster was extradited last year. Mumbai police got his custody from Bengaluru jail last month. His remand to police custody was till March 9, and has now been extended. He is likely to be placed in a crime branch lock-up. The city crime branch had formed a special team of officers from the anti-extortion cell, led by inspector Sachin Kadam, to interrogate Pujari under the supervision of deputy commissioner of police (crime) Prakash Jadhav. The team had wanted to ascertain who gave instructions for the firing at the restaurant since Pujari was purported to be in Senegal at that time. The prosecution said it was suspected that the attack was carried out on someone’s instructions.While seeking his extradition before a court in Senegal, Mumbai police had listed 10 serious offences on which MCOCA has been invoked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-want-to-share-info-pujari-cop-custody-extended-till-march-15/articleshow/81420631.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyber stalker arrested||Hyderabad: Rachakonda police arrested a cyber stalker for threatening women to make nude video calls on social media platforms. The accused, J Kalyan, 22, is an auto driver from Laxmipuram in Warangal. “When he tried his trick on the complainant, she approached us,” Rachakonda cyber crime police said. Police tracked the accused using the social media accounts used by him and arrested him on Tuesday. A cell phone was seized from the posession of the accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-stalker-arrested/articleshow/81419017.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chennai||NGO flags Rs 1 lakh crore Tangedco ‘scam’, says Tamil Nadu already lost Rs 30,000 crore||CHENNAI: A city-based anti-corruption watchdog has filed a complaint with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) alleging a scam — which may entail a loss of Rs 1 lakh crore by 2028 to the state exchequer — because of contracts issued by state power utility Tangedco for purchasing 2,830 megawatt of power from 10 private players for 15 years from 2013. Arguing that a loss of about Rs 30,072 crore had already been incurred between 2013 and 2018, Jayaram Venkatesan, convener, Arappor Iyakkam, at a press meet on Tuesday said, “If DVAC acts immediately, the contract can be cancelled and Tamil Nadu can save Rs 46,875 crore.” Tangedco spokesperson in response to a query made to Tangedco CMD Pankaj Kumar Bansal regarding the allegations said “a reply will be issued tomorrow.” According to the complaint filed by Arappor Iyakkam, the state had bought power in 2016-17 for Rs 4.6 to Rs 5.08 per unit (from 10 different companies) while per-unit cost of power available at the Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) was Rs 2.41, leading to excess payment of Rs 6,304 crore. Similarly, the cost of power purchased in 2017-18 was Rs 4.6 to Rs 5.11 while the IEX price was Rs 3.256. Excess payment made was Rs 4,353 crore. “Tangedco has been procuring power at almost double the market rate through these illegal power purchase agreements,” the complaint said. The NGO also flagged possible conflict of interest as officials who approved the proposals while they were on the board of Tangedco, later became members of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) and ratified them. Allegations of violations also include modification of a ‘force majeure’ clause without the approval of the TNERC. It also said the contractors were not held responsible for non-delivery of power as per the scheduled delivery date. Tangedco also did not levy liquidation charges, the complaint said. Noting that Tangedco signed power purchase agreements with 10 companies in 2013 for 15 years, the complaint alleged that Tangedco paid enhanced tariffs to these suppliers from the third year which was an avoidable expenditure. Tangedco also procured power from a naphtha-based plant which was an avoidable expenditure, Arappor said in its complaint. “The Tangedco is sinking due to these huge losses and burden falls on common man in the form of increased tariff,” Venkatesan said. Besides official reports relating to adherence of Merit Order Dispatch (disallowing excess cost of power purchase), enforcing guidelines of Union ministry of power and clauses of power purchase agreements and inadequate coordination with load dispatch centres, the complaint relied on an order passed by the then TNERC member Nagalsamy in September 2015 objecting to ‘illegalities’ in the tender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngo-flags-rs-1-lakh-crore-tangedco-scam-says-tn-already-lost-rs-30kcr/articleshow/81419025.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two held for stealing Rs 1.3 crore from ATMs||HYDERABAD: CCS police arrested G Krishna, custodian in Securevalue India Ltd who, in collusion with R Rajashekar Reddy, an ex-employee of the same company, stole Rs 1.3 crore cash from 20 ATMs of ICICI Bank. Based on the complaint of M Srinivas Rao, general manager of Securevalue India Ltd, a firm involved in cash replenishment services at Hyderabad for ICICI Bank, a case was registered recently against the accused at CCS. The complainant alleged that the accused have fraudulently removed Rs 1.3 crore cash from ICICI bank ATMs.  Both the accused were arrested on Monday and cops recovered Rs 16.4 lakh cash from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-for-stealing-rs-1-3cr-from-atms/articleshow/81420619.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Virtual school to bring edu to comfort of home||New Delhi: From an ID card to a classroom set-up on the lines of online academies and continuous assessments, a Virtual Delhi Model School will have everything like a physical classroom — only the students can study in the comfort of their home. The project, announced during the budget speech by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday, was an offshoot of the Covid lockdown experiences and a committee of experts is working on the admission semantics and the age-appropriate access to the virtual school. “The idea came about after seeing the number of children who have still not come back. Some of them are still in villages and different parts of the country. They are attending classes online,” an education department official said. “The idea was to create a school, which would have everything like a physical school, but the classes and examinations would be online. One would not have to physically attend school. In a complete online setup, it will be easier to do formative assessment more regularly,” he added. The department is trying to sort out the access issue. “There are already Google classrooms and Khan Academy; they create a school inside the setup. There is a school, classroom, section. That is how we are going to work on,” added the official. On whether the school will be for all classes, he said, “By design, it will favour children who are older who have some level of literacy and numeracy, digital awareness so that they can self-guide their learning. The committee will figure out the appropriate entry age.” The virtual school will “facilitate the process” of online learning, which is likely to stay. But how will it compensate for the social and cognitive interaction that these children would miss? “The committee will guide us on how socialisation issue will be addressed, how we will ensure that children have well-rounded experience of a school. This is a situation where children will have social interaction but the access to school might not be there,” the official said. During the budget speech, Sisodia said, “Work has already begun on the design of this school and it will be my endeavour to ensure that this school is ready and functional by the next session.” The school, he said, will also benefit all those children who live in any part of the country but want to benefit from the Delhi education model. “We want to provide learning opportunities to all those students under the principle of anywhere living, anytime learning and anytime testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virtual-school-to-bring-edu-to-comfort-of-home/articleshow/81438152.cms||Shradha Chettri
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Parsi woman’s bid for Punchayat post fails as proposer’s faith remains in doubt||MUMBAI: A Parsi woman who challenged rejection of her nomination to contest Bombay Parsi Punchayat (BPP) elections got no immediate relief from Bombay high court. HC referred to her “obvious reluctance’’ to obtain confirmation that her proposer, Rustom Jeejeebhoy, member of the illustrious Jeejeebhoy family, continues to profess Zoroastrianism. Elections to two vacancies are on March 14 but BPP will approach court to postpone the elections in view of Covid. BPP said it was unaware of his conversion till some voters and candidates informed it after the final date of nominations on February 1. It relied on a social media page from last July of a lecture to be conducted by Jeejeebhoy in a ‘Reflective Bible seminar’ on the ‘Book of Ruth’, which said he had converted in 2005. BPP argued that if a person did not qualify as a Parsi, there was no purpose contending his name continued to be on the general register. HC found prima facie merit in this contention. Punchayat had on February 18 rejected the nomination of Zuleika Homavazir, a professor at Wilson College, as Jeejeebhoy converted to Christianity and was a pastor. BPP said it got information that Jeejeebhoy renounced Zoroastrianism, so he was ineligible to nominate her. She moved HC to question her disqualification as a candidate. The key plea, noted Justice A K Menon, was to stay invalidation of her nomination and allow her to contest. She said soon after filing nominations she “learnt of rumours from WhatsApp messages and social media that Jeejeebhoy, her proposer, had converted to Christianity, having renounced the Zoroastrianism’’. The HC order said she apparently tried to reach him and checked the general register, which had his name. As a precaution on February 1, the last date for filing nominations, she wrote to BPP to accept her father as ‘co-proposer’. Her counsel, Rajeev Singh, raised 14 issues and said allegations that Jeejeebhoy converted were “not substantiated’’, so her invalidation was “without due process’’. It was the trustees’ duty to prepare the voters’ list. Since Jeejeebhoy’s name was on the list, whether or not he had converted, was not relevant at this stage. BPP, through counsel Somasekhar Sunderasan, said, “There is serious doubt if her proposer continues to profess Zoroastrianism’’. He produced the affidavit of trustee Noshir Dadrewala in support of their opposition to her candidature. HC said the trust relies on its reply and annexures “which reveal prima facie that Jeejeebhoy converted to Christianity’’. HC said if Jeejeebhoy continued to profess his original faith, it was easy for her to get him to say it on oath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-parsi-womans-bid-for-punchayat-post-fails-as-proposers-faith-remains-in-doubt/articleshow/81419071.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||19-year-old saleswoman kills self in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 19-year-old saleswoman ended her life on Monday due to harassment from a local at Mailardevpally. The victim, Lija Jina, 19, was a salesperson at a garments store in Katedan. On Monday afternoon, Lija was found hanging in her house. Family members lodged a complaint with the police on Monday night alleging that Lija was harassed by a local man while walking home from her workplace. The family also alleged the man used to frequently call the victim and ask her to accompany him on his bike. Police registered an abetment to suicide case against the man under section 306 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-year-old-saleswoman-kills-self/articleshow/81420603.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||Safest place for pregnant women||JAIPUR: The Mahila Chikitsalaya here emerged as a big hope for pregnant women during Covid. In the last 12 months, out of the 850 pregnant women admitted to the government hospital with Covid infection, four had died. Mahila Chikitsalaya was declared a dedicated Covid hospital on April 13 where pregnant women from Jaipur and nearby districts were brought during and post-lockdown period. From July 10, Mahila Chikitsalaya was opened for both Covid positive and other patients. The hospital follows ICMR guidelines and both have separate buildings and entry gates for Covid and non-Covid patients. As per ICMR guidelines, the hospital uses RT-PCR for Covid test for each and every patient on admission. Total number of Covid patients admitted from April 13, 2020 till March 2021 were 850. Out of 11 Covid positive babies born, one died of severe congenital heart disease. “Usually these babies reported positive 3-7 days following birth as they were exposed post-natally. Since the pregnancy bias toward T-helper 2 (Th2) system dominance, which protects the foetus, leaves the mother vulnerable to viral infections, which are more effectively contained by the Th1 system,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, nodal officer (Covid-19), Mahila Chikitsalaya. However, four pregnant women who died had arrived in a critical condition after they were referred from other districts or private hospitals. Pregnant women with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, asthma or chronic smokers are at higher risk of contracting Covid. The hospital reported 100% foetal demise in first trimester in patients who didn’t get anti-coagulants. “Pregnant women who received anti-coagulants in the first trimester, either ecosprin or enoxaparin, had live foetuses. In later half of pregnancy, common obstetric complications are oligohydramnios, decreased foetal movements, meconium stain edliquor or IUFD,” said Dr Rahore. Patients who got treatment on time especially anticoagulants were discharged without complications and later on delivered healthy babies. Doctors used remdesivir, tocilizumab and anticoagulants, which the hospital claimed proved helpful in life saving and shorten the time of clinical improvement in pregnant women on ventilator with severe HRCT scoring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/safest-place-for-pregnant-women/articleshow/81419022.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||3 nabbed for selling elephant tusks||NAGPUR: In a major action against wildlife criminals, Kolhapur forest department officials have nabbed three persons planning to sell three elephant tusks, on Wednesday evening. Acting on secret information, the action was taken by Kolhapur and Satara mobile squad RFOs Yuvraj Patil and Sachin Domble respectively, former honorary wildlife warden Rohan Bhate and wildlife expert Hemant Kenjle. Sources said the accused were lured into a trap. When they arrived at the decided spot near a hotel to strike the deal, the raiding party nabbed them. Elephant is listed under Schedule I under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The accused have been identified as Manik Vilasrao Inamdar (59), Parali Ninai (Shahuwadi), Sagar Abasaheb Sable (32) of Male (Panhala), and Dhananjay Kerba Jagdale (21) of Shingnapur (Karvir). The forest officials also seized an Innova vehicle, a bike and three mobile phones. It is not known from where the elephant tusks were procured and whether the accused were habitual offenders. RFO Patil, who was busy with the investigations, was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-nabbed-for-selling-elephant-tusks/articleshow/81435005.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||With increase in testing, cases up in region again||NAGPUR: As soon as the number of Covid-19 tests resumed to the daily average on Tuesday, the new cases in a day once again surpassed the 3,000-mark in Vidarbha. The 11 districts of the region reported 3,276 new cases while almost equal number of recoveries (3,210) in a day. Vidarbha has been seeing 25,000 tests daily on an average. This number had reduced under 18,000 on Monday. On Tuesday, 26,944 tests were conducted in the region. Nagpur (10,476), Akola (3,253), Buldhana (2,464), Wardha (1,906) and Yavatmal (1,482) conducted most tests. More testing has increased the number of cases, but the same has improved the recovery rate to some decimal points too. On Tuesday, recovery rate showed improvement for the first time in March. Of the 3.49 lakh patients till date, 3.10 lakh have recovered. The recovery rate is 89%. Another point of respite for the region was that the death toll reduced to 19, lowest in the month so far. Nagpur district reported six deaths which include only 1 from city, 2 from rural and 3 from other districts/states. Amravati and Akola reported 3 deaths each, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Wardha reported 2 each while Chandrapur reported 1 death. The death toll of Vidarbha has reached 7,613 while the case fatality rate further reduced to 2.18%, which is lower than state average of 2.4%. Number of patients under treatment reached 30,679 on Tuesday. More than 50% of these patients (16,902) are in 5 districts of Amravati division while 37% are in Nagpur district alone (11,411). Other five districts in the region have less than 8% of the total under-treatment patients. Cases and under-treatment patients are increasing continuously since the last 3 days in Nagpur district. Yavatmal: Two deaths took the toll to 487. Out of the 1,482 reports, 318 were found positive. Currently, there are 1,930 active positive patients undergoing treatment in various Covid care centres across the district. Amravati: After more than a month of rising cases, the district recorded 282 new cases. Not only cases, even deaths, just three, took a dip. The caseload has reached 40,268 with the toll 572. Wardha: An 80-year-old man from Wardha and a 78-year-old man from Hinganghat died, taking the toll to 370. In all, 214 tested positive, taking the caseload 13,786. Chandrapur: While 82 tested positive, 43 recovered, leaving 663 active patients. One death took the toll to 401. The Covid caseload has now risen to 24,322. Akola: Of the of 3,253 tests, 267 tested positive taking the caseload to 19,500. Total 233 patients recovered. This took the total recoveries to 14,342. The district also reported 3 deaths taking the toll to 389. Now, 4,769 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 112 new cases while 136 patients recovered. No death was reported. Washim now has 10,470 total cases, 9,008 recoveries, 163 deaths, and 1,298 patients under treatment. Buldhana: Total 2,464 tests were conducted of which 579 tested positive. This took the caseload to 22,400. With 392 recoveries in a day, total 19,168 of them have beaten Covid. Two deaths were also reported. Death toll is 203 while 3,029 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 12 new cases. With this, the caseload has reached 14,582. With 22 recoveries, total 14,232 patients have recovered till date. No death was reported. Total 163 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: Of the 1,098 tests done, total 45 reported positive taking the caseload to 14,020. With 40 patients recovering, total 13,325 have beaten Covid till date. Now, 367 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 27 new cases and 33 recoveries. This took the caseload to 9,726 and recoveries to 9,462. With 108 deaths reported till date, Gadchiroli now has 156 patients under treatment, lowest in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-increase-in-testing-cases-up-in-region-again/articleshow/81419020.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||Harpreet Singh tops JEE-Main in U’khand with 99.98 percentile||Nainital: Harpreet Singh topped the Joint Entrance Exam (Main) in Uttarakhand with 99.98 percentile. The results were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Monday. The Main exams were conducted across the country from February 24 to 26, and the Advanced exam will now be conducted on July 3. The JEE exams this year are being conducted in four phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harpreet-singh-tops-jee-main-in-ukhand-with-99-98-percentile/articleshow/81417679.cms||Prashant Jha
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Zufar’s hattrick in Board poll thriller||Ayodhya: Former chairman of UP Sunni Waqf Board Zufar Farooqui clinched the top job for the third consecutive time, scraping past his rival by one vote after the 11-member electoral college met in Lucknow on Tuesday to decide on the next chairman of the Board that controls 1.3 lakh mosques and mausoleums across UP. Barely 24 hours before the keenly-contested poll, most Board members had veered around to a unanimous choice, but the pitch was queered at the last minute when Imran Mabood from the Bar Council quota, jumped into the fray. And the battle of ballots witnessed a vertical split in the Board with Zufar finally declared winner in a 6-5 scoreline. While most Samajwadi Party members from MP/MLA quota — Moradabad MP S T Hasan and Azamgarh MLA Nafees Ahmad — voted against Zufar Farooqui, SP’s Sultanpur MLA, Abrar Ahmad, broke ranks to back the incumbent. Another politician, BSP MP Kunwar Danish Ali, who was earlier projected as a probable chairman’s candidate, took the backseat, but voted against Farooqui. So did Mabood’s colleague in the Bar Council, Abdul Razzaq Khan. What proved to be a clincher for the three-time chairman was the unflinching support of three members nominated by the UP government — Maulana Naeem Ur Rahman Siddiqui (Firangi Mahal cleric), social worker Sabiha Ahmad and Dr Tabassum Khan. Apart from SP’s Sultanpur MLA, Gorakhpur’s Adnan Farrukh from the mutawalli quota also voted for Farroqui to break the tie. Farooqui proved his mettle once again by pulling off one of the most dramatic wins to the top job, two days after managing to get himself and his key associate Adnaan Farrukh elected unopposed to the Board. Talking to TOI, he said, “I won this crucial election and will work for the uplift of the community.”According to sources, Islamic seminary Nadwa’s crucial support to Farooqui helped bag the key vote of Firangi Mahal cleric and Nadwa alumnus Naeem Ur Rahman Siddiqui. “I was convinced about smooth running of the waqf board under Farooqui, who approached me before polls,” Siddiqui told TOI. All-India Muslim Law Board president Rabe Hasani Nadwi congratulated Farooqui, in what is being seen as stamp of approval to the Board’s decision to construct the mosque complex in Ayodhya — an issue that drew flak from Muslim hardliners. To a query on why he broke party ranks, SP MLA Abrar Ahmad said, “Initially, Zufar Farooqui was the unanimous choice, but at the eleventh hour, ST Hasan and Nafees Ahmad changed their mind and asked me to vote for Imran Mabood. I told them that I won’t change my stand.” Talking about Farooqui’s hard-fought victory which bolstered Sunni Board’s decision to build the mosque-hospital complex in Ayodhya, secretary, Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, Athar Hussain, said, “Self-proclaimed Muslim leaders make a fundamental mistake by believing their views are sacrosanct and should be imposed on the community. But they function on flawed assumptions, which has proved to be regressive and stopped the community’s rise on the socio-economic ladder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/zufars-hattrick-in-board-poll-thriller/articleshow/81420626.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||People protest in Almora against third division of state||Almora: The people in Almora on Tuesday protested against the state government's decision to make Gairsain the third mandal (division) of the state and including Almora as a part of the new division. Congress workers, under the leadership of former MLA Manoj Tewari, protested against the government’s move by submitting a memorandum to the chief minister while the Youth Congress workers in Chaughanpata burnt the effigy of former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat for the same reason. The Congress workers demanded removal of Almora from the Gairsain division and said that it should be part of Kumaon. Tewari said, “Almora is culturally, historically and spiritually the heart of Kumaon. It is the cultural capital of the Chand kings. Kumaoni Holi, Ramlila and Dussehra have a unique identity and are associated with Almora. Pulling out Almora from Kumaon division is a big mistake.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/people-protest-in-almora-against-third-division-of-state/articleshow/81417740.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Tamil Nadu alliance will give 3rd alternative to people: AIMIM||HYDERABAD: The AIMIM, which has formed an alliance with Dhinakaran-led Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), will contest from Vaniyambadi, Krishnagiri and Sankarapuram assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu. Announcing this here on Tuesday, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi said there is a political vacuum in Tamil Nadu which AMMK-AIMIM alliance is trying to fill and give a third viable political alternative to the people who are fed up of the two traditional alliances led by DMK and AIADMK, respectively. “Our intention is to become the voice of Dalits, OBCs and Muslim minorities as they do not have much of a voice in the DMK and AIADMK-led alliances,” he said. Owaisi will address a public meeting in Chennai on March 12 wherein the alliances’ manifesto is likely to be announced. He will jointly campaign with Dhinakaran and other alliance partners in Tamil Nadu. On his efforts to tie up with the DMK not materializing, Owaisi, in an apparent reference to DMK-Congress alliance in Tamil Nadu, said: “Unfortunately, some of the secular parties try to project AIMIM as an untouchable party. They think they would lose the majority community vote if they come close to MIM. They are not seeing that they have already lost the majority community vote in many states. They feel insecure, try to distance themselves and accuse MIM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tn-alliance-will-give-3rd-alternative-to-people-mim/articleshow/81419083.cms||Roushan Ali
March 10, 2021||Bareilly||Bijnor’s stray leopard released in PTR||PILIBHIT: A seven-year-old leopard that had killed a 10-year-old boy in Bijnor’s Haliyapur village, some 10 to 12 km from Amangarh tiger reserve (ATR), was trapped late on Sunday, translocated to Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) and safely released in Mahof forest range early on Tuesday. The leopard had been terrorizing the people in the area and injured many for the past 15 days, said divisional forest officer of ATR M Semmaran. “We succeeded in trapping the leopard after placing a cage with a live bait at a spot it was known to frequent,” he said The DFO said the decision on releasing the leopard in a forest region other than Bijnor was taken to wipe out possibilities of its re-straying from the wild into an area which it was familiar with. Before releasing it, a medical examination was conducted by the veterinary officer of PTR, Dr Daksh Gangwar, who along with his team had escorted the leopard from Bijnor to PTR. “The leopard was assessed to be seven years old and was healthy without any physical injury or deformity. It was found fit for release in the forest,” said Daksh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bijnors-stray-leopard-released-in-ptr/articleshow/81416516.cms||Keshav Agarwal
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Anti-dowry task force constituted||Hyderabad: City-based NGO Tehreek Muslim Shabban (TMS) on Monday announced the constitution of Islaah-e-Mu’ashira Social Reform Task Force to eradicate the evil of dowry system. The Tehreek Muslim Shabban made the announcement during a round-table meeting organised in the city. TMS president Mushtaq Malik said that a state-wide campaign would be organised to eradicate the evil of dowry and silent protests will be held at weddings against extravagant expenditure. “A state-wide door-to-door social reform campaign will be organised to prevent people from indulging in dowry transactions. We will organise silent protests at weddings that indulge in extravagant expenditure,” Malik said, adding that a state level anti-dowry conference will be organised to create awareness among the public against the evils of dowry. Malik said the organisation will also campaign against weddings and events that stretch late past midnight. Islamic scholars, intellectuals, social activists and qazis were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anti-dowry-task-force-constituted/articleshow/81419037.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Nagpur||GST intelligence unearths another fake ITC claims racket||NAGPUR: The directorate of goods and services tax intelligence (DGGSTI) has reported yet another case of massive fake input tax credit (ITC) claims using a maze of dummy firms. A person from Jalgaon has been arrested for running dummy firms which recorded fictitious transactions worth over Rs500 crore. This led to availing of credit to the tune of Rs 46.5 crore. The action was taken by Nagpur zonal unit of DGGSTI. The person has been remanded in judicial custody till March 19. The person had floated 18 dummy firms using the names and credentials of his relatives to create non-existent firms. The modus operandi was as usual. The firms booked fake sales of commodities which mainly included iron and steel. Tax credit was available on the basis of such transactions. The credit is available on the tax paid at the time of purchases of inputs. However, like other cases, the entire purchases were fake with no actual transfer of goods. The only purpose of recording the purchases in books was to avail a fake ITC. The Jalgaon case is among those involving large amounts. In the other cases so far, the ITC was claimed through a chain of dummy firms floated by different persons. Here, the entire network was created by a single person based in Jalgaon, said sources. The person had also burnt down some of the documents in order to destroy the evidence. This was also confessed by him during the interrogation, stated a DGGSTI press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gst-intelligence-unearths-another-fake-itc-claims-racket/articleshow/81419055.cms||Shishir Arya
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||A year of pandemic: How Jaipur tamed Covid||JAIPUR: Rajasthan on Tuesday completed a year of Covid pandemic as the first person from the state, 85-year-old Shankar Lal (name changed), a resident of Adarsh Nagar in Jaipur, tested positive on March 10, 2020. Since then, more than 3.2 lakh people have tested positive in the state. A 69-year-old Italian tourist was the first to test positive on March 2, but he was not a Rajasthani as he had come to the state with a group of tourists from the European nation via Dubai. Soon after he tested positive, the health department swung into action and conducted screening of residential and commercial areas in a 3-km area of his house. A three-layer screening system came into force — first a team of ANMs, then deputy chief medical officers and finally rapid response teams conducted surveys in these areas. But, the major challenge health authorities were faced with was when a 45-year-old businessman flew into Ramganj from Oman and mingled with his friends and neighbours in the packed bylanes of this old Jaipur pocket until he tested positive for the disease on March 26. The next three months were not less than a nightmare for residents of the area as 23 residents died of Covid, 5,157 were placed in institutional quarantine and more than 1 lakh isolated themselves at home. Also, other parts of the Walled City area came in the grip of Covid. “It was the start of the pandemic in the state and we were prepared for it. But, as it happened in Ramganj, we had a difficult work in hand - one was to make people aware and use religious and local leaders of the area to generate awareness and the other challenge was contact tracing and treatment of positive cases. We did mass samplings and a lot of people of the area remained under institutional quarantine. But, it took almost three months to bring the situation under control,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I), under whose guidance the measures for containing spread of the virus was taken in the city. Cases also cropped up from other areas the Walled City. “Almost a year has passed and we are almost there where we started. Now the city is reporting 20-30 cases daily, which is a big relief,” he said. The health department is appealing to the people to keep following Covid-19protocol, wear face masks, follow social distancing and other norms to ward off risk of getting infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/a-year-of-pandemic-how-the-city-tamed-covid/articleshow/81419036.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Groom calls off wedding for want of more dowry||HYDERABAD: A groom refused to turn up at his wedding in Old City scheduled on Monday on the occasion of Women's Day. Syed Azmath, 26, allegedly called off the wedding for want of more dowry. The wedding was scheduled at a banquet hall in Pahadishareef of Old City. However, after waiting for hours for Azmath, a technician, at the decked-up venue, the bride's family lodged a police complaint against him. Azmath is absconding. The bride's family alleged that Azmath visited their house several times with his family and convinced them for the marriage. “He came to our house several times, when we said we were not interested, he visited our house with his parents and sisters, and only after that were we convinced about him,” said the bride’s brother. The bride’s kin alleged that once the match was fixed and the dates were decided, Azmath began to demand additional dowry and household appliances. “Azmath had skipped a pre-wedding event too, but after that he came early morning on the wedding day and promised us that he would marry my sister and my father was convinced. However, he skipped the marriage," rued the bride's brother. According to a relative of the bride, several relatives and neighbours of the groom did not turn up for the wedding as Azmath had spread rumours that the bride's father has passed away and the wedding was cancelled. Following a complaint lodged by the bride’s family, police registered a case. “We have booked a dowry harassment case. Probe is underway,” said S Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, circle inspector, Pahadishareef police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/groom-calls-off-wedding-for-want-of-more-dowry/articleshow/81419047.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Gulf workers meet Union min on referral wages issue||Hyderabad: Gulf Joint Action Committee (JAC) members on Tuesday called on Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan in Delhi and demanded that the Centre withdraw circulars reducing the minimum referral wages of Indians workers in the Gulf. The JAC members met representatives of various political parties from different states on the issue. The team led by Guggilla Ravi Goud handed over a representation to the minister explaining how the workers were put to loss because of the two circulars. The JAC undertook a ‘Chalo Delhi’ programme to highlight the woes of the workers. “The reduced wages are adversely affecting Indians working in the Gulf countries. They are getting paid much lesser because the MEA said Indian workers can be paid lesser than what they were getting earlier,” the delegation said and urged the Union minister to roll back the two circulars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gulf-workers-meet-union-min-on-referral-wages-issue/articleshow/81419111.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Akhila’s husband granted bail||Hyderabad: Justice G Sri Devi of Telangana HC on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to Bhargava Ram, husband of former AP minister Bhuma Akhila Priya, and her brother Jagatvikhyat Reddy, who were accused of kidnapping landowners in a land tussle, with certain conditions. Akhila Priya was also arrested and came out on bail in the kidnap case a few weeks ago. Kiranmayi Naidu and Muralidhar Naidu too were granted anticipatory bail in the case. Two more accused, Sidharth and Mallikarjun Reddy, who were arrested and sent to jail, were granted bail earlier. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akhilas-husband-granted-bail/articleshow/81420667.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Goa||Mega Mahashivratri celebrations at Zadani in Mhadei sanctuary poses threat to tiger corridor||KERI: Zadani, an otherwise uninhabited area within the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary in Sattari, has recently been witnessing an increase in human activity, including an upcoming Mahashivratri celebration planned here. These activities are set to pose disturbance and a serious threat to this wildlife habitat. As per the notification issued in 1999, Zaranim (Zadani) is included in the Madei Wildlife Sanctuary area, under Section 26 (A) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 by the Goa government. Shockingly, a temple has been erected in this wildlife habitat in recent years, and now a grand celebration of the Mahashivratri festival has been planned here. The last time the festival was celebrated at the temple, it attracted a huge crowd, causing degradation to the environment inside the protected area. As per historical records, Zadani had once housed human settlement. However, Portuguese colonial records show that an outbreak of malaria led to the area being deserted. And the area is without any human settlement for at least a hundred years. Over time, nature took over and the area became a wildlife habitat, recognised as per the 1999 notification, where Zadani (earlier notified as Reserve Forest) was included in the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary. Zadani is also part of the tiger corridor. During recent years, during Mahashivratri celebrations, a Shivlinga dedicated to Basweshwar, which had been lying in the forest inside a small hut, was installed at Zadani. Last year, after Shivratri celebrations, the temple was erected and the scale of the celebrations grew. “We will take necessary steps to protect the area by discouraging activities posing threat to the wildlife habitat,” deputy conservator of forests Wildlife, Jabestin Arulraj, said. Range forest officer of the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary, Narayan Prabhudesai, said, “I have interacted with the organisers and already informed them about rules and regulations of the wildlife sanctuary, which they have agreed to follow.” Zadani lies on the right bank of the Mhadei and is frequented by wild animals, including tigers and leopards. The area is also located adjacent the Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary of Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mega-mahashivratri-celebrations-at-zadani-in-mhadei-sanctuary-poses-threat-to-tiger-corridor/articleshow/81419136.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Moolchand flyover repair hits traffic, relief likely in a week||NEW DELHI: The repair work on Moolchand flyover, which has resulted in traffic snarls on the stretch, is likely to get over in a week, following which the traffic will resume as usual, said a public works department (PWD) official, adding that the work includes fixing of potholes and expansion joints. The official said the repair work on Greater Kailash-II to Jangpura side was also under way, for which the entire stretch on the flyover was closed. Last week, the same repair work was going on from Jangpura side. The vehicles were diverted to the main road running underneath, which caused huge traffic jams during peak hours. The PWD officials, who will carry out the work, said there was no reason to panic as the gap was a result of natural contraction of girders and would be fixed soon through special joints (expansion joints). They added that, apart from the expansion joints, there were also a few other issues that needed fixing. They explained that since this flyover sees at least 1 lakh vehicles every day, the repair work takes place frequently here than other flyovers, which have less traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/moolchand-flyover-repair-hits-traffic-relief-likely-in-a-wk/articleshow/81438284.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||Proposed redevelopment of Sukhatal divides locals; admin says local ecology will be protected||Nainital: The proposed redevelopment plan of Sukhatal — a large wetland located barely half-a-kilometre from Naini lake — has divided locals. Even though all the residents and environmentalists are in favour of restoration of the lake, there are differing opinions on how restoration should be done. While some of them have favoured the creation of a lake as well as the proposed landscaping in the wetland, others say a more natural method should be adopted to preserve the local ecology. Speaking to TOI, Nainital-based environmentalist Ajay Singh Rawat said that at present he finds no fault with the project and that it will help stop encroachment in Sukhatal that has been going on for years. “There are vested interests who want encroachment in Sukhatal to continue. However, now that the administration has planned to rejuvenate the lake, this is the only way to stop encroachment in the area, and therefore, this is necessary,” he said. Vishal Singh of Centre for Ecology Development and Research (Cedar) said that even though rejuvenation of the lake is required, a more natural approach should be taken and less focus should be on plastering the lake with tiles and other materials that stop seepage of water into the ground. “There is no doubt that the lake needs to be restored, but wetland ecologists should have been consulted for the project so that it had a natural look. A better and soft landscaping should be done in the restoration work and use of stones or tiles should be restricted to the bare minimum,” Singh added. Meanwhile, another resident Rajiv Lochan Sah took a more neutral stand and said that even though it would have been ideal to develop the lake naturally, at present the proposed project is the only way forward. “We would have wanted the area to be developed more naturally, but we also know that the area needs redevelopment at the earliest, therefore, we have to move forward with the project,” Sah added. However, the Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVN), which is tasked with the redevelopment work, said that the project will not disturb the local ecology instead the amount of recharge water will be doubled. “We have planned to hold around 108 lakh litres of water for the lake. This entire amount will come from rains and we have also increased the catchment area so that even the rainwater that was running off will now be utilised. Apart from this, we have planned to keep 50% of the total space aquatic and sandstones are being used for most of the landscaping. Therefore, we estimate that the project will ultimately double the groundwater recharge,” said KMVN managing director Rohit Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/proposed-redevelopment-of-sukhatal-divides-locals-admin-says-local-ecology-will-be-protected/articleshow/81417795.cms||Prashant Jha
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Fuel price hike: BJP forgetting the poor, says Asad||Hyderabad: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday said the BJP government is forgetting the poorer sections of the society who are badly affected by the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. Replying to queries from reporters on Tuesday about increasing prices of petrol, diesel and gas over the last few weeks and how the upward revision of prices has stopped after election notification was issued for the five states, he said, “Modiji (PM Narendra Modi) who has come from a poor background is forgetting the poor. Modiji says he is doing everything but here poorer sections are suffering. Women members of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana have stopped taking a second refill of cooking gas. They are not in a position to pay Rs 860 for a refill of a domestic gas cylinder because they also have to pay rent and buy food.” Stating that Modi says Beti Bachao, he said, “Go and ask the poor women what the price hike has done to them. Will the BJP government understand the problem only when women hit the roads?” he asked. He said the hike in fuel price has badly affected several sectors and many have lost jobs. “Modi government is an enemy of two-wheeler riders, taxi and truck drivers, farmers who use tractors for agricultural purposes, the poor who drive autos to earn their livelihood and poor women,” he said. The Hyderabad MP said the Modi government should realise that it is these sections of people who go to polling booths in large numbers on two-wheelers and cast their vote and not those who use posh cars. If an election is successful, it is because of these sections of society. “Why can’t the BJP government reduce the taxes on petrol, diesel by at least 10%? But here is a case where the poor are becoming poorer and are suffering the most,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fuel-price-hike-bjp-forgetting-the-poor-says-asad/articleshow/81419097.cms||Roushan Ali
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||MC nod to Manimajra multilevel parking project||Chandigarh: The general house of the municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday discussed and approved the multilevel parking project in Manimajra. The project will come up on 0.75 acres of land, where the civic body has been running a paid parking lot. The land is situated along government schools, a busy area. The MC will hire a consultant to prepare the details of the project. Since the civic body has been passing through the acute financial crunch, the said project will come up on PPP (public private partnership) mode. Under the PPP mode, the selected bidder will construct the project, run it for 15 years and after that it will be MC property. Sources in the MC said, “Currently, the civic body has been running the surface parking on the location in Manimajra, where the multilevel parking has been planned. The project of multilevel parking is really required. Since the area is quite thickly populated, there is no parking facility here, which forces people to park their vehicles at unauthorized places and along the roadside areas.” Significantly, if the project matures, it will be the first project of parking of the MC, which will come up on PPP model in Chandigarh, sources revealed that some commercial portion can also be considered there for to make the project financially viable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-nod-to-manimajra-multilevel-parking-project/articleshow/81417808.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||AAP terms CZMP meet ‘illegal’||PANAJI: AAP has termed the Sunday’s public hearing on the draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) as nothing but “a drama” staged by the government just to meet the constitutional requirement of having held a public hearing without actually hearing the public . AAP Goa convener Rahul Mhambre said that Goans will not tolerate this “blatant violation of their fundamental right”. He said that public hearing means giving people a right to speak and be heard. On Sunday, people registered to speak, including some elderly citizens, were not even allowed inside the meeting hall, Mhambre said. AAP demanded that CZMPs be sent to the village panchayats where people will study them and give their comments, which have to be accepted by the government. Meanwhile AAP functionary Advocate Prasad Shahpurkar started a signature campaign of the people who were not permitted to enter the CZMP hearing despite having registered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-terms-czmp-meet-illegal/articleshow/81419184.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Bareilly||Coop union election in Kheri turns ugly, anti-socials open fire||BAREILLY: The process of filing of nomination for president’s post of the Kheri Pilibhit Upniveshan Sahkari Vikas Sangh turned ugly when some anti-social elements allegedly opened fire indiscriminately in its office in Sampoornanagar area of Kheri district on Tuesday afternoon. Several rounds were fired and office property vandalized despite the presence of policemen. After learning about the firing, both Kheri DM Shailendra Singh and SSP Vijay Dhull rushed to the spot with extra force to control the situation. The election has been called off till further notice. A probe has been ordered and police are collecting videos of the incident to identify the suspects. According to sources, 11 directors of the cooperative unions were supposed to elect their president and only one candidate had filed his nomination. Trouble started when another aspirant for the post was not allowed to enter the nomination room. Soon his supporters started staging a protest outside the office gate. Suddenly, some unidentified people opened fire in the air with countrymade pistols in a bid to disperse the crowd. Videos of the incident that surfaced on social media show people running for cover while some people are seen firing before fleeing. The sources said a political party-supported candidate, Uma Shankar Mishra, who had filed his nomination was expected to win unopposed. However, an aspirant from the same party showed up unexpectedly to challenge the former. Observers attributed the incident to internal strife in the party. SSP Vijay Dhull told TOI, “No one was hurt but we are investigating the incident. Videos are being scanned to identify the miscreants and an FIR will be registered against them soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/coop-union-election-in-kheri-turns-ugly-anti-socials-open-fire/articleshow/81416576.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||HC questions T over denial of e-pattadar passbooks to farmers||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Tuesday sought to know from the state government as to why its officials were refusing to give e-pattadar passbooks to farmer Burra Venugopal Goud and several other farmers in Secunderguda of Gandipet mandal despite possessing pattadar passbooks for their land. A bench of Justice A Rajasheker Reddy and Justice Shameem Akther shot this poser while hearing a batch of appeals filed by the state government and some individuals who were challenging the order of a single judge which declared that Secunderguda is not a Paigah village and directed the government to issue e-passbooks to Venugopal and others. State counsel Harender Pershad said the government is still treating it as a Paigah land which is under the control of court of wards. Appearing for the farmers, senior counsel Ravinder Rao said it is surprising that the government has filed an appeal against the order of the single judge which ruled in its favour. “By declaring that Secunderguda is not a Paigah village, the single judge practically annexed 187 acres to the state. Since the state itself had given occupancy rights and pattas to Venugopal and a few farmers over 40 acres of land, the rest 147 acres would naturally vest with the state,” Harender said. He argued, “Why should the state appeal against such an order that too when it is maintaining that it has no title interest over the land.” The bench sought replies from the state government and posted the case to March 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-questions-t-over-denial-of-e-pattadar-passbooks-to-farmers/articleshow/81419177.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: SRA, Mhada should take up slum hsg, says minister||Mumbai: Pointing out that many slums, especially on the coastline of Mumbai, were located on prime land, state housing minister Jitendra Awhad said he was of the view that rather than developers, SRA and Mhada should develop housing for the slumdwellers. Once the rehab tenements for slumdwellers were ready, the rest of the land could be auctioned, he said. “This is my view. It has not been placed before the cabinet. But if all the slum lands along the coast from Bandra to Badhwar Park could be developed in this manner then it will be profitable for entities like Mhada which currently lack money,” said Awhad. Responding in jest, BJP leader Yogesh Sagar said, “If you start a scheme like this, your minister’s post could be in trouble. The cartels will target you.” Awhad also gave an assurance that the government would not evict those who had received notices for selling their rehab houses before the lock-in period of 10 years was over. Awhad said the government was trying to get the period reduced to five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sra-mhada-should-take-up-slum-hsg-says-minister/articleshow/81420711.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Air Force stn, tech school get crests||Hyderabad: A ceremonial parade was organised on Tuesday for handing over of crests to Air Force Station Begumpet and 19 TETTRA School (Technical Type Training School) , Hyderabad. Air Marshal RD Mathur, Air Officer Commanding–in-Chief, Training Command, reviewed the parade and handed over the station crest to Group Captain Sunil Tomar, Station Commander, Air Force Station Begumpet and Unit Crest to Wing Commander Joginder Kumar, Commanding Officer 19 TETTRA School. Crests of the formations and units are approved by President of India and have historical and sentimental value to the air force and units. It depicts the role of formation, its aspirations and portrays its deeds of glory. Crests comprise standard frames with motto of Air Force Station Begumpet and 19 TETTRA School scrolled in their frames. The parade contingent displayed discipline and esprit-de-corps, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/air-force-stn-tech-school-get-crests/articleshow/81420695.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||Crowded Ramganj’s epic battle against killer virus||JAIPUR: If there’s a ‘tale of triumph’ against Covid, Ramganj would certainly be among the top five in the country. Crowded Ramganj’s narrow lanes, multiple families crammed in a single building and congested markets with sanitation woes draw a typical picture of old city areas, which is now part of the city’s urban area always battling against its unique problems. When pandemic struck at Ramganj in early-2020, it required thousands of police and healthcare and sanitation workers to camp for over two months to control the situation. A year later, the situation has limped back to normal. After a year of ordeal faced by people here, Ramganj urban primary health centre (UPHC) is offering Covid vaccine, a hope to people who know the importance of it. “What I witnessed last year was beyond my imagination. I have spent my whole life here, but never saw such a disaster caused by a virus. Thank god, we have a vaccine, I am getting it today to protect me against the virus,” said 73-year-old Sarita Devi, who got the first dose of the vaccine. UPHC, a maternal and child health centre till 2006, now has an OPD facility and a vaccination centre. Staff at the UPHC, too, looked happy while vaccinating the beneficiaries. “People here understand the importance of vaccines and they (above 60) are now coming here for vaccination. Almost 15-20 get vaccines daily,” said Dr Meena Ahuja, in-charge of the UPHC. Narrating Ramganj’s ‘tale of triumph’, 70-year-old Sheikh Haji Nisamuddin, who has closely witnessed the area said, “It was as if evil attacked the place when the first case was detected on March 26. There were police everywhere and health workers and sanitation workers wore personal protective equipment at work. It was a horrific scene. People became each other’s enemy. I personally felt feel it when I went to the affected areas to help administration during screening and contact tracing, people accuse us of unnecessarily sending them to quarantine centres.” He said, “Covid has not caused damage to the health of the people that much. But, at one point of time, Ramganj became infamous due to the pandemic, which is unwarranted. Irrespective of the areas, caste, religion, Covid has affected everyone in the past one year. Here, people lost their jobs and still a lot of youths are jobless.” A lot of people have started back from scratch and started their normal lives. A 59-year-old Mohammad Jafir said, “Our business totally depends on tourists. But, tourism has been badly affected, even though our production has now increased to 70% of what we were doing before the pandemic.” Jafir runs his ancestral unit manufacturing mojari (traditional footwear) in a narrow lane where five other workers were giving shape to the shoes. However, unemployment is a serious issue in the area. 50-year-old Abdul Hamid and his 20-year-old son Junaid Akhtar earn their livelihood by driving e-rickshaw. “I do not have any job, so I help my father by driving an e-rickshaw. In the morning, he goes to earn and in the evening I go with the e-rickshaw,” he said. Incidents of scuffle among unemployed youths have also risen. A messenger from a local court, bringing along with him summons against more than five youths in a case related to scuffle and asked them to sign and to remain present on the date of the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crowded-ramganjs-epic-battle-against-killer-virus/articleshow/81419180.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||CBI books Hyderabad-based firm for Rs 173-crore fraud||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked a case against city-based Parikh Fabrics Private Ltd and its promoters on the charges of duping the State Bank of India to the tune of Rs 173 crore. A case of cheating and criminal misconduct was booked based on a complaint by SBI commercial branch at Koti. Directors of the company Nikhil B Parikh and Rita B Parikh were named as accused. “The company was getting credit facilities since 2003. It renewed them in 2010 to the tune of Rs 65 crore. The account became a non-performing asset in 2011. The accused diverted the funds, manipulated the books of accounts and caused Rs 173 crore loss to the SBI,” the CBI said in the FIR. A forensic audit in May 2019 had unearthed the fraud. “The company has not routed the sales proceeds of Rs 73 crore through lender banks between 2009 and 2019. It maintained an account with HDFC Bank and routed a major portion of sale proceeds to the bank. The company also made payments to related parties through non-consortium bank accounts. The intention to operate through another bank account is to defraud us,” the SBI said in its complaint. The company has also not provided data to forensic auditors prior to 2015 so as to conceal the facts, the CBI said. The company paid Rs 2.25 crore in 2015-16 to a related party and adjusted it against the share application money which was outstanding as on 2015. Without the consent of the bank, this amount was misappropriated by the company. The company also understated its liability to the extent of Rs 46 crore, the CBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-city-firm-for-rs-173-cr-fraud/articleshow/81419170.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Patil & Mahadik camps square off ahead of Kolhapur civic elections||Kolhapur: Allegations and counter-allegations between the camps of district guardian minister Satej Patil and senior BJP functionary Dhananjay Mahadik over the payment of property tax have set the tone for the upcoming Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections. After the electoral defeat in 2019, Mahadik had joined the BJP. He was recently nominated to the two-member panel to strategise the KMC election. He was absent from the proceedings of the 2015 civic body elections. Though he was an NCP MP in 2015, Mahadik was allegedly helping the BJP-Tararani Aghadi combine against the Congress and NCP in the civic polls. Patil’s supporters claim that Mahadik is now trying to make some space for himself in the upcoming election by levelling personal allegations against Patil. “He got into BJP expecting to stop the action against him for allegedly duping the workers of the sugar cane mill that he operates. However, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was formed in the state. Though Mahadik is known to change parties, we expect him to remain in the BJP for five years. Mahadik cannot gain space in local politics without slinging mud on us. But citizens are clever, due to his anti-party activities, he was defeated in the 2019 Lok Sabha election,” said Sharangdhar Deshmukh, a senior Congress corporator. Mahadik, meanwhile, has appealed to the citizens to not pay property taxes as long as Patil himself continues to evade the taxes on properties he and his family members own. Mahadik has even claimed that the KMC is going to burden the citizens by increasing property tax and in such a situation, allowing bigwigs to evade taxes is an injustice. Mahadik has threatened to sit on a fast outside the KMC building if the administration does not recover the taxes from Patil. “Our claims are true. We will move a petition in the Bombay high court if the administration fails to take appropriate action. The minister must not sling mud at me. Instead, he should respond to our allegations point by point.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/patil-mahadik-camps-square-off-ahead-of-kolhapur-civic-elections/articleshow/81415770.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Denied media gallery entry, new Cong chief sits at door in protest till evening||CHANDIGARH: Not leaving any chance to corner BJP over the hike in water tariff, newly- appointed Congress city president Subhash Chawla on Tuesday morning suddenly reached the MC office and tried to enter the media gallery but was stopped by the security staff. After arguments, when security personnel did not allow him, he sat at the entry door of the media gallery till evening in protest. Chawla was seen giving instructions to Congress municipal councillors over phone during the course of the house meeting in the assembly hall, dictating them the strategy over water tariff. Chawla was repeatedly calling councilor Gurbax Rawat and following his instructions, she kept asking questions from the municipal commissioner and subsequently wrote a rollback table agenda and gave it to the mayor. Not only this, during the lunch break, all five municipal councilors came to the sixth floor and sat along with Chawla to show their solidarity. Moreover, earlier the Congress municipal councillor Satish Kainth raised the issue of not allowing Chawla in the media gallery. It led to heated arguments between Kainth and BJP councilors. Since the MC election is scheduled in the month of December, many Congress leaders and Congress councillors are in the race for tickets and everybody is trying their level best to keep themselves in the good books of the new president Chawla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/denied-media-gallery-entry-new-cong-chief-sits-at-door-in-protest-till-evening/articleshow/81417801.cms||Deepak Yadav
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||Centre & Raj argue over vax supply||JAIPUR: The Union ministry of health on Tuesday said there was no shortage of Covid vaccines in the state. It claimed Rajasthan had been provided with 37.61 lakh doses and 24.28 lakh had been used till Monday night. The health department claimed it received 31,45,340 doses and not 37.1 lakh. Health department sources said as they were left with limited doses, they have discouraged giving first dose to beneficiaries at certain centres. Across the state, 39,986 beneficiaries got the first dose and 20,836 the second on Tuesday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said since vaccines were not being supplied in sufficient quantity, they have to stop first dose vaccination at primary and community health centres. Gehlot has appealed to the ministry of health to send the sufficient vaccines urgently. He said the shortage will not only affect the pace of vaccination, but will also discourage people and corona warriors as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-raj-argue-over-vax-supply/articleshow/81419187.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||36 Indira Rasois in soup for not keeping records||JAIPUR: After witnessing alleged irregularities in maintaining records of Indira Rasoi beneficiaries, the directorate of local bodies (DLB) has sent a letter to 36 urban local bodies seeking explanations. Under the scheme, it is mandatory for operators to take mobile numbers along with other information including name of residents to whom food is provided at subsidised rates. The department verifies the number of sold food plates based on the data including mobile numbers. Moreover, it also seeks feedback of the scheme from beneficiaries. An official said, “In the data uploaded on March 4, it was recently found that Indira Rasoi operators were not keeping a record of the beneficiaries’ phone numbers. We have sought an explanation.” The irregularities surfaced in the corporations of big cities of the state including Jaipur (Heritage and Greater), Jodhpur (North and South), Udaipur, Bikaner and others. An official said the department keeps the record to maintain transparency. “The cost per plate is Rs 20, however, it is provided on subsidised rates. The consumer has to pay only Rs 8. The operators have to maintain the data of beneficiaries,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/36-indira-rasois-in-soup-for-not-keeping-records/articleshow/81419193.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||‘Private forest land issue needs clarity’||POINGUINIM: Stating that people are still unclear about the concept of private forest land, Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar has demanded that the process of identifying these private forests be halted, for at least 15 days. This is to enable dialogue between the people and government authorities, that could held clarify doubts, he said. Gaonkar recently held a discussion with deputy conservator of forests, Anil Shetgaonkar, at the forest office in Sanguem. Speaking to reporters, Gaonkar said that since the cashew season has begun and people have started clearing of plantations, they should not be obstructed from doing their work by the forest officials. Stating that the cashew crop is the main source of income for many of these farmers, he said the issue needs to be given sufficient time for discussion. “Within the next two days we will submit letters on this issue to all concerned heads of government. We are hopeful that a special meeting will be called for to discuss the issue threadbare and finalize a solution,” he said. Meanwhile, Shetgaonkar said that the survey work is being carried out as per the directions of the Supreme Court, wherein private forest land in the state is supposed to be identified and demarcated. He said teams have been formed, consisting of the talathi, local forest officials and surveyors. The team visits the land coming under the identified survey numbers and lists the forest and non-forest trees. The owner is also given the details about the survey. He said that considering the objections filed by the villagers, a review committee has been constituted, which will study the matter and submit its report to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-forest-land-issue-needs-clarity/articleshow/81419191.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chandigarh||MC puts up ‘I Love Panchkula’ selfie points on roadside||Panchkula: The municipal corporation (MC) has installed “I Love Panchkula” LED lights, calling them ‘selfie points’, on a roadside. LED lights with the words. “I Love Panchkula” with a heart-shaped red symbol between the words was installed by the MC last week at the entry point of Panchkula from housing board light point. MC commissioner R K Singh said under the various development works for the beautification of the city, various selfie points will be made. Singh said the initiative was appreciated by residents. To further expand the selfie points, similar LED lights will be installed at all the entry/exit points in popular market areas as well. It will help in promoting the city name through selfies shared on the social media by residents, he said. However, resident welfare association members, on the other side, said such selfie points should not be installed at entry/exit points, as people will stop their cars on the busy roads, increasing the chances of accidents. Such selfie points must be placed in market areas, bus stand, railway station and not on the centre of the busy roads, they said. Citizens Welfare Association president S K Nayar said “The initiative is good to promote Panchkula city but the MC officials must re-think about installing such selfie points on busy roads. It is not a good idea to install them in between the roads.” Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal has asked the MC commissioner to ask his team to prepare a new design for the entry gates towards Panchkula from the housing board Light Point. The officials have also been asked to prepare fresh designs for the entry gates to be made from Zirakpur entry. Similarly, entry points at Pinjore and Barwala will also be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-puts-up-i-love-panchkula-selfie-points-on-roadside/articleshow/81417811.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
March 10, 2021||Nashik||Mumbai-bound train derails, all passengers safe||Nashik: Movement of trains in a section of Bhusawal division of the Central Railway was affected following the derailment of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (Mumbai)-bound special train from Howrah on Tuesday. Bhusawal divisional railway manager Vivek Kumar Gupta said the rear generator van/guard van derailed between Katepura and Borgaon stations under the Bhusawal division at 11.15 am. “There was no injury to passengers. The remaining coaches of the train left for the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 1.15 pm,” added Gupta. Railway officials said the mishap affected the movement of some long-distance special trains plying on the route. Some Mumbai and Pune-bound trains were stranded at different stations as repair works were on at the mishap site. “The special trains in the down direction too have were delayed by 55 minutes to 2 hours. Some of these trains include the Howrah-bound trains from Ahmedabad and Mumbai. Similarly, the special train to Puri from Surat was also delayed,” said railway officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mumbai-bound-train-derails-all-passengers-safe/articleshow/81415778.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||‘Aayog Aapke Dwar’ drive begins in Tonk dist||Jaipur: The state child commission has launched its second phase of awareness campaign in Tonk from Monday. It will be extended to Sawai Madhopur on Wednesday. This campaign is essentially to raise awareness about crimes against children and will investigate the reasons as to why many children are unable to get access to education. The campaign called ‘Aayog Aapke Dwar’ talks to children about good and bad touch also.The commission officials headed by Rajasthan state commission for protection of child rights visited the government schools and interacted with the children along with taking part in a self defence camp for students.Officials claimed that the programme’s aim is to ensure that children and their parents/guardians are made aware about their rights. In most cases families are not aware about their rights due to which crimes against children are not reported. The campaign wants them to understand that they should not be swayed by societal pressure to not report such crimes. A phone number for reporting children’s mental health issues was also launched earlier this year. This campaign will be taken to Sikar, Kota, Ajmer, Udaipur, Jaisalmer and other districts as well. According to officials, the campaign has no time limit as the aim is spread it all the districts in the state in order to ensure that children are aware about the actions to take in case they face a situation of criminal consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aayog-aapke-dwar-drive-begins-in-tonk-dist/articleshow/81419203.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Neolithic grooves found in Patancheru||Hyderabad: Prehistoric grooves used by the early Neolithic man to sharpen stone axes have been found at Indiresam, a village in Patancheru mandal on the outskirts of Hyderabad. The grooves are likely to be 4,000 years old. Dr E Sivanagi Reddy, an archaeologist, identified the grooves on Tuesday during his explorations conducted at the site, close to a Siva temple on a hillock. Sivanagi Reddy said: “A shallow groove (20cm length, 3cm width, 5cm depth), found on the rock bed towards the left side of the stone flag staff of the temple, was used to sharpen the dolerite celts by the Neolithic people of the period between 6000–2000 years BC (before the Christ), which was known as transition from food gathering to food production phase.” Based on the evidence, Reddy thoroughly surveyed the surroundings of the find spot for tools of the Neolithic period, but he could notice microliths of the Mesolithic period only and broken stone sculptures of Nandi, Anjaneya, Saraswathi and Nagadevatha of the medieval period. He appealed to the state heritage department to conduct further explore the area around Indiresam village to know the Neolithic site’s archaeological potential.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/neolithic-grooves-found-in-patancheru/articleshow/81420769.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
March 10, 2021||Dehradun||Possibility of deputy CM being named; oath-taking of new CM likely to take place on March 11||Dehradun: With more than half a dozen names doing the rounds for the chief minister’s post, speculations are rife that the BJP may appoint a deputy CM as well to placate contenders. A decision on this is expected at the party meeting scheduled for Wednesday. The name of Pushkar Singh Dhami, MLA from Khatima, regarded to be close to Trivendra Singh Rawat as well as Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is being spoken of as a possible deputy CM. Sources added that with a new chief minister and deputy chief minister, portfolios of several ministers were also likely to change. They may be named at the BJP legislative meeting on Wednesday and take oath the next day. Three vacant cabinet berths are also expected to be filled. While Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, RSS general secretary Suresh Bhatt, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Lok Sabha MP Ajay Bhatt and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari are being regarded as frontrunners for the post of CM, a number of other legislators are the in race for the three vacant ministerial berths (two were vacant since Rawat took oath as CM in 2017 and a third fell vacant when then finance minister Prakash Pant died in 2019). Chandra Pant, the wife of Prakash Pant, Vikas Nagar MLA Munna Singh Chauhan, Didihat MLA Bishan Singh Chufal and Badrinath MLA Mahendra Bhatt are likely to be considered for these berths. BJP state chief Bansidhar Bhagat is another contender for the post of a minister and if he is given a cabinet position, the party may need a new state chief. “Before naming a CM, a minister or a state chief, the party will look into various factors, like if the candidate is from Kumaon or Garhwal, or if he is a Thakur or Brahmin. The trends so far have been that a balance is sought to be maintained between Thakurs and Brahmins as well as Garhwal and Kumaon while accommodating contenders,” said party a leader who chose to remain anonymous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/possibility-of-deputy-cm-being-named-oath-taking-of-new-cm-likely-to-take-place-on-march-11/articleshow/81417854.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Aurangabad||State’s tourism capital fails to find mention in budget||Aurangabad: The state budget had little mention of funds for developing tourism in Aurangabad, which is considered the tourism capital of Maharashtra. Aurangabad is famed for the two world-heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora caves. In addition, tourists sites of the centuries-old water mills at Panchakki, historical gates, Bibi-ka-Maqbara, Daulatabad fort make it a popular draw among tourists from across the world. The tourism and hospitality industry, which took a beating during the lockdown, was hoping for some boost in the state budget. There are about 10,000 people directly as well as indirectly dependent on tourism in Aurangabad, making it one of the biggest employers here. Sunit Kothari, the chairman of the Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation, rued that neither the Union government nor the state government allotted any funds for the tourism sector in Aurangabad. President of the Ellora guides welfare association Amol Basole told TOI, “The unfortunate things for us is that despite having the potential, we do not have strong leadership. It is the biggest reason for us being ignored each time,” he said. He said that innumerable tourists, domestic as well as foreign, cite the bad roads as the reason to skip visits to Ajanta caves. Authorities including those from the administration refused to comment on the issue. Shiv Sena office-bearers cited the financial crisis that the state exchequer is going through due to the lockdown as the key reason for not allotting funds. Sena MLC Ambadas Danve said, “During the pandemic, the priority is to save lives of people by effectively countering the disease on all fronts. Tourism is a priority sector and we are committed to its development and promotion.” Countering the claim, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel said, “Lonar Llake, Panchgani and other places have found mention in the state budget, but MVA did injustice by ignoring Maharashtra’s tourism capital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/states-tourism-capital-fails-to-find-mention-in-budget/articleshow/81415788.cms||Mohammed Akhef
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||JMC-Greater commissioner inspects 3 areas||Jaipur: In a sudden inspection to check city’s sanitation condition, Jaipur Municipal Corporation-Greater, commissioner Yajna Mitra Singhdev visited Malviya Nagar, Jagatpura and Sanganer Zone on Tuesday. Looking at the piles of garbage at various places including Jawahar Circle, B2 Bypass, Apex Circle of Malviya Nagar area and unsanitary condition at the night cleaning sites, the commissioner gave notice to the chief sanitary inspector of the area.He expressed his displeasure at seeing both sides of the road filled with garbage outside Jawahar Circle and warned the officials of action. During inspection at the extension counter of Indira Rasoi at Apex Circle, garbage streaked the area and even the utensils, chairs and tables were found dirty. He directed to give notice to the officer concerned. Singhdev said, "Situation here is very bad, there is no place to eat. How is a person supposed to eat here." At Paanadhay Circle, cows were tied up on the road spreading dirt everywhere. Singhdev immediately instructed to seize the cows and send them to gaushala.Singhdev directed to write a letter to commissioner, Rajasthan Housing Board, for cleaning the debris and dirt lying on the road outside Pratap Enclave. He said that if RHB does not get it cleaned, then the corporation should get it cleaned and send the bill to the housing board. Since the said colony has not been transferred to the corporation, the responsibility of its cleaning lies with the housing board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-commissioner-inspects-3-areas/articleshow/81419200.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Goa||US national found dead in rented premises at Agonda||POINGUINIM: The body of a US national, Rafi Kennin, 55, was found in a decomposed state in his rented room at Agonda, Canacona, late Monday evening. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide and estimate that Kennin has been dead for three days. “We found Kennin hanging in the kitchen of the rented room,” Canacona police inspector Tulshidas Naik said. The owner of the rented premise informed police after Kennin was not seen for a few days and his room was found to be latched from the inside. Police said that Kennin was last seen on Friday. As per police reports, people had found him to be disturbed. Naik said that a case of unnatural death has been registered and that it is suspected that Kennin died by suicide. Kennin had arrived in the country prior to the Covid-19 lockdown in February 2020 and there after had got stranded due to the pandemic, police sources said. His visa was valid up to 2025. Sources said that the foreign national had been a regular visitor to Agonda for more than a decade and was well-known in the area. Deputy superintendent of police Kiran Poduval visited the spot along with Naik after which the body was sent for a postmortem examination to the Goa Medical College. The autopsy will be conducted in the presence of the deceased’s relative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/us-national-found-dead-in-rented-premises-at-agonda/articleshow/81419205.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Pune||RTO to soon introduce grading system for driving schools||PUNE: The regional transport office (RTO) will soon grade driving schools in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits based on a survey of the quality of services they offer. Senior RTO officials told TOI that the checking-cum-grading will help in ascertaining centres operating legally and illegally and enable driving centres to improve their services. “There will be three grades — A, B and C, where A stands for very good, B stands for good and C for satisfactory. Centres, which receive grade below C will not be allowed to function,” Pune’s deputy RTO Sanjay Sasane said. Both the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad limits have around 200 driving schools registered with the RTOs. However, driving school sources said that there were around 200 more schools, which either had no proper infrastructure or existed just on paper. “The transport department has provided us with parameters, which will be used to grade driving centres. These parameters include the number of cars a centre has, condition of the cars, kind of theoretical training it imparts, do they have facilities like simulators, test track, classrooms, whether students are given lessons on basic vehicle maintenance, among others. While the RTO will not provide any special perks to the centres in A grade, they can advertise themselves with the certificate they get from the RTO,”, another RTO official pointed out. Recently, driving schools had opposed a road transport ministry proposal allowing licence seekers, who have passed out of an ‘accredited’ driving school, not having to appear for test for driving licence. “The issue of accredited driving schools had come up, but the requirements are so costly that it cannot be afforded by the majority. The RTO should try to identify driving schools operating illegally,” the proprietor of a driving centre said. The road transport ministry had proposed last month that driving schools across the country will be provided with accreditation if they enhanced their facilities. These included setting up of test tracks over one acre of land, having latest equipment and simulators for the students etc. The ministry has opened the proposal for a public consultation for now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-to-soon-introduce-grading-system-for-driving-schools/articleshow/81419198.cms||Joy Sengupta
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||Two held with over 10kg silver in Kota||Kota: The city police on Tuesday arrested two persons and recovered 14 slabs of silver weighing 10.2kg during checking of vehicles at Nanta Circle under Kunhari police station.A team, led by ASI Mahendra Singh of Kunhari police station, spotted a car coming from Kota-Udaipur highway during the checking of vehicles at Nanta. "While checking the car, police recovered at least 14 slabs of silver weighing around 10.2kg," Kota SP Vikas Pathak said. When inquired about the bills of the silver slabs, the two youths in the car identified as Shahid (30) and Aman Khan (20) could neither produce the bills nor the papers of the vehicle, he added. Putting under scan the transportation of unbilled metal, police seized 14 silver slabs under Section 102 of CrPC, seized the car and booked the two youths under Section 151 of CrPC, he said. Further inquiry is underway, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-held-with-over-10kg-silver-in-kota/articleshow/81419208.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Anand Teltumbde secretly met Maoist brother: NIA||MUMBAI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA), while opposing a bail plea by Elgar Parishad accused Anand Teltumbde, has claimed that he was in touch with wanted accused Milind Teltumbde and had secret meetings with him. The two Teltumbdes are brothers. The NIA said Anand had inspired Milind to join and expand the Maoist movement. The bail plea is scheduled for hearing on March 11. The NIA in its reply said Anand used to attend international conferences and used “foreign Maoist literature” for training purposes after obtaining the approval of the Central Committee of the CPI (Maoist) to expand the movement. It said witnesses’ statements revealed that Milind alias Deepak was expanding the Naxal movement of Maoists in urban areas with the help of his “real elder brother Anand Teltumbde” at the international level. Anand had given a lecture at a programme in memory of a senior CPI (Maoist) member too, said the NIA. Anand is a professor at the Goa Institute of Management, said the NIA. Milind is alleged to be a secretary of the MP-Chhattisgarh unit of the banned CPI (Maoist). The NIA said: “Milind in his urban area visits during January to June every year to Nagpur, Pune, Chandrapur, Bhopal, Indore, Katni, Amarkantak, Mandala, Dindori, Shahdol etc used to meet his brother Anand Teltumbde for taking guidance to advance the movement of CPI (Maoist).” It said Anand, to further the Maoist agenda, used to attend international conferences “under the guise of his academic visits at Canada, Pakistan, USA, France etc. and … exchange literature on ideology, training and working strategy of CPI (Maoist) with international communist organisations”. The NIA said Anand was in touch with the co-accused. The NIA said a letter from a person named “Prakash to Anand is recovered from the electronic data of [co-accused] Rona Wilson” regarding a Paris convention. It mentioned Anand’s visit to Paris for a human rights convention on April 9 and April 10, 2018, and “lectures on Dalit issue in order to give traction to domestic chaos”. The NIA reply said that during this period the “domestic chaos related to Dalit issue was only the Koregaon Bhima incident”. In one letter, the NIA said there was approval of Rs 10 lakh yearly for “international seminars and lectures on Dalit issues”. Anand, who surrendered in April following refusal of relief by the SC, said he had not met his brother for 25 years and his bail plea alleged that the NIA was making a “desperate attempt” to corroborate the case against him. Denying the charges and case against him, his bail plea said there was no evidence of Maoist links against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-anand-teltumbde-secretly-met-maoist-brother-nia/articleshow/81420806.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Budget’s focus on temples, not people: Raju Shetti||KOLHAPUR: Lives of the people cannot be uplifted by building temples, said Raju Shetti, farmers’ leader and president of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, reacting to the budget presented by Maharashtra finance minister Ajit Pawar on Monday. Shetti, in a scathing attack, said the budget has its focus on temples and not people. The budget has allocations for the development and preservation of old temples and several religious places. Shetti said the budget was not satisfactory as there is nothing in it to bring a change in the lives of people who are suffering due to the Covid pandemic. “I expected there to be a relief for the common citizens who have been demanding a waiver of power bills for the duration of the lockdown last year. Everyone was out of work during that period and now too, many are out of work or have taken salary cuts. These people needed to be given some relief by way of power bill waiver,” said Shetti, who had, along with the consumers’ forum, led several agitations in the past year over the power bill issue. Shetti further said the finance minister seemed to have forgotten about his last year’s budget speech, in which he had assured to bring in a new scheme to waive the loan of farmers with loan amounts of more than Rs 2 lakh. The government has waived the loans of farmers with loan amounts of less than Rs 2 lakh. “The finance minister did not even hint at what he is going to do about the loans of such farmers in the budget. During the launch of the loan waiver scheme in 2019, the government had announced a grant of Rs 50,000 to farmers who pay the loans regularly. No grant has been given so far,” said Shetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shetti-budgets-focus-on-temples-not-people/articleshow/81415797.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Lucknow||Excise revenue slump leads to fall in UP’s Feb collection||Lucknow: After a steady rise in the past five months despite Covid-induced slowdown, UP's revenue collection witnessed a dip of around Rs 2,000 crore in February 2021, thanks mainly due to a sharp decline in excise revenue. Last month, the revenue collection had shot up by Rs 2700 crore, powered by a surge in excise collection. This is the first time in the past six months that the revenue receipts have shown a downtrend. Last month, the government presented its annual budget of Rs 5.50 lakh crore for the financial year of 2021-22. The finance department figures available accessed by TOI show that the total revenue receipt -- tax and non-tax -- in February 2021 was Rs 11,291 crore while in the same month last year it was Rs 13,309 crore. Among various heads, the sharpest decline of Rs 2108 crore was seen in excise -- from Rs 4260 crore in February 2020 to Rs 2152 crore this year. In fact, out of all revenue heads, only Vat, stamp and registration and mining have posted a growth. While Vat collection has gone up by Rs 244 crore, stamp and registration by 262 crore. The GST collection has seen a decline of Rs 89 crore -- from Rs 6620 to 6531 and transport revenue has registered a dip of Rs 100 crore. It was 654 crore last year and this year Rs 554 crore. The general perception behind the continuous decline in revenue in the transport section is that the Covid-scared public is still avoiding public transport and causing a revenue loss to the state government. The total collection in February 2020 was Rs 13,309 crore while this year it is Rs 11,291 crore. The collection this year is 82% of the targeted revenue of Rs 13,375 crore. Last year's collection was 106% of the target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/excise-revenue-slump-leads-to-fall-in-ups-feb-collection/articleshow/81420794.cms||Subhash Mishra
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||For justice, sexually abused kids may have to wait for 10 yrs||JAIPUR: A study by Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation (KSCF) released on the International Women’s Day revealed that if no case of child sexual abuse under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 is reported then the pending cases as on 2016 will be completed in ten years' duration in Rajasthan. This nationwide study showed the duration for completion of cases under Pocso Act for all states and union territories in India. The study, "Police case disposal pattern: An enquiry into the cases filed under Pocso Act, 2012’, is an analysis of pattern of disposal of Pocso cases by police during 2017-19. It is based on the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. The study revealed that similar to Uttar Pradesh if a case under Pocso Act was reported in 2016 in Rajasthan then it would be completed by 2026. The study also reveals that the percentage of cases in which trials have been completed is a mere one-tenth of the total cases under trial. As per the NCRB data analysis, in a large number (two-fifth) of Pocso cases which were disposed of by police without chargesheet, the reason cited was ‘cases true but insufficient evidence, or untraced, or no clue’. Rajasthan has been frequently in the news for crimes against children with the recent one being of a 5-year-old girl in Jhunjhunu who was abducted and raped leading to serious injuries that she had to be operated on. Two years back, a 6-year-old girl in Tonk was raped and strangulated with her school belt. The accused who was a truck driver was known to her. "In all crimes, especially those against women and children, we try to investigate and file the chargesheet at the earliest. In fact, the duration of investigation has been brought down to half so that the victims get justice at the earliest. However, once the matter reaches court, the duration of the trial might be prolonged," said a senior police official. The study also claimed that sexually abused children have to wait for approximately ten years (based on absolute number of pending cases as on 2016) for justice while it takes around 28 years to complete the trial of pending cases as on 2016 (based on disposal rate). The foundation makes certain recommendations including setting up a dedicated police cadet corps for registration and investigation of cases of crime against children, constituting National Children’s Tribunal, exclusive courts in every district, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-justice-sexually-abused-kids-may-have-to-wait-for-10-yrs/articleshow/81419212.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||With 99.9, Durgapur girl tops Bengal in JEE (Main)||Kolkata: Adyasha Patra, a student at Manisha International School in Durgapur, has topped JEE (Main) February session from Bengal with a 99.99 score. Patra, who took the engineering entrance test in English, already started preparing for JEE (Advanced), long before the JEE (Main) results were published on Monday. “I studied at Carmel Convent till Class X. I shifted to CBSE because I wanted to get a competitive edge. Also, my earlier school did not offer me an opportunity to study science subjects as the stream was unavailable there,” said Adyasha, who had scored over 96.6% in ICSE. The JEE (Main) was held on February 25. As practice, the top-scorer from Bengal had taken a number of mock tests. “So, I was confident about a high score. But of course, I didn’t expect to top from Bengal,” she added. Asyasha has her eyes set on IIT Bombay. “My dream institute is IIT Bombay, where I want to study computer science engineering. Electrical engineering is my next choice. The four years in engineering will allow me to decide on my next course of action,” she said. Six candidates of JEE (Main) has scored the perfect 100. “My parents are elated with my results. I’m a bit disappointed for not clinching the perfect 100, but it feels amazing to be the topper from my state,” said Adyasha, an only child of a professor and an engineer. She is also preparing for WBJEE. Adyasha started attending classes at a coaching chain when she was in Class IX. “The learning process started since then. I also went to private tutors for each subject. It is about setting your priorities right, coupled with time management, which allowed me to bag the top spot from the state,” Adyasha said. As tips to students looking to score high in the engineering entrance test, the Durgapur Township resident said, “Solving the earlier question papers us helpful. I took mock tests within stipulated time. Also, the study materials given by my tutors were methodical and precise.” Among her favourite subjects are physics, mathematics and chemistry. The lockdown also saved Adyasha a lot of time. “The time I saved from not having to go to school was utilized in studying,” she said. When she does not study, she likes to play guitar. “I have also competed in district-level badminton championship till Class XI,” Adyasha said. Sharing her success mantra, she said, “We need to trust ourselves in the exam hall and should not stress over the paper. Consistency is another important factor and regular practice is the key to success.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-99-9-durgapur-girl-tops-bengal-in-jee-main/articleshow/81419229.cms||Somdatta Basu
March 10, 2021||Jaipur||‘Former SP of Dausa sought Rs 40 lakh from I-T officer in rape case’||JAIPUR: Suspended IPS officer Manish Agarwal during his stint as Dausa SP had demanded Rs 40 lakh from an income tax officer to facilitate him in getting out of a rape case against the officer and had also taken Rs 5 lakh from a property dealer to remove the name of his father from an FIR. This was revealed by the Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Monday while filling 4,000-page chargesheet against Agarwal and two middlemen, including Neeraj Meena and Gopal Singh. The chargesheet is in connection with the alleged extortion racket case of Dausa. Also, the ACB has named two policemen including the then SHO and a constable of Nangal Rajawatan police station of Dausa in the chargesheet and left investigation pending against them. In the chargesheet, the ACB has got five victims of IPS officer Manish Agarwal during his stint as Dausa SP. “This case is not just confined to the road construction company who was fleeced by Agarwal. Thus, we have made five victims as witnesses were taken for the 164 CrPC statements in which they had narrated how they were fleeced by the then SP Agarwal,” said Dinesh MN, additional director general (ADG), ACB. When contacted, Pushpendra Singh, additional SP, ACB, said, “One Himanshu Sharma is a property dealer. His father was wrongly implicated in four different cases for which the then SP Agarwal had taken Rs 5 lakh as bribe and two registration papers of different pieces of lands. Likewise, Agarwal had demanded Rs 40 lakh from an income tax officer to give him benefit in a rape case.” “We have taken five victims of Agarwal on record and have attached in our charge-sheet and have also taken more than 60 independent witnesses to establish the deep rooted corruption racket run by the accused,” Singh added. In the charge-sheet the accused Agarwal has been charged of sections 7, 7 A, 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act and section 384 and 120-B of IPC. “Similar charges were put on the two middlemen including Neeraj Meena and Gopal Singh arrested in the same case,” Singh added. Apart from this ACB has left investigation pending against the then SHO and constable of Nangal Rajawatan police station of Dausa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/former-sp-of-dausa-sought-rs-40l-from-i-t-officer-in-rape-case/articleshow/81419217.cms||Ashish Mehta
March 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Info panel draws flak for not publishing annual report for 3rd consecutive year||Aurangabad: The state information commission (SIC) has not published its annual report for the third year in a row now, drawing some criticism. Former central information commissioner Shailesh Gandhi on Tuesday said the SIC was setting a bad example before the government establishments. “The SIC should work in a disciplined and time-bound manner on every front and must lead by example. The lapse on its part definitely sends out a very negative message,” he said. As per procedure, the SIC submits its annual report to the state government, which then tables it before the state legislature. The annual report offers summary of work of the eight SIC benches in Maharashtra and gives an overview of RTI implementation by different public information officers and appellate authorities. Social activist Vishnu Dhobale said the annual report also serves as a platform for introspection for SIC as it comes out with a slew of reforms needed in the implementation of the RTI Act. An official mail sent to Maharashtra Information Commissioner Sumit Mullick remained unanswered till Tuesday evening. He could not be reached on the official telephone either.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/info-panel-draws-flak-for-not-publishing-annual-report-for-3rd-consecutive-year/articleshow/81415808.cms||Prasad Joshi
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sector V to get iron-free water from New Town||KOLKATA: Sector V that receives water from Tallah will now get two MGD (million gallons per day) of filtered iron-free water from the New Town water treatment plant very soon. Officials of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) will meet with the Public Health engineering (PHE) department officials on Wednesday to chalk out the modalities to start receiving the water supply. Hidco chairman-cum-managing director Debashis Sen said that three new filter beds have been installed and put on trial at the 20 MGD capacity New Town treatment plant that will generate and supply another 5 MGD of water. “The three new filter beds have been partially commissioned on trial to generate another 5 MGD of water in the treatment plant. Sector V now receives around 2 MGD of water from Tallah. The plan is once the water is being supplied, Nabadiganta will not take the two MGD water that it gets from Tallah as the water could be supplied towards the city system,” said a Hidco official. The reservoir in which water from Tallah is stored and distributed to Sector V is located at Salt Lake Central Park. Currently, New Town is receiving around 12 MGD and Salt Lake is receiving 4 MGD of filtered water supply per day from the 20 MGD capacity New Town water treatment plant. Four more blocks of 20 MGD each will be coming up as the total capacity of the treatment plant would be 100 MGD. As of now 20 MGD of water is being supplied and another 20 MGD water supply is to be commissioned soon. Raw water from river Hooghly is being flown into the New Town treatment plant through a pipeline, which is then treated and supplied to New Town, Salt Lake, Rajarhat and adjacent areas. IT companies located in Sector V have welcomed the decision. “With the new water tanks being set up in a modern way, the quality of water would be much better and supply would improve considering that it would be coming from a comparatively nearer location. With so many companies and people coming to Sector V daily, there is heavy demand for uninterrupted high quality water and this is a good decision,” said Sector V stakeholders association vice president Kalyan Kar. Around 700 companies are presently operating from Sector V and about 1.5 lakh people come to the IT hub on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sector-v-to-get-iron-free-water-from-new-town/articleshow/81417887.cms||Suman Chakraborti
March 10, 2021||Delhi||Repair Of Bhakra Canal May Worsen Water Crisis||New Delhi: Along with the shortage of supply from Haryana, Delhi may soon face the one-month period of repair and maintenance of the link canal sourcing water from Bhakra Nangal. Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials say three water treatment plants (WTP)are operating at 65% to 95% capacities, leading to low pressure in some tail-end areas, while no assurance has been received regarding delaying maintenance of the Nangal hydel channel, which supplies 25% of Delhi’s water requirement. This could mean a massive water shortage in April in some areas, they said. An official said the shortage of raw water from Haryana was still being witnessed with pollution levels being high. “The Chandrawal WTP is operating at 95% capacity; Okhla at 75%, Wazirabad WTP at 65%. The total water being received from Delhi Sub Branch (DSB) Canal and Carrier Lined Canal (CLC) from Haryana is 980 cusecs while the total water Delhi is getting from Haryana is 1,133 cusecs,” the official said. Another official said that the low levels of water in the Yamuna had also led to an increase in the level of pollutants. Under normal circumstances, the DSB canal gets 330 cusecs and CLC 683. DJB officials confirm that no assurance has yet been received on making alternate arrangements during the maintenance of the Nangal hydel channel. DJB had earlier said the maintenance between March 25 and April 24 would disrupt supply in the peak-demand summer month, triggering a water crisis . Out of Delhi’s installed water treatment capacity of over 935 million gallons per day, it receives 232MGD raw water from the Beas via this channel. DJB gathers water from four key sources — the Yamuna, the Ganges, the Ravi-Beas and groundwater. A water-deficient city, Delhi has peak water demands of over 1,260MGD, much above its capacity. DJB had received a letter from the Haryana government on February 12 stating that the channel would be closed during this period, prompting DJB to write to the Centre, Haryana government and the Bhakra Nangal authority that this repair work should not happen in such an important time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/repair-of-bhakra-canal-may-worsen-water-crisis/articleshow/81438392.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||2007 lecturer appointment scam: CBI arrests professor||Ranchi: A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday arrested an assistant professor of the Ranchi Women’s College (RWC) in connection with the lecturer appointment scam of 2007. College sources said the team came to the campus and showed the relevant documents to arrest Mamta Kerketta, an assistant professor of the English department. The agency had filed chargesheets against 69 persons, including five officials and examiners each and 59 aspirants in the case. Kerketta was one of the accused persons. A Ranchi district court had taken cognizance of the case under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 (2) read with 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The advertisement for the appointment of lecturers was issued on January 20, 2007. The eligibility criteria were 55% mark in post-graduation exam and certificates of PhD or M Phil or Jharkhand Eligibility Test or National Eligibility Test. The CBI has alleged that marks were manipulated to ensure the selection of certain candidates during the examination process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2007-lecturer-appointment-scam-cbi-arrests-professor/articleshow/81417488.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Vadodara||More than 600 city students achieve 90-plus percentile||Vadodara: Nearly 600 students from the city scored 90-plus percentile as the National Testing Agency (NTA) declared results of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main February 2021, first session, on Monday night. Kirtan Patel, a student of Green Valley High School, secured score of 99.99 percentile. Kirtan is a resident of Borsad town of Anand district. His father Dr Vijay Patel is a consultant physician. Kirtan will go for another crack at the test when JEE Main 2 are held. “I will try to improve my percentile by appearing in Main 2 as well. My focus is on JEE (Advanced),” said Kirtan, who dreams to pursue a degree in computer science from one of the top IITs. Maharashi Kadeval, a student of Shannen School, bagged 99.96 percentile. “My focus will be on JEE (Advanced). I want to study outside Gujarat to get good exposure,” said Maharashi, whose father Kamlesh works with L&T while mother Manisha is a homemaker. Akshat Sanghavi, who scored 99.93 percentile, too wants to pursue computer science. Akshat’s father Bhavesh works with an MNC while his mother Rajul is a homemaker. Akshat has scored 100 out of 100 marks in mathematics, a feat matched by Nihar Shah. Achieving a percentile of 99.79, Nihar too will go for the second attempt. Nihar’s father, Rakesh, runs a telecommunication products business while his mother Dimple is a homemaker. Nihar aims to launch his own tech start-up and be an entrepreneur in future. According to private coaching institutes, nearly 600 students have scored 90-plus percentile. “More than 20 students from our centre have achieved above 99 percentile and more than 62 students have scored 90-plus percentile,” said ML Jain, managing partner of FIITJEE Vadodara centre. IIT Ashram’s academic coordinator Devendar Vennu informed that over 20 students from the institute have scored above 99 percentile. “More than 199 of our students who have scored 95-plus percentile while close to 251 students have secured above 90 percentile. It is a welcome sign that students are working hard even from the comfort of their home,” added Vennu.JEE (Main) for the year 2021 was conducted in February instead of the conventional January due to coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-than-600-city-students-achieve-90-plus-percentile/articleshow/81416527.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||CM seeks oppn support to ‘rein in’ DVC for ‘misadventures’||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday sought the support of opposition MLAs in strategizing a stern action against Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) for its “misadventures” in Jharkhand. The state government is at loggerheads with the DVC and the Union power ministry since November over the non-payment of DVC’s dues by the JBVNL. In October, the Union power ministry had asked the RBI to deduct Rs 1,417 crore to pay a part of JBVNL’s dues to the DVC, which amounts over Rs 5,000 crore. “DVC is a Central PSU, but it operates on our resources. It supplies power only to industrial units and deprives the poor. They do not even dispense its corporate social responsibilities (CSR). The people of Jharkhand are fed up of it,” Soren responded on behalf of his government in Jharkhand Assembly to a call attention motion brought by MLAs Irfan Ansari, Umashankar Akela and Amit Yadav.In the call attention motion, the legislators had alleged that the DVC does not dispense its CSR duties, pollutes the environment and exploits the state’s coal and other, resources but supply the bulk of power to West Bengal. “There is a need to rein in DVC. If our colleagues from the opposition support us, we will rein it in for its misadventures,” Soren said. Speaking to reporters later, BJP whip Anant Kumar Ojha said the party is willing to support the government if they draft a holistic plan to end the PSU’s monopoly. Soren also assured the House to review a recent public hearing by Bokaro-based Electro Steel Limited (ESL) management for expanding its plant. Chandankyari’s BJP MLA Amar Kumar Bauri claimed that ESL’s public hearing was closed door. “The company only called a selected few to the hearing and kept it hush hush. This was in violation of the norms. The company is operating there for 13 years, but it has not done anything for the locals. It has not even opened a hospital or a school,” Bauri said. “A public hearing cannot be held behind closed doors. It requires attestation of government officers. The violation of CSR mandates is concerning. The government is reviewing the factories. Once it is done, all the wrongs being done will be corrected,” Soren said. Earlier, BJP lawmakers descended to the well and sought action against the guilty behind the death of a 22-year-old who succumbed to injuries after being beaten by a mob over allegation of vehicle theft in Ranchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-seeks-oppn-support-to-rein-in-dvc-for-misadventures/articleshow/81417320.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||3 officers suspended in mob lynching case||Ranchi: Ranchi police on Tuesday suspended three officers in connection with the alleged mob lynching of a youth under Kotwali police station area on Sunday night. A senior officer said sub-inspector Vaibhav Singh and assistant sub-inspectors Vijay Shankar Singh and Vishram Tiggawere punished for administrative lapses on their part after Sachin Kumar Verma (22) was thrashed to death on suspicion of being involved in vehicle theft. Though police claimed it rescued the person on getting information and sent him to hospital, allegations have been raised that police delayed the treatment process by keeping the victim at the police station. Meanwhile the police have arrested two persons in connection with the incident. Speaking on the issue in front of Vidhan Sabha, BJP MLA Biranchi Narayan asked why the government is silent over the incident. He pointed out that the current ruling parties were vocal in protesting against lynchings when they were in the opposition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-officers-suspended-in-mob-lynching-case/articleshow/81417383.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||‘3 killed in witch-hunt case in W S’bhum’||Jamshedpur: Three persons, including a woman, were killed in an alleged ‘witch hunt’ at Haatnada village under Sonua police station in West Singhbhum on Friday. Police is yet to find their bodies, which are lying in a naxal-affected forests along the borders of Khunti and Chaibasa, police said on Tuesday. West Singhbhum SP Ajay Linda said he has dispatched a team to the area after he received information about the killings late on Sunday and the team is proceeding with caution. Linda, however, added they could not establish the veracity of the information as the villagers were tight-lipped about the incident. "The team members enquired with the locals of the adjacent village but people said they have no information about any killings,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-killed-in-witch-hunt-case-in-w-sbhum/articleshow/81417194.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Goa||First empower new Lokayukta, Kamat tells CM||PANAJI: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, who received a request from the government to consent to the appointment of the new Lokayukta has demanded that the government first empower the new Lokayukta with authority and powers to act against illegalities and complaints. Referring to the letter he received from chief minister Pramod Sawant, Kamat said he will ask the CM to first empower the Lokayukta with necessary powers to handle cases of corruption. “After diluting the powers of the Goa Lokayukta, the government now wants me to give consent to the appointment of new Lokayukta. The Lokayukta is not a ceremonial post and it is the duty of the government to ensure that the institution of Lokayukta is provided with proper staff and equipped with full powers to act,” he said. Kamat said the institution of Lokayukta should be “so strengthened that the menace of corruption at all levels would be curbed in a substantial manner”. “The government chose to ignore the well placed bonafide objections raised by me and my colleagues in the opposition so much so that the result is the creation of a farcical institution of Lokayukta,” he said. Kamat stated that during his tenure as CM he requested the law commission of Goa to prepare a draft Lokayukta Bill . “The law commission responded to my request through their report No 15 dated September 19, 2011, and proposed strong and effective powers to the institution of Goa Lokayukta. The government must refer to the said law commission report and act on its recommendations,” he said. The Lokayukta Amendment Bill passed by the state BJP government in the recently concluded assembly session was opposed by the opposition by highlighting the fact that it sought to dilute the powers of the Lokayukta. “I will take a conscious decision while responding to the CM’s letter,” he said, promising to protect Goans’ interests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-empower-new-lokayukta-kamat-tells-cm/articleshow/81419259.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Business||OECD raises GDP growth forecast for FY22 to 12.6%||NEW DELHI: The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) raised India’s GDP growth forecast to 12.6% for 2021-22, supported by strong fiscal and quasi-fiscal measures. The OECD also estimated GDP to contract by 7.4% in the current fiscal year, slower than the earlier projection of an 8% decline. For FY22, it had earlier estimated the economy to grow by 7.9%. It expects China to grow by 7.8% in 2021-22. In its latest economic outlook, the OECD said the recovery in activity continued in the fourth quarter of 2020, despite new virus outbreaks in many economies and tighter containment measures. “Global output remained around 1% lower than prior to the pandemic, with marked variation in the pace of recovery across economies. The rebound has been relatively fast in several large emerging-market economies. Activity moved above pre pandemic levels in China, India and Turkey, helped by strong fiscal and quasi-fiscal measures and a recovery in manufacturing and construction,” it said. The Indian economy has recovered swiftly after being hit hard by the pandemic-induced lockdown. The IMF has projected an 11.5% growth for FY22, making it one of the fastest growing major economies. Growth returned to positive territory in the December quarter as economic activity gathered pace. The rollout of the vaccination programme is also expected to add to optimism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oecd-raises-gdp-growth-forecast-for-fy22-to-12-6/articleshow/81421765.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||Elderly living alone seek more cop protection, community policing||PANAJI: More interaction between police and the elderly, community policing and checking of antecedents of labourers are among the measures that could help ensure the safety of senior citizens who live alone. However, many elderly, jolted after the double murder at Fatorda on Monday, rue that they are often left to fend for themselves. A senior citizen who lives alone with her husband in Margao said the beat police, who years ago showed enthusiasm and shared their number, were never seen again. She said she doesn’t expect anything from the government. “The time has come where each one must take care of themselves and our neighbours if we can. We must revert to olden times when neighbours helped one another,” she said, afraid to share her name. “The government cannot and will not do any more than it is presently doing.” She said she wouldn’t want police to reach out to her. “I think police going around would be worse. Unfortunately, I don’t have a very good impression of them because some years ago, two robberies took place in my building and the neighbouring building in broad daylight, just 100 metres away from where the cops are always seen,” she told TOI. Another senior citizen couple living alone in Caranzalem said a neighbourhood watch of volunteers will be easy to set up with the help of the parish/temple committee and panchayat/municipal council. “They can check in on the seniors after 7pm every day. The women’s cell at the police station also doesn’t have much work and can be made to go on rounds every evening,” she said. The elderly on an island like Chorao feel even more vulnerable and cut off. They have been waiting for an interaction with the police. “We have had a meet in the past, but this should be regular. There hasn’t been any follow-up. Although there have been instances of police visiting the homes of seniors living alone, the visits are only to those who speak out. The others who keep quiet and who really need the reassurance are ignored,” a senior citizen on the island said. Although many seniors live in Chorao with their children either abroad or living elsewhere in Goa, she said community policing hasn’t picked up. “Since Chorao is an island, it has multiple entry and exit points and community policing would work very well here, but seniors don’t voice their concerns,” she said and added that a senior citizen committee that has representatives from Chorao should have been the link between the police and the elderly but hasn’t been functioning. Senior citizen Rui Ferreira said he didn’t feel safe living in the state capital either and added that there is no fear of the law. He suggested the creation of a separate police station for senior citizens on the same lines as the women’s police station. “This should be headed by a senior PSI who will only monitor issues concerning senior citizens,” he said. More CCTV cameras must be installed at key locations — including bus stands and train stations — in a tourist state like Goa that has a large floating population. Community policing on the lines of the model being implemented by villagers in Benaulim who successfully stopped littering, has been touted to be effective. More interactions with police during which they share safety do’s and don’ts is the need of the hour, social activist Roland Martins said. “People must be regularly briefed on modern types of crimes. Many seniors may not realise their serious consequence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/elderly-living-alone-seek-more-cop-protection-community-policing/articleshow/81419330.cms||Lisa Monteiro
March 10, 2021||Business||Centre-state cooperation needed to boost infra: Nirmala Sitharaman||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said that asset monetisation needs to be viewed not just as a funding mechanism, but as an overall strategy for bringing about a paradigm shift in augmenting and maintenance of infrastructure. Chairing the national workshop on asset monetisation, the FM said materialising the vision of a $5-trillion economy, while striking the right balance between fiscal imperatives and socio-economic welfare, can only be achieved through active collaboration between the public and private sectors. She also called for close cooperation between the Centre and states for development of infrastructure.  Sitharaman also underlined the government’s resolve for value creation and improvement in the productivity of brownfield infrastructure assets through innovative instruments. The government has identified asset monetisation and privatisation as two thrust areas to raise revenues and overhaul state-run enterprises. The workshop on asset monetisation was organised by government think tank NITI Aayog, along with the department of economic affairs (DEA) and saw the participation of chief secretaries of states and administrators of Union Territories.  The FM said investments planned under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) are is critical for boosting growth in states and the various initiatives in this year’s Budget will facilitate funding for infrastructure creation under the NIP. NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant highlighted the strategic need for monetisation and the various modalities that are involved. He said the partnership between central and state agencies is imperative for leveraging the enormous resource efficiencies of the private sector and for recycling public funds for infrastructure creation. Department of investment and public asset management ( Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey briefed participants about monetisation of non-core assets and disinvestment of public sector enterprises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-state-cooperation-needed-to-boost-infra-nirmala-sitharaman/articleshow/81421768.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Business||Hiring may hit pre-Covid level by year-end: Survey||CHENNAI: India Inc is getting more optimistic about business prospects and the job market is likely to gain ground in the upcoming quarter (April-June), with a three percentage point increase in employers intentions to recruit, sequentially. Manpower Group’s Net Employment Outlook (NEO), which measures employers’ intentions to increase or decrease workforce, came in at 9% for April-June 2021 — an improvement of three percentage points from the January-March quarter. Hiring plans are down two percentage points from the same period last year when Covid had just struck the economy. A majority (56%) said they were likely to get back to pre Covid levels of hiring by the end of 2021. About 27% of employers reported that they may return to pre-Covid hiring by June. The survey of 2,375 employers across India shows that 12% of them anticipate an increase in payrolls in three months, 2% forecast a decrease and 53% expect no change. Digital transformation will be a key driver for the job market, and those who can collaborate remotely and effectively, and have an upskilling mindset will stand a better chance over others, the HR firm noted. For 6-12 months, almost all (92%) of companies intend to offer their employees a mix of remote working and regular working at the office. Most cos don’t plan vax policyA majority (51%) of Indian companies said they would leave it to the individual employees to choose whether they would like to get vaccinated or not, and had no plans to set up a fixed policy on employee vaccination. (TNN)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hiring-may-hit-pre-covid-level-by-year-end-survey/articleshow/81421821.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
March 10, 2021||Rajkot||Ex APMC chief accused of Rs 1.8cr fraud||Palanpur: Former chairman of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) of Deesa is facing charges of embezzlement to the tune of Rs 1.80 crore.Deesa APMC’s manager Ishwar Desai on Tuesday lodged a police complaint against former APMC chairman Dashrath Kharana and others for the alleged fraud.The district registrar of co-operative societies on October 10, last year had dissolved the APMC committee and appointed an administrator to manage its affairs.The committee appointed by the district registrar has found that the former chairman and his accomplices had allegedly committed a fraud between July 11, 2016 and October 9, 2020 by producing fake bills and documents.Deesa police has registered the complaint based on the committee’s findings. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ex-apmc-chief-accused-of-rs-1-8cr-fraud/articleshow/81416135.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Business||Ice cream sales up after Covid freeze||NEW DELHI: India’s ice cream industry that faced a complete washout last year due to Covid is making a strong comeback. Top companies like Amul, Hindustan Unilever (HUL), Vadilal and Mother Dairy in the Rs 19,000-crore ice cream market have witnessed a sales growth of 3040% in February over the same period in 2019. “Summer has set in early this year,” said R S Sodhi, MD at Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Amul), the largest ice cream player in India. “We are expecting a growth of 100% over 2020 in the first four months of the ice cream season beginning March.” While around 60% of total ice cream sales take place in these four months, the industry shrunk by 60-70% in 2020, according to industry estimates. “March is going to be exceptional,” Sanjay Sharma, business head — dairy products at Mother Dairy Fruit and Vegetable, told TOI. “We sold in the first three days of March, what we sold during the entire month last year.” On March 24, the government ordered a lockdown across India. Mother Dairy, however, could sell products through its 2,000 kiosks as its business, which includes selling milk, was categorised as essential services. “During the lockdown, while the segment did suffer a setback, with the recent increase in mobility, we are seeing significant improvement in discretionary and out-of-home categories,” said a spokesperson for HUL, which sells frozen desserts and ice cream under the Kwality Wall’s brand.  Despite taking a major hit due to the pandemic, several companies, including Havmor and Mother Dairy, said the silver lining for the industry has been a major boost in take-home consumption. “Traditionally, the impulse category accounted for 60% of our business and 30% consisted of take-home. While this was reversed in 2020, this year, we aim to keep it (take-home) stable at 40%,” said Sharma. Rajesh Gandhi, MD at Ahmedabad-based Vadilal Industries, said, “In March, we are witnessing a growth of 3040% over 2019. But the industry is facing headwinds due to rising input costs, such as, freight and packaging material. It will, however, be able to absorb it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ice-cream-sales-up-after-covid-freeze/articleshow/81421837.cms||John Sarkar
March 10, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Biggest single-day spike in 2 months, seven hotspots likely to be sealed||GURUGRAM: The city’s daily Covid-19 numbers surged and hit a two-month high on Tuesday, with 75 people testing positive for the virus. The caseload currently stands at 59,449 and the positivity rate is 1.7%. The active case tally also crossed the 400 mark for the first time since February 15, when it had stood at 401. As of Tuesday, the city had 435 active cases, and 356 of the patients were in home isolation. In view of the rise in daily cases, the health department has advised the district administration to create seven more containment zones where more than five cases are currently active and shared a list with it. A call will be taken by the district task force on Wednesday regarding the matter. Currently, there are four containment zones in the city. Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav said the cases could rise in the coming days and urged people to follow Covid protocol. “We are currently in the initial phases of the vaccination drive and the majority of the people still haven’t got their shots. Hence, they need to use masks and maintain social distancing,” he said. Yadav added that the health department had been conducting more than 3,500 tests daily to detect cases at the earliest. “If needed, we will increase the Covid bed capacity in hospitals. At present, most of the cases are in home isolation,” he said. The last time more than 75 cases were recorded was exactly two months ago, on January 9, when 88 people had tested positive. The daily numbers had shown a downward trend from January 10 till February 27, after which they have been slowly rising again. Meanwhile, 36 more patients recovered on Tuesday, bringing the total number of recoveries to 58,654. The recovery rate stands at 98.7%. No Covid-19 deaths were reported. So far, 358 people in the city have died of Covid, of whom 276 had comorbidities. On Tuesday, one person was sent to an institutional quarantine facility. So far, 8,54,766 people have been put under surveillance in the city. In the past 24 hours, the health authorities collected 3,196 samples for antigen and RT-PCR tests. Till now, 8,51,180 samples have been sent for testing, of which 7,88,535 returned negative while the results of 2,482 are awaited. Meanwhile, the state registered 336 fresh Covid cases and four deaths. With this, the total tally reached 2,73,087. The toll is now 3,062. The recovery rate in the state is 98% and the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the state is 153 days. As far as sampling is concerned, 5,823,948 people have been tested till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/biggest-single-day-spike-in-2-mths-seven-hotspots-likely-to-be-sealed/articleshow/81419601.cms||Ipsita Pati
March 10, 2021||Business||Volvo India to exit diesel, plans to go full electric||NEW DELHI: Swedish luxury carmaker Volvo will be phasing out diesel cars from India by the end of this year and gradually move over to only electrics as the company works towards local assembly of green cars. The company, owned by China’s Geely, plans to launch one electric car per year as it shifts its car portfolio to sustainable mobility, in line with the global plans of its parent for a complete transition to green, Jyoti Malhotra, the new MD of Volvo Cars India, said. The company unveiled its first full-electric car meant for India — ‘XC40 Recharge’ compact SUV — and this will be launched towards the beginning of the festive season later this year (likely to be priced around Rs 45 lakh). Malhotra said the company is considering local CKD (completely knocked down) operations as GST on electrics is 5% against 45-50% on larger petrol/diesel cars. “We are evaluating (local EV) now… We are developing a business case,” he said, adding that the company will also conduct a feasibility study for a battery assembly plant and also possible export of green cars. Malhotra said Volvo India expects a healthy growth in its business, and is looking to double sales in two years from 1,400 units it sold in 2020. “Business was challenging last year as the country and the economy was hit by corona pandemic. However, things have bounced back, and we are seeing a lot of positivity now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/volvo-india-to-exit-diesel-plans-to-go-full-electric/articleshow/81421843.cms||Pankaj Doval
March 10, 2021||Goa||Nirbhaya Andolan: Locals come out in support of Canacona assault victim||Poinguinim: A Nirbhaya Andolan, demanding justice for the Poinguinim girl who was abducted, assaulted and threatened, was held outside the Canacona police station on Monday. Organised by Jagrut Canconkars, it was supported by many others. The protesters met Canacona police inspector Tulshidas Naik, who assured them that an FIR will be filed against the accused. Launching an attack against chief minister Pramod Sawant and the BJP government for putting pressure on police not acting tough on the accused, Congress’ Girish Chodankar said that five days after the incident, the girl is still in the hospital. GFP spokesman Prashant Naik said that no one from the government had yet visited the victim who is undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nirbhaya-andolan-locals-come-out-in-support-of-canacona-assault-victim/articleshow/81640441.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Gang attacks 3 walkers on Mumbai's Carter Road with chopper||MUMBAI: Three robbers attacked an event manager with a chopper and fled with his mobile phone on Carter Road in Khar around 4.30am on Tuesday. Two women who rushed to the victim’s aide were also attacked with the chopper, but they ducked and escaped without injury. The 33-year-old event manager needed five stictches on his hand for the injury. Khar police nabbed the trio, all labourers, within 12 hours and have booked them for armed robbery. The mobile has been recovered. A police official said, “As the two women screamed for help, the robbers attacked them too, and tried to twist the hand of one of them, but she escaped as the men fled on noticing other walkers rushing to the spot.” Two of the accused were caught within 20 minutes. Trio had robbed truck driver before Khar attack: PoliceThe three robbers—Salim Firoz Idrisi (19), Kalam Mansoori (18) and Mohammed Wasim Saha (19) —will be produced in Bandra court on Wednesday. A police team from Bandra and Khar scanned a 1km radius and caught Idrisi and Mansoori (18) within 20 minutes of the attack on Carter Road, while Saha was arrested from Baiganwadi in Shivaji Nagar on Tuesday evening. “The trio had robbed a truck driver in Ghatkopar around 1am before targeting the event manager,” Khar police senior inspector Gajanan Kabdule said. “Beat Marshal Madhu Jadhav and the team, after collecting information from the spot, scanned an almost 1km area and found the auto in which the three had sped away. The driver described the accused and the place they had gone too,” police said. Kabdule said that the accused had taken the auto from Carter Road after threatening the driver with a chopper. The police team also recovered Rs 2,000 and the truck driver’s mobile. Police are checking if there is any case against them in Ghatkopar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gang-attacks-3-walkers-on-mumbais-carter-road-with-chopper/articleshow/81421845.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
March 10, 2021||Rajkot||Think twice before seeking help in ATM, you can lose huge cash||Rajkot: ATM not dispensing money despite inserting the card? Think twice before seeking help from a stranger standing outside. For all you know, your debit card could be copied by the man offering help and you could lose cash from the account. On Wednesday, police arrested a 22-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh, who along with three others, cheated several gullible people by cloning their debit cards and withdrawing money from their accounts on the pretext of helping them. The accused, Pavan Patel, a native of UP living in Shapar-Veraval area was arrested and he revealed the names of Bhola Yadav, Mahendra Yadav and Kanaiya Patel, all residents of UP, who too are involved in the racket. Local crime branch (LCB) officials said Patel and his friends used to offer help to people when they came to ATMs to withdraw money. While helping the accused copied debit card data by swiping it into a skimmer. The accused then inserted the card into the ATM and while trying to withdraw money, they would remember the PIN as well. In most cases, the victim would not realize that the card has been swiped in a skimmer since the device is tiny and can easily fit in palm “They copied the data and using the data they made cloned debit cards to withdraw money from the victim's bank account later," said a police officer. "Till now, Pavan has confessed of having committed eight such crimes in the Shapar- Veraval area. Attempts are being made to nab others,'' police added. They kept a watch near ATMs and identified people who were not confident of operating the machine. Two of the accused would enter in the booth after the victim and would offer help.  The fraudsters then transferred the data from the skimmer to a blank card with a magnetic strip. Using the PIN, the accused used to withdraw money from some other ATM. Sources said the majority of banks have replaced the magnetic strip cards with electronic chip cards, but in some areas of state, the older version cards are still in use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/think-twice-before-seeking-help-in-atm-you-can-lose-huge-cash/articleshow/81416159.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Vadodara||Hectic politicking, little clarity on next mayor||Vadodara: Even on the eve of the day when the ruling BJP was to decide on the names for the posts of mayor, standing committee chairman and deputy mayor in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), there was hardly any clarity regarding the corporators who would occupy the chair. The first general board meeting of the newly elected corporators of the civic body has been convened on Wednesday. Ahead of this, elected members of the BJP that has a majority will be meeting at the party office in Sayajigunj. Sources said that with most corporators not having held any key positions in the past, the race was wide open. The post of the mayor is unreserved and this has added to the large number of aspirants that the party is dealing with. The two corporators who have some experience holding key positions in the VMC are Dr Hitendra Patel who has held the post of the standing committee chairman in the past and Keyur Rokadiya who was the earlier the chairman of the municipal school board, general secretary of the city unit of the party and a member of the fee regulation committee in the city. Other prominent names include Parakramsinh Jadeja who is also the party unit in-charge of Panchmahal. Jadeja was also the frontrunner for the post of the president of the city unit of BJP, but was overlooked in favor of Dr Vijay Shah. Sources said that some prominent post-holders in the city BJP as well as elected representatives were eyeing to prop Manoj Patel from Karelibaug for the post. Dr Rajesh Shah and Dr Sheetal Mistry – both corona warriors – are considered dark horses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hectic-politicking-little-clarity-on-next-mayor/articleshow/81416628.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Posing as Customs officials, they conned US citizens; 2 arrested||GURUGRAM: Police busted a bogus call centre and arrested two men who were working there on Tuesday. The sham call centre, which was set up in a building in Udyog Vihar-3, was raided after the police found out that it targeted US citizens. A team from Udyog Vihar police station raided the call centre which was set up on the third floor of the building. Police said around 35 youngsters were employed there. According to the police, the centre was being operated by three partners, who are now on the run. Two team leaders — identified as Ranjeet Singh Rana of Udaipur and Bhavesh Pankhi from Ahmedabad — were arrested from the spot. The accused have been running the sham call centre for past four months, police said. Police said that the accused gathered data of US citizens through a person, who is settled in Delhi. The callers, posing as Customs officials, contacted US citizens and informed them that they have received a parcel containing drugs addressed to the target’s address. “Before making the calls, the ‘executives’ had all details of their targets and a script ready in front of them,” SHO Satbir Singh said. Unlike other bogus centres, which cheats US citizens in the name of providing tech-support, this call centre extorted money from their targets threatening to cancel their social security number. In exchange, they asked their victim to pay fine through gift cards. They cheated each victim of around $3,000 (Rs 2.18 lakh) to $5,000 (Rs 3.64 lakh), police said. An FIR has been registered against the accused under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and sections 75 (cheating foreign national) and 66D (cheating by using computer resource) of the IT Act. “The computer hard drives have been seized from the spot will be sent to the forensic lab for further investigation,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/posing-as-customs-officials-they-conned-us-citizens-2-arrested/articleshow/81419715.cms||---
March 10, 2021||---||EC: Jawans to collect Bengal postal ballots||KOLKATA: The Election Commission on Tuesday said central paramilitary personnel will visit elderly voters at home to collect postal ballots. The EC has allowed octogenarians to opt for postal ballots amid the Covid pandemic. There are around 1.5 lakh such voters in Bengal who have taken up the option. EC officials said central forces would also assist persons with physical disabilities to cast their postal votes. They suggested that while 495 companies of central forces have already been allocated to Bengal, the number may go up to 800. Since law and order is a state subject, central forces can assist the administration.“We are trying to plug gaps in coordination. The EC’s role here is aimed at making a person confident to cast his or her vote without fear,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/west-bengal/ec-jawans-to-collect-bengal-postal-ballots/articleshow/81421874.cms||Debashish Konar
March 10, 2021||India||EC: Jawans to collect Bengal postal ballots||KOLKATA: The Election Commission on Tuesday said central paramilitary personnel will visit elderly voters at home to collect postal ballots. The EC has allowed octogenarians to opt for postal ballots amid the Covid pandemic. There are around 1.5 lakh such voters in Bengal who have taken up the option. EC officials said central forces would also assist persons with physical disabilities to cast their postal votes. They suggested that while 495 companies of central forces have already been allocated to Bengal, the number may go up to 800. Since law and order is a state subject, central forces can assist the administration.“We are trying to plug gaps in coordination. The EC’s role here is aimed at making a person confident to cast his or her vote without fear,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-jawans-to-collect-bengal-postal-ballots/articleshow/81421875.cms||Debashish Konar
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Model from New Town arrested in cocaine case||KOLKATA: An aspiring model from Kolkata’s New Town became the eighth person to be arrested in the New Alipore cocaine case. The case has so far seen the arrest of BJP leaders Rakesh Singh and Pamela Goswami. The accused has been identified as Amrita Singh, alias Sweety. “She was engaged by Singh to procure cocaine from alleged drug peddlers. She purchased it at very steep prices — Rs 9,500-10,000 per gram — and handed that over to Singh,” JCP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma alleged. Officers from the detective department’s narcotics cell claimed Amrita was reportedly active on the city’s nightclub and bar circuit. “She met a few political leaders, including Singh, at a hotel on Bypass. The two became associates and Singh asked if she could procure drugs for his contacts,” a police source aleged, claiming the deal was to buy at least 20 gram of cocaine every single time. Police said they would question Amrita about her client base.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-cops-model-held-for-procuring-coke-for-bjps-rakesh-singh/articleshow/81421878.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
March 10, 2021||India||SKM to hold 5 meets in poll-bound Bengal||AGRA: Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a forum representing at least 40 farmers’ unions, will hold five back-to-back mahapanchayats in poll-bound West Bengal, starting with Kolkata to highlight the “pro-corporate agenda” of the central government. The rallies will be held in coordination with West Bengal Kisan Coordination Committee in Kolkata, Nandigram, Singur and Asansol. Two rallies will be held in Kolkata on March 12 and 13. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and outfit’s general secretary Yudhvir Singh will lead the mahapanchayat in Kolkata on March13. SKM leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Darshan Pal, Manjit Singh, Himanshu Tiwari, Avik Saha and Yogendra Yadav will also take part in the mahapanchayats. Yudhvir Singh told TOI, “Farmers in West Bengal are also facing several problems. Their issues should find a way in the manifestos of parties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/skm-to-hold-5-meets-in-poll-bound-bengal/articleshow/81421881.cms||---
March 10, 2021||India||SC: Why are some road projects exempted from prior green nod?||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Union government to explain the logic behind its 2013 decision exempting road projects of less than100km length from prior environmental clearances as a PIL alleged that it was being misused to subdivide big road projects into less than 100km lengths to side-step the requirement of environment impact assessment. Challenging the 2013 notification issued by the environment ministry, ostensibly done to speed up road projects to improve connectivity, NGO ‘Association for Protection of Democratic Rights’ through advocate Prashant Bhushan said, “All environmental regulations are being dismantled systematically in this country”. Bhushan said the SC in two judgments — Lafarge case in 2011 and T N Godavarman Thirumulpad in 2014 — had stressed the need for setting up of an independent environmental regulator as it had found that clearances to projects were given as per the wishes of the government, causing damage to the environment. The Chief Justice S A Bobde-led bench asked additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati to file the Centre’s response before March 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-why-are-some-road-projects-exempted-from-prior-green-nod/articleshow/81421893.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
March 10, 2021||Mumbai||Rules eased to fast-track redevelopment of cessed buildings in Mumbai||MUMBAI: With hundreds of Mhada NOCs stuck for over a year, the state housing department has relaxed conditions for redevelopment of old and dilapidated cessed buildings in the city. It has scrapped a 2019 GR that, many developers said, had impractical conditions. Now, developers will not be required to deposit massive sums in escrow accounts to get a redevelopment NOC. They will only have to deposit 10% of the ready reckoner rate of the total proposed construction area in the form of a bank guarantee or fixed deposit in a nationalised bank. TimesViewThe 2019 GR had stalled redevelopment of dilapidated cessed buildings. The new rules are a welcome move. While conditions of redevelopment have been relaxed, there must be a timebound plan forredevelopment. Mhada must ensure timely redressal of grievances of residents and take penal action against developers for delays after issuing of NOCs. At the same time, Mhada must regulate and monitor the quality of construction strictly.GR that had stalled redevpt of cessed bldgs scrappedThe state housing department scrapped a controversial government resolution (GR), passed in September 2019, which had stalled redevelopment of such structures, and issued new rules for redevelopment of cessed buildings that are regulated by Mhada on Monday. Several developers had pointed out that redevelopment of Mhada buildings had come to a standstill since the old GR laid down several impractical conditions for builders seeking to redevelop them. One of these was that any builder who wants to redevelop a cessed building should have had a turnover of Rs 10-50 crore in three years. Another condition made it mandatory for the builder to have constructed 500 houses to be eligible to redevelop a cessed building. “If the landlord himself is developing the property or the housing society then they won’t have to show any previous building experience. If the owner is a developer then there will be some norms of previous construction experience. This will also apply if the owners or landlords sign an agreement with a builder for redevelopment,” an official said. Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh took up the issue of the NOCs last year with housing minister Jitendra Awhad. “In many cases, such as that of Byculla’s Abdullah Mansion, the builder had submitted a proposal and was waiting for an NOC. But no NOCs were being issued because of the 2019 GR. The conditions were so stringent and impractical that no small or medium-sized builder could fulfil them. Scrapping of the old GR is a welcome move. All NOCs that were put on hold must be fasttracked now,” Shaikh said. Amin Patel, Congress MLA from Mumbadevi, said scrapping the GR and issuing new guidelines was a good decision. “Given the Covid-19 pandemic, norms for redevelopment must be relaxed and builders must be given concessions so that redevelopment can move forward,” Patel said. Mhada officials said there are about 14,000 cessed buildings in the city, many of which are in urgent need of redevelopment. A cessed building is one which pays a cess or tax, which is actually a repair fund. These buildings are owned by private landlords and regulated by the Bombay Rent Control Act. Most are in south and central Mumbai, where structures date back to the pre-Independence era.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rules-eased-to-fast-track-redevelopment-of-cessed-buildings-in-mumbai/articleshow/81421876.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
March 10, 2021||Business||TCG Funds buys into GGE||Kolkata: TCG Funds Fund 1 has picked up stake in BSE-listed G G Engineering (GGE), which is an authorised original equipment manufacturer or OEM for Tata motors. As per bulk deal data available on BSE, TCG Funds Fund 1on March 4 has bought around 1,78,800 shares of GGE at Rs 123 apiece. GGE was established in 2006 to cater to the rising demand of quality sheet metal and heavy steel products. The company’s flagship products include smart reverse vending machines (RVMs), sheet metal components for commercial air-conditioners and industrial diesel generator sets. Inspired by the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, GGE launched fully automated and smart RVMs for crushing/shredding PET bottles with the objective of enabling environment-friendly disposal of plastic waste. The company also manufactures sheet metal air-conditioning components with powder coating for Tata Group’s Voltas and is the only approved vendor for the OEM’s Vadodara unit. Voltas outsources components for its commercial AC range at the Vadodara facility, where commercial ACs of 10 tonne and higher sizes are manufactured. Theses ACs are installed in malls, airports, corporate offices and other commercial facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tcg-funds-buys-into-gge/articleshow/81418999.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Chennai||1 lakh travel on Chennai Metro trains on March 8||CHENNAI: After almost a year, daily ridership at metro stations inched closer to pre-Covid levels with more than one lakh passengers using the trains on Monday without any caveats of free rides or other modes of transport off the table due to strikes. On Tuesday, Chennai Metro Rail Limited tweeted saying 1,00,942 passengers travelled across its 39 stations on Monday. Of this figure, 14,236, or about 14% of passengers, used the nine metro stations on the Washermenpet - Wimco Nagar line. Officials had earlier said the slashing of ticket prices, return of people to office, increase in domestic fliers and opening of the 9km north Chennai line were the reasons behind the steady increase in patronage. The daily average patronage in March 2020 was at 1.16 lakh. "We expected to touch pre-Covid levels in a month or two as lockdown restrictions are further relaxed," an official said. After resuming services on September 7, 2020, daily patronage steadily increased from 14,798 in September to 44,000 in January 2021. With more than 50% of commuters using trains during peak hours, the rise was evidently caused by people returning to their workplaces. A sizeable chunk also included passengers heading to the airport. After the north Chennai line opened in February, there was a spike in daily average ridership to 73,380 with nearly 12% of passengers seen in the nine newly opened stations. On February 14 when the new 9km line was opened, CMRL recorded a maximum ridership of 1.37 lakh. But, this increase could be attributed to the free rides offered that day to encourage passengers to use the service. Again, on February 26, when there was a strike called by unions which lead to MTC buses going off roads, metro trains recorded ridership of 1.15 lakh. An official said CMRL was working on issues like last mile connectivity across all stations, which when resumed would lead to further increase in patronage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1-lakh-travel-on-chennai-metro-trains-on-march-8/articleshow/81421903.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Goa||789 candidates in fray as stage set for civic elections on March 20, 21||Panaji/Margao: In all, 366 candidates are left in fray for the elections to the five municipalities, after 69 candidates withdrew their nominations and three candidates likely to be declared elected unopposed to the Quepem municipality. For the March 21 elections, there are 80 candidates in Mapusa, 112 in Mormugao, 90 in Margao, 43 in Quepem and 41 in Sanguem. Last week, 77 candidates withdrew their nominations, leaving 423 candidates in the fray for the March 20 elections to six municipal councils and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), as well as byelections to one zilla panchayat, one ward in Sakhali municipality and 22 panchayat wards. Counting of votes for elections conducted on March 20-21 will be held on March 22. With 22 candidates having withdrawn their nominations on Tuesday, 90 candidates have remained in the fray for elections to Margao Municipal Council (MMC) on March 21. The Congress has supported 11 candidates in Margao under the banner of Model Margao, while refraining from backing any candidate in any of the 11 wards of Fatorda, thereby suggesting that Congress has worked out an alliance with Goa Forward Party (GFP) for the civic polls, though there has been no official announcement in that regard so far. The BJP has also announced its panel of 25 candidates under the banner of Vibrant Margao. Ghanashyam Shirodkar and Damodar Shirodkar are looking at making a comeback to the council by contesting on the Model Margao panel, after being in hibernation for a term. Among those who are looking to get re-elected for the second term on Model Margao include Damodar Naik, Avinash Shirodkar and Manoj Masurkar. Notable among those from BJP’s Vibrant Margao panel are the husband-wife duo of Sadanand and Babita Naik, and Rajendra Azgaonkar, who are looking at making a comeback, as also Arthur D’Silva, Ketan Kurtarkar, Rupesh Mahatme and Sugandha Bandekar, who are seeking a second term. BJP leader Sharmad Raiturkar is contesting from ward 12. Parag Raikar, who recently joined BJP after quitting Congress, and Prabhav Naik, grandson of former Margao MLA Anant Narcinv Naik, who is looking at making a debut entry into politics, are contesting on Vibrant Margao panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/789-candidates-in-fray-as-stage-set-for-civic-elections-on-march-20-21/articleshow/81419243.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||Many state students score over 99 percentile in JEE (Main)||Jamshedpur/Ranchi: Several students from Jharkhand cracked the JEE (Main) 2021 conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) and the results of which were declared on Monday night. In Jamshedpur, Yash Kumar of Carmel Junior College, Sonari, made his parents and the teachers proud by scoring 99.95 percentile. Son of Tata Steel employee Ashok Kumar and teacher Binu Singh, Yash said he studied eight hours daily ahead of the exams. Another student from the Steel City, Sameer Anand of Jusco School South Park, scored 99.83 percentile. About 6,000 aspirants from the city had appeared for the exam and over 800 plus candidates performed well. In Ranchi, Vatsal Jain of Jawahar Vidya Mandir Shyamli scored 99.94 percentile while Tanisha Salvi of the same school scored 99.83. The school administration said 185 students qualified for the examination out of whom eight scored above 99 percentile. On his success, Vatsal said he could have performed better but was happy with his result. He said, “It was very challenging to shift from offline to online classes during the pandemic. The home atmosphere is comfortable and easy while one has to be alert and competitive in the offline classes. My parents, however, said that I should utilize the travel time.” Vatsal added that he chalked out a study routine and tried his best to follow it. Salvi also said attending online classes saved a lot of travel time. “After the initial hassles, the connectivity problems and the communication issues were resolved. The coaching institute that I attended conducted more classes to ensure that we understand the subjects thoroughly.” The school's principal, Samarjit Jana, said that his students performed well success despite the challenges posed by the Covid pandemic. Meanwhile, Delhi Public School Ranchi said its student Rahul Kumar scored 99.93 percentile and became the school topper. Among the 39 who cracked the examination included Girish Lodha (99.89), Vaishnavi (99.83), Raunak Sharma (99.72), Utkarsh Singh (99.14) and Mrinal J Anand who scored 99.68 percentile. Brothers Academy, a private coaching institute, said 305 students from its city centre have succeeded in the examination. Among the successful students is Shreyas Raj who scored 99.90 percentile. Raj studied in the one-year target course of the academy. Another student, Rishab Arijit, scored 99.81 percentile. Both the students said in-depth teaching, right guidance of the teachers, high-quality study materials, quizzes, test series and subject-wise assessment of the institute helped them score well. Academy directors Paras Agrawal, Prem Prasun and Subhendu Shekhar said the students worked hard during the pandemic to achieve the feat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/many-state-students-score-over-99-percentile-in-jee-main/articleshow/81416877.cms||Sanjay Sahay
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||Guv gets vax, but most netas reluctant||Ranchi: Governor Droupadi Murmu drove to the vaccination centre at Ranchi Sadar Hospital and took her first shot of Covid-19 vaccine around 11:30 am on Tuesday. After taking the jab, Murmu (63), said, “Vaccines developed and manufactured in India are completely safe and are being applauded around the world. I thank the country’s scientists and researchers for it.” Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Bihari Prasad said Murmu was administered the Covishield vaccine (developed by Oxford and AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India). “Her second dose will be due in 28 days,” Prasad added. Besides the civil surgeon, senior doctors of the hospital were present when Murmu took the vaccine. She was observed for 30 minutes, during which she did not complain of any adverse effects. While Murmu stepped up for vaccination, most of Jharkhand’s lawmakers have seemed reluctant to get vaccinated. While the third phase of vaccination, targeting senior citizens and the people above 45 with co-morbidities, began on March 1, only three lawmakers have taken a jab so far. Ranchi’s BJP MP Sanjay Seth was the first lawmaker to get himself vaccinated on March 1. Ranchi’s BJP MLA and former state minister C P Singh was the second. Singh (65), who was infected by the virus last year, got himself inoculated along with his wife, elder brother and sister-in-law on March 3. The third lawmaker to get Covid 19 vaccine is NCP’s Hussainabad legislator Kamlesh Kumar Singh. Although seven ministers in the cabinet of chief minister Hemant Soren contracted Covid in 2020, none of the incumbent ministers have got themselves vaccinated so far. There is reluctance among JMM, Congress and RJD lawmakers as well, with no one within the target population turning up at session sites. Nearly 13% of the state’s incumbent 80 MLAs are senior citizens while 70% are between 41-55 years. “Our state president-cum-finance minister Rameshwar Oraon wanted to get himself vaccinated in the initial days of the vaccination drive, but could not due to the Budget, which was tabled on March 3. He is likely to get the first jab on March 11 or 12,” a senior Congress functionary said. Health minister Banna Gupta, who wanted to get the first shot of vaccine when the inoculation drive for health workers began on January 16, has not got vaccinated either. Gupta’s office refused to comment when contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/guv-gets-vax-but-most-netas-reluctant/articleshow/81416824.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||2 Myanmar nationals escape from H’bag detention centre||Hazaribag: Two Myanmar nationals escaped from the Foreign Detainee Centre outside the Hazaribag Central jail campus on Monday night, putting questions over security. Zaheed Hussain and Mohammad Javed were under detention for two years. Sources said the duo were missing when two guards went to serve meals in their cell. They informed the jail authorities and a police team broke open the locked doors and found the two escaped by breaking the windows of the room. Police on Tuesday said that an FIR has been lodged at Lohshinghna police station. Hazaribag DC Aditya Kumar Anand said, “I have ordered an enquiry into the matter,” he said. Hazaribag SDPO (headquarters) Mahesh Prajapati said, “We have alerted all police stations in Hazaribag and neighbouring districts of Koderma, Ramgarh and Chatra. It appears that the incident took place due to security lapse. Guilty will be punished,” he said. Notably, another Myanmar national Abdullah had escaped from this centre on September 20 last year and has not been traced so far. The Foreigners Detention Centre is the lone centre in the state where foreign detainees are kept after being caught staying here illegally. The security and the administration of this detention centre is looked after by the Jai Prakash Narayan central jail in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-myanmar-nationals-escape-from-hbag-detention-centre/articleshow/81417065.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||Spurt in forest fire cases puts Jharkhand in 3rd spot in India||RANCHI: Jharkhand emerged at the third spot in the country after it recorded the maximum number of forest fire incidents even before the formal advent of summer this year, showed statistics available with Forest Survey of India (FSI). The figures showed in the last seven days since March 2, as many as 4,718 instances of fire in Jharkhand were captured by the SNPP satellite while 418 were recorded by Modis. During this same period in 2020, the state had recorded 26 instances of fire on the SNPP while Modis had showed zero cases. Odisha is on the top of the list with 20,900 cases recorded on SNPP and 1,736 on Modis. At number two, in Telangana, SNPP recorded 4,914 cases and Modis caught 770 fire instances. Officials in the state forest department said FSI takes satellite imagery of forest fires in the country through these two satellites and transmits the alerts to the respective jurisdictions for action. Talking to TOI, additional principal chief conservator of forests Kulwant Singh, whose office tracks forest fires in the state and relays information to all divisions, said, “It’s true that the instances of forest fires have witnessed a sudden spurt in last one week, but they were mostly ground fire. In many cases, the alerts raised by FSI turn out to be outside the forest areas. However, we are on guard to safeguard Jharkhand’s green lungs. In Jharkhand, fires are mostly on the ground unlike the crown fires that take place in Uttrakhand and other places that destroy trees.” Singh said all divisions have been asked to tackle untoward situations. The early summer heat and extended dry spell is attributed as one of the reasons behind the early instances of fire, said Singh. “This is also the season when forest-dwellers collect mahua (a fruit to make local brewery) for which they burn dry leaves within the jungles. Also, carelessness like throwing lit bidis and cigarette buds often lead to mishaps,” he said. According to Singh, while forest fires are virtually impossible to prevent, the department is focusing ways to minimise the damage. About Rs 5 crore has been earmarked to tackle forest fires annually and both the Centre and the state share equal amount of contribution. A source said orders have been issued to all divisions to purchase required fire fighting gadgets. “Many divisions have recently bought high powered blowers,” said an official, adding that they have also kicked off awareness drives in villages surrounding forest areas with the help of joint forest management committees (JFMCs) to make people aware on the dos and don’ts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/spurt-in-forest-fire-cases-puts-state-in-3rd-spot-in-country/articleshow/81417095.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 10, 2021||Jamshedpur||Spurt in forest fire cases puts Jharkhand in 3rd spot in India||RANCHI: Jharkhand emerged at the third spot in the country after it recorded the maximum number of forest fire incidents even before the formal advent of summer this year, showed statistics available with Forest Survey of India (FSI). The figures showed in the last seven days since March 2, as many as 4,718 instances of fire in Jharkhand were captured by the SNPP satellite while 418 were recorded by Modis. During this same period in 2020, the state had recorded 26 instances of fire on the SNPP while Modis had showed zero cases. Odisha is on the top of the list with 20,900 cases recorded on SNPP and 1,736 on Modis. At number two, in Telangana, SNPP recorded 4,914 cases and Modis caught 770 fire instances. Officials in the state forest department said FSI takes satellite imagery of forest fires in the country through these two satellites and transmits the alerts to the respective jurisdictions for action. Talking to TOI, additional principal chief conservator of forests Kulwant Singh, whose office tracks forest fires in the state and relays information to all divisions, said, “It’s true that the instances of forest fires have witnessed a sudden spurt in last one week, but they were mostly ground fire. In many cases, the alerts raised by FSI turn out to be outside the forest areas. However, we are on guard to safeguard Jharkhand’s green lungs. In Jharkhand, fires are mostly on the ground unlike the crown fires that take place in Uttrakhand and other places that destroy trees.” Singh said all divisions have been asked to tackle untoward situations. The early summer heat and extended dry spell is attributed as one of the reasons behind the early instances of fire, said Singh. “This is also the season when forest-dwellers collect mahua (a fruit to make local brewery) for which they burn dry leaves within the jungles. Also, carelessness like throwing lit bidis and cigarette buds often lead to mishaps,” he said. According to Singh, while forest fires are virtually impossible to prevent, the department is focusing ways to minimise the damage. About Rs 5 crore has been earmarked to tackle forest fires annually and both the Centre and the state share equal amount of contribution. A source said orders have been issued to all divisions to purchase required fire fighting gadgets. “Many divisions have recently bought high powered blowers,” said an official, adding that they have also kicked off awareness drives in villages surrounding forest areas with the help of joint forest management committees (JFMCs) to make people aware on the dos and don’ts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/spurt-in-forest-fire-cases-puts-state-in-3rd-spot-in-country/articleshow/81424645.cms||ASRP Mukesh
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Catholic priest leaves church, formally joins BJP||Kolkata: Loyola High School principal Father Rodney Borneo joined the BJP formally on Tuesday evening, cutting off his ties as a priest with the church. Borneo was inducted into the party in the presence of BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy, state party secretary Sabyasachi Dutta and party spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya at its Hastings office. Borneo described his joining the BJP as a “new trajectory” in his life. “I have served the church and the people through the church for 22 years. Now I will serve people outside the umbrella of the church,” Borneo told TOI. From 1999 to 2009 he was trained as a priest and in 2009 he became a priest. He was the principal of Loyola High School for the past five years and resigned from his position a couple of days ago, explaining his constraints to Archbishop Thomas D’Souza. His resignation has been accepted. Archbishop D'Souza, head of the Catholic church in the archdiocese of Kolkata, described the development as “sad”. Other priests described this as “unprecedented” and “shocking”. “I am sad. But what can I say? It’s his choice to leave the church and work under a political party,” Archbishop D'Souza said. “We will now look for a replacement for the position of the principal of Loyola High School, which is run by the archdiocese,” the archbishop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/catholic-priest-leaves-church-formally-joins-bjp/articleshow/81419564.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Poll panel replaces Bengal DGP, TMC sniffs ‘political influence’||New Delhi/Kolkata: The Election Commission on Tuesday shunted out Bengal director-general of police Virendra with immediate effect based on “a joint adverse report” it had received last week from the special general observer and two special police observers deployed in the poll-bound state. P Nirajnayan, an IPS officer of 1987 batch, has been posted as the new director general and IGP of Bengal, in place of Virendra. The EC further directed the Bengal chief secretary that Virendra should not be given any post directly or indirectly related to the conduct of election. The EC has sought compliance report from the chief secretary regarding the transfers and postings of the new DGP by 10am on Wednesday. Trinamool Congress saw a “political inference” in the EC’s decision. “We have said this before too, we see political influence in the EC’s decisions. The EC is following whatever the BJP is demanding. First, they declared an eight-phase poll. Now this transfer. Virendra is a good officer. Whatever they do, TMC will win this election convincingly,” Trinamool MP Saugata Roy said. BJP state spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya welcomed the poll panel’s move. “When our political workers were being attacked and killed, we got no help from this administration. This obviously cannot go on. We hope this decision brings in neutrality in the administration,” he said. This is the second transfer in Bengal after the model code of conduct kicked in. On February 27, a day after the announcement of the election schedule, the EC transferred Bengal additional director-general (law and order) Jawed Shamim and replaced him with director-general (fire services) Jag Mohan. As per sources, more transfers of senior police officers may be in the offing in Bengal due to adverse inputs regarding their fairness. The sources said Bengal special general observer Ajay Nayak and special police observers Vivek Dubey and Mrinal Kanti Das, in a report sent to EC a few days back, had expressed serious doubts regarding the neutrality of Virendra. The report is said to have detailed instances of his partisanship and favour towards the ruling party. TOI has learnt that apart from asking for Virendra to be immediately removed as DGP, the special observers suggested a panel of officers they deemed as fit to succeed him. The EC is said to have verified antecedents of the officers in the panel and found Nirajnayan most suitable for the job. Virendra was appointed DGP on on May 31, 2018. Among the several posts being considered for him is DGP in the State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB). However, there has been no official word on it. Nirajnayan was among the few senior officers from Bengal cadre who were on the central deputation “offer list” sent by the state to the Union home ministry. A 1987-bactch IPS officer, Nirajnayan served as a DIG in the CBI in Lucknow before returning to Bengal in 2006. He was also the DIG CID. Later, he served in the Intelligence Bureau (IB) for a short while. A post-graduate from BHU, he did a long stint as the secretary (coordination) in the state home department. The poll panel on Tuesday also shunted out two senior bureaucrats in Tamil Nadu -- joint commissioner, income tax, in Chennai K G Arunraj (IRS) and Chengalpattu SP D Kannan (IPS) -- based on adverse reports received by it regarding their conduct. Kannan, in particular, was transferred in view of an FIR filed against him for having intercepted a lady IPS officer who had accused a senior IPS officer of sexual harassment. The Commission also directed that Kannan be placed under suspension immediately and disciplinary proceedings initiated against him. While CBDT has been asked to send a compliance report regarding attachment of Arunraj with CBDT headquarters by 10 am, a compliance report on Kannan was sought from Tamil Nadu chief secretary by 11 am on Wednesday. The EC, a senior functionary told TOI, is not required to consult the state chief secretary or the home ministry before replacing DGP or any senior officer in a poll-bound state while the model code of conduct is in force. It is empowered to transfer any officer whose continuance it does not see in the interest of free and fair conduct of election. In fact, the courts have upheld such transfers in the past, such as its decision to shunt out ADG (Intelligence) in Andhra Pradesh during 2019 Lok Sabha poll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/poll-panel-replaces-bengal-dgp-tmc-sniffs-political-influence/articleshow/81420697.cms||Bharti Jain
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Day after fire, elevators to death raise unavoidable questions||KOLKATA: For eight men, elevator rides to the burning top floor of the New Koilaghat Building on Monday evening turned out to be suicide missions. The elevators metamorphosed into death chambers as soon as the doors opened on the 13th floor with flames leaping in and singing them instantly. The day after the horrific tragedy, senior fire brigade officials were at pains to explain why experienced firemen had overlooked the basics of firefighting and taken an elevator ride to meet their end. The decision was so bizarre that even CM Mamata Banerjee expressed surprise when she visited the site on Monday night. “How did experienced firemen use the elevator when everyone knows they are to be avoided during a fire or an earthquake,” she had remarked. Fire department officials admitted the deaths were entirely avoidable. “I don’t know who was at the command control but the team committed a cardinal mistake when they used the elevator to access the fire on the 13th floor. In the past, we have tackled fires in taller buildings like Nandaram Market by accessing it through the stairs,” said a former fire department deputy director. “Too many things went wrong in the fire-fighting operation and there should be a thorough probe. What should have been a routine fire-fighting exercise turned into a disaster. It is extremely unfortunate that so many lives were needlessly lost,” he said. Fire consultant Tarak Chakraborty said the actions of the firemen were amateurish. “The fire service is a professional force who act with caution to preserve lives. However inexplicable their action may be, we need to find out why to prevent a repeat,” he said. The burnt bodies of firefighters Girish Dey, Gourab Bej, Aniruddha Jana and Biman Purkait, policeman Amit Bhowal and railway staffer Sudip Das were found in the lift lobby. Two others who had inadvertently travelled up another elevator — railway deputy chief commercial manager Parthasarathi Mondal and RPF constable Sanjay Sahani — died trapped inside the lift. The duo were evacuating from the 2nd floor, but the elevator climbed up to the 13th instead. The ninth victim, railway senior commercial clerk Shravan Pandey, worked on the 13th floor and wasn’t able to evacuate. Two others, a fireman and a railway employee, are in hospital with injuries. According to a senior fire brigade official, the command was to use the lift till the 10th floor to set up a system quickly. “The advance team was to set up the system — place hose pipe at strategic points closer to the affected floor and drop the other ends to the ground to link to the pump. The rest of the fire-fighters were to take the staircase. But the team instead landed on the 13th floor after the railway staff who was guiding them pressed the wrong button,” claimed Debtanu Basu, a senior divisional fire officer. But another senior fire services official hinted at a possible mechanical fault in the elevator. “The officers were too experienced to follow the lead of someone else. It looks like they had tried to go till 10th floor but the elevator moved all the way up to the top floor where they faced the ball of fire. If there was no mechanical fault why would the elevator with the railway deputy CCM move up instead of down?” said the official. But several other questions still remain unanswered: Why didn’t anyone press the emergency stop button in the elevator once it moved past the 10th floor? Why did the firemen agree to use an elevator with automatic doors as a fire lift? Why wasn’t power switched off in the building once the fire was detected? The Railways, police and fire department have instituted separate inquiries to probe the whys and hows. An Eastern Railway spokesperson admitted electricity had not been disconnected after the fire and the elevators were being used to evacuate people. “Since mock drills were never carried out, we had no idea that elevators should not be used during a fire,” said a rail employee working in the New Koilaghat building. The railway deputy CCM and his guard had also taken the the lift from the second floor instead of the staircase to reach the ground floor. Whether the elevator had started moving up because a railway employee stranded on the 13th floor had pressed the lift button in his dying moments or whether it had malfunctioned due to the heat is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/day-after-fire-elevators-to-death-raise-unavoidable-questions/articleshow/81420755.cms||Subhro Niyogi
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Nandigram’s ‘daughter’ Mamata Banerjee dares BJP to ‘play Hindu card’||NANDIGRAM (EAST MIDNAPORE): Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday visited her new constituency, Nandigram, and warned the BJP “not to play the Hindu card” with her after a Chandipath recital that went on for three-and-a-half minutes. “You want to play with religion? Khela hobe (Let’s play),” she told the BJP. This was Banerjee’s first Nandigram rally after the announcement of the Trinamool’s list of candidates for the assembly poll. She introduced herself to her fervent followers as their “ghorer meye (daughter of their home)” and said she would be spending at least three months of a year at her “Nandigram home”, a two-bedroom house at Nandigram’s Reyapara. “I may forget my own name but will never forget Nandigram,” she said, recounting her “blood ties” with the place that was one of the two flashpoints — along with Singur in Hooghly — which propelled her and her party to office in Bengal in 2011. The Bengal CM, immediately after the public rally, visited three local temples and a popular mazhaar; she would be filing her nomination papers on Wednesday. “Ami Hindu barir meye (I am the daughter of a Hindu family),” she said, addressing a crowd brimming with enthusiasm. “Some are trying to do a Hindu-Muslim divide. But I would tell them not to play the Hindu card with me. Show me how good a Hindu you are before you do that,” she added, before launching into the Chandipath recital from memory. “Hinduism is about loving humanity. Ora 30-70 korchhe (They are doing a 30-70 calculation of votes between minority and majority communities). You want to play with religion? Khela hobe (Let’s play),” the CM said, adding that she would leave Nandigram for Kolkata only after offering Shivratri prayers on Thursday. “We will release our manifesto from Kolkata after that,” she said. Banerjee, re-establishing her kinship with Nandigram, recounted her 2007 fight during the anti-land acquisition movement. “A Bengali is now being called an outsider in Bengal by people who think visitors from Delhi are not outsiders,” she added, responding to former Trinamool minister and now BJP opponent Suvendu Adhikari’s “outsider” barbs. “The only difference is you were born in Midnapore and I was born in Birbhum,” she added. “I could have contested from Bhowanipore. It is where I stay. But, when I came here in January, Nandigram had no MLA,” Banerjee said, alluding to Adhikari’s resignation. “I had asked you all a question: how would you feel if I represented you (in the assembly)? You responded to it positively and vociferously. You have blessed me. But, even if you feel today that I should not contest from Nandigram, tell me. I will always follow your wish,” Banerjee said, which was followed by a roar from the crowd: “Nandigram Didi ke chay (Nandigram wants Didi).” “I had decided to contest either from Singur or Nandigram. I still remember the Singur agitation started on December 4 (2006). The Nandigram agitation started in January the next year. I still remember that day in March (2007). My car was stopped in Kolaghat. I was recovering from a gall-bladder surgery and was asked not to step out. But I had to come to Nandigram. They put up roadblocks. We crossed them. Anisur (Rahman) drove me on his bike through narrow roads dodging CPM cadres. (Abu) Sufian was there, Abu (Taher) was there, Mahadeb (Das) was there. But one person wasn’t. He was afraid to step out of his home,” Banerjee said, making it clear who she referred to. “I want to make Nandigram a model. It will be there in the manifesto. We want to build a bridge from Nandigram to Haldia. We want to eradicate unemployment from here. Nandigram is now a health district. Tamluk already has a university; Nandigram will have one too,” she said, urging people to just stick it out till May 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nandigrams-daughter-mamata-dares-bjp-to-play-hindu-card/articleshow/81420810.cms||Suman Mandal
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Legendary violinist Sisirkana dies at 83||Kolkata: The world of music on Tuesday lost Vidushi Sisirkana Dhar Choudhury — one of the earliest female Hindustani cla-ssical violinist who had broken the glass ceiling in the 50s. The 83-year-old succumbed to a cardiac arrest at a private nursing home in Gurgaon. A disciple of Pt VG Jog and Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, the legendary violinist was conferred the Sangeet Natak Academy Award in 1997. She is survived by daughter Suraranjani. Born in Shillong on December 27, 1937, Sisirkana began performing on stage in her 20s. Her last Kolkata performance was at Doverlane Music Conference in 2017, where she was conferred the Sangeet Samman Award. Pt Abhijit Banerjee, who learnt violin from her in the late 80s and accompanied her on the tabla at that Doverlane concert, described her as a “commendable personality”. Daughter Suraranjani said Sisirkana had joined Rabindra Bharati University in 1971 and retired in 1997 as professor of instrumental music. “In 1990-92, she became the head of department of vocal music. She was the dean of faculty of fine arts from 1990 to 1994 and had also officiated as the vice chancellor in 1993 for a brief period. Besides her great passion for music, her simplicity towards life and living has left an enormous impact on me.” Calling her one of his “favourite violinists in Hindustani classical music”, Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar pointed at how she would play the “dhrupad-styled alaap-jod on the viola” and subsequently switch to the violin for the rest of the concert. “That gave an edge to her recitals,” he said. Violinist Indradeep Ghosh, who has been her disciple for 30 years, mentioned how she had created new ragas, including ‘Rasaranjini’ and ‘Tarangini’. “The head purohit of Dakshineshwar temple had requested her to play something new. Instantly, she had created raag Bhavatarini that was dedicated to the Goddess Kali,” he said, adding that she was the one who “introduced viola to the mainstream Hindustani classical music”. According to Pt Bickram Ghosh, she and his father, Pt Shankar Ghosh, were a popular duo. “During the 50s, there were few women instrumentalists who performed professionally. Sisir-pishi broke the glass ceiling by becoming a big star. My first concert outside Kolkata was also with her in 1988. That was in Guwahati.” Pt Pallab Bandyopadhyay, who trained under Pt VG Jog, had received her talim at RBU. “Though she evoked a sense of awe, she also had a motherly approach,” the violinist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/legendary-violinist-sisirkana-dies-at-83/articleshow/81419701.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||‘Outsider’ war of words marks last day of nominations for first phase||Jhargram/Midnapore: When Mamata Banerjee was addressing voters in Nandigram, her opponent Suvendu Adhikari was leading a roadshow in Jhargram, about 120km from his turf, along with all four BJP candidates who went to the district magistrate’s office to file their nominations. Tuesday was the last day for filing nominations for the first phase of polls. But no state-level Trinamool leader accompanied party candidate Birbaha Hansda when she filed her nomination. Trinamool state secretary Chhatradhar Mahato stayed away on the ground that he was not informed about the nomination. Mahato’s absence sparked speculation that he had expected a ticket for himself or his wife. Two BJP dissidents — Dhiman Koley from Salboni and Pradip Lodha from Garbeta — filed nominations as Independents. Suvendu didn’t miss the opportunity to throw a challenge at chief minister Banerjee from Jhargram. “I will defeat mananiya (CM) in Nandigram,” the former Nandigram MLA said, focusing once again on the “outsider” campaign. “Our party has fielded Jhargram residents in all four seats. No one is an outsider. Jhargram is our strong base. All four candidates will win, each by a margin of more than half a lakh votes,” Suvendu said on Tuesday, flanked by BJP’s Jhargram candidate Sukhamoy Satpatai, Bakul Murmu from Nayagram seat, Sanjib Mahato from Gopiballavpur and Palam Soren from Binpur. Suvendu promised to visit Jhargram for campaigning every alternate day. Trinamool’s June Malia introduced herself as “Mahishadal rajbarir meye”, in an attempt to thwart BJP’s “outsider” campaign against her, while filing nomination at the Midnapore district magistrate’s office. Trinamool’s Kharagpur (rural) candidate Dinen Roy, IPS and Debra candidate Humayun Kabir, and Paresh Murmu from Keshiray filed their nominations. So did CPM candidates Tapas Sinha (Narayangarh) and Prankrishna Mandal. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and state BJP minder Kailash Vijayvargiya led another roadshow in Midnapore. BJP’s Midnapore candidate Shamit Das and Pingla candidate Antara Bhattacharya were present at the rally. Nandigram, however, was at the back of their minds. “The CM has fled from Bhowanipore and reached Nandigram this time. She is going to lose elections from wherever she contests. She will go back from Nandigram to her Kalighat home with empty hands,” said Ghosh. Vijayvargiya said: “I am sure the CM is going to lose from Nandigram. She took to tricks all these days without doing anything worthwhile for the Nandigram people in the last two terms. She has ditched the people who brought her to power. Trinamool workers and leaders are thus leaving the party and joining BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/outsider-war-of-words-marks-last-day-of-nominations-for-first-phase/articleshow/81419528.cms||Sujoy Khanra
March 10, 2021||Rajkot||Bangladeshi inmate flees, JIC, nabbed||Rajkot: An inmate of the Joint Interrogation Centre (JIC) at Bhuj in Kutch, who had managed flee the facility, was nabbed by the police on Monday night. Samakhiyali police said Moor Salim Shaikh (29), a Bangladeshi national, was caught from Ahmedabad in 2020 for illegally entering the country. On Monday morning, Shaikh managed to escape from the JIC during a mosquito fogging exercise at the premises. JIC authorities informed the local police who nabbed him near Samakhiyali, about 90km from JIC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bangladeshi-inmate-flees-jic-nabbed/articleshow/81416186.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||Medicos’ strike paralyzes OPD services across state for 2nd day||Ranchi: Outpatient departments (OPD) at all six state-run medical college hospitals continued to be disrupted on Tuesday as senior and junior resident doctors took part in the indefinite statewide strike to pursue their demands for outstanding dues. Hundreds of patients, who visited the hospitals in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Palamu, Dumka and Hazaribag, had to return without getting any treatment or consultations. Those who arrived at Rims from far-flung areas were putting at the hospital for the night. As per a rough estimate, nearly 700 patients missed their appointments with the doctors at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) alone. Under the banner of the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA), formed under the patronage of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Jharkhand Chapter, nearly 800 senior and junior residents, of whom 50% are from Rims, are taking part in the strike. The strike has formal support from the Jharkhand chapter of IMA. RDA convener Dr Ajit Kumar said they resorted to the strike after the state government failed to keep its promises of disbursing their outstanding arrears under the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission, which came into effect in 2016. “According to estimates, a total of Rs 18 crore is pending in arrears for the doctors. But we do not want it all at once. Our demand is simple: give us a share of it and ensure that the dues are paid in time,” he said. Dr Kumar, however, said emergency services remained functional. “While the OPD was boycotted, senior residents were posted at the emergency wards to attend to patients who required immediate medical attention. The Covid-19 ward was also left untouched,” he claimed. The Rims management said senior doctors were pressed into OPD services to help the patients. At present, senior residents at Rims get a monthly salary of Rs 1.10 lakh while those in the remaining colleges are paid Rs 75,000. The monthly salary of junior residents at Rims ranges between Rs 75,000 and Rs 85,000. RDA said it will continue with the strike until the demands are met. Health secretary Kamal Kishore Soan did not respond to calls when contacted for the government’s stand on the matter. Meanwhile, patients complained of long hours of futile wait. “I brought my father all the way from Chatra for a post-surgery check-up. We arrived here at dawn and waited the whole day in vain to see the doctor,” said Satish Yadav, whose father Hari underwent throat surgery at Rims a month back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/medicos-strike-paralyzes-opd-services-across-state-for-2nd-day/articleshow/81417089.cms||Dhritiman Ray
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Jawans on doorstep to collect postal ballots||Kolkata: The Election Commission on Tuesday said central paramilitary personnel will visit elderly voters at home to collect postal ballots. The EC has allowed octogenarians to opt for postal ballots amid the Covid pandemic. There are around 1.5 lakh such voters in Bengal who have taken up the option. EC officials said central forces would also assist persons with physical disabilities to cast their postal votes. They suggested that while 495 companies of central forces have already been allocated to Bengal, the number may go up to 800. Among the four poll-bound states and a Union Territory, Bengal will have a marathon eight-phase voting, which will continue till April-end. Since law and order is a state subject, central forces can assist the administration. “We are trying to plug gaps in coordination. The EC’s role here is aimed at making a person confident to cast his or her vote without fear,” an official said. Special poll observers will be moving to districts either from Wednesday afternoon or Thursday morning. Only one voter met the observers at their BSF camp office on Tuesday. The identity of the voter is confidential. Earlier in the day, a team comprising some senior BJP leaders met Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to lodge a complaint on “the ruling Trinamool Congress’ sinister plan of carrying out chappa or proxy voting in the name of postal ballots”. EOM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jawans-on-doorstep-to-collect-postal-ballots/articleshow/81419544.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Legendary violinist Sisirkana dies at 83||Kolkata: The world of music on Tuesday lost Vidushi Sisirkana Dhar Choudhury — one of the earliest female Hindustani cla-ssical violinist who had broken the glass ceiling in the 50s. The 83-year-old succumbed to a cardiac arrest at a private nursing home in Gurgaon. A disciple of Pt VG Jog and Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, the legendary violinist was conferred the Sangeet Natak Academy Award in 1997. She is survived by daughter Suraranjani. Born in Shillong on December 27, 1937, Sisirkana began performing on stage in her 20s. Her last Kolkata performance was at Doverlane Music Conference in 2017, where she was conferred the Sangeet Samman Award. Pt Abhijit Banerjee, who learnt violin from her in the late 80s and accompanied her on the tabla at that Doverlane concert, described her as a “commendable personality”. Daughter Suraranjani said Sisirkana had joined Rabindra Bharati University in 1971 and retired in 1997 as professor of instrumental music. “In 1990-92, she became the head of department of vocal music. She was the dean of faculty of fine arts from 1990 to 1994 and had also officiated as the vice chancellor in 1993 for a brief period. Besides her great passion for music, her simplicity towards life and living has left an enormous impact on me.” Calling her one of his “favourite violinists in Hindustani classical music”, Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar pointed at how she would play the “dhrupad-styled alaap-jod on the viola” and subsequently switch to the violin for the rest of the concert. “That gave an edge to her recitals,” he said. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/legendary-violinist-sisirkana-dies-at-83/articleshow/81419604.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
March 10, 2021||Ranchi||NTPC incurs daily loss of Rs 1.5 cr due to protest at Chatra project||Chatra: With protesters stalling construction works of the North Karnpura super thermal power plant in Chatra district’s Tandwa, the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) said it is incurring a daily loss of Rs 1.5 crore. The protest by the raiyats is on for the last 14 days. Executive director of the project Asim Kumar Goswami on Tuesday said the protest will also delay the deadline for commissioning the first unit of the power plant by three months which was originally scheduled in June this year. NTPC is constructing a 1,980-MW power plant of three 660MW units. The protests have led 5,000 labourers engaged in the project to return to their homes. The project was originally proposed in 1996, but got delayed because Coal India Limited objected to the location of the power plant as it was coming up on a site having 6 billion tonne coal. Later, work started at the same place but raiyats started demanding more compensation for their acquired lands. For the power plant, a total of 2,200 acre land was acquired, including 1,500 acre raiyati land and 700 acre gair mazruwa land. In 2006, a total of 4.35 lakh was paid for per acre of land. Later, the raiyats started mounting pressure for an additional relocation package and more compensation. In 2013, when work resumed, a rate of Rs 15 lakh per acre was fixed. However, raiyats are now demanding compensation and annuity as paid at the Pankri Barwadih project in neighbouring Hazaribagh district which is Rs 20 lakh per acre. They also said that 13 among them have been compensated at Rs 24 lakh per acre for their land while the rest are being offered Rs 15 lakh per acre. NTPC clarified that the 13 raiyats were paid higher in a special condition under willing buyer, willing seller policy taking the district administration into confidence. “This was done because their portions were falling in the plant area and acquired without notification,” said a senior NTPC officer. The raiyats also asked for facilities such as health, education and others in the area. Talking to TOI, Simaria SDO Sudhir Kumar Das said they are trying to get this matter resolved as soon as possible. “I am holding daily meeting of both the sides to reach to an amicable solution. Raiyats have placed their demands and NTPC is not ready to accept it. We are doing our best,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ntpc-incurs-daily-loss-of-rs-1-5-cr-due-to-protest-at-chatra-project/articleshow/81417003.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Kolkata||Nashya Sheikhs support TMC in north Bengal||Malda: A particular Rajbanshi community having a considerable presence in north Bengal has pledged support to the Trinamool Congress. The Nashya Sheikhs, like Matuas in south Bengal, speak the Rajbanshi language but are followers of Islam. These people migrated mainly to the six districts of north Bengal — Cooch Behar, Jalpiaguri, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakshin Dinajpur, Alipurduar and Malda — from Rangpur in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) and Goalpara in Assam. Md Sarwardi, working president of the Nashya Sheikh Unnayan Parishad claiming to represent the 40-lakh-strong community, has decided to support TMC in the assembly polls. “We are with Didi and will campaign for her,” he said. The decision was taken after the state government formed the Nashya Sheikh Development Board in February-end. The eight-member board led by the Cooch Behar DM will look after the development of this community in all six districts. “It was our demand for a long time. Now, with this board, our target will be development of small farmers so that they don’t go away as migrant labourers,” Sarwardi said. The Nashya Sheikhs hail from local communities in north Bengal such as Polia, Rajabanshi, Deshiya and Koch, who embraced Islam during the time of Kala Pahar pestered by the untouchability of upper class Brahmins. They were termed as ‘Nassya’ (aberration of Bengali ‘noshto’, ie cursed). However, despite being converted to Muslim, they kept their Hindu rituals like worshipping Goddess Manasa, observing Bengali month Bhadra as inauspicious, not cutting bamboo on Sunday and others. “Many of our customs are same as the Hindus which many Muslims do not approve,” Sarwardi pointed out. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nashya-sheikhs-support-tmc-in-north-bengal/articleshow/81419580.cms||Subhro Maitra
March 10, 2021||World||Pfizer vaccine neutralises Brazil variant in lab study||The Covid-19 vaccine from Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE was able to neutralise a new variant of the coronavirus spreading rapidly in Brazil, according to a laboratory study published in the New England Journal of Medicine on Monday. Blood taken from people who had been given the vaccine neutralised an engineered version of the virus that contained the same mutations carried on the spike portion of the highly contagious P.1 variant first identified in Brazil, the study conducted by scientists from the companies and the University of Texas Medical Branch found. In lab experiments, the shot demonstrated “roughly equivalent” levels of neutralising activity against the Brazil and UK strains compared with a version of the virus from early last year. It also showed “robust but lower” activity against the South Africa variant, according to a letter to the New England Journal of Medicine. The spike, used by the virus to enter human cells, is the primary target of many Covid-19 vaccines. While the research needs to be validated with realworld data, it offers another reason for optimism that the Covid vaccines are generally performing well against variants. In previously published studies, Pfizer had found that its vaccine neutralised other more contagious variants first identified in the UK and South Africa, although the South African variant may reduce protective antibodies elicited by the vaccine. Pfizer has said it believes its current vaccine is highly likely to still protect against the South African variant. However, the drugmaker is planning to test a third booster dose of their vaccine as well as a version retooled specifically to combat the variant in order to better understand the immune response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/pfizer-vaccine-neutralises-brazil-variant-in-lab-study/articleshow/81421927.cms||---
March 10, 2021||Bengaluru||I knew about sex CD conspiracy 4 months ago: Ramesh Jarkiholi||BENGALURU: A week after he quit as Karnataka minister over the sex CD scandal, Ramesh Jarkiholi on Tuesday broke his silence and alleged a ‘mahanayaka’ (a great leader) hatched a conspiracy against him and executed it in two apartments in Bengaluru. “I knew about the conspiracy four months ago and was warned about it. I received a call 26 hours in advance from well-wishers in the high command who asked me to take pre-emptive legal action. I did not do it. This is a major political conspiracy,” he said. Jarkiholi alleged that the conspiracy was hatched in a fifth-floor flat of an apartment near Orion Mall in Rajajinagar and a fourth-floor flat of an apartment in Yeshwanthpur. He said a team of conspirators were in groups of 2, 3 and 4, adding he will soon disclose their identity. He alleged that the woman shown in the CD was paid Rs 5 crore and offered two flats abroad by the conspirators. “However influential they are, I will ensure they are jailed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/i-knew-about-sex-cd-conspiracy-4-months-ago-ramesh-jarkiholi/articleshow/81421924.cms||---
